21 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Virus still around, PM cautions nation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his address to the nation on Tuesday, asked citizens not to lower their guard in the fight against the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) during the festive season as the virus is still around even though restrictions have been eased. Mr. Modi, in his seventh address to the citizens on the pandemic, reiterated his earlier slogan, “ Jab tak dawai nahi, tab tak dhilai nahin [don’t lower your guard until a vaccine is found],” to stress the point that a “little carelessness can spell grief for the people”. At one point, the Prime Minister appealed to the citizens with folded hands to wear masks, sanitise their hands and maintain social distance as he wanted to see them happy. Role of media He also appealed to the media and social media platforms to create public awareness among citizens about the need to be careful. “Until a vaccine against this pandemic is found, we should never allow the fight against corona to weaken… We should not forget that even if the lockdown is gone, the virus has not. With the effort of every Indian for the past seven-eight months, the situation today is stable. We should improve upon it and not allow it to deteriorate,” Mr. Modi said. “This is not the time to get careless or believe that corona is gone or that there is no threat from it. In recent days, we have seen many pictures and videos where people are either lax or have stopped being careful. This is not right at all. If you are careless and moving around without mask, you are putting yourself, children and the elderly at risk,” the Prime Minister added. The Prime Minister said the whole world was working on a war footing to find a vaccine. A few vaccines were at an advanced stage of trial in India. He said his government was working on a plan “to deliver it to every Indian within the shortest possible time” once these vaccines were ready. Comparing India’s situation with other countries such as the U.S, Brazil, Spain and Britain, the Prime Minister underlined the country’s “success” in saving lives. He said while there are nearly 25,000 COVID-19 cases for one million population in countries such as the U.S. and Brazil, India has only 5,500. Similarly, the number of fatalities in India is 83 per million population against more than 600 deaths per million in nations like the U.S., Brazil, Spain and Britain. Mr. Modi also said India now has more than 90 lakh beds for COVID-19 patients, 12,000 quarantine centres, 2,000 labs for testing and, soon, the total numbers of tests will cross 10 crore. “The rate of testing has been one of our strengths,” he added. Mr. Modi wrapped up by wishing citizens for the upcoming festivals including Durga Puja, Diwali, Chhath, Eid-Milad-un-Nabi and Guru Nanak’s birth anniversary.
21 October 2020||Belagavi,||‘BSY will not be CM for long’||Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, BJP MLA who is known for his controversial remarks, on Tuesday said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa “will not be CM for long” since “even the high command is tired of him”. He also said that the next Chief Minister would be from north Karnataka and went so far as to claim that “Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given this assurance”. Leadership change While Mr. Yediyurappa sought to downplay this by saying that he would “speak to Mr. Yatnal to find out why he is upset”, several senior leaders sought to clarify that leadership change is not on the agenda. In Vijayapura, Mr. Yatnal said, “Mr. Yediyurappa will not be CM for long. He is neglecting north Karnataka completely. He is taking all the money for the development of Shivamogga. Even the former Minister Umesh Katti has noticed that and called Mr. Yediyurappa ‘Chief Minister for Shivamogga’. Senior leaders are tired of the Chief Minister.” Contending that the next Chief Minister will be from north Karnataka, Mr. Yatnal said, “Every time the BJP comes to power, north Karnataka districts elect 100 MLAs [from the party], but the Chief Minister is chosen from south Karnataka districts that send only around 15 members to the Assembly. How can this continue?” he claimed. “I have fought with Mr. Yediyurappa over the cancellation of the special grant of Rs. 125 crore for the Vijayapura city corporation. I appealed to him to restore it, but he did not. I am upset about it. I have told other party leaders about it. Some senior leaders agree with me that the Chief Minister will change soon,” he said.
21 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab formally rejects farm laws||Punjab on Tuesday became the first State to formally reject the Centre’s three recent agriculture sector laws, with its Assembly on Tuesday unanimously passing three Bills to negate the Union legislation. The Assembly passed a resolution rejecting the Central legislation and the proposed Electricity Amendment Bill and demanding their immediate annulment. It also sought an ordinance to protect the minimum support price (MSP) regime and ensure the continuance of procurement by the Centre. The three State Bills provide for imprisonment of not less than three years and fines for sale-purchase of wheat or paddy under a farming agreement below the MSP, besides prevention of hoarding and black-marketing of agricultural produce, among other things. Penal clause The provision of punishment for sale-purchase below the MSP has been incorporated in The Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020. The Bill mandates that no sale or purchase be done below the MSP and violation of the same shall invite imprisonment of three years besides fine. It also seeks an amendment to Sections 1(2), Sections 19 and 20 of the Centre’s Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020. It proposes to add new Sections — Sections 4, 6 to 11. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020, seeks to amend Sections 1(2), 14 and 15 of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 to ensure that sale or purchase of wheat or paddy in the State is not allowed below the MSP. The amendment Bill also seeks to provide for punishment for harassment of farmers or payment of less price to the farmers by inserting new Sections 6 to 11. The Essential Commodities (Special Provisions and Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020, seeks to amend the Centre’s ‘The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020’ by amending Section 1(2) and Section 3(1A) of the Essential Commodities Act, 1955. It seeks to ensure status quo ante as on June 4, 2020 with regard to implementation of the Central Act namely, ‘The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020’.
21 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||FDI blooms in COVID-19 gloom||Foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows into India in the first five months of 2020-21 have hit a record high, despite a sharp 60% contraction in the first quarter, with July and August raking in over $20 billion of equity FDI. Total FDI inflows surged from $11.51 billion between April and June to $35.73 billion by the end of August. Equity FDI more than quadrupled from $6.5 billion between April and June, to $27.1 billion by August — 16% higher than that of the first five months of 2019-20. To put that in context, India received about $50 billion in equity FDI in 2019-20. Both, total FDI and equity FDI viewed in isolation, were the highest ever for the five-month period, the Commerce and Industry Ministry said on Tuesday. The increased FDI is a result of FDI policy reforms, investment facilitation and ease of doing business, the Ministry said. Total FDI flows include fresh equity investments as well as re-invested earnings of foreign investors and other forms of investment capital such as debt. FDI equity flows were boosted by investments into Jio Platforms, Reliance Industries’ telecom subsidiary, from global investors like Google, that bet $4.5 billion on the venture in July. But this was not the only factor for the turnaround in FDI trends over two months, reckoned experts. Private inflows “There has been a lot of quiet private equity investments taking place in the real estate sector, which are expected to continue. Moreover, several existing foreign investors have realised the need to ramp up local supply chains after the pandemic hit,” said Vikram Doshi, partner (tax and regulatory issues) at PwC. Mr. Doshi said the numbers would have been even higher if border tensions with China hadn’t triggered curbs on their investments into India. China has significant investments in Indian startups as well as the manufacturing sector, any enhancement of which would now need prior government approvals. Yet, the next few months could see a further spurt in FDI. Firstly, there’s Reliance Retail’s buyout of Future group at the end of August, which was followed by multiple global capital infusions into the business — similar to investments into Jio. Those foreign investors' outlays will reflect in September’s data and beyond. Secondly, investments committed under the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme for electronics manufacturing, from players such as Apple Inc’s suppliers, will begin to flow once approvals come in. Similar investments may be expected in pharma and chemicals under another PLI scheme. Foreign investors have also evinced interest in the government’s moves to allow private train operations and bid out airports.
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. Governor likely to clear 7.5% quota in medical admissions||Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit is likely to clear a Bill envisaging 7.5% horizontal reservation in admissions to undergraduate medical courses for students from government schools in the State who qualify in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). But he is said to be having reservations about another Bill, pertaining to the bifurcation of Anna University. Revealing this, a source in the State government told The Hindu that  the Governor was of the view that the bifurcation scheme, as mentioned in the Bill, may not be financially sustainable for the proposed Anna Technological and Research University (ATRU), which would have to depend purely on the government’s grants. On Tuesday, a group of senior Ministers, including School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan, Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, Law Minister C. Ve. Shanmugam, Higher Education Minister K.T. Anbalagan and Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, met the Governor at the Raj Bhavan and held discussions for more than an hour. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and other senior officials were also present at the meeting. The discussion was only on the 7.5% quota Bill, according to Mr. Jayakumar. The Fisheries Minister said the Governor was “examining” the quota Bill from various angles, adding, “We are confident that he will come out with a favourable decision on the matter.” He said the team of Ministers had impressed upon the Governor the need for him giving his assent early to the quota Bill. Apart from the State being a “land of social justice”, he said the horizontal quota would enable more government school students to pursue medical courses. On the issue of Anna University’s bifurcation, the government source said Mr. Purohit apparently felt that if the government considers Anna University, under the present circumstances, to be ‘overloaded’, there could be two technical universities sharing the load equally, instead of the proposed arrangement of one university having the affiliated system and another being a unitary-type institution and bringing under its fold the College of Engineering, Guindy, Alagappa College of Technology, the School of Architecture and Planning and the Madras Institute of Technology. Though the bifurcation was originally conceived in the light of the Central government’s decision last year to provide the status of Institution of Eminence (IoE) to Anna University, Mr. Anbalagan recently went on record, stating that the university did not require the status if it meant the ‘loss’ of 69% vertical reservation and “denied admission to poor students”.
21 October 2020||Ghaziabad,||Two AMU doctors ‘sacked’ over speaking to media in Hathras case||Two doctors of Aligarh Muslim University’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital have alleged that their services have been terminated because they unofficially gave statements to the media regarding the Hathras rape-murder case. AMU officials, however, said it was a “routine affair” and had nothing to do with the Hathras case. Dr. Mohammad Azimuddin Malik said he and his colleague Dr. Obaid Imtiyazul Haque’s services as casualty medical officers were terminated by Vice-Chancellor Tariq Mansoor on Tuesday. The termination letter signed by CMO-in-charge S.A.H. Zaidi said the V-C had rejected their appointment to the post of medical officer, emergency and trauma, with immediate effect. ‘Temporary job’ “We understand that ours is a temporary job against leave vacancy, which is renewed every month. My month ended on October 10. Since then I have been made to understand by seniors that I am supposed to continue. I have been signing on medico-legal cases. If I have been removed with immediate effect, who is going to appear in the cases of the last 10 days?” Dr. Malik said. He further said that after his opinion on the forensic lab report in the rape-murder case got published, he was asked to give a written explanation. AMU spokesperson Shafey Kidwai said the V-C was reconsidering the decision, and if the CMO in-charge asked for an extension of their services, it would be taken up. Sources claimed the university’s decision to reconsider seemed to be an afterthought because of the medico-legal cases. Hamza Malik, president, Resident Doctors’ Association, demanded that the two doctors should be “reinstated within 24 hours” or else the RDA would take a “big decision”.
21 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||16% surge in FDI till August||Foreign direct investment (FDI) inflows into India in the first five months of 2020-21 have hit a record high, despite a sharp 60% contraction in the first quarter, with July and August raking in over $20 billion of equity FDI. Total FDI inflows surged from $11.51 billion between April and June to $35.73 billion by the end of August. Equity FDI more than quadrupled from $6.5 billion between April and June, to $27.1 billion by August — 16% higher than that of the first five months of 2019-20. To put that in context, India received about $50 billion in equity FDI in 2019-20. Both, total FDI and equity FDI viewed in isolation, were the highest ever for the five-month period, the Commerce and Industry Ministry said. The increased FDI is a result of FDI policy reforms, investment facilitation and ease of doing business.
21 October 2020||GUNTUR,||It’s back to school in State from Nov. 2||The schools in the State will be reopen from November 2, but the students can attend the schools only with the written consent of the parents. The State government has also finalised the guidelines, which include staggered timings for the students. For instance, students belonging to Classes 1, 3, 5 & 7 will be attending school on one day and those of Classes 2, 4, 6 & 8 will attend the other day. If the student strength is more than 750, classes will be conducted once in every three days. All schools will function for half day from November 2. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who conducted a review with the Education Department on Tuesday, said the academic schedule had been fixed keeping in view of parents’ concerns. “In case parents have concerns about their children, they can still opt for the online classes,” he said. The Chief Minister also said that mid-day meal would be served in the government schools, and students would be sent home only after partaking it. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy further said that he would again review the situation in December.
21 October 2020||Kolkata,||Puja festivities begin; Bengal sees record case surge||The week-long Durga Puja festival in West Bengal began on Tuesday as the State recorded its highest single-day surge of 4,029 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total tally to 3,29,057. With 61 more patients succumbing to the virus, the death toll has reached 6,180. While the active cases in the State rose to 35,170, the discharge rate marginally dropped to 87.43%. There was not much crowd outside puja pandals during the day after the Calcutta High Court on Monday directed that all pandals would be “no entry” zones for visitors. In a related development, Forum for Durgotsav, a consortium of Durga Puja clubs, on Tuesday filed a review petition in the HC challenging its order. The petition was admitted and the hearing would be held on Wednesday. Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar said that in view of the HC order he would have virtual participation in Durga Puja inaugurations. Meanwhile, the Health Department has added 2,174 beds, including 535 ICU beds for critical care patients, in State-run hospitals.
21 October 2020||Mumbai,||Women can travel on local trains from today||Four days after the Maharashtra government allowed women to travel on suburban local trains, Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday said that the move would come into effect from October 21. “I am happy to announce that Railways will allow women to travel on suburban trains from 21 Oct between 11 am to 3 pm & after 7 pm. We were always ready and with the receipt of letter from Maharashtra Govt today, we have allowed this travel,” Mr. Goyal tweeted. The announcement comes after Maharashtra Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar sent a reminder to the Central Railway and the Western Railway. “The State government vide the above mentioned letters had communicated that all the women commuters with a valid ticket may be allowed to board trains during the non-peak hours (11 a.m. to 3 p.m. and again 7 p.m. onwards till the end of local services for that day) as per the discussion held between the representatives of all stakeholders, including the State and the Railways,” the letter said.
21 October 2020||KOCHI,||HC flays govt. move to hike salary||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday slammed the State government for its alleged move to increase salaries of government employees. Justice Alexander Thomas orally observed that the move would be at the cost of the common man. Though salaries of government employees were revised every seven years or so in other States, the State government here did it every four-and-a-half years. In fact, the move came at a time when the government was in a crisis financially. It was forced to revise employees' salaries because it was afraid of a section of the vote bank.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Misery continues||
21 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. increases poll spend ceiling by 10%||The Law Ministry has increased the ceiling on poll expenditure for Assembly and Lok Sabha elections by 10%. The move follows a recommendation by the Election Commission in view of curbs imposed during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The notification on Monday will help candidates contesting the Bihar Assembly polls and bypolls to 59 Assembly seats across 11 States and one LS seat. The ceiling on poll expenditure varies across States, with candidates in Assembly elections in bigger States like Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu now allowed to spend up to Rs. 30.8 lakhs as against Rs. 28 lakhs earlier. For a candidate contesting a Lok Sabha poll in these States, the revised ceiling on poll expenditure is now Rs. 77 lakhs instead of the earlier amount of Rs. 70 lakhs. Goa, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and a few Union Territories, based on the size of their constituencies and population, have a lower ceiling on poll expenditure.
21 October 2020||KALABURAGI,||Two women die in lightning strike||Two women died after being struck by lightning at Bhyrapura village in Siraguppa taluk of Ballari district on Tuesday. Lightning struck Kavita (27) and Gangamma (40) when they were working in an agricultural field along with a group of women. Kavita and Gangamma were killed on the spot. The other women are safe. A case has been registered by Serigeri Police.
21 October 2020||KOCHI,||Sivasankar feigned illness: Customs||M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, feigned illness and got himself admitted to the hospital where his wife worked to avoid questioning by the Customs in connection with the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, a statement filed by the Customs before the Kerala High Court on Tuesday said.Page 7
21 October 2020||YADGIR,||Kateel firmly rules out any change now||State Bharatiya Janata Party president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Tuesday firmly set aside rumours about a change in the leadership of the party government. Speaking to reporters in Surpur city, Mr. Kateel,who is touring various parts in Kalyan Karnataka to campaign for the elections to the Legislative Council seats, said that “there is no change in leadership and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will continue for the remaining three years in office.” “Our party will not effect any change now,” he added.
21 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hybrid model of ‘smart’ fence tested along LoC||The Army has significantly improved its electronic surveillance along the Line of Control, and work on conver-ting the existing border fence into a smart fence integrated with several sensors is under way, officers said. However, there is a rethink on converting the entire fence over a 700 km stretch due to the high cost. A hybrid model is now being adopted.
21 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘31% candidates in phase 1 declared criminal cases’||An analysis of election affidavits filed by candidates for the first phase of the Assembly polls in Bihar found that 31% of candidates in the fray have declared criminal cases against themselves, the Association for Democratic Reforms said in its report. The report analysed 1,064 out of the 1,066 candidates in phase one of the elections.
21 October 2020||New Delhi,||Capital records 3,579 fresh COVID-19 cases||As many as 3,579 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in the Capital in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 3,36,750, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Also, 41 more deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 6,081. There are 23,922 active cases in the city.
21 October 2020||New Delhi,||Bar licence of Delhi’s Gymkhana Club nixed||The bar licence of Gymkhana Club in the national capital has been cancelled for allegedly selling liquor during the lockdown in violation of guidelines as well as other infractions, read an official order. On September 17, the Excise Department had inspected the premises and found a bar sub-store, which had no approval from the department.
21 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Kaleshwaram eco-clearance violates law: NGT||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has held that environmental clearance (EC) to the Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project (KLIP) was granted ex post facto , after completion of substantial work, by the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEF&CC) “in violation of law”. It has also observed that accountability needs to be fixed and remedial measures taken. For that purpose, it has directed the MoEF&CC to constitute a seven-member expert committee preferably out of expert appraisal committee (EAC) members with relevant sectorial expertise to go into the matter in light of the observations in the present case. In the judgment posted on its website on Tuesday in a petition filed by one Md. Hayath Udin, a resident of Siddipet district, who is also a farmer affected directly by the project, the Principal Bench of NGT asked the Ministry to constitute the expert committee within a month, and it may complete its exercise within six months thereafter, shouldering the responsibility of monitoring the panel work to the Secretary, MOEF&CC. The petitioner moved the NGT with a plea to declare the EC granted to KLIP as invalid since substantial work was done by the State government, project proponent, prior to filing an application with the Ministry for clearance. “We find that in spite of finding illegality in granting EC, it is neither possible nor desirable to undo what has happened, but accountability needs to be fixed and remedial measures taken,” the Bench comprising Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, Judicial Member Justice S.P. Wangdi and Expert Member Dr. Nagin Nanda said in their judgment. The NGT Principal Bench suggested that the expert committee could assess the extent of damage caused in going ahead with the project without EC — the period from 2008 to 2017 — and identify the necessary restoration measures. Further, it could look into relief and rehabilitation measures adopted and required to be further adopted, examine effective implementation of the environmental management plan submitted by the project proponent, as also compliance of EC conditions.  Multi-purpose projects It is particularly required when the projects are multi-purpose and a part of them require an EC, so that such requirement is not defeated on the specious plea that the project was partly not covered by the schedule Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) notification, as has happened in the present case, the NGT observed. Instead of confining consideration merely to documentary support, a mechanism is required to be evolved and followed whereby physical verification of material particulars can be undertaken, wherever necessary, it suggested.
21 October 2020||Rohtas,||For voters in Bihar, election promises are just old hat||In the Bihar election campaign, if Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s promises have largely left voters unenthused, the promise of 10 lakh jobs made by Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav too have few takers. “These are all promises, only to be forgotten once the election is over … the figure of 10 lakh jobs itself appears ridiculous and unbelievable,” said Santosh Yadav, an unemployed youth at the Narhat village market in Rohtas district. He does odd jobs to earn for his family, including three siblings and parents. Earlier, he was working at a garment factory in Gujarat, but after the lockdown, he returned to his village to take up odd jobs for his family’s survival. He wants to go back in a month or so before he gets married. “There is nothing here to do … if I do not migrate to earn, I’ll not get married,” he said. When told that Mr. Tejashwi had promised to provide 10 lakh jobs with his first signature at the first Cabinet meeting, if elected to power, Mr. Santosh Yadav, with a puckish smile, hummed an old Bollywood song: “ Kasme wade, par-wafa sab, wade hain, wado ka kya ? [All promises, love and loyalty are only promises, what to do about promises?]”, before expressing his desire to leave the place to work as a daily wage labourer. ‘Needs time to mature’ At Rohtas district headquarters (Sasaram) too, several youth are seen searching for daily work at hotels and shops. “People promise anything during poll time … providing 10 lakh jobs is not a mean thing … I do not take Tejashwi’s promise on a serious note,” said Ashok Kumar Sahu, who works at a sweet shop near Sasaram. “Tejashwi Yadav is young and he needs time to be politically mature and counter experienced leaders like Nitish Kumar… only making promises will not do… one has to deliver as well,” said Ramesh Kushwaha at Paliganj Bazaar. At Malliabagh chowk (thoroughfare) in Rohtas, Anand Shankar Singh too did not seem upbeat about the RJD leader’s promise. “I run a cyber café and somehow survive with a family of six people on the meagre daily income. But, yes, given a job would certainly make a huge difference in my life … however, I take all this promises of Tejashwi Yadav like the oft-repeated tall talk on the State’s growth and development by Nitish Kumar,” he said. “Tejashwi Yadav was Bihar’s Deputy CM under Nitish Kumar for nearly three years from 2015 to 2017, what did he do then for people like us,” he asked and himself responded quickly, “Nothing”. Modi’s promise A few kilometres away in Baghnur village, a group of youth was playing cards under a banyan tree. Initially, they appeared reluctant to talk about poll issues but later one of them asked, “Tejashwi’s promise of jobs to 10 lakh people should not be taken seriously … what happened to PM Narendra Modi’s promise of giving a Rs. 1.25 lakh crore economic package to Bihar in August 2015?” And what about Mr. Kumar saying “they [Tejashwi Yadav and family members] may start their own kaam-dhandha [business] in the name of providing employment?” “Someone may ask Mr. Kumar, what has he done for us…he should tell in his election rallies from where and why over 30 lakh people, mostly young, returned to Bihar during lockdown after COVID-19 pandemic outbreak … why we’re still forced to migrate from our State even after he has been in power for 15 years?” Mr. Tejashwi Yadav recently announced that if his party came to power, 10 lakh government jobs would be sanctioned at the very first Cabinet meeting. He also said the State’s unemployment rate was around 46.6%, one of the highest in the country. “There should be a provision by the Election Commission that if someone makes such tall promises in their poll campaign and fails to fulfil them after being voted to power, their election must be declared null and void,” said Indrajeet Singh, who works part-time at a petrol pump in Sasaram. “It’s cheating the people, isn’t it?,” said his aide Lakhinder Paswan, while fixing the nozzle of a pipe.
21 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Be cautious of reinfection: ICMR||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Tuesday called for sustained caution against COVID-19 and pointed out that any negligence could lead to reinfection. “COVID-19 reinfection in India is currently under investigation and we are collecting data on this. As per the knowledge that we have now, we understand that after COVID-19 infection, antibodies stay in the body for anywhere between three to five months. If the person gets infected again after 90 days, it is called reinfection,” ICMR Director-General Balram Bhargava said. The government, he noted, was also keenly following the Solidarity trial interim report results, which indicated that remdesivir, hydroxychloroquine, lopinavir/ritonavir and interferon regimens appeared to have little or no effect on 28-day mortality or the in-hospital course of COVID-19 among hospitalised patients. “The results are interim, not peer-reviewed. Debate and discussion are on and we will take the results of these trials into consideration. Alongside, the benefit of blood plasma for COVID-19 patients is under review,” he said at a Health Ministry press conference. Monitoring Bihar Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, giving an overview of the COVID-19 situation in the country, said a Central team would be deputed to overlook and assist the Bihar government in conducting elections while following the COVID-19 norms. India was the only country with the highest recoveries and it continued to have one of the lowest fatality rates globally. “The country reported 587 case fatalities in the past 24 hours. Of these, nearly 81 per cent is concentrated in 10 States/Union Territories. The deaths are below 600 for the second consecutive day. Maharashtra reported the maximum single-day deaths (125 deaths),” he said. The country’s new confirmed cases in the last 24 hours had fallen below 50,000 (46,790) for the first time in nearly three months. The new cases were 47,703 on July 28. ‘No oxygen shortage’ Mr. Bhushan said that in the past 10 months since the pandemic began, “India has not faced any medical oxygen shortage and isn’t anticipating any problem in the future. However, several measures, including importing medical oxygen, have been planned.” The Ministry said six States accounted for 64% of the total active cases in the country — Maharashtra 23.28%, Karnataka 14.19%, Kerala 12.4%, Tamil Nadu 5.09%, Andhra Pradesh 4.68%, West Bengal 4.62% and the rest 35.75%. With a high number of patients recovering every day and the sustained fall in the mortality rate, India’s steady trend of dipping active cases continued. The total positive cases of the country as on date were less than 7.5 lakh (7,48,538) and comprised merely 9.85 per cent of the total cases.
21 October 2020||PATNA,||Madhepura evokes a 1990s’ air||In the three decades since the implementation of the Mandal Commission recommendations by the V.P. Singh government, the face of heartland politics has changed beyond recognition, and some surnames that dominated those years are in the fray in the Bihar Assembly election, albeit in different ways. In Madhepura, Nikhil Mandal, grandson of B.P. Mandal, is fighting the polls for the first time, on a Janata Dal(United) ticket. Mr. Mandal, who entered politics via the student union route in Delhi University 20 years ago, took a sabbatical for a stint as a banker. “But I was always interested in being with people and my friends used to call me ‘Nokia’ because of the tagline, ‘connecting people’. In 2005, my father was fighting the polls, and those were scheduled for around March, when banks rarely give leave. It was a stark choice before me, and I gave up the job and moved here to get into public service,” he says. Then came five years of drifting in Bihar, and some serious existential questions. “My friends told me to meet Nitish Kumar ji and when we met, he told me to join his party and I was appointed a spokesperson.” Mr. Mandal says he has faint memories of his grandfather, but has been told that he was, till the end, hopeful of seeing the recommendations made by him implemented by the Government of India. He does not believe, as many do, that India has entered a post-Mandal politics with the BJP’s domination. “What has happened in 30 years is a whole lot of change, but for that change to endure and deepen, the twin forces of education and employment must see tenets of social justice implemented in full measure,” he says. In Madhepura itself, in the Bihariganj Assembly constituency, Subhashini Raj Rao, daughter of former Union Minister Sharad Yadav, is also preparing to make her poll debut on a Congress ticket. Mr. Yadav came into prominence during the JP Movement against Emergency, and has been one of the most important leaders of the social justice stream of Indian politics. Honed in anti-Congressism, his politics is now pivoting on the question of secularism. Ms. Rao is reflecting that pivot. “Sharad ji has been part of the mahagathbandhan and they had launched a platform on communal amity called ‘saanjhi virasat’ under his leadership. He wants to take the fight against communalism further. Therefore, despite the fact that much of his career was against the Congress, I joined the party,” she says. The two dynasts have made particular political choices, reflecting specific political realities: through Nitish Kumar, who holds on to the social justice plank via his Mahadalit outreach, and another through the Congress, the old bugbear now considered an ally in secular politics en route reflecting the journey of 30 years of Mandal and mandir politics.
21 October 2020||New Delhi,||Congress hopes its song will catch on||“Ka kiye ho [What have you done?]”, the Congress’s video song for the Bihar Assembly election, released Friday last, comprising haunting images of migrant workers heading back home after the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown was announced, seems to be a part of a clear strategy to tap migrant workers’ ‘anger’. The hardship faced by the poor in the initial days of the lockdown is a recurrent theme of the Congress’s poll campaign in an attempt to portray the BJP-led government at the Centre and the Nitish Kumar-led NDA dispenation in the State as “insensitive”. “Lakhs of our brothers and sisters from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh have had to walk back thousands of kilometres. And in Bihar, Nitish Babu [Chief Minister] had said that they wouldn't be allowed,” Congress general secretary Randeep Surjewala told reporters in Patna on Tuesday. Out of power for over three decades and without a distinct caste-community combination that makes up its core voters, the Congress seems to be trying to build a new constituency of voters that manages to transcend caste boundaries on the basis of shared experiences. Party president Sonia Gandhi told her colleagues at a virtual meeting last Sunday, “The country was pushed into the abyss of corona pandemic by sheer ineptitude and mismanagement of the Modi Government. All this happened as we witnessed the biggest unplanned, unmanaged and cruel migration of crores of migrant labourers as Government remained a mute spectator to their miseries.”  Political analysts, however, are sceptical about the outcome. “As far as migrant labourers are concerned, many of them have returned to places like Mumbai, Chandigarh, Ludhiana and other places. They are not well to travel again to vote. And even if they do, caste and clan loyalties will play a part,” Professor Ashutosh Kumar, chairperson of the Department of Political Science, Panjab University, said about his native State.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Soldier was helping herders: China||China’s military said late on Monday that it was in touch with New Delhi over the apprehension of its soldier by the Indian Army after he strayed across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Demchok sector. The Indian Army said earlier on Monday that Corporal Wang Ya Long had been provided medical assistance, including oxygen, food and warm clothes. It confirmed that it had received a request from the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) on his whereabouts. The Army said that as per established protocols, he would be returned to Chinese officials at the Chushul–Moldo meeting point. Senior Colonel Zhang Shuili, spokesperson for the PLA’s Western Theater Command, said in a statement, “China hopes that India will hand over soon the Chinese soldier who got lost in China-India border areas on the evening of October 18 when helping local herdsmen retrieve a yak at their request”. The PLA, in a statement, said: “the PLA border troops informed the Indian military right after the incident and hoped the Indian side would aid in search and rescue, and the Indian side promised to offer help and return the missing soldier timely after finding him.” The statement said, “The latest information from the Indian side is that the lost Chinese soldier has been found and will be handed over to the Chinese side after receiving medical examination. We hope that the Indian side will live up to its promise to hand over the missing Chinese soldier as soon as possible and implement the consensus reached by the two sides in the 7th round of Senior Commanders meeting, so as to maintain peace and tranquillity in the border areas.” Seventh round of talks Following the seventh round of talks on October 12, both sides said in a joint press release they had “a sincere, in-depth and constructive exchange of views on disengagement along the Line of Actual Control in the Western Sector of India-China border areas.” The release said, “They were of the view that these discussions were positive, constructive and had enhanced understanding of each other’s positions. Both sides agreed to maintain dialogue and communication through military and diplomatic channels, and arrive at a mutually acceptable solution for disengagement as early as possible. Both sides agreed to earnestly implement the important understandings reached by the leaders of the two countries, not to turn differences into disputes, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in the border areas.”
21 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||WII scientists anxious about potential funding cut||A recommendation by the Finance Ministry to divest the Dehradun-based Wildlife Institute of India (WII) of its status as an autonomous body of the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change (MoEF) has triggered anxiety among scientists at the organisation. A letter by the WII Director to the Environment Ministry says that the directive was “unviable” and would affect the institution’s ability to be seen as an “unbiased opinion generator” that both government and public sector units consulted for assessing the impact of development projects on wildlife. The institute has an annual expenditure of Rs. 34 crore that was sourced from the Environment Ministry. It generated only Rs. 3.5 crore from consultancy and advisory services, which went towards paying pensions to employees appointed before 2004. Advisory role “The major responsibility of this Institute is to provide advice to MoEF based on scientific information on policy and management of the country’s Wildlife Resources. This role can only be performed and remains relevant as long as the institute remains a part of the MoEF,” says the letter signed by institute Director, Dhananjai Mohan. The Hindu has viewed this letter. A scientist with the institution, who declined to be identified, said that the proposal if implemented would be “the death knell” of the organisation that has 112 employees. The Finance Ministry moves follows a review by its Expenditure Department of 194 autonomous bodies across 18 Ministries. Of them, 109 bodies must be merged into 26, and government must “disengage” from 23, one which is the WII. In the case of WII, the government will cut funding to the institute by 25% every year, and it could become a ‘Deemed University’ engaged in teaching and research. The Central government could continue to access WII advisory and training services as a “client.” Dr. Mohan’s letter, however, said that there were too few students and courses offered by the institute for it to qualify as a Deemed University, and it had twice been rebuffed by the University Grants Commission on these grounds.  Other institutes Along with the WII, other autonomous bodies that have been recommended to be disengaged are the Indian Institute of Forest Management, and the Indian Plywood Industries Research and Training Institute. Other Environment Ministry organisations, such as the Salim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History will be subsumed within the activities of the Environment Ministry. Still others, such as the Society of Integrated Coastal Management and the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management, will be merged.
21 October 2020||Chennai,||China opposes India-Taiwan trade ties||China on Tuesday asked India to approach ties with Taiwan “prudently and properly”, and said it would “firmly oppose” any official exchanges between New Delhi and Taipei. The statement from China’s Foreign Ministry came in response to reports that India and Taiwan were considering going forward with talks on a trade deal. India and Taiwan in 2018 already signed a bilateral investment agreement. India-Taiwan trade ties have expanded since, and Taiwanese firms are prominent investors in India, although India and Taiwan do not maintain formal diplomatic relations. “The ‘One-China principle’ is a universal consensus of the international community, including India,” Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said at a daily briefing, when asked about the report on trade talks. “It is also the political basis for China to develop ties with other countries. So, we firmly oppose any official exchanges between countries having diplomatic ties with China and Taiwan or signing any official documents. The Indian side should remain committed to the ‘One-China principle’ and approach Taiwan-related issues prudently and properly,” Mr. Zhao said. The Chinese Embassy in Delhi raised with India’s Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) the putting up of posters in New Delhi on October 10, wishing Taiwan “Happy National Day”, by a member of the BJP, including outside the Chinese Embassy. The posters were taken down following the complaint. The posters followed a note sent by the Chinese Embassy to around 250 journalists asking them not to refer to Taiwan as a “country” or a “nation” while covering an event to be organised by the Taipei Economic and Cultural Centre in India. The MEA responded to the note, saying “there is a free media in India, that reports on issues that they see fit”. On Tuesday, China reacted guardedly to India’s announcement that Australia will join next month’s Malabar naval exercise with India, Japan and the U.S. In a terse statement, Mr. Zhao said, “We have taken note of this development. We always believe that military cooperation between countries should be conducive to regional peace and stability.”
21 October 2020||Kozhikode,||Cong. in Kerala divided over tie-up with WPI ahead of polls||The Congress in the State appears to be on the horns of a dilemma in the wake of a meeting between United Democratic Front (UDF) convener M.M. Hassan and Jamaat-e-Islami amir M.I. Abdul Aziz which has triggered a possible electoral alliance between the coalition and the Welfare Party of India (WPI) ahead of the local three-tier polls in December and the Assembly elections next year. A section within the Congress is infuriated over the speculation of the UDF attempting to forge a political understanding with the WPI, the political arm of the Jamaat-e-Islami. Two voices Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran has already voiced his thoughts bluntly against having a pact with the WPI and said the UDF would discuss such issues at its meeting in Kochi on Friday. At the same time, Vadakara MP K. Muraleedharan, who is in favour of an association with the WPI, said that party had publicly supported the UDF in the Lok Sabha polls held last year and added that an entente had worked at local levels in districts such as Kozhikode. A powerful section in the Congress is against forging any electoral understanding with the WPI for fear of losing a chunk of the votes of the Hindus as well as conservative Muslim communities.  The schism in the Congress has emerged when the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML), its largest coalition partner, also faced a similar dilemma earlier when hawkish elements in the party argued for such a tactical agreement. However, the IUML has been to an extent able to tackle the issue by bringing its leader P.K. Kunhalikutty back to State politics.
21 October 2020||KOCHI,||Reconstitute SIT in Palathayi child abuse case, orders HC||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the State Police Chief (SPC) to reconstitute the entire Special Investigation Team (SIT) probing the Palathayi child abuse case. The case related to the sexual base of a Class IV student by K. Padmarajan, schoolteacher and a local BJP leader in Palathayi in Kannur. The court also directed that a new Inspector General of Police be appointed as its head, replacing IG S. Sreejith. The SPC was directed to issue an order appointing new officers within two weeks. Justice P.V. Kunhikrishnan passed the order on a petition filed by the mother of the Palathayi child abuse case victim, seeking to reconstitute the SIT. Mother’s plea When the petition came up for hearing, senior State prosecutor Suman Chakravarthy submitted that if the mother of the victim did not want Mr. Sreejith to head the SIT, the government did not have any objection in removing him from the team. The State government wanted to protect the interest of the victim and her family at any cost.  The mother pointed said that even after six months of investigation, the SIT could not make any headway. The delay in completing the investigation was aimed at providing undue advantage to the accused. Besides,that it was against the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act which provides for expeditious investigation and trial, the petitioner said. She alleged that the investigation team did not make any effort to rectify the anomalies and lapses pointed out by the public prosecutor. The victim had been subjected to mental torture and harassment many times by counsellors and police officers.
21 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Donations pour in for Telangana relief||Donations have started pouring into the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) immediately after Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao gave a call to philanthropists to contribute to the relief and rehabilitation operations in the city which witnessed loss of life and infrastructure due to the recent heavy rains. Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was the first to respond to the Chief Minister’s call on Monday and announced contribution of Rs. 10 crore to the CMRF and also his government’s resolve to send blankets, mats and other relief material to the affected families. Chief Ministers of Delhi and West Bengal too responded early on Tuesday intimating their decision to contribute to Telangana in this hour of crisis. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has contributed Rs. 15 crore to the CMRF while West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee announced Rs. 2 crore for taking up relief and rehabilitation works in flood-hit areas. Mr. Kejriwal and Ms. Banerjee asserted that their governments would stand by the Telangana government in its efforts to provide relief to the affected families. Ms. Banerjee recalled how her State had suffered immense losses on account of cyclone Amphan in May this year. She said: “we can feel the sufferings that the people of your State are going through and our heart goes out to them.” Mr. Rao called the three Chief Ministers over telephone and thanked them personally for their generous gesture and the cooperation extended. In addition to politicians, representatives from the industry, films and other too announced their contributions to the CMRF. My Home Group has announced contribution of Rs. 5 crore while another construction major Aparna Constructions and Estates Limited has donated Rs. 6 crore. From the film industry, stars Chiranjeevi, Mahesh Babu and Prabhas announced Rs. 1 crore each and NTR Junior and Nagarjuna Rs. 50 lakh each. Director Trivikram Srinivas, actor Vijay Devarakonda and film production firm Harika Hasini Creations announced Rs. 10 lakh each. MLAs, MP, Ministers and MLCs representing the Hyderabad area have pledged two months’ salary towards CMRF.
21 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Water rises in flooded locality, so does fear||Dead rats, sewage, plastic waste, muck and vehicles covered with sludge continue to line the streets of Vali Colony, Meraj St and other areas of Nadeem Colony on the northern side of the Golconda Fort. “This is the biggest flood since 2008,” says Dastgir, who vacated his house and moved to his relatives’ place. “We were evacuated by a boat after two days of the flooding,” informs Azghar, a businessman, who moved to his sister’s house in Bandlaguda. “I sent my wife to her parents’ place and I stayed back to ensure thieves or vandals don’t raid the house,” says Hanif, who works with an IT major in Gachibowli. The red alert on Tuesday kept the remaining residents on tenterhooks and their fears came true as water rose again after the afternoon rain spell. “We had to walk in the dirty water to reach my grandmother’s house. I was not scared but there were children who were screaming in darkness,” remembers Ayaz, a degree student, who moved to Grammar Colony during the October 14 flood. It’s been 10 days since quite a few residents of Nadeem Colony were forced to move out of their homes and stay with relatives and friends, and wait for the water to recede in their locality. “This colony has the Shah Hatim Talab on the other side. They are releasing sewage from Banjara Hills, Paramount Colony, Hakimpet and Shaikept through the nala. The outlet into the lake is narrow, that’s why this flood water is not draining,” says Dastgir, who had built one of the first houses in the locality in 2002. Moving out of their homes and putting up at their relatives’ is not something new for residents of Nadeem Colony. While the havoc wrought by the 2008, 2009, 2011, 2014 flooding is well known, Nadeem Colony makes news every monsoon for all the wrong reasons. “It was never this bad. There is no water or electricity even after so many days. People are giving us food and we are lighting candles in the night,” says Shaikh Idris, a cancer patient, who climbed to the first floor as water swirled inside the ground floor of his house in the locality. After the State government announced relief measures, including dry rations and cash, NGOs and community leaders are reaching out to collect details from the residents. However, a large number of residents have moved out of the area temporarily as they usually do during flooding in the area.  They are releasing sewage from Banjara Hills, Paramount Colony, Hakimpet and Shaikept through the nala. The outlet into the lake is narrow, that’s why this flood water is not draining. Dastgir, A resident of Nadeem Colony
21 October 2020||KOCHI,||Sivasankar feigned illness to avoid questioning: Customs||M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, feigned illness and got himself admitted to the hospital where his wife worked to avoid questioning by the Customs in connection with the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, a statement filed by the Customs before the Kerala High Court on Tuesday said. The statement was filed in response to an anticipatory bail petition filed by Mr. Sivasankar. The court had on Monday directed the Customs not to arrest him till October 23 in the case. Medical opinion Opposing the bail plea, the Customs pointed out that the pretended illness had turned out to be fake in view of the medical opinion which said painkillers would take care of his back pain. In fact, he had executed a vakalath for the anticipatory bail on October 14, anticipating his arrest. However, the place where he had put in his signature was not shown in the vakalath. It showed that he had made all plans to pretend illness and get himself admitted to the hospital where his wife worked to avoid questioning by the Customs. ‘Not maintainable’ Besides, his petition for anticipatory bail was not maintainable. It was mandatory under Section 438 of the Code of Criminal Procedure that the person who moved the petition should satisfy the court that he was charged with non-bailable offences and that he feared arrest in connection with the offences. Both these statements were absent in his petition. He had not specifically stated about the offence he had been charged with. In his petition. Mr. Sivasankar said despite questioning him on many occasions, investigation agencies, including the Customs, did not get any incriminating material to implicate him in the gold smuggling case. He apprehended that if he was arrested, Customs officials would manhandle him.
21 October 2020||Chennai,||Kerala, Karnataka register decline in positivity rate||Data from Kerala’s Health department appeared to show a downward trend in COVID-19 cases with a decline in many districts on Tuesday. However, the trend could be decided by factors such as school reopening, the Sabarimala pilgrimage and local body polls, public health experts who did not wish to be identified said. On Tuesday, Kerala registered 6,591 cases from 53,901 samples. The test positivity rate dropped from 13.7% to 12.2%. A week ago, the State’s active cases were inching towards the three lakh mark, but recoveries last week balanced out the increase in new cases. The Health department added 24 deaths to its list of COVID-19 deaths on Tuesday. Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur and Malappuram reported five deaths each, Kannur four, Ernakulam and Alapuzha two deaths each and Pathanamthitta one death. Among districts, the capital district, Thiruvananthapuram, which had been reporting the highest number of cases consistently for the past several months, has now fallen to the eight place . Thrissur reported the highest number of cases on Tuesday at 896, Kozhikode 806, Malappuram 786, Ernakulam 644, Alapuzha 592, Kollam 569, Kottayam 473, Thiruvananthapuram 470, Palakkad 403, Kannur 400, Pathanamthitta 248, Kasaragod 145, Wayanad 87 and Idukki 72. Ernakulam had 11,140 active cases, Kozhikode 10,643 and Malappuram 10,504. Andhra Pradesh added 3,503 infections and 28 deaths on Tuesday. The number of recoveries and recovery rate increased to 7,49,676 and 94.95% respectively. Testing covered 69,095 samples and the daily positivity rate was 5.07%. Karnataka on Tuesday reported 6,297 new cases and 66 deaths. While the positivity rate for the day reduced to 6.41%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.04%. Bengaluru Urban reported 2,821 cases and 36 of the 66 deaths. Active cases in Bengaluru touched 64,523. Over the 24-hour period, 98,236 tests were conducted including 23,373 rapid antigen tests, raising Karnataka’s test numbers to 68,44,594. Tamil Nadu reported 3,094 new cases of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and 50 more deaths on Tuesday. The State was recording a decline in fresh coronavirus infections in the last few days. The new cases pushed the State’s tally to 6,94,030. A total of 36,734 persons were under treatment. As many as 4,403 persons, including 1,235 persons in Chennai, 328 in Coimbatore and 242 in Chengalpattu, were discharged on Tuesday. With this, 6,46,555 persons were discharged so far. A total of 10,741 persons have succumbed to the infection in the State. In the last 24 hours, 80,371 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested till date to 91,12,067.  (With inputs from   Vijayawada,   Bengaluru and   Chennai bureaus)
21 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Feluda tests to be available by Oct. 31||The Feluda test, a coronavirus detection test developed by the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) and to be commercialised by Tata Sons, will be commercially available in laboratories this month. “It should be available anytime soon this month. All the formalities are completed,” Shekhar Mande, Director General, CSIR, told The Hindu . The test, which still requires a nasal swab to be collected and sent to a lab, promises to be quicker than the gold-standard test because it does not need the expensive RT-PCR (reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction) machine that can set back a lab by at least Rs. 25 lakh. CRISPR-Cas9 method A smaller, cheaper and more portable machine called a thermocycler, which costs around Rs. 25,000, is employed and once the viral RNA is extracted, it takes anywhere from 45 minutes to an hour to confirm presence of the virus. FELUDA, that stands for FNCAS9 Editor-Limited Uniform Detection Assay, is also unlike antigen tests in that it uses a CRISPR-Cas9 based system and is therefore more accurate in detecting the virus. CRISPR-Cas9 is a genome-editing tool whose discovery won the Nobel Prize for chemistry this year. Though initially conceived to treat sickle cell disease, it can be used to hone in on a specific sequence of DNA (in this case unique to the coronavirus) and thereby infer its presence. “Our future plans do involve being able to make it a purely home-based test but that’s still some time away,” Mr. Mande said.
21 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Man who threatened magistrate arrested||It was a farmer from Tiptur in Tumakuru district who allegedly sent a threatening letter and detonator-like substance to a magistrate of the Special NDPS court and city court on Monday, warning that he would carry out attacks if the accused in the high-profile drug racket case were not released. Less than a day after the package was sent, the Halasurugate police on Tuesday arrested 53-year-old Rajashekhar who reportedly orchestrated the hoax in an attempt to implicate his brother-in-law. According to the police, Rajashekhar who was married to a woman from Tumakuru was also eyeing his wife’s sister so that he could take over her share of the family’s property. The two sisters jointly owned 15 acres of land. “He confessed that he wanted his wife’s sister, and decided to get her husband, Ramesh, out of the picture by having him arrested. He also feuded with Ramesh’s brother,” said a senior police officer. Rajashekhar started harassing his sister-in-law before she got married, following which her father filed a sexual harassment case with the local police who arrested him. “The sister-in-law later married Ramesh, but the accused continued to harass the family,” the police officer added. Rajashekhar decided to implicate Ramesh and his brother in a criminal case, but failed repeatedly. “When the Central Crime Branch police arrested actors and other high profile people in the drug racket case, he hit upon the idea of sending a threatening letter with their identity cards,” said the police. Allegedly bribed officials Rajashekhar allegedly bribed village panchayat officials in Chelur where Ramesh lived and paid them Rs. 300 to get copies of voter ID cards of Ramesh and his brother. He then wrote the letter and posted it along with the voter ID photocopies. The police formed a special team which went to Chelur and detained Ramesh for questioning. “However, after questioning him, we realised that Ramesh had nothing to do with the threatening letter,” said Assistant Commissioner of Police Najma Farooqi, who headed the team. Family feud The police learned of the family feud and Rajashekhar’s previous attempts to have the brothers arrested. The police team went to Tiptur and caught Rajashekhar in the nick of time while he was planning to escape. Ongoing investigations have revealed that Rajashekhar was involved in other several criminal cases and had been arrested by the police earlier, not just for sexually harassing his sister-in-law but also for setting fire to a church over a property dispute, stealing copper wire and beating up a waterman in Tiptur.
21 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. hikes poll spend ceiling by 10%||The Law Ministry has increased the ceiling on poll expenditure for Assembly and Lok Sabha elections by 10%. The move follows a recommendation by the Election Commission in view of curbs imposed during COVID-19 pandemic. The notification, issued late on Monday evening, will help candidates contesting the Bihar Assembly polls as well as those fighting bypolls to 59 Assembly seats across 11 States and one Lok Sabha seat. The ceiling on poll expenditure varies across States, with candidates in Assembly elections in bigger States like Bihar, U.P., and T.N. now allowed to spend up to Rs. 30.8 lakh as against Rs. 28 lakh earlier. For a candidate contesting an LS poll in these States, the ceiling on poll expenditure has been raised to Rs. 77 lakh from Rs. 70 lakh. Goa, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and a few U.T.s, based on the size of their constituencies and population, have a lower ceiling. Here while the enhanced ceiling for a Lok Sabha candidate is now Rs. 59,400, those contesting an Assembly can spend up to Rs. 22 lakh. Over a month ago, the EC had recommended a 10% increase in expenditure for all elections to be held during COVID-19 pandemic. The notification that amended the Conduct of Elections Rules, however, does not mention that the limit has been increased in the wake of the pandemic or if it is only for the COVID-19 period. While the three-phase Assembly polls in Bihar will be held on October 28, November 3 and November 7, bypolls to Assembly seats in other States will be held on November 3. Byelection to Valmiki Nagar LS seat in Bihar, and three Assembly seats in Manipur will be held on November 7.
21 October 2020||KHAMMAM,||‘A fight to protect self-esteem of TS people’||The upcoming election to Warangal-Khammam-Nalgonda Graduates’ Constituency in the Legislative Council is a fight between the ‘autocratic regime’ at the helm bent upon muzzling the voices of dissent and the democratic forces striving for realisation of the aspirations of the separate Telangana movement, said Telangana Jana Samithi (TJS) president M. Kodandaram. Mr. Kodandaram, who spearheaded the separate Telangana struggle as the chairman of the Telangana JAC during the Statehood movement, is all set to contest the forthcoming MLC election from the Graduates Constituency slated for early next year. He inaugurated the TJS district office here on Tuesday. He addressed a preparatory meeting attended by members of various mass organisations and the CPI (ML-New Democracy), who extended their support to his candidature. Later, talking to reporters Mr. Kodandaram said the upcoming election is a platform to continue the struggle for restoration of democratic values in Telangana and socio-economic development of the State. “The forthcoming hustings will serve as a forum to fight against dictatorial tendencies of the rulers and protect the self-esteem of people of Telangana,” he said. Our struggle is aimed at achieving the basic three objectives of the separate Telangana movement — Neeru, Nidhulu and Niyamakalu (water, funds and jobs), he added. The TRS regime has failed to deliver its promises to unemployed youth on provision of jobs, government employees on the implementation of the PRC and a plethora of other assurances in the last six years, he charged. He accused the State government of remaining insensitive to the plight of teachers. TJS district president S. Papa Rao and others accompanied Mr. Kodandaram.
21 October 2020||Srinagar,||Another militant killed in Shopian encounter||A second hiding militant was killed in south Kashmir’s Shopian on Tuesday, as security forces resumed their operation after a night halt. An Army spokesman said one more militant was killed, taking the death toll of militants to two in the operation that began on Monday evening in Shopian’s Melhoora area. “The bodies have been retrieved from the encounter site. One AK-47 and one pistol were recovered from the site,” the Army said. The identity and affiliation of the slain militants were not divulged immediately. The gunfight started when a joint team of the police, the Army’s 55 RR and the CRPF came under fire during a cordon and search operation, launched on specific information about the presence of militants in the area. In another operation in Pulwama, three militants were killed.
21 October 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. refuses to give details of CIC applicants||The Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) has received 139 applications for the post of Chief Information Commissioner, which has been vacant for almost two months. However, it has denied a Right to Information (RTI) request seeking further details about the candidates, the search committee members and the short-listing criteria, despite a Supreme Court order directing the government to make such information public. In July, the DoPT invited applications for the Chief Information Commissioner post. RTI activist Anjali Bhardwaj subsequently filed a request for information on the number, names and particulars of the applicants. If a search committee had been set up, she asked for the order for its constitution; the names and designations of its members; and the criteria adopted by it for shortlisting candidates. In its reply, the DoPT said it received 139 applications within the prescribed time. However, it declined to give out any other information, holding that information relating to particulars of applicants is exempted under section 8(1)(j) for RTI Act, 2005, which aims to protect privacy unless the larger public interest is involved.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Virus still around, PM cautions nation||He said his government was working on a plan “to deliver it to every Indian within the shortest possible time” once these vaccines were ready. He said while there are nearly 25,000 COVID-19 cases for one million population in countries such as the U.S. and Brazil, India has only 5,500. Similarly, the number of fatalities in India is 83 per million population against more than 600 deaths per million in nations like the U.S., Brazil, Spain and Britain. Mr. Modi wrapped up his 12-minute speech by wishing citizens for the upcoming festivals including Navratri, Durga Puja, Diwali, Chhath, Eid-Milad-un-Nabi and Guru Nanak’s birth anniversary. Corona capital: Cong. Reacting to the Prime Minister's address, the Congress said Mr. Modi must answer for the “failure of leadership”. In a joint statement, Congress' Randeep Surjewala and Pawan Khera said India had become the "corona capital" with the highest death rate. "Kindly tell the country on how to control the volatile situation of the pandemic... . How will he revive the falling economy? Does he have a solution or will he blame it on God," they asked in their statement
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Punjab formally rejects Centre’s three farm laws||It seeks to ensure status quo ante as on June 4, 2020 with regard to implementation of the Central Act namely, ‘The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020’. A fourth Bill — The Code of Civil Procedure (Punjab Amendment) Bill, 2020 was also passed, which seeks to insert a provision for exemption of agriculture land not exceeding 2.5 acres from Section 60 of The Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, which provides for attachment or decree of various properties — moveable and immoveable. Proviso-b to this Section states that the properties of the farmers such as cattle, implements, cowsheds, etc, would be exempt from attachment, but as on date agriculture land can be attached. Given the farmers’ apprehensions about attachment-decree of their land as a consequence of enforcement of farming contracts or otherwise, the State government is seeking, through this Bill, to give full exemption to small farmers and others from attachment or decree of land up to 2.5 acres. All MLAs unanimously voted in favour of the resolution and the Bills, except the two BJP members who were absent from the House during the second day of the special Assembly session. The resolution, which was passed, described the Centre’s farm laws and the proposed Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 as “anti-farmers” and demanded that they be scrapped. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh informed the House that he had sought time from the President to raise Punjab’s concerns on the farm laws. He appealed to farmers’ unions to allow movement of trains for the transportation of coal, urea and grains. He pointed out that the State government has already lost Rs. 40,000 crore in revenue due to the ongoing “rail roko”. Industry and business was as much the responsibility of the State government as was agriculture, he said, adding that the farmers’ fight was against Delhi, not against Punjab. Earlier, responding to a suggestion from Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema on MSP guarantee by the State government, the Chief Minister asked the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader if he had any idea about the financial implications of such a move. In any case, where would the State sell the produce even if it purchased the same, he said, terming the suggestion impractical. CM meets Governor Later, the Chief Minister, along with Congress, AAP and Shiromani Akali Dal MLAs met Governor V.P.S. Badnore and submitted the House resolution. Capt. Singh told journalists that his government was all set to take legal recourse if the Governor did not sign the amendment Bills. Asked about the possibility of the Centre imposing President’s rule to scuttle the attempts to negate the farm Laws, he said, “Let’s wait and see... we will move step by step.” If the situation came to such a pass, the Centre would not need to dismiss him as he was carrying his resignation in his pocket and would give it willingly, rather than compromise on the interests of Punjab and its farmers, he said. Former Finance Minister P. Chidamabaram said the BJP MLAs in Punjab displayed ‘cowardice’ by staying away from the Assembly proceedings. “Why did the BJP MLAs stay away from the Assembly when the House was considering the Bills introduced by the State government? If the BJP MLAs supported the Centre’s policy and the Farm Acts passed by Parliament, they should have participated in the Assembly proceedings and opposed the State government’s Bills,” he said on twitter.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Government hikes poll spend ceiling by 10%||The notification will help candidates contesting the Bihar Assembly polls as well as those fighting bypolls to 59 Assembly seats across 11 States and one Lok Sabha seat. The ceiling on poll expenditure varies across States, with candidates in Assembly elections in bigger States like Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu now allowed to spend up to Rs. 30.8 lakhs as against Rs. 28 lakhs earlier. For a candidate contesting a Lok Sabha poll in these States, the revised ceiling on poll expenditure is now Rs. 77 lakhs instead of the earlier amount of Rs. 70 lakhs. Goa, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim and a few Union Territories, based on the size of their constituencies and population, have a lower ceiling on poll expenditure. Here while the enhanced ceiling for a Lok Sabha candidate is now Rs. 59.4 lakhs, those contesting an Assembly seat can spend up to Rs. 22 lakhs. The last time the expenditure ceiling was enhanced was in 2014 just ahead of the Lok Sabha polls. Over a month ago, the EC had recommended a 10% increase in expenditure for all elections to be held during the COVID-19 pandemic, keeping in mind the problems that candidates may face while campaigning under the various COVID protocol laid down by the poll panel. The notification that amended the Conduct of Elections Rules, however, does not mention that the limit has been increased in the wake of the pandemic or if it is only for the COVID-19 period. “The amended rules shall come into force on the date of their publication in the official Gazette and shall remain in force till such date as may be notified by the Central Government,” read the Gazette notification.
21 October 2020||SRINAGAR,||Hybrid ‘smart’ fence being tested along LoC||The Army has significantly improved its electronic surveillance along the Line of Control (LoC) to check infiltration, and work on converting the existing border fence into a smart fence integrated with several sensors is under way, several officers have said. However, there is a rethink on converting the entire fence over a 700 km stretch into a smart one due to the high cost. A hybrid model is now being adopted. “The new hybrid model of the smart fence being tested will cost around Rs. 10 lakh per km and 60 km is being attempted this year,” a senior officer on the ground said. “This has some rudimentary smartisation. The earlier proposal for a hi-tech fence was to cost around Rs. 10 crore for 2.4 km. A Rs. 10 crore type trial was done in the Army’s 19 Division last year, but it was too expensive so no more contracting was done,” the officer said. The fence will be integrated with LIDAR (Light Detection and Ranging) sensors, infrared sensors and cameras among others. In recent months, the Army has beefed up troops close to the LoC to plug gaps and it has resulted in a drop in infiltration this year. Lt. Gen. B.S. Raju, General Officer Commanding, 15 Corps, said that while the multi-tier anti-infiltration grid remains in place, the first tier has been strengthened. Troops have also been given drones, both big and small, to monitor the ground.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Foreign direct investment blooms in COVID-19 gloom||Foreign direct investment (FDI)inflows into India in the first five months of 2020-21 have hit a record high, despite a sharp 60% contraction in the first quarter, with July and August raking in over $20 billion of equity FDI. Total FDI inflows surged from $11.51 billion between April and June to $35.73 billion by the end of August.  Equity FDI more than quadrupled from $6.5 billion between April and June, to $27.1 billion by August — 16% higher than that of the first five months of 2019-20. To put that in context, India received about $50 billion in equity FDI in 2019-20. Both, total FDI and equity FDI viewed in isolation, were the highest ever for the five-month period, the Commerce and Industry Ministry said on Tuesday. The increased FDI is a result ofFDI policy reforms, investment facilitation and ease of doing business, the Ministry said. Total FDI flows include fresh equity investments as well as re-invested earnings of foreign investors and other forms of investment capital such as debt. FDI equity flows were boosted by investments into Jio Platforms, Reliance Industries’ telecom subsidiary, from global investors like Google, that bet $4.5 billion on the venture in July. But this was not the only factor for the turnaround in FDI trends over two months, reckoned experts. Private inflows “There has been a lot of quiet private equity investments taking place in the real estate sector, which are expected to continue. Moreover, several existing foreign investors have realised the need to ramp up local supply chains after the pandemic hit,” said Vikram Doshi, partner (tax and regulatory issues) at PwC.
21 October 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||BSF detects IEDs in Odisha||A major tragedy was averted when Border Security Force personnel deployed in Swabhiman Anchal, a hotbed of Left Wing Extremists in Odisha’s Malkangiri district, detected and defused seven improvised explosive devices on Tuesday. The devices were buried near a bridge under a tree. According to the BSF, an intelligence-based operation was launched in Swabhiman Anchal close to the Odisha-Andhra Pradesh border on Monday. “The team cordoned off the area and defused the IEDs,” the BSF said.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Southwest monsoon is not over yet’||Wet weather is likely to continue in the State as the Southwest monsoon, which was to end on September 30, has continued well into October. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has said that the Southwest monsoon is yet to withdraw from southern India, which means that most parts of the State will continue to receive rain. Last year too, the State had witnessed a prolonged monsoon season into October. The usual period for the all-important Southwest monsoon is considered to be from June to September-end. IMD, Bengaluru’s C.S. Patil told The Hindu that the system was still favourable for monsoon and it was yet to withdraw from the southern States. “Last year too, we saw the monsoon continue till October. This system has to make way for the Northeast monsoon to set in, which could be around October 30, plus or minus seven days,” he said. The KSNDMC rainfall forecast till Wednesday has predicted fairly widespread to widespread light to moderate rains with isolated heavy to very heavy rains over north interior Karnataka, south interior Karnataka, coastal Karnataka and Malnad regions, while widespread light to moderate rains with heavy rains over isolated places has been forecast in BBMP areas over the next two days. Heavy rains have been causing mayhem in many parts of north Karnataka while coastal Karnataka saw massive flooding in mid-September. The State on the whole has received 27% excess rainfall this monsoon till September 30, compared to 23% excess last year. No deficit this year As against the normal 840.7 mm, the State received 1,063.9 mm rainfall during the period. No district had deficient rainfall this time. While only seven districts had normal rainfall (+19% to -19%), parts of north interior Karnataka and south interior Karnataka saw a huge departure from normal with many receiving excess rainfall (anywhere from 20% to 59%) and large excess (over 60%).
21 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Only two bids for new secretariat complex||As expected, only two major infrastructure development companies have submitted their bids for the construction of the new integrated secretariat complex on the last day of submission of tenders. The Roads and Buildings department received tenders from construction majors L&T and Shapoorji Pallonji at the end of the deadline on Tuesday. The technical bids will be evaluated and the finance bids of the qualified bidders would be opened on October 23. “We will evaluate the technical bids and open financial bids on October 23,” a senior official told The Hindu . The department had to reschedule the tender process more than once because of technicalities as well as the floods that threw life out of gear in the State, especially the GHMC area. The tenders were initially invited for the construction of the new integrated complex with an estimated built up area of six lakh square feet area after demolition of the old secretariat complex. The initial design submitted by architects, Oscar and Ponni Architects, however, underwent changes with inclusion of additional facilities like construction of buildings for accommodating security personnel and personal assistants of Ministers and other senior officials. The estimate for the complex subsequently escalated from the initial estimate of Rs. 400 crore that had been accepted by the State Cabinet to Rs. 500 crore.
21 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Centre urged to probe ‘faulty designs’||Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Tuesday urged Union Minister for Water Resources (Jal Shakti) Gajendra Singh Shekhawat to send a technical team to inquire into the recent flooding of the Kalwakurthy pump house allegedly due to the blasting works in the “wrongly” designed underground pump house of Palamuru-Rangareddy Lift Irrgation Scheme (PRLIS) nearby. In a communication to the Minister, a copy of which was released to the media, the BJP leader pointed out that there have been a series of “technical failures’ in the irrigation projects in TS.
21 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘FCRA must not be used to punish NGOs’||The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights (UNHCHR) Michelle Bachelet on Tuesday appealed to the Government of India to review the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act and its compliance with international human rights norms, and regretted that it was being “used to deter or punish NGOs for human rights reporting”. “Constructive criticism is the lifeblood of democracy. Even if the authorities find it uncomfortable, it should never be criminalised or outlawed,” Ms. Bachelet said. The statement referred to over 1,500 arrests made in relation to protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act and for violating the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, as well as those made in the Elgaar Parishad case, and the closure of Amnesty International after its bank accounts were frozen due to alleged FCRA violations. “I urge the government to ensure that no one else is detained for exercising their rights to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly,” Ms. Bachelet said.
21 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||31% nominees in phase 1 face criminal cases||An analysis of election affidavits filed by candidates for the first phase of the Assembly elections in Bihar found that 31% of candidates in the fray have declared criminal cases against themselves, the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR) stated in its report. The report analysed 1,064 out of the 1,066 candidates in phase one of the elections and found that 328 had declared pending criminal cases. Of the total candidates in phase one, the Rashtriya Janata Dal and the Bharatiya Janata Party had 73% and 72% of candidates respectively with criminal cases against them. Of all the candidates analysed, 23% had declared serious criminal cases against themselves, including rape, murder, assault and kidnapping.
21 October 2020||New Delhi,||India replies to UNHCR chief’s criticism||Enactment of laws is a sovereign prerogative, India said on Tuesday, responding to criticism of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Act by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet. “India is a democratic polity based on the rule of law and an independent judiciary. The framing of laws is obviously a sovereign prerogative. Violations of law, however, cannot be condoned under the pretext of human rights. A more informed view of the matter was expected of a UN body,” said Anurag Srivastava, official spokesperson of the Ministry of External Affairs. “Constructive criticism is the lifeblood of democracy. Even if the authorities find it uncomfortable, it should never be criminalised or outlawed,” Ms. Bachelet said. She raised the closure of Amnesty International after it was found to be in violation of FCRA rules. She requested India to defend human rights workers, and regretted that laws were being used to punish rights reporting.
21 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Sabarimala Ayyappa temple to close today||The five-day rituals in the Malayalam month of Thulam at the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple will conclude on Wednesday. According to a statement from the Travancore Devaswom Board, the sanctum sanctorum of the temple will be closed after the Athazhapuja at 8 p.m. The temple is slated to reopen at 5.p.m. on November 12 in connection with the Chithira Atta Thirunal
21 October 2020||New Delhi,||Rajnath releases new DRDO procurement manual||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has released a new Defence Research & Development Organisation (DRDO) Procurement Manual 2020 to encourage more participation by the industry, including startups and micro, small and medium enterprises in research and development and to achieve self reliance in defence. “It will facilitate the indigenous defence industry by simplifying the processes and ensure their participation in design and development activities,” Mr. Singh said.
21 October 2020||Mumbai,||Former ACP moves court against Republic TV||Former Assistant Commissioner of Police Iqbal Shaikh filed a suit before the city civil and sessions court on Tuesday seeking to restrain on Republic TV’s editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami from defaming the Mumbai police and undermining the probe in the Television Rating Points manipulation case, in which the channel is an accused. In the suit, the ACP seeks remedies for a ‘sustained campaign’ of defamation being directed against the Mumbai police. The matter will be heard on October 21.
21 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Issue specific guidelines for disposal of used masks, HC tells State||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to come out with specific guidelines for disposal of used masks by citizens by November 3, and give wide publicity to the guidelines in print, electronic and social media to create public awareness. Also, the court directed the government to give proper training to pourakarmikas on collection and handling of personal protective equipment such as masks, gloves, and toiletries used in households, including those having COVID-19 positive patients. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar issued the direction after it was pointed out that the State government has not made citizens aware of the guidelines issued in July by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) for handling, treatment, and disposal of waste generated during treatment/diagnosis/quarantine of COVID-19 patients. The Bench was hearing a PIL petition on issues related to COVID-19 health management. The Bench agreed with the contention of one of the petitioners, K.B. Vijayakumar, that the State government has not made aware of the guidelines on disposal of masks used by citizens as both the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board and the State governments have merely issued circulars in August and September, respectively, for following the elaborative guidelines issued by the CPCB. Waste masks and gloves in households, including those used by non-COVID-19 patients, should be kept in paper bag for a minimum of 72 hours prior to disposal of the same as dry general solid waste after cutting the same to prevent reuse, says the CPCB guidelines.
21 October 2020||LUCKNOW,||Opposition parties believe a “specific religion” has rights over nation’s resources: U.P. CM||Kick-starting his campaign in Bihar for the JD(U)-BJP alliance, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Tuesday claimed that while the BJP governments worked for all, the Opposition parties believed that a “specific religion” had rights over the nation’s resources. He said the opposition made people fight in the name of caste, region and language.
21 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||A dozen from BJP in LJP final list of candidates||The LJP released its final list of 42 candidates on Tuesday — 12 of them are former BJP members. So far, over two dozen BJP leaders have been accommodated by the LJP. Meanwhile, LJP president Chirag Paswan’s cousin and Lok Sabha MP, Prince Raj, met RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav’s mother Rabri Devi. Mr. Raj told reporters that there was no political discussion.
21 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Seizures worth Rs. 35 crore in Bihar polls so far: EC||The Election Commission of India (EC) on Tuesday said seizures worth Rs. 35 crore had been made in connection with curbing black money in the Bihar Assembly election as on Monday. In comparison, the total seizures in the 2015 Bihar Assembly poll were worth Rs. 23.81 crore, an EC statement said.
21 October 2020||Srinagar,||Sealing of Kashmir Times office raises outcry in Valley||The Jammu and Kashmir administration’s decision to seal the Srinagar office of Kashmir Times newspaper has caused an uproar. “Vendetta for speaking out! No due process followed. How peevish!” its editor Anuradha Bhasin said. She has been at the forefront of the fight for press freedom in J&K and against the Internet ban after the abrogation of J&K’s special status last August. Journalists have slammed “the government-sponsored intimidation attempts to silence an independent newspaper”. The National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party, too, criticised the move.
21 October 2020||New Delhi,||Amit Shah meets with Nagaland CM, Opposition leader||Union Home Minister Amit Shah had a meeting with Nagaland Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio and Leader of the Opposition T.R. Zeliang in Delhi on Tuesday to discuss the Naga peace pact that may be finalised soon. Mr. Rio later met National Socialist Council of Nagaland (Isak-Muivah) chief Thuingaleng Muivah, who has been camping in Delhi since July after refusing to hold any dialogue with Naga interlocutor R.N. Ravi. Mr. Shah is learnt to have asked Mr. Zeliang to rejoin the Joint Legislators’ Forum and endorse the “one solution” resolution of the Naga political issue signed by over 150 civil society groups and individuals on October 15. In November 2017, the Centre had created the Forum, comprising all the 60-members of the Nagaland Assembly, to assist the Naga peace process. Mr. Zeliang is also the leader of the Naga People’s Front (NPF), the chief Opposition party that had walked out of the Forum in August due to “huge trust deficit”. Peace talks in trouble The peace talks hit a rough weather in August after Mr. Muivah refused to hold any dialogue with Mr. Ravi, who is also the State Governor. A team of Intelligence Bureau officials was deputed to hold the discussions with the NSCN(I-M). Mr. Ravi and the NSCN(I-M) signed a framework agreement on August 3, 2015, in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The NSCN(I-M) has been demanding a separate constitution and a flag for the Nagas and the assimilation of all Naga inhabited areas in Assam, Arunachal Pradesh and Manipur. In 2017, Mr. Ravi included more Naga groups in the dialogue process and signed a preamble with the seven Naga National Political Groups (NNPGs). Mr. Ravi continues the negotiations with the NNPG.  The NNPG issued a statement on Tuesday, accusing the NSCN(I-M) of delaying the talks. “After 23 years of political talks, when a negotiator declares that Nagas do not accept the Union of India or the Indian Constitution, it could only mean political dialogue was a circus exercise for personal gains. The much touted FA [framework] agreement of 2015, by the very utterance, becomes invalid. Whether an emotional outburst or otherwise, the organisation owes an explanation to the Naga people. It reeks of a despotic, incoherent, unreliable and anti-people character and mind,” said N. Kitovi Zhimomi, convener, NNPG, said in a statement.
21 October 2020||Mumbai,||RIL issues fraud alert||Reliance Industries Ltd (RIL) has issued a fraud alert on its website asking people not to fall prey to a fraudster who has skipped bail conditions and resumed operations to dupe people in the name of the company. “Certain persons masquerading as officials of Reliance Industries Ltd or our group companies are making proposals to companies and individuals using fake email IDs ending with ‘@ril.vc’,” RIL said.
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Daily count continues to register decline||Tamil Nadu reported 3,094 new cases of COVID-19 and 50 more deaths on Tuesday. The State has been recording a decline in fresh infections in the last few days. The new cases pushed the State’s tally to 6,94,030. A total of 36,734 persons are presently under treatment. As many as 4,403 persons, including 1,235 in Chennai, 328 in Coimbatore and 242 in Chengalpattu, were discharged on Tuesday. With this, 6,46,555 persons have been discharged so far. A total of 10,741 persons have succumbed to the infection in the State, so far. In the last 24 hours, 80,371 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested till date to 91,12,067. Districts’ tally Except for six districts, including Chennai, the others had less than 100 cases of COVID-19. Chennai reported 857 fresh cases of COVID-19, taking its tally to 1,91,754. A total of 263 persons tested positive in Coimbatore and 191 in Chengalpattu. There were 169 cases in Salem, 137 in Tiruvallur and 125 in Tiruppur. Among other districts, Kancheepuram reported 93 cases, Namakkal 95 and Thanjavur 88. Of the 50 deceased, 11 persons died in Chennai, five in Tiruppur and four each in Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur. Of them, 44 had co-morbidities. Among the deceased was a 32-year-old man from Krishnagiri, who was admitted to the Government Headquarters Hospital in Krishnagiri on October 16, with complaints of fever for four days, cough and difficulty in breathing for two days. He had no co-morbidities. He died on October 19 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Four persons in their 40s also succumbed to the infection. This included a 41-year-old man from Kancheepuram who had no co-morbidities. He was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on October 12. He died on October 18 due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. Two more private laboratories — Life Pixcell Laboratory in Palani and Soorya Diagnostics in Tiruchengode — were approved for COVID-19 testing. As of date, there are a total of 66 testing facilities in the government sector and 128 private laboratories in Tamil Nadu.  As many as 4,403 persons, including 1,235 in Chennai, 328 in Coimbatore and 242 in Chengalpattu, were discharged
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Onions sell for Rs. 90 a kg in wholesale market||As onion supply to the city remains scanty, the price of 1 kg of the vegetable touched Rs. 90 in the Koyambedu wholesale market on Tuesday. It will take at least two months for the prices to drop and this will happen only after the arrival of fresh harvest, traders noted. Heavy rain in onion producing States and crop damage had led to a supply crunch. While the cost of most vegetables is relatively stable, onions and carrots have been priced high at the wholesale market. Onion arrivals to Koyambedu dipped to 35-40 truckloads on Tuesday from the daily average of 70-80. Wholesalers noted that the price of onion varied from Rs. 40 to Rs. 90 per kg, depending on the quality. Small onions sold for up to Rs. 110 per kg. Onions from Maharashtra contribute 45%-50% of the supply to the city, while the rest comes from Telangana and Karnataka. However, heavy rain and labour shortage during the harvest had resulted in a dip in production. P. Sukumar, treasurer, Koyambedu Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers Merchants’ Association, said, “The arrivals of small onions has also reduced by half. Carrots cost up to Rs. 100 a kg as rain in the Nilgiris has destroyed the crops. We may have to wait till mid-December for onion prices to come down.” In a measure similar to last year, when the price of onions peaked to Rs. 140 per kg in December, wholesale traders have started sourcing onions from Egypt and a few truck loads trickled into the market this week. John Valtharis, president, Koyambedu Onion Wholesale Traders’ Association, said, “It will take a fortnight for more onions imported from Egypt to arrive from Mumbai port to Chennai. Egyptian onions are sold for Rs. 50-Rs. 60 per kg. Some traders are also sourcing the produce from countries like Iran and Afghanistan.” Wholesalers suggested that the government should explore the open ventilated warehousing model used to store onions in Brazil and Israel to prevent such recurring price hikes. Preventing hoarding As an effort to prevent hoarding, officials of the Koyambedu Market Management Committee have started conducting frequent checks since Monday. Officials noted that hoarding had not been observed so far. Meanwhile, the Cooperative Department will start selling onions at a subsidised price of Rs. 45 per kg in its 29 Farm Fresh outlets across the city, starting Wednesday. An official said, “Onions will be available in the 65 outlets across the State from Thursday. Initially, we will be procuring 10 tonnes of onions from Nashik through the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation.”
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||As roads get busy, traffic police personnel back on their toes||The traffic police heaved a sigh of relief after accidents and rash driving dropped during the lockdown period between March and September. Since the start of September, after public transport resumed, they are back on their toes to ensure safety on the roads even as full-fledged vehicular movement is yet to resume. On top of this, they also have an additional job on hand — creating awareness about COVID-19 among the motorists. According to statistics provided by the traffic police, between March 24 and September 5, road accident deaths dropped by over 50% and the number of related injuries decreased by 63% compared to the corresponding period last year. However, fatalities and injuries between September and October 2020 are nearly the same compared to 2019. “During the lockdown, there were no buses or autorickshaws and the vehicle population was less than half compared with normal days. The accidents then were mainly injuries caused by people falling from bikes or cycles, cases of speeding and accidents involving emergency vehicles. After the lockdown was lifted, traffic is slowly returning to normal,” said N. Kannan, Additional Commissioner of Police, Traffic. “Traffic is yet to resume fully as many schools, colleges and IT offices are still closed. Even MTC buses are not fully operational. But there are many two-wheelers and cars on the road. Early last month, there was a lot of rash driving as people got used to empty roads, now even that is on the wane as traffic density is increasing,” a senior police officer said.  The police said they had identified close to 200 blackspots in the city based on the number of fatalities. “If many accidents happen in the same spot over many years, it will be our first priority spot. We are studying the reason, including faults in road design, and we will take steps to resolve the issue,” Mr. Kannan said. Police officers said enforcement was being made stricter. “Till now people were driving without helmets. We have started stopping those without helmets, those speeding and those driving after drinking. In the city’s periphery, we have placed barricades and checkposts to deter speeding.” ‘Adopting’ roads The police have also started “adopting” roads, to facilitate smooth flow of traffic. “We are adopting roads which are congested and removing encroachments.” “This will ensure free flow of traffic as the stretch will become wider, and accidents will also be prevented,” said a senior police officer. Each police station will adopt one stretch for improvement. “If there is a black spot on the stretch, then they will devote more attention,” the officer added. Though the traffic police are cracking down on speeding and traffic offences, they are more focused on contactless enforcement to prevent the spread of COVID-19. “Since CCTV cameras were introduced, we track the speeding vehicle’s registration number and send a challan to the owner’s house. We are also going to introduce more automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) cameras in many arterial stretches soon. So we do not have to stop a motorist when he commits an offence,” a senior police officer said. Many traffic policemen feel that they now have an additional role to play. “Apart from handling traffic violations and regulating traffic, we are also creating COVID-19 awareness at traffic signals. We check for people not wearing masks and advise them to wear it or provide them with one,” a traffic inspector on Poonamallee High Road said.
21 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Moderate rains likely in parts of State today||A fresh low pressure that has formed over central parts of the Bay of Bengal will trigger rainfall over many parts of the State till Wednesday. However, the intensity of rains may reduce from Thursday as the weather system is expected to move northwards, according to the Meteorological Department. On Tuesday, rains lashed many parts of Chennai. Some of the weather stations in Nungambakkam, Puzhal and Meenambakkam received up to 1 cm till noon. A few areas in north Chennai were waterlogged due to early morning showers. During the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Tuesday, Salem received the highest amount of rainfall of 9 cm. Officials of the Meteorological Department said the low pressure area and a cyclonic circulation associated with it are likely to bring light to moderate rainfall over most parts of the State. However, such widespread rainfall would last only till Wednesday as the system is expected to move away. One or two places in nearly 13 districts, including Salem, Dharmapuri, Vellore and Perambalur may get heavy rainfall on Wednesday. Some of the north coastal areas may have rains up to moderate intensity till Thursday. Thunderstorms may occur in some areas of Chennai till Thursday and the city may enjoy a generally cloudy sky and a day temperature of 30 degree Celsius. Chennai has so far recorded 9.4 cm of rainfall in Nungambakkam and 4 cm in Meenambakkam this month. S.Balachandran, deputy director general of meteorology, Chennai, said rainfall activity may be restricted to a few areas over the State from Thursday as the weather system is not expected to intensify. “We are expecting the northeast monsoon to set in during last week of October,” he added. The Meteorological Department has also warned fishermen against venturing into the central Bay of Bengal as squally wind with a speed of up to 60 km per hour may blow till October 23.
21 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Man booked for issuing rape threat to actor’s daughter||The cyber crime wing of the Chennai police booked a Twitter user for issuing a rape threat to actor Vijay Sethupathi’s daughter over Sri Lankan cricketer Muttiah Muralitharan’s biopic controversy. The user, who goes by the Twitter handle @itsrithikrajh, on Monday issued a rape threat to the actor’s daughter, with a photograph of the father-daughter duo. Several associations made online complaints and a few anonymous complaints were also received by the cyber crime wing. “There has been lot of concern on social media regarding the comments made online against a celebrity. On receipt of complaints to this effect, a case has been registered in the cyber cell,” City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar tweeted, in response to the demands on social media. The police also said that Mr. Sethupathi’s representative had lodged a complaint at the Chennai Police Commissionerate, and it was following the complaint that the case was registered. The man, identified as Rithik Raj, had been booked under various sections of the IPC and the IT Act. DMK MP Kanimozhi, DMDK founder Vijayakant, treasurer Premalatha Vijayakant and VCK chief Thol. Thirumavalavan condemned the rape threat made against Mr. Sethupathi’s daughter. Recently, similar threats were issued against Chennai Super Kings captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni’s daughter after poor performance of the team in the Indian Premier League. DMK MP Kanimozhi said on social media: “The perverse intimidation of Vijay Sethupathi’s #daughter is not only barbaric, but extremely dangerous to the very fabric of our society. Making women and children the soft targets is a cowardly act. The police should take stern action against the perpetrator.” Mr. Vijayakant said he was shocked by the rape threats issued against the children of Mr. Sethupathi and Mr. Dhoni. Ms. Premalatha also demanded that severe action be taken against those responsible for making the comments against Mr. Dhoni and Mr. Sethupathi. Mr. Thirumavalavan said disagreements with Mr. Sethupathi should not be used to attack his daughter. “This is the height of indecency and perversion,” he said.
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M gets training centre for computing||The Indian Institute of Technology, Madras (IIT-M), will train students in high-performance computing (HPC) soon. The institute has been made the nodal centre for training under the National Supercomputing Mission (NSM). The centre will train scientists and engineers, and create manpower capable of conducting research in artificial intelligence (AI). Recently, the institute signed an agreement with the Pune-based Centre for Development of Advanced Computing. Rupesh Nasre, a faculty in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, said the aim was to build infrastructure, develop applications, focus on research and create a human resource pool. “Certain institutes were given different clusters of varied capacity to improve the overall infrastructure within the country. The aim is to train and create a set of personnel, including HPC programmers, users or system administrators, besides developing applications,” he said. Need for ground “HPC is not prevalent in India. We need to develop ground up by floating certain curriculum courses as part of B. Tech or even B. Sc. For this, you need basic computing infrastructure, which is a little high-end compared to our laptops and desktops,” he added. As of now, only the older IITs have high-performing computers. These are a cluster of computers that are inter-connected and allow for several operations to be performed simultaneously. The recent MoU and the resultant training would provide for HPCs in the newer IITs as well, Mr. Nasre said. At IIT-M, there are students who have domain knowledge, but do not know how to compute. There are also those who know computing, but don’t have domain knowledge, he said. The institute has developed a mobile phone application that students can download. There are also YouTube videos from where they can learn HPC, he added.
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Theatre owners await government nod||After waiting for almost seven months, cinema hall owners in the State are eager to be back in business. They are waiting for the State government to give a go ahead, but film producers insist that it cannot be “business as usual”, until the theatre owners agree to their many demands. Members of the Tamil Film Active Producers’ Association (TFAPA) have placed three main demands, among others: abolish the virtual print fee (VPF); renegotiate theatrical revenue-sharing formula and provide a share in the revenue made via online ticketing. VPF is a charge paid by the producer to digital service providers to screen movies in theatres. Despite digital cinema service providers Qube Cinema and UFO Moviez announcing a flat 50% discount on VPF charges for a fixed number of weeks, TFAPA vice-president, producer G. Dhananjayan, said its members were determined to abolish VPF. “We have already placed the demands and theatre owners are yet to reply. We are unlikely to release new films until the issue is resolved,” he said. Mr. Dhananjayan ruled out a situation where producers start releasing movies in theatres, while simultaneously engaging in talks with theatre owners over the key demands. Favourable decision Tiruppur Subramaniam, president, Tamil Nadu Theatre and Multiplex Owners’ Association, said he hoped to see producers coming forward to release new movies once the government orders the reopening of theatres. “We will have to meet the Chief Minister and place a request. We hope to get a favourable decision soon,” he said. Mr. Subramanian said he did not believe that the producers had renewed their demands on VPF and other issues. In a letter to TFAPA, Senthil Kumar, co-founder, Qube Cinema, urged the association to “address the issue in a wholesome manner so that we are not exclusively targeted by such a powerful and important body as yourselves”. Addressing the charge by producers that they were being forced to pay VPF charges, while Hollywood was exempted, Mr. Senthil pointed out the difference between the VPF model followed in the United States, Europe and Australia and the one followed in India. “Digital service providers there charge a very high VPF of about $850 per digital print, about 90%-100% the cost of a film print [about Rs. 60,000-Rs. 70,000]. The agreement entered into by the digital service providers with studios allow them to charge such high VPF rates, until they recover the cost of the digital cinema equipment, along with maintenance and support costs, and a reasonable return on investment. This is referred to as the recoupment model,” he said. Explaining why the ‘recoupment model’ will not work in India, he said: “The rate charged per digital print is so low when compared to other international markets. The cost of equipment is even higher here because of the 35% import duties in the country, not just for the equipment, but also for all spares and consumables,” he said.
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||One term over, no major examinations held for students||Five months having passed since June, when most schools began their academic year virtually, many institutions have now started classes online for the second term as well. The current set-up, however, has meant that a majority of schools have not been able to hold any major exams for their students — the quarterly exams, that students write for 100 marks, have been done away with, and shorter tests have been introduced. R. Vislakshi, president, the Tamil Nadu Private Schools’ Association, said unit tests and short tests were preferred by many schools, since logistically, conducting a long paper virtually was challenging. “With the Tamil Nadu government also saying that students should not be compelled to take tests or attend online classes, shorter evaluation techniques like slip tests or unit tests were what we opted for in the first term,” she said. Guidelines for online classes released by the State government had specified that while assessments could be carried out during the period, they should not be made mandatory or counted for the final grade. At the Madras Christian College Higher Secondary School, students have been attending classes over Zoom. G.J. Manohar, principal, said that they had given students the freedom to do assignments based on what was being taught. “We were keen on ensuring that learning continues in some way and this was an extension of that. This was in practice through the first term and we have just started our second term,” he said. Concerns, in particular, have been raised for students of Classes 10 and 12, taking up board examinations next year, and the need to have regular assessments and evaluations for them. “Most schools aren’t worried about conducting exams or testing the children in some way. The focus now is more on completing the portions, since the pace of teaching has been a lot slower, so far, this year,” said a teacher from a private school. Several teachers’ associations and schools have been reiterating the need to make an early announcement on the reduced syllabus, which will help them structure the academic year better. A few schools that have managed to conduct quarterly exams virtually have done so only for the senior students. “For students of Classes 10 and 12, we considered it a good practice, ahead of their board examinations. Question papers were sent via WhatsApp, for 100 marks, and photos of their answer scripts were sent to teachers after completion. This is a chance for them to be honest and exercise integrity,” said B. Purushothaman, senior principal, Everwin Group of Schools.
21 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Seven women held for theft||In a major operation, the police rounded up a gang of seven women allegedly involved in a series of attention-diversion offences targeting senior citizens at bus stops and crowded places across the city. In the past two days, at least 15 incidents of theft of valuables and bag-lifting were reported in the Thiruvottriyur, New Washermenpet, R.K. Nagar, Villivakkam, Esplanade, Flower Bazaar, Basin Bridge and Egmore police stations. Joint Commissioner of Police, North, V. Balakrishnan, told The Hindu , “Following complaints, we constituted special teams to trace the suspects. After working on several leads, we traced the suspects, who were staying at a rented house in K.K. Nagar and arrested seven women. We recovered 200 g of gold from them,” he said. K. Rani, 28, R. Thilaga, 31, V. Rajamani, 50, K. Mariya 33, S. Esakiammal, 27, M. Lakshmi, 40, and T. Usha, 34, all hailing from Manthi Thoppe, Thoothukudi, were remanded in judicial custody. Explaining the modus operandi, a police officer said, “The gang targeted only senior citizens standing at bus stops. For instance, they would come in an autorickshaw and offer a lift after convincing the victim that no bus would come. After the victim was seated between two of them, one would speak to the victim casually, while the other would remove their jewellery.” “To prevent further occurrences, we have taken all steps and have convened a meeting of autorickshaw drivers to request them to pass on clues,” Mr. Balakrishnan said.
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Manora fort gets a facelift||It stands as a symbol of Thanjavur Maratha Kings’ loyalty to the British Empire. King Serfoji constructed a tower known as Manora Fort at Sarabendrarajanpattinam, 24 km away from Pattukottai, in Thanjavur to commemorate the British victory over Napoleon Bonaparte in Waterloo in 1814. As part of its effort to protect the historical monuments, the Department of Archaeology has carried out conservation works in the tower, the fort and the moat around it. “It is one of the 12 projects funded by the Asian Development Bank. The Chief Minister has already inaugurated three monuments and another seven will be inaugurated soon,” Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture Minister K. Pandiarajan said. The 75-foot hexagonal structure has eight layers, and is surrounded by a moat and a fort. It also functioned as a lighthouse. A stone tablet in the fort says in Tamil, Telugu, Marathi and English that “it was constructed by Maharaja, a friend and ally of the British, to commemorate triumphs of British Arms and downfall of Bonaparte”. Manora derived from the word minaret. It is also called ‘Jayasthampam’. The total cost of the restoration project is Rs. 2.30 crore. “We think that only Rajasthan is the State of forts. But Tamil Nadu also has a lot of forts, and it is our duty to secure a place for these forts in the tourist guide. We are also planning to publish a cultural text similar to the texts published by Rajasthan and Delhi,” Mr. Pandiarajan told The Hindu . K. Olimalik, Assistant Executive Engineer of the Department of Archaeology, said the restoration work included a special coating on the walls to prevent erosion caused by the salty winds of the sea. “We have erected fencing and done face-lifting by creating a lawn around the structure,” he said.
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Central team to visit Cauvery delta to study paddy procurement||A Central team of officials is expected to visit the Cauvery delta in the next few days to study the issue of increasing the limit of moisture content in paddy, Food Minister R. Kamaraj said. This followed a recommendation made by the State government to enhance the limit of moisture content to 22% from the current level of 17%, the Minister said. He claimed that despite traders not coming forward to procure paddy in the wake of rain in the delta, the authorities were, even now, procuring paddy with higher level of moisture content and sending it for hulling. The rates for the common variety and the grade ‘A’ variety were Rs. 1,918 per quintal and Rs. 1,958 per quintal, respectively, Mr. Kamaraj added. Earlier in the day, the general secretary of the AMMK, T.T.V. Dhinakaran, in a series of tweets, accused the State government of being negligent in “letting paddy bags get damaged due to rain” in the delta. He called for steps to expedite the procurement of paddy.
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors voice concern over the long-term effects of COVID-19||At the launch of post-COVID recovery clinics, doctors flagged concerns on long-term persistent effects of the disease and the need for continuum of care for patients. From persistent fatigue to breathlessness, loss of appetite, sleeplessness, scarring of lungs, risk of blood clots and cardiac manifestations, doctors are seeing patients, who have recovered from COVID-19, with many such symptoms. “We are 10 months into the pandemic. We thought all people are susceptible, with the elderly and those with comorbidities at a high risk for complications. People were told to go to hospitals early if they developed the infection. We are realising that it does not end there. Persons who have recovered are running into a lot of problems,” V. Ramasubramanian, senior consultant, Infectious Diseases, Apollo Hospitals, said on Tuesday as the Apollo Hospitals Group launched post-COVID recovery clinics across its network. COVID-19, he said, was not only a respiratory illness but also a systemic disease affecting all organs, predominantly the lungs. “Some of the commonest symptoms are tiredness, mild breathlessness, joint pain, dryness in mouth, problems with appetite and sleeplessness. Persons who did not require hospitalisation for COVID-19 are experiencing such symptoms,” he added. Scarring in lungs and blood clots are other possibilities, while psychological effects due to isolation and stigmatisation are being felt. “Some have neurological problems such as mind fog or brain fog. We realised that COVID-19 affects all organs. We need to tackle this, for which a comprehensive multidisciplinary unit is required,” Dr. Ramasubramanian explained. On the effects of COVID-19 on the heart, Dr. Ramasubramanian said there was an increased risk of blood clots forming in blood vessels due to inflammation. L. Sundararajan, senior consultant pulmonologist, said 80% of patients recover well. “Even among them, some have long lasting effects of COVID-19 on almost all organs,” he said. In the outpatient department, doctors were seeing patients three to four months later with scarring of lungs and symptoms of breathlessness with minimal exertion, he pointed out. Referring to long COVID-19 syndrome, he added that it might take weeks or months for a patient to make a full recovery, raising the need for a platform such as a recovery clinic to make a complete assessment of patients. At least 50% of persons have symptoms, D. Suresh Kumar, senior consultant, Infectious Diseases, added. He recalled how a young person complained of hair loss after suffering from COVID-19. While the elderly had symptoms of fatigue, problems in appetite and giddiness, the young had symptoms such as anxiety and lack of sleep. Preetha Reddy, vice-chairperson of the Apollo Hospitals Group, stressed on the importance of continuum of care post-recovery.
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cracking down on drunk driving even while maintaining distance||With 454 Chennai traffic police personnel testing positive for COVID-19 till date, personnel are taking every possible precaution to prevent getting infected. To avoid physical contact while checking drunk driving cases, the traffic policemen are asking motorists to walk over to breathalysers mounted on the patrol vehicles and blow into them. So far 454 of around 3,000 traffic policemen have tested positive. Of this, 411 have rejoined duty while 35 are under home quarantine, five in care centres and three in hospitals. Since the cases were reported in the city and Tasmac shops were closed, the traffic police stopped using breathalysers to check fior nebriated motorists.  Increase in cases With the reopening of Tasmac shops, the police have also started cracking down on drunken driving. “We are now seeing an increase in drunken driving. But we do not want to risk the lives of motorists or police personnel. So we are asking motorists to pick the straw and blow into the breathalyser. If the reading is high, we seize the vehicle, sanitise it and then ask them to collect it the next day,” said S.R. Senthil, Deputy Commissioner, Traffic (East). C. Raja, inspector, Nungambakkam traffic police, said now motorists were produced before virtual courts, and they could pay the fine of Rs. 10,000. “Everything is contactless now. It keeps us and the motorists safe,” he said. Office jobs A senior traffic police officer said personnel with comorbidities were being given office jobs. “Generally we do not deploy them on roads. We have also been provided protective gear, such as masks, hoods, gloves and hand sanitisers,” the officer said.
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Telangana Governor, Chief Minister thank Palaniswami||Telangana Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao thanked Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for extending Rs. 10 crore aid from the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to the neighbouring State towards flood relief. In separate phone calls, the Telangana Governor and the State’s Chief Minister thanked Mr. Palaniswami for the gesture. On Monday, Mr. Palaniswami had offered to provide any assistance required by the Telangana government in relation to flood relief. Mr. Rao also expressed his condolences to Mr. Palaniswami over the death of his mother.  Mr. Rao also expressed his condolences to Mr. Palaniswami over the death of his mother
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||13,415 seats filled in 2nd round of counselling||Results of the second round of counselling for single-window engineering admissions were released on Tuesday. A total of 13,415 candidates opted for seats in various colleges. The Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions (TNEA) committee had invited 22,903 candidates, whose cut-offs ranged between 174.75 and 145.5. However, as many as 9,488 candidates stayed away. While seats in Anna University’s four departments filled up, Annamalai University, which, since last year, has been under the TNEA for counselling, was struggling to fill its seats. Annamalai University offers three different programmes in Computer Science and Engineering, including Big Data Analytics and Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning. Although CSE has remained a favourite among students with good cut-off marks, the new courses or even the traditional CSE has not found takers. Anna University’s constituent college in Kancheepuram did better than its counterparts in Arni, Tindivanam and Cuddalore. At the University College in Tiruchi, almost all seats in biotechnology were allotted. There are only two vacancies in the SC category and one in the SCA category. Chennai-based colleges such as Jeppiar and St. Joseph’s filled all but one seat in biotechnology. In the PSG College of Technology, there are no seats in bio-medical engineering or biotechnology. Despite the rush to start courses such as Artificial Intelligence, Data Science and Machine Learning, there was no rush from students for the courses, said teachers. “The students have preferred traditional courses. It is difficult to predict what the students will choose,” a professor said. The decision to launch these courses was made following encouragement from the All India Council for Technical Education, the teachers said.  The Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions (TNEA) committee had invited 22,903 candidates, whose cut-offs ranged between 174.75 and 145.5
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police Commissioner rescues injured motorcyclist||A woman motorist who fell from her two-wheeler on Dr. Radhakrishnan Salai found a surprise rescuer on Tuesday. It was none other than City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal. The motorist Saradha, 27, of St. Thomas Mount, was driving her scooter from Anna Flyover. She fell after hitting a car near Music Academy on Dr. Radhakrishnan Salai. The Police Commissioner, who happened to be passing by, stopped his vehicle, crossed the median and came to her rescue. Mr. Aggarwal immediately asked his driver for a first aid kit and patched her up. He called up the traffic control room and a traffic inspector from Royapettah was sent to the spot. Ms. Saradha was taken to a nearby hospital and provided treatment.
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||People need relief measures from PM, not advice: Thirumavalavan||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder Thol. Thirumavalavan said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation on Tuesday evening was a “disappointment”. In a statement, he said there was an expectation that Mr. Modi would announce relief packages to the people who have suffered severe economic losses in the last few months due to the lockdown. “He simply advised people. This is a disappointment. Due to the pandemic, the Indian economy has been the worst hit among all other major economies. Rural poverty has gone up and unemployment has increased throughout India and prices of essential commodities, such as onions, have increased,” said Mr. Thirumavalavan. Under such circumstances, the Prime Minister was expected to make an announcement about relief. “However, he simply said wear masks. People need relief measures, not advice. Has the PM not understood this? Does he not care about the people? These are the questions that rise,” he said. Mr. Thirumavalavan charged that the BJP had used the pandemic to increase petrol and diesel prices, get rid of subsidies for gas and remove workers’ legal rights. “When people are suffering, Mr. Modi tells a lie that the economy is growing. I don’t know what he thinks about people. Mr. Modi should announce schemes that benefit people,” he said.  When people are suffering, Mr.Modi tells a lie that ‘economy is growing’
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK’s alliance is one of opportunism, says TNCC chief||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri on Tuesday said the DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance is one of principles and not of “opportunistic politics” like the AIADMK-BJP front. Responding to Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar’s claim that many parties [the DMK’s allies] were keen on joining the AIADMK front, and that the DMK was like an automobile that had suffered a breakdown, Mr. Alagiri said the Minister must stop engaging in “politics of comedy”, and the AIADMK had a lot of issues to resolve within its alliance. ‘Alliance strong’ Contrary to what the Minister had claimed, the DMK alliance was quite strong, Mr. Alagiri said. “The DMK-led Secular Progressive Alliance has been working in a united way and with discipline for the welfare of the people. The leader of the alliance, M.K. Stalin, is leading the front capably and always discusses issues with the alliance partners,” he added. “Is the BJP a part of the AIADMK alliance or not? That itself is a big confusion [for them]. Only the BJP’s T.N. president, L. Murugan, greeted Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on being chosen as the CM candidate for the upcoming election. No other party in their alliance has done this. Have they deliberated on this issue?” Mr. Alagiri said. He wondered whether the BJP had been kept in the loop about the AIADMK choosing Mr. Palaniswami as the CM candidate. He said there could be no bigger insult for the BJP than being in the AIADMK alliance without even the slightest amount of respect. “Can Mr. Jayakumar disclose which parties are there in the AIADMK alliance? The AIADMK is worried that if it includes the BJP in its alliance, it will face a humiliating defeat in the Assembly polls, similar to the one it suffered in the Lok Sabha election. The people of Tamil Nadu hate the BJP because of its anti-people activities,” he said.
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Paddy procurement: Central team to visit delta||A Central team of officials is expected to visit the Cauvery delta in a few days to study the matter of increasing the limit of moisture content in paddy, according to Food Minister R. Kamaraj.  Moisture content This followed a recommendation made by the State government to enhance the limit of moisture content to 22% from the present level of 17%, the Minister said. He claimed that despite traders not coming forward to procure paddy now in the wake of rain in the delta, the authorities were even now procuring paddy having higher level of moisture content and sending it for hulling. The rates for common variety and grade ‘A’ variety were Rs. 1,918 per quintal and Rs. 1,958 per quintal respectively, Mr. Kamaraj added. Earlier in the day, general secretary of Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) T.T.V. Dhinakaran, in a series of tweets, blamed the State government for being negligent in letting “paddy bags getting damaged due to rain” in the delta. He called for steps to expedite the procurement of paddy.
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘CM, Deputy CM will move in different directions’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday claimed that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, who jointly head the AIADMK, were remaining together to make use of the next six months to enjoy the spoils of power but would move in different directions after losing power in 2021. “Let them go in any direction. Whether it is the mystery over the death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa or murder in Kodanadu estate or other corrupt cases, we will conduct inquiry as per law and bring to book all those who are responsible for them [when the DMK comes to power],” he said, addressing the Mupperum Vizha organised by Theni district units (North and South) of the DMK. He alleged though Mr. Palaniswami and Mr. Panneerselvam could not have gained prominence in politics and made money without the backing of Jayalalithaa, they remained ungrateful to her. “If they are really loyal to her, they should bring to book those who are responsible for her death,” Mr. Stalin said.
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gold worth Rs. 44.4 lakh seized||The Chennai Air Customs have seized 842 g of gold worth Rs. 44.4 lakh. A press release on Tuesday said two passengers were intercepted following information that gold was likely to be smuggled from Dubai. On questioning, the passengers confessed to hiding gold paste bundles. Six bundles were recovered. Investigation was under way, the release said.
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vaiko urges Governor to approve 7.5% reservation||MDMK general secretary Vaiko on Tuesday urged Governor Banwarilal Purohit to give assent to the legislation seeking to provide 7.5% reservation in medical colleges for NEET-qualified students from government schools. In a letter to the Governor, a copy of which was released to the media, he said 41% of Class 12 students in Tamil Nadu studied in government schools, but only 0.15% of them were able to enter medical colleges. “Government school students come from socially and economically weaker sections of the society. It is against social justice to place them on a par with students studying in other educational institutions,” he said. Mr. Vaiko said if the legislation was implemented, around 300 students from government schools would be able to enter medical colleges.
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EC to conduct State-level online quiz||The Election Commission will conduct a State-level online quiz competition for the public to enhance their participation in the upcoming Assembly election in 2021. The competition will be held as part of the Systematic Voters’ Education and Electoral Participation (SVEEP) programme, and is open to all. Entry is free. The competition would be conducted only through online mode, Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo said in a press release. In the preliminary level, three rounds will be held on ‘Goal Quiz Sports’  YouTube channel. The first round will be held on October 25 at 4 p.m. and the second and thirds round on October 26 at 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. Whoever types the answer first in the comments section of the channel will qualify for the next round and a person can answer only once. A total of 36 teams will be selected for the semi-final round. The semi-final and final rounds will be conducted on subsequent weekends and the selected teams would be informed accordingly, the CEO said. Topics The quiz competition will deal with the topics of Elections in India and general knowledge (50% each). Each team can comprise of up to two members. The first prize winners will get Rs. 50,000, second prize Rs. 25,000 and third prize Rs. 15,000. Consolation prizes for preliminary and semi-final rounds will also be awarded.
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘CM, Deputy CM will move in different directions’||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday claimed that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, who jointly head the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, were remaining together to make use of the next six months to enjoy the spoils of power but would move in different directions after losing power in 2021. “Let them go in any direction. Whether it is the mystery over the death of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa or murder in Kodanadu estate or other corrupt cases, we will conduct inquiry as per law and bring to book all those who are responsible for them [when the DMK comes to power],” he said addressing the Mupperum Vizha organised by the Theni district units (North and South) of the DMK. He alleged though Mr. Palaniswami and Mr. Panneerselvam could not have gained prominence in politics and made money without the backing of Jayalalithaa, they remained ungrateful to her. “If they are really loyal to her they should bring to book those who are responsible for her death,” Mr Stalin said.
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK seeks ban on online gambling||Stating that online gambling was wrecking many families, PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Tuesday wondered when it would be brought to an end. In a statement, Dr. Ramadoss referred to the death of Vijaykumar, a youth from Puducherry who committed suicide after losing his property and wealth due to his online gambling habit. “He immolated himself, leaving his two children and wife behind. In an audio message to his wife, he said he had lost nearly Rs. 30 lakh on online gambling (rummy), and that was the reason why he took the extreme step,” Dr. Ramadoss said. Dr. Ramadoss pointed out that gambling in public places and clubs with money is a crime, whereas it is legal online. ( Those who require assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts may contact the State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 ).
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||4 transpersons get admission in Loyola||Four transpersons have been admitted to Loyola College this academic year. Shakshi Angel has been admitted to M.Sc. Computer Science. Dinesh has been admitted to the B.A. French programme. Two candidates, Manikandan and Santhosh, have been admitted to the B.Voc. Digital Journalism programme. Loyola College has not only been giving admission to transpersons for several years but also provides them with free education. An official of the College said transpersons were being given admission since 2010. Transpersons were among the target group for the community radio that the institution runs. The college is in the process of creating a corpus so that more transpersons could gain admission to the institution. Sudha T.G., an activist, who has been fighting for the cause of transpersons, recalled that when K. Baskar was the Vice-Chancellor of Manonmaniam Sundaranar University he introduced a scheme by which transpersons were given free education. “At present one person from our community is doing her M. Phil,” she said.
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prince of Arcot calls on Chief Minister||Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali on Tuesday called on Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami at his residence and expressed condolences over the recent passing of his mother, Thavusayammal.
21 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Textile shop sealed||Officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation sealed the Kumaran Silks showroom in T. Nagar on Tuesday. The textile showroom was sealed for overcrowding and for failing to maintain COVID-19 regulations — enforcing physical distancing and wearing of mask among customers. A senior official of the Corporation’s Kodambakkam zone said complaints had been received about crowds thronging the showroom on Sunday. The employees had failed to implement any measures to control the crowd. With the city still under a lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the crowding at the showroom would increse the risk of spreading the virus among visitors. Official order Based on the directions of Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash, the showroom was sealed on Tuesday morning, he said. The official said the showroom would be kept sealed until further orders from the Commissioner. Videos of overcrowding and customers failing to maintain physical distancing did the rounds on social media on Monday.
21 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Do not turn markets into super spreaders of COVID-19: officials||The congregation of people in markets and shopping centres in the city for purchases for Navaratri and Deepavali is causing concern among the authorities, as crowds that do not adhere to safety norms can prove to be super spreaders of COVID-19. With Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan stating on Sunday that gross negligence during Onam celebrations had led to spurt in the number of cases in Kerala, City Health Officer S. Raja called for full co-operation from the public to prevent the spread of the disease during the festival season in Coimbatore. “A meeting of representatives from all types of shops has been planned on Thursday, at which they will be given instructions to be followed,” he said, adding that action would be taken against violators. G. Stalin, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) said certain measures from the public could reduce the rush at markets. “Instead of shopping on Saturday and Sunday, people can choose weekdays. It has been noticed that the majority of the people come for shopping after 5 p.m. As of now, shops are allowed to function only up to 8 p.m. This situation leads to heavy crowding in shops, which can be avoided by scheduling these visits as early as from 10 a.m. Family heads should ensure that bare minimum people go out for shopping, instead of taking all the persons as in the case of shopping in previous years,” he said. Health and Revenue Departments, the police and the Corporation are now imposing fined on shops that violate COVID-19 safety guidelines. On Sunday, the police imposed a fine of Rs. 5,000 each on Sri Ganapathy Silks and Saravana Selvarathnam stores on Oppanakara Street for violating the guidelines, said a senior official. COVID-19 monitoring squads of the Coimbatore City Police are deployed at busy pockets of Coimbatore for making announcements of safety measures and crowd management.
21 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||All police stations get child welfare police officers||All the police stations in Coimbatore city and rural will now have a child welfare police officers who are trained to handle cases involving crime against women and children. The child welfare officers will be present on duty in civil and they will wear a special badge. “Child welfare officers have a range of duties, including addressing crime against women and children, guiding a victim of crime, counselling them and creating awareness on such crimes among people in their jurisdiction. A trained women police officer will be chosen for the duty,” said V. Jeyashri, Superintendent of Police, Crime against Women and Children (CWC) wing for North and West zones. The officers will work closely with the Child Welfare Committee, Social Justice Department, Juvenile Justice Board and the Child Line. Additional Director General of Police Seema Agarwal is heading the CWC wing which was formed last year. Under Ms. Agarwal, one SP is taking care of Chennai, and two others are covering Central, South, North and West zones. A day long training was given to 56 child welfare police officers from city and rural police stations at the Police Community Hall on Tuesday. Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan, POCSO Court judge J. Radhika, Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police Ara. Arularasu, Ms. Jeyashri, Coimbatore City Deputy Commissioners of Police G. Stalin (Law and Order), E.S. Uma (Crime), K. Gunasekaran (Headquarters), Additional Superintendent of Police (CWC) G.S. Anitha, District Child Protection Officer R. Sundar and Fr. C. Albert Yesudass from Don Bosco Anbu Illam, the Child Line agency in Coimbatore, attended the programme. An awareness poster on crime against women was released at the event. The special badge was given to all the child welfare officers.
21 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Three of a family booked for job fraud||The District Crime Branch (DCB) of Coimbatore Rural Police on Monday booked a woman, her daughter and her son-in-law for allegedly duping a man of Rs. 65 lakh by promising to arrange a government job. The case was registered against Stella Umarani of Periyar Nagar at Vadavalli, her son-in-law Joe Antony and daughter Teena based on a complaint lodged by Ashok Kumar of Seeranaickenpalayam. It said that Umarani, Teena and Antony, who have been doing business, claimed to have wide contacts in government departments and promised Mr. Kumar of arranging a government job. According to Mr. Kumar, who owns a nursery school at Vadavalli, he transacted a sum of Rs. 65 lakh to the accused from his bank account on various dates between September 1, 2017 and July 15, 2019. Officials said that efforts were being made to arrest the accused.
21 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for death of brother||The Periyanaickenpalayam police on Tuesday arrested a 48-year-old man on charges of murdering his brother. R. Lakshmanan, a resident of Srinivasa Nagar at Press Colony near Periyanaickenpalayam, was held for beating his brother R. Ramakrishnan (57) to death with a steel box. The police said that Lakshmanan, a bachelor and differently abled, had been staying alone and Ramakrishnan stayed with him once in ten days. On October 4, when Ramakrishnan visited Lakshmanan, he reportedly shouted at him for not keeping the house clean. This led to a quarrel and Lakshmanan hit his brother on the head with the steel box, the police said. Ramakrishnan was taken to a private hospital where doctors were misinformed that he had fallen down following a seizure. After some days of treatment, the private hospital referred him to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on October 16 where he died without responding to treatment late on Monday. The police who were informed by the CMCH authorities about the death questioned Lakshmanan and found that he had assaulted his brother. According to the police, both the hospitals failed to intimate the police about the hospitalisation of the deceased.
21 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman, daughter held for murder||A woman and her daughter, both widows, were arrested by the Karamadai police on charges of murdering a man who allegedly stalked the latter over the phone. R. Malliga (50) from Periyar Nagar near Karamadai and her daughter Sindhu alias Dhanalakshmi (32), both daily wage labourers, were arrested in connection with the murder of N. Periyasamy (46), a resident of Arul Nagar near Rathinapuri. The police said that Dhanalakshmi got a missed call from Periyasamy a week ago. The man allegedly made repeated calls and missed calls to Dhanalakshmi, following which she and her mother decided to find out the identity of the caller, the police said. They asked him to come to their house on Tuesday and he arrived around 2 p.m. that day. According to the police, the two women and their relatives assaulted the man and he died on the spot.
21 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Bus service from Coimbatore to Pilloor Dam to resume soon||A senior official from the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, Coimbatore Division, said that at least one bus service will be resumed from Coimbatore to Pilloor Dam soon. Nearly two months after the TNSTC resumed bus services in Coimbatore district, residents of Pilloor Dam area face a lack of connectivity through buses to the city and Mettupalayam. According to M. Mallan, a resident of Kodiyur near the Pilloor Dam, said that when his daughter-in-law went to labour in September, he had to hire a jeep to reach Mettupalayam Government Hospital for her admission. “Many families are forced to hire jeeps from local shop owners by paying Rs. 1,000 or Rs. 2,000 to reach Mettupalayam for any emergency purposes,” he said. Tribal settlements Residents of many tribal settlements located near the Pilloor Dam area are also affected by the lack of bus services, he said. Two bus services that reach Pilloor Dam by 10 a.m. and at 5 p.m. were available prior to the imposition of lockdown and these have not been resumed in the past seven months, Mr. Mallan said.
21 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Implement horizontal reservation soon: CPI (M)||Members of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged a demonstration on Tuesday condemning the delay in the approval of the Bill to provide horizontal reservation for government school students in medical college admissions. Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan and other CPI(M) leaders from the district participated in the demonstration held near the South Taluk office. The State government in September passed a Bill that provides for 7.5% horizontal reservation on a preferential basis for National Eligibility- cum-Entrance Test (NEET) qualified students from government schools in the undergraduate medical admissions. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Natarajan said that Governor Banwarilal Purohit must approve the Bill at the earliest for the benefit of students from government schools. The demonstration also condemned the Anna University Vice Chancellor M.K. Surappa, who recently wrote to the Central government seeking the Institute of Eminence status. The MP demanded immediate dismissal of Mr. Surappa for his allegedly unilateral actions. In Tiruppur, the CPI(M) leaders held the demonstration near the Tiruppur Corporation office.
21 October 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Varsity library now a click away||Annamalai University has launched an Android-based application to enable students, faculty members and research scholars to look up titles of interest from over 80 publishers, e-books and journals. The University has extended its remote access E-Resource service, which is disseminated through an online Android platform, MYLOFT (My Library at My Fingertip). Users can now login on the app and search for titles using keywords with the help of a separate user ID and password. The service through MYLOFT app was launched by University Vice-Chancellor V. Murugesan. According to Dr. M. Sadik Batcha, Professor and Librarian, Dr. C.P. Ramasamy Aiyar Library, the University spends nearly Rs. 50 lakh every year to buy e-books, journals and other publications. COVID-19 lockdown However, with students attending online classes due to the COVID-19 lockdown, they were unable to visit the library to access e-books, library-subscribed resources, digital content and journals, he said. “We developed the application and enabled a remote access platform through which students, research scholars and faculty can download the e-books and research articles available in the library at the click of a mouse,” he added. This is a license-based system and access is allowed only for students, research scholars and faculty members. A separate user ID will be created for every registered user and the password will be sent on their mail ID. Licenses have been issued for over 3,000 students and research scholars, Mr. Batcha said.
21 October 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Worker injured in Neyveli||An unskilled worker attached to NLC India Ltd. (NLCIL) sustained burn injuries on his hands while handling bottom hotbed materials in Thermal Power Station-II Expansion in Neyveli on Tuesday. According to sources, Sivasubramanian, 35, was handling hotbed materials when he reportedly opened a valve in excess. The worker was standing seven metres above a pipeline carrying the hotbed materials when the incident occurred. He sustained burn injuries on both his hands and was rushed to the NLCIL General Hospital and later referred to a private hospital in Chennai. Further investigations are on.
21 October 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Three killed in a road accident||Three people including a woman and a young boy were killed in a road accident when the car in which they were travelling collided head on with a tipper lorry coming in the opposite direction near Nilakottai SIPCOT on Tuesday. The police said that Sowmya Narayanan, his wife Divya, Subha (Divya’s sister) and Sriram (Subha’s son) were returning to Kodaikanal from Madurai. Head on collision As the car was approaching the SIPCOT area, the lorry driver, in a bid to avoid hitting a two-wheeler, negotiated his vehicle and banged on the car. In the impact, three - Sowmya Narayanan, Divya and Sriram - died on the spot while Subha, in a serious condition, was rushed to Government Rajaji Hospital Madurai. The lorry driver escaped from the spot. The Nilakottai police are investigating.
21 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Puja orders drop by 50% for puffed rice makers||With business and commercial establishments struggling to cope with COVID-19 situation, puffed rice (pori) makers are facing the heat as they have received only 50% orders for Saraswathi Puja compared to last year. The demand for puffed rice is usually very high during the puja. “This year, we have received just 50% of the orders,” said M. Gopalakrishnan of Veerappanchatiram, a wholesaler. He said the pandemic had led to closure of many establishments while many businesses were yet to recover. “We usually receive bulk orders from companies. But this year, the orders were bleak,” he added. Preparing the paddy and the process of steaming, drying and frying took five days after which it was packed in bags of 100 kg each. A few years ago, there were 12 producers in the city whereas now there were only three producers, he said and added that less profit, labour shortage and demand only during pujas had forced many production units to close down. “I cannot shift to other work. As this is my family business, I am doing it though the profit is very less,” he said. Each unit needed five workers, who were paid Rs. 500 to Rs. 700 a day and they worked for 10 hours a day before the puja. Another producer said that usually they got good orders and they worked for 25 to 30 days. “But now, we work for less than 10 days in the current season,” he said. T. Murugan, a retailer, said he had placed orders for 20 bags against the usual 65 bags. “Since the business is not good, I cannot risk by investing more,” he added.
21 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Temporary watchtowers put up to monitor crowd during festival season||With people starting shopping for Deepavali, the district police have erected temporary watchtowers at 22 points in the city to monitor the crowd and prevent crime during the festival season. COVID-19 restrictions kept people indoors for over four months and after the State government relaxed norms, shops and commercial establishments were opened in a phased manner adhering to various guidelines. Deepavali falls on November 14 and people have started thronging textile showrooms from Sunday to avoid last minute rush and large gatherings. Also, the number of people visiting shops is expected to increase during the Puja holidays this weekend. Hence, to monitor the crowd and regulate traffic, the police have planned to step up surveillance in market areas, bus stand and at places where people gather in large numbers. Erection of watchtowers is completed at Manikoondu, Panneerselvam Park, Eswaran Kovil Street, R.K.V. Road, Nethaji Road, Kalaimadu Silai, Swastik Corner, near Krishna Theatre and at bus stand. Since most of the textile and gold jewellery showrooms are located on R.K.V. Road, additional watchtowers are installed on the road. Town DSP Raju said public address systems would be installed in the watchtowers and policemen would be monitoring the crowd using binoculars and footage of closed circuit television cameras. They would maintain vigil over pocket pickers and bag-lifters and also regulate traffic to ensure free flow of vehicles. Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai said policemen would be posted at vantage points to ensure hassle-free shopping for people. Also, policemen in plain clothes would move in the crowded areas to prevent crime. He said that 32 watchtowers would be installed at Gobichettipalayam, Sathyamangalam, Bhavani and Perundurai sub-divisions.
21 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Police help rush harvested kidney for transplantation||A private hospital in the district, in coordination with the State Police Department, facilitated speedy transport of a kidney harvested from a brain-dead man in Madurai and transplanted it in a woman here on Tuesday. Jegadamani (45) of Karur district was suffering from renal failure for the last two years and was undergoing dialysis at Abirami Kidney Care Hospital at Karur. She had registered with the Tamil Nadu Organ Sharing Registry and was waiting for a donor. After Karuppiah of Madurai was declared brain dead at a private hospital, Jegadamani was informed of the organ availability. She was soon shifted to Abirami Kidney Care Hospital at Erode. The hospital administration sought the help of police to ensure speedy transport of the organ. On Tuesday, the ambulance with the harvested organ started at 10 a.m. from Madurai and reached the hospital here at 1.20 p.m., covering a distance of 196 km. A team of doctors successfully transplanted the organ. T. Saravanan, Medical Director and Chief Executive Officer of the hospital, told media persons that the patient had registered for the organ in 2018. “With the help of traffic police, the organ was transported and transplanted successfully in the patient,” he added. Sources in the traffic police said that it would normally take over four hours to travel from Madurai to Erode. However, arrangements were made to help the ambulance reach Erode in three hours and 20 minutes.
21 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plea to implement Thoni Maduvu project||Stating that implementation of Thoni Maduvu project in Salem district and diverting the water will help refill water bodies in Anthiyur and Bhavani areas, All India Samathuva Makkal Katchi has urged the district administration to take up the issue with the State government. M. Gurunathan, district secretary, Erode North District of the party, in a petition to the Collector, said areas in Kolathur in Salem district and Anthiyur in Erode district were receiving water from Western Ghats. Due to inadequate rainfall, borewell had to be dug for 1,400 metre depth to get water. Survey carried out As the earlier proposal for constructing a check dam at Thoni Maduvu in Kolathur taluk was dropped by the State government, farmers, the public, engineers, surveyors and social activists joined together and formed a committee and carried out a detailed survey at Thoni Maduvu for 10 months. The petition said the study revealed that a check dam could be constructed at Thoni Maduvu and water could be diverted to reach Gundam village through a channel. Later, the water could be brought to Kolathur, Anthiyur and Bhavani areas by using the trenches dug by the Forest Department. The petition said the water could be used to refill 67 lakes, 91 ponds and could benefit a population of six lakh and also help recharge 5,781 wells, 12,221 agri borewells and 2,835 panchayat borewells in Anthiyur and Bhavani areas.
21 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to maintenance work at Perundurai Sipcot I sub-station, power supply will be disrupted in the following areas between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. on October 22: Perundurai North, Perundurai Town areas, Sipcot Premises (Except South areas), Olapalayam, Thiruvachi, Kandampalayam, Valliyampalayam, Periya Madathupalayam, Chinna Madathupalayam, Maya Avenue and Sanatorium.
21 October 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Monitoring committee meeting held||The district development and coordination monitoring committee meeting was held here under the aegis of Collector Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy and Committee Chairman and Krishnagiri MP A. Chellakumar. The meeting reviewed the functioning of various schemes and works under the departments of rural development, panchayats, town panchayats and municipalities, forest, agriculture and horticulture, and animal husbandry. Various Central government schemes were also reviewed at the meeting. The chairman urged officials to expedite all the developmental works.
21 October 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Water level in KRP dam reaches 48 ft||Water level in KRP dam reached 48 feet of its total capacity of 52 feet for the first time in three years after one of the shutters had breached. The water level has risen to 48 feet, just short of the flood alert that is issued at 50 feet. In view of the increasing inflow due to continuous rain both in Karnataka and in the district, the administration has given a warning of steady rise in the discharge as soon as the water level reaches 50 feet. Earlier, Collector Dr. Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy inspected the dam along with Public Works Department officials to check the safety protocols. The administration was alerted to an impending flood warning in the wake of rising water level. According to an administration release, a flood warning will be issued once the water level touched 50 feet and in view of the impending warning, people living in low lying areas of Thenpennai river have been asked to move to safer areas. As of Tuesday, of the total storage of 1,666.29 tmcft, the reservoir was holding 1,238.06 tmcft. With continuous rain, the inflow to the dam, one of which is from Kelavarapalli dam, and also the discharge to Thenpennai river are set to increase.
21 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Dalit girl takes own life after elders scuttle intercaste marriage||A 19-year-old girl from a Scheduled Caste (SC) community in Dharmapuri district committed suicide after her 90-day-old marriage with a Vanniyar groom, a minor, ended after his parents forcibly took him away to an undisclosed destination, activists said. The issue came to light only now after a fact-finding team from ‘Evidence’, an NGO working for the cause of the downtrodden from Madurai, visited the hamlet and interacted with the victim’s family and relatives. Speaking to The Hindu , Evidence Executive Director A. Kathir said on Tuesday that the developments had taken place between February and October 2020. “It was unfortunate that the authorities had not followed the Supreme Court’s guidelines [on protecting inter-caste couples from persecution]. Failure to adhere to the norms had claimed the life of an innocent Dalit girl, he added. The girl’s grandparents explained to the team members the ordeal faced by the victim before she died, Mr. Kathir said. Even after the 18-year-old boy was taken away by her relatives, the girl managed to trace him and when she pleaded that they could live together, her husband had turned down the idea. Unable to accept the rejection, the girl consumed poison and, after battling for about a fortnight, she died in the Government Hospital, Dharmapuri, on October 2. A police officer investigating the case said the FIR had been altered to one of ‘abetment of suicide’ under Section 306 of the IPC. It also invokes provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act, 2015. The team members say the police did not produce the couple before a Juvenile Board. On the other hand, they allowed the boy’s family to handle the issue. The team members said the village elders had assembled and directed the girl’s family to accept money as ‘compensation’. These acts were against Supreme Court guidelines, and also claimed the girl’s life, they said. Narrating the victim’s plight, her grandfather Srinivasan (65) said he had brought her up since the girl's mother died soon after her birth. Unfortunately, the girl's father married another woman and went away, forcing the grandfather to raise her. In a small hamlet Kaarimangalam, under the care of her grandparents, the girl studied in a local school. After she fell in love with the boy from the locality, they married in a local temple on February 2, 2020, and lived together in different locations, including at a dwelling in Samathuvapuram for about three months, the team members said. However, the boy's parents, who were frantically searching for him, found him finally and whisked him away to an undisclosed destination in June. They reportedly threatened the girl to go home and live with her grandparents and insisted that she forget the boy and the marriage. Shocked, the girl lodged a complaint with the Kambainallur police station in August 2020. However, instead of inquiring into it, the police is said to have asked the girl to appear before the villagers for a “peaceful” settlement between the two families. The meeting of elders, at which the girl and her grandparents were present amidst a risk to her life, directed the girl to accept money as the verdict and start a new life. Following this, she consumed poison and remained unconscious, Mr. Kathir said. Her grandparents rushed her to the GH on September 16, where the end came on October 2, he said. As the news of the death reached the police, the boy was arrested and produced before the Juvenile Board, which directed him to be kept in a Correctional Home, Mr. Kathir said and added that the State government should take stern action against the police for negligence, and arrest the family members of the boy. The grandparents should be given a compensation of Rs. 25 lakh and monthly pension of Rs. 10,000, the team members said. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by calling State's helpline 104 and Sneha's suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
21 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A peek into the world of transgender community||'Trans News', an online magazine for transgender people, will break stereotypes and stigma associated with the community. It will enlighten the public on the right information about transgenders by focussing on their lives, aspirations, love and celebrations, says its Chief Editor and Chairperson of Transgender Resource Centre Priya Babu. It is India’s first e-magazine for the transgender community and the first issue of this monthly magazine will be launched on November 1, says Ms. Babu. All models to be featured in the magazine are from the transgender community. The magazine, published by the Transgender Resource Centre, will initially be available in English and Tamil languages. “We are planning to have the Hindi version of the magazine after two months,” she says. This magazine will have book reviews, stories on health, religion, trans literature, cooking tips, food recipes and success stories of transgender people. Apart from essays, there will also be video explainers on important topics. There will be a separate segment known as 'Shop' , where the products manufactured by the transgender people are displayed for sale. “We started this segment as there are many talented transwomen and transmen who are unable to access a suitable platform to sell their products,” says Ms. Babu. There will also be a segment where job offers that are available for transgender people will be displayed. “Most of the photographs of the magazine will be taken by our team,” says one of the magazine’s Assistant Editors D. Samuel Sundar. The team has three transwomen reporters - R. Jeeva, Padmini Prakash and Viji- who mainly contribute stories for the magazine. The entertainment media falsely portrays all transwomen as sex workers and those seeking alms for their livelihoods, says Ms. Prakash. “But, there are many educated and talented transwomen who are working hard to become successful in their chosen career fields,” she says. All these stereotypes associated with the transgender community can be changed only if their true stories come out to the public, adds Ms. Prakash. “But, there is very less space available in the mainstream media to speak about the issues of transgender people. So, through the 'Trans News' magazine, we will bring out all aspects of the lives of transgender community,” she adds. There will also be stories focussing on the violence endured by the transgender community, says Ms. Jeeva. Subash Pandithurai, Aadya Kashyap and M. Akash Velraj, who are all second year undergraduate students of The American College, are part of the core team of the magazine. “The public's opinion about the transgender community will completely change after they read the magazine. They will come to know about the talented the transgender community,” says Mr. Pandithurai.
21 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Youth murdered at Keeraithurai||A 20-year-old youth, P. Bharathiraja of Sivaganga district was hacked to death at Kanaga Pillai Street here on Tuesday morning. The police said that the youth was part of a team involved in sinking borewells. While he was at work, an armed gang barged into the place and hacked him to death. The Keeraithurai police have got some video footage on the accused and were trying to identify them. The motive for the murder was yet to be ascertained.
21 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Six masked men rob couple in Melur||Six masked men robbed a couple of their mobile phones after assaulting the man outside his home in Therkamoor near Melur on Sunday night. The police said that Balamurugan, who had recently returned from abroad, had come out of his home to buy dinner for his family. His wife had called him over the phone to inform him that some masked men were lurking outside the house. Balamurugan, who rushed home, was attacked by the men, who snatched his expensive mobile phone. He sustained injuries on his head and shoulder. The dacoits robbed his wife’s mobile phone also. The couple raised an alarm that alerted the neighbours at around 9.30 p.m. Even before they could gather at his house, the robbers fled the scene under the cover of darkness. However, local residents caught two persons, identified as R. Arunkumar (40) of Tiruchi and S. Iniyavan alias Deepan (38) of the Sri Lankan Refugee Camp at Tiruvathavur. The police said that while Arunkumar had seven cases against him in Namakkal, Salem and Tiruchi districts, the other accused had cases in Ramanathapuram, Coimbatore and Dindigul districts. The Melur police suspect that they could have been part of the dacoity gang. Both were arrested. Auto driver robbed  In an unrelated case, two persons, who engaged an autorickshaw, assaulted the driver and robbed him of his vehicle, money and mobile phone after taking him to a secluded place near Appanthirupathi on Sunday night. The police said that S. Sekar of S. Kodikulam had picked up the unidentified persons at Arapalayam bus stand. The duo had said that they wanted to go to Appanthirupathi. When the autorickshaw reached Appanthirupathi, they asked the driver to drop them at Velliyankundram Pudur at around 9.45 p.m. When the driver took them up to Velliyankundram Pudur bridge and said that he could not go further as the earthen road was slushy, the duo attacked him and robbed his valuables. They pushed Sekar down and escaped from the scene on his autorickshaw. Later, the vehicle was found near Mangulam, abandoned after it ran out of fuel. Appanthirupathi police have registered a case of robbery.
21 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Fall in number of breast cancer patients seeking treatment’||Doctors of Meenakshi Mission Hospital said that there was a sharp decline in the number of breast cancer patients seeking treatment in the initial five months of the COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdown as people avoided visiting healthcare facilities due to the fear of contracting the virus and because of travel restrictions. Delayed treatment has a serious impact on morbidity and mortality of breast cancer patients, said K.S. Kirushna Kumar, Head, Radiation Oncology. “A section of people reached healthcare facilities for treatment through their private transport. However, people from lower economic families could not seek treatment due to the absence of public transport,” he said. Krishnakumar Rathnam, Senior Consultant, Medical Oncology, said that COVID-19 does not directly impact the health condition of breast cancer patients. But those undergoing chemotherapy have low immunity, increasing the risk of infection, he added. Awareness of breast cancer is still lower in the country, resulting in delayed diagnosis, said R. Vijayabhaskar, Senior Consultant, Surgical Oncology. “While only around 35% of the breast cancer patients get diagnosed in stages 1 and 2, nearly 50% of the patients get diagnosed in stage 3. This is in contrast to the western countries where 95% of the breast cancer patients get diagnosed in stages 1 and 2,” he said. Dr. Rathnam said that breast cancer cases were increasing and even younger women were also affected. If breast cancer is diagnosed at an earlier stage, then it is easily curable, said Dr. Vijayabhaskar. “Every woman who is aged above 40 must get screened once every year,” he said.
21 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Murder case accused hacked||A murder case accused was hacked at his house in M. Puliyankulam under Villur police station limits on Sunday late night. The police said that K. Arumugam (35) was one of the accused in the murder of one K. Karuppaiah in June. The accused who was in Madurai Central Prison came out on bail on September 17. While he was sleeping in his house with his family members, an armed gang barged into his house and attacked him with lethal weapons. He was admitted to Government Hospital in Virudhunagar. Villur police have arrested two persons — A. Veeramuthu (30) and R. Nagarajan (27) of Mottamalai. The police said that accused, relatives of Karuppaiah, had attempted to murder Arumugam to take revenge on Karuppaiah’s death.
21 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Consider dismissed police officer’s plea’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State to consider on merits the representation sent by a dismissed police officer, who sought to be reinstated in service. He was dismissed from service after a trial court convicted him of abetment to suicide of a woman in Thanjavur. However, the High Court had set aside the conviction. Justice Krishnan Ramasamy directed the State to consider the representation of the police officer on merits within four weeks. The court was hearing the petition filed by C. Sethumani Madhavan from Madurai, who had joined service as a Sub-Inspector of Police in 1996. He was acquitted of the charge in 2019. He said that as per the Police Standing Order 67 he should have been reinstated in service following the acquittal and had also sent a representation to the State in this regard, but there was no reply. He said that the failure to consider him for reinstatement was arbitrary and against the settled provisions of law.
21 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC: DVAC can conduct raids on all DPCs||Taking note of the fact that Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) officials were conducting raids on direct purchase centres (DPCs), the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed them to conduct raids on all the centres. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that there was delay in procuring the produce. Since there was no place to store paddy, the grains were getting damaged at many centres. The court put forth a series of queries to the State in order to safeguard the interests of the farmers. The queries included details of temporary facilities to store the grains before moving them to godowns and warehouses. The court also sought to know if there were sufficient gunny bags available at these procurement centres. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by advocate A.P. Suryaprakasam who alleged irregularities at the DPCs. The court, which has suo motu impleaded the Chairman-cum-Managing Director of Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation and the Secretary of Cooperation, Food and Consumer Protection Department as respondents in the case, adjourned the hearing till October 28 for submission of reports.
21 October 2020||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai sees drop in daily case count||Madurai reported 61 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday to mark a total case count of 18,140. Seventy people were discharged from hospitals in the district, which now has 744 active cases. With one fresh fatality, the district’s death toll rose to 410. Kanniyakumari too recorded 61 fresh cases which took the number of active cases up to 699, after the discharge of 66 people. Two more persons succumbed to the viral infection, for which the district has so far lost 239 lives. Virudhunagar registered its 218th COVID-19 fatality with the death of a 53-year-old woman on Sunday. The district recorded 39 fresh cases, which took the district’s tally up to 15,200 on Tuesday. After 46 people were discharged from hospitals, the district has 203 active cases. Thoothukudi’s tally increased to 14,576, with 37 more people having tested positive. After 46 people were discharged from hospitals, the district has 553 active cases. A total of 32 people tested positive in Theni, which saw its tally rise to 16,016. There were 59 discharges from hospitals. Sivaganga recorded 23 new cases to have a tally of 5,697. Fifteen people were discharged from hospitals. With 22 fresh cases, Tirunelveli’s tally rose to 13,936, with 495 active cases. A total of 69 people were discharged and one patient died. The district’s death toll is 206. Dindigul’s total case count rose to 9,636 with the addition of 21 cases. Hospitals in the district registered 26 discharges. Ramanathapuram had 13 fresh cases, which pushed its tally up to 5,900. Twenty-one people were discharged from hospitals. Tenkasi’s daily case count dropped to eight on Tuesday. The district’s tally rose to 7,748 and the number of active cases to 144. Nineteen people were discharged from hospitals.
21 October 2020||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Kanniyakumari fishermen flay use of purse seine nets||The fishermen in Kanniyakumari have raised a banner of revolt against the use of purse seine nets by a section of fishers in the district saying the use of the banned fishnet would “destroy marine wealth including fingerlings”. Those using the banned nets, venture into the sea in two country boats. The first one is occupied by the fishermen and the other one is loaded with the purse seine nets. After reaching the fishing spot, a fisherman would release the net into the sea from the boat in the form of a large circle (apparently with 15 or 20 meter diameter). While the boat with the fishermen would be stationed at a point, the craft with the purse seine would be moved slowly around even as the fisherman releases the net into the sea. As the moving boat with fishnet would reach the starting point – i.e. near the stationary boat – the fishnet would have been released into the sea in the form of a circle. After a few minutes, the released net would be dragged back to the boat manually with the fishes entangled in it. “Since this fishing practice is like scooping, it doesnot even spare the fingerlings and hence the government banned the net but it is still being used by a few fishermen in the district. So we appeal to the district administration to strictly enforce the ban on using these nets,” says Antony, president of Marthandanthurai Fishermen Cooperative Society Limited. Mr. Antony, who has forwarded a complaint to the Kanniyakumari District Collector in this connection, says fishermen from a few villages near Kollencode are using the banned purse seine net. Endorsing the views of Mr. Antony, president of Vallavilai Fishermen Cooperative Society P. Arulanandan says a few fishermen from Neerodi, a coastal hamlet situated on the Tamil Nadu – Kerala border, were also using the purse seine nets posing serious threat to the marine wealth. “More importantly, these banned nets pose a serious challenge to the livelihood of catamaran and shore-net fishermen. Hence, the officials should take appropriate action against the fishermen using the banned fishnets,” Mr. Arulanandan says. In defence However, fishermen using the purse seine nets defend their practice. “The purse seine nets are like ‘mani valai’ (cast net) being used by the inland fishermen while fishing in the reservoirs. We venture into the sea only in country boats and we don’t use bottom trawling nets as being used by mechanized boats, which are being constructed nowadays in violation of the norms laid down with regard to length and hauled by engines with higher capacity up to 450 horse power though they are allowed to fit only engines with 120 HP capacity. We release and take back the purse seine nets manually and don’t use machines at any point during fishing. So we use the fishnets with larger ‘kanni’ (holes) that ensure the escaping of smaller fishes from the net,” says a fisherman using purse seine net, who does not want to be quoted. Assistant Director of Fisheries Mohanraj promised that he would personally conduct inspections to check the use of purse seine nets and take appropriate action against the erring fishermen if they were found to be using the banned fishnets.
21 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 206 fresh virus cases||Puducherry registered 206 new COVID-19 cases and two deaths on Tuesday that took the cumulative toll to 577 in the Union Territory. A 56-year-old man and a 90-year-old woman died in Puducherry and Mahe respectively. The toll in the capital stood at 478, followed by Karaikal (52), Yanam (42) and Mahe (five). A press release from S. Mohan Kumar, Health Director, said the new cases were identified from testing 4,013 samples. The test positivity rate was 5.13%, case fatality rate 1.72% and recovery rate 86.02%. Puducherry recorded 143 of the new cases, Karaikal 29, Yanam 18 and Mahe 16. The total number of active cases stood at 4,100 with 2,579 patients in home quarantine, after one case was transferred to Tamil Nadu’s tally. The cumulative caseload across regions is Puducherry (27,545), Karaikal (3,292), Yanam (1,858) and Mahe (757). Of all active cases in the Union Territory now, Puducherry accounted for 3,541 cases, including 2,183 in home isolation. So far, 23,526 patients have recovered in the capital, including 201 in the last 24 hours. Karaikal has 339 active cases followed by Yanam (80) and Mahe (141). The overall tally in the Union Territory stands at 577 deaths, 4,100 active cases, a cumulative total of 33,452 cases and 28,774 recovered patients, including 252 discharged during the last 24 hours. The Health Department has tested 2.70 lakh samples, of which the results of 2.33 lakh samples were negative. Results of the remaining samples are awaited.  The total number of active cases stood at 4,100 with 2,579 patients in home quarantine, after one case was shifted to Tamil Nadu’s tally
21 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Plans to decongest U.T. market ahead of festival||The administration is evolving a plan to decongest the Sunday market ahead of the Deepavali season to prevent a resurgence of COVID-19 at a time when new cases and deaths have been on a downward trend. According to Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, a meeting with all stakeholders — Local Administration Department, law enforcement and traders — was proposed to chalk out a plan that would not inconvenience shoppers or ruin trade but at the same time offset a COVID-19 super-spreader eventuality. Relief and Rehabilitation secretary A. Anbarasu said the thronging of the narrow space by large crowds was untenable during a pandemic. “We cannot stop people from coming out for shopping during Diwali and neither we can’t allow breach of safety protocols. So, we have to find an alternative to decongest the place,” Mr. Anbarasu said. The multiple entries and exits pose a challenge from the perspective of crowd control, it was pointed out at the meeting. The authorities are looking to come up with a clear action plan in the next couple of days. Similarly, plan for regulation of crowd is also being evolved for places that attract high footfall such as places of worship, shopping malls and markets. According to the Lt. Governor, a team of ICMR experts was expected to visit Puducherry next week for an assessment of the COVID-19 situation and recommend ways to further improve the treatment and prevention fronts. As part of a proposal for installing CCTV cameras across the city, the LAD and Police department are mooting plans for separate installations under the Smart City and public health (monitoring safety protocol violations) initiatives. Ms. Bedi placed on record the good work being carried out by doctors and healthcare workers. The briefing was attended by T. Arun, Health Secretary and District Collector, and special secretary Pankaj Kumar Jha.
21 October 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||NGT team inspects Western Ghats||A joint committee appointed by the National Green Tribunal including forest officials and Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan inspected the Western Ghats along Rajapalayam where, activists have alleged, a road was being laid within the eco-sensitive zone of Grizzled Squirrel Wildlife Sanctuary. The NGT had ordered that officials from the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF and CC), senior officer from the Department of Forest, Wildlife Warden of the sanctuary and district Collector should inspect the area and submit a report on the allegation along with the action taken report, if any violation was found by November 5. Apart from Virudhunagar Collector, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Kalakad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve), Yogesh Singh, Assistant Inspector General of Forest (Central), Region office, MoEF and CC, Chennai, K. Karthikeyan, and the Wildlife Warden, P. Muhammed Shahab, inspected the road that was being laid from near Ayyanar Falls. The Collector said that the team would file the report to the NGT. Farmers, who had gathered, when the officials arrived for inspection, said that the cart track that has been in existence since early 1900s was being laid with black top following their demand. A.S. Murugan, a forest activist complained that the road, along with seven culverts, was being constructed in the eco-sensitive zone along the Western Ghats without the permission of National Wildlife Board. He had alleged that the alignment of the road that was very close to spots where wild animals like elephants, deer, and bison cross, posed threat to them. The wild animals were spotted drinking water in a nearby waterbody, he said.
21 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Intensify preventive measures, Corpn. tells businesses||Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh has advised businesses operating within its limits to intensify COVID-19 containment measures to prevent disease spread during festival season. In a release, he said the State government had issued the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for businesses and they should adhere to it strictly. Mr. Sadheesh warned that a fine of Rs. 5,000 would be imposed on businesses violating the SOP. The businesses were advised to allow customers inside their premises only after thermal scanning and they should ensure hand sanitation facilities. Customers should be allowed to purchase products only by maintaining physical distancing. The Corporation advised the staff at businesses to wear masks and gloves while working. The firms should not employ persons with COVID-19 symptoms, persons from containment zones and those aged above 65 years. The businesses were told to disinfect and shut their premises for one week if any of their staff tested positive and air-conditioners should be operated at temperature above 24 degrees. They should maintain a register of contact details of customers.
21 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Video of rats in Salem GH ward goes viral||A video of rats running inside one of the wards at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital that was shared on social media is going viral. The video shows rats running under beds and over oxygen supply pipelines at one of the intensive care units at the Hospital. Authorities said necessary action was being taken. R. Balajinathan, Dean, said large rat traps had been placed at various places in the ward to catch these rodents. The authorities said there had not been any damage to the equipment and eateries in the campus were advised to discard waste properly.
21 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain lashes Salem||Heavy rain lashed Salem on Monday and an average rainfall of 25.46 mm was recorded. According to officials, 9 mm rainfall was recorded in Kadaiyampatti, 18 mm in Thammampatti, 38 mm in Veeraganoor, 52 mm in Gengavalli, 1 mm in Vazhapadi, 14 mm in Yercaud, 56 mm in Aanaimaduvu, 50 mm in Kariyakovil, 50.6 mm in Attur, 87.3 mm in Salem and 6 mm in Periyanaiken Palayam. Low lying areas were inundated due to rain on Monday night. In Namakkal, 4.97 mm rainfall was recorded.
21 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Discharge from Mettur dam reduced||The discharge from Mettur dam was reduced to 12,000 cusecs on Tuesday. According to officials from Public Works Department, water level in the dam was 98.2 ft against the full reservoir level of 120ft. The storage was 62,533 tmcft and the dam received an inflow of 17,004 cusecs while it was 14,525 cusecs on Monday. The discharge to Cauvery river was reduced from 14,000 cusecs to 12,000 cusecs on Tuesday noon. The discharge through East-West canal was maintained at 900 cusecs.
21 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||25 more DPCs in Thanjavur||Direct purchase centres (DPCs) will be opened at 25 more places in the district to expedite procurement and prevent paddy brought in by farmers being affected by rain. The entire paddy arrivals of the kuruvai season will be completed within the next 10 days in the district, Collector M. Govinda Rao said here on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Rao said 288 DPCs had been opened in the district so far. Kuruvai paddy was raised on 58,948 hectares and harvest had been completed. Till now, 2.77 lakh tonnes of paddy were procured through DPCs in the district against the anticipated yield of 3.65 lakh tonnes. The average yield during the season was 6.2 tonnes a hectare, against the normal of 6 tonnes. Procurement of paddy from farmers was underway, with 5,000 tonnes purchased daily. Steps were being taken to increase it to 10,000 tonnes a day. Procurement of the entire paddy arrivals would be completed within the next 10 days. Mr. Rao said adequate men and material were available at the DPCs. Arrangements for transport and storage had been made. The district had a capacity of about three lakh tonnes. The procured paddy was being moved to other districts for hulling. Payments to farmers was being made within 24 hours of procurement through their bank accounts. Vigil was also being maintained to check irregularities. Since it rained almost daily, additional DPCs would be opened at about 25 places, including Vannarapettai, Marungulam and Thennamanadu, where arrivals were heavy. “We will ensure that farmers are not affected and expedite the procurement process,” he said. Revenue Departemnt officials were also coordinating with Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation to ensure smooth procurement. Mr. Rao also disclosed that samba paddy had been raised on about 77,000 hectares in the district so far against the targetted 1.27 lakh hectares. Adequate stocks of seeds and fertilizers were available in the district.
21 October 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||BDO held for bribery||Officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC), Thanjavur unit, on Tuesday arrested a block development officer and an assistant on charge of demanding and accepting bribe. A DVAC press release said the Block Development Officer, Balasubramanian, and Mahadev alias Rao, working as assistant in the same office, demanded Rs. 5,000 as bribe from the complainant when the latter approached the Block Development Office seeking to transfer the ownership of a site owned by him to his wife. The complainant lodged a complaint with DVAC, Thanjavur unit, seeking appropriate action. A case was registered and the two were trapped and arrested when they took the bribe.
21 October 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Anganwadi workers stage demo||Condemning the “unpleasant attitude” of Vilaathikulam Block Project Officer of Integrated Child Development Programme, the anganwadi workers staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate on Tuesday. The protesting workers said that the Vilaathikulam Block Project Officer of Integrated Child Development Programme, was verbally abusing them and was collecting Rs. 250 per anganwadi every month. He was also forcing them to work at his house and also at his office. The Project Officer, by spreading false information about the anganwadi workers was engineering division among them, they alleged. District president of Anganwadi Workers’ Association M. Mariammal led the protest.
21 October 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||History-sheeter found murdered||An anti-social element was found murdered near Meelavittan on Tuesday. The locals alerted the police after seeing a body with multiple cut injuries amidst thorny shrubs near the village. Led by DSP, Thoothukudi Rural sub-division, Ponnarasu, the police visited the spot and sent the body to Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital for a post-mortem. Police identified the victim as K. Kathiresan, 30, of NGO Colony. He was facing a few criminal cases including murder and attempt to murder. It was said that Kathiresan had come to the spot on Monday night along with a group to consume liquor and had been murdered. “The murder could be a sequel to prior enmity,” Mr. Ponnarasu said.
21 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi-Karur highway stretch widening to be over by March||Work on widening and strengthening the narrow and accident-prone stretch of road between Tiruchi and Thindukarai on Tiruchi-Karur Highway is expected to be completed by March. Although the work, which began in May-end this year, is scheduled to be completed by November next, efforts are on to complete it ahead of deadline, Collector S. Sivarasu said after inspecting the progress of work on Tuesday. “So far, 55% of the work has been completed and the remaining works are fast apace. We are targetting to complete the project by March,” he told reporters at the site. Widening of the 11-km stretch — marked by sharp and dangerous curves — running between the Cauvery and Tiruchi-Karur railway line was taken up after persistent demands from suburban residents as accidents became frequent on the stretch. The work was sanctioned last year at an estimate of Rs. 55 crore under the Comprehensive Road Infrastructure Development Programme 2019-20. The road is being widened from its present width of seven metres to up to 10.5 metres. Some of the dangerous curves will also be straightened. The project also involves construction of retaining walls for a length of about 1,785 metres, protective walls along the bank of the Cauvery for a length of 3,895 metres, revetment inside the river bund for a length of 350 metres and drains for a length of 971 metres. Mr. Sivarasu, who also inspected construction of a new bypass road around Manachanallur, said nearly 75% of the work had been completed and the road would be declared open to traffic soon. The bypass runs a length of about 2.64 km and was sanctioned at an estimated cost of Rs. 25.15 crore. The greenfield road involved construction of 14 box culverts and three minor bridges. Besides, junction improvements were also made at five places. To a query on land acquisition for laying service lanes along the city stretch of Tiruchi-Thanjavur Highway between Palpannai and Thuvakudi, Mr. Sivarasu said the process would be completed by January. The National Highways Authority of India would take up work on laying the service lanes once 90% of the land was acquired and handed over. Land acquisition for the semi-ring road between Panchapur on Tiruchi-Madurai Highway and Thindukarai on Tiruchi- Karur Highway would be completed by March. Once the land was acquired, it would take about 24 months for the road to be laid. Highways officials indicated that tenders for dismantling the old Kollidam bridge would be called soon. A portion of the bridge, which was in disuse after construction of a new bridge, collapsed in August 2018.
21 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Navaratri kolu in the time of pandemic||The year-end festive season got off to a start last week with Navaratri being observed from October 17 to 25. Some families in Tiruchi have arranged the traditionalkoludoll display for the auspicious nine days, despite the pandemic. But many others have decided to do away with the display this year. “Koludisplays are the best ways to make children understand about our culture. The figurines help them to remember the legends and stories from our scriptures,” B. Vishnupriya, a homemaker from Srirangam, told The Hindu . “This year, we spent over a month preparing for thekoludisplay in our apartment with over 500 idols and dolls. I am expecting friends and neighbours to drop in through the week. Of course, we will be keeping the entire area sanitised and guests will be requested to wear masks and maintain a safe distance,” she added. For homemaker Krithika Sundaraman, the five-stepkoluat her home in Srirangam will focus on religious idols and deities. “I have 30-35 big dolls in my collection; those are part of my display. A statuette ofArdhanarishvarais a rare piece that I bought in Tiruchi,” said Ms. Sundaraman. “Though the lockdown reduced the number of stalls selling ‘kolu’ dolls, we were able to find good selections in the few shops that were open,” she added. Poompuhar, the State-run handicrafts emporium, has been hosting a sales-cum-exhibition ofkoludolls at its West Boulevard showroom from September 7. “We started a little early so that shoppers could avoid crowding the store in the run-up to Navaratri,” said emporium manager R. Gangadevi. Sales of its terracotta, papier mache, marble, wood and leather dolls has been a little dull this year due to the lockdown at the showroom, she said. Approximately Rs. 8 lakh worth of dolls have been sold this year, compared to Rs. 20 lakh in 2019. “Despite this, it is heartening to see people are keen on observing traditions with precautions during the lockdown,” Ms. Gangadevi said. Many people have decided to forego the displays this year due to the pandemic alert, while keeping in touch through technology. “For the first time in 67 years, we will not be having ‘kolu’ at home, because of the safety regulations,” said Jambaga Ramakrishnan, former district chairman of the women’s voluntary organisation Inner Wheel. While she rued the cancellation of kolu, Ms. Ramakrishnan said it was important to be socially responsible in a pandemic. “Our Inner Wheel members have decided to meet virtually on October 22, with a small video presentation of pictures from kolu displays and a song by children. This is the closest we can come to the spirit of Navaratri,” she said. Online gatherings have helped people to commune over prayers and spiritual programmes, said dance exponent Vrindha Ramanan. “This year Navaratri will be confined to our homes, and we have cancelled the kolu display at our dance academy. But we have decided to meet virtually through the festive week. Everybody will render a dance recital from their homes,” said Ms. Ramanan.
21 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Decline in fresh positive cases in central districts||The downward trend in daily count of fresh cases of COVID 19 continued in the central region on Tuesday, with 313 persons testing positive. On Monday, the region had accounted for 347 cases, down from Sunday’s count of 396. Four more deaths were recorded in the region by the Health Department’s daily bulletin on Tuesday. Among them were a 55-year-old man with no known co-morbidities who died of COVID-19 pneumonia in a private hospital on Monday. A 85-year-old man with type 2 diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease died due to COVID pneumonia/acute respiratory distress syndrome at Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital on Sunday. A 58-year-old man and a 54-year-old woman of Nagapattinam district also succumbed to the virus. The man died at Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on Sunday due to COVID pneumonia, acute chronic liver disease, oliguric acute kidney injury, septic shock and type 2 diabetes mellitus. He was also said to be a pulmonary tuberculosis defaulter. The woman with hypothyroidism died at Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital on Monday due to COVID pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Thanjavur district still continued to top the daily count of fresh cases among the central districts, though the figure dropped below 100 in the district over the past few days. On Tuesday, the district recorded 88 cases. With 108 persons discharged during the day, the number of positive patients under treatment in the district stood at 512. The other core delta districts of Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam added 64 and 33 cases. Tiruchi reported 63 fresh cases, while 20 patients were discharged from Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital after recovery. Six others were sent home from the COVID Care Centre at Bharathidasan University’s Khajamalai campus, leaving the number of active cases at 616. Pudukottai registered a substantial drop in fresh cases with 23 persons testing positive on Tuesday. The number of active cases in the district stood at 350. Karur reported 19 fresh cases and Ariyalur 15. Perambalur district appeared to have the pandemic well under control as it continued to record fresh cases in single digits every day over the past few days, with eight persons testing positive on Tuesday. The number of positive cases stood at 83 in the district.
21 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||How to keep Plus One students engaged, teachers wonder||Having completed the process of admission of students for Class XI, teachers of government schools say they are clueless about how to keep them engaged in academics. As per the official instructions, the admission of Plus One students was completed by the end of August. The classes are yet to officially commence for them. Unlike in the case of Plus Two students for whom the teachers had uploaded study contents in the laptops given as freebies, the Plus One students find themselves left in the cold. No interaction According to a senior higher secondary teacher, there has not been even telephonic interaction with students as yet. At present, the students are entirely dependent on the content delivered through the government-owned Kalvi Television channel. Active engagement of Plus One students hinges on the early distribution of the laptops. But, that does not seem probable in the current circumstances, a headmaster observed. Self-financing and aided institutions, on the other hand, are seemingly having a smooth sail as the subject content is being delivered for the Plus One students either in the school itself, in small batches, or through online platform, sources said. Working days There is a requirement of 200 working days in a year, in consonance with the quantum of content. Since a number of working days have been lost, the teachers are reconciled to the eventuality of having truncated portions. The government had, earlier this year, announced that 40% of the content will be reduced in consideration of the loss of working days. What the teachers look for from the government is early announcement of the finalised portions for the academic year. “Teachers are apprehensive since the festival season ahead is bound to cause immense distraction for students. After that, teachers will be left with only a few months to complete the theory as well as practicals, besides conducting a series of revision tests in the place of quarterly and half-yearly exams. Therefore, the government must not delay announcing the truncated syllabi any longer,” another headmaster emphasised.
21 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Give assent to Bill: CPI (M)||The CPI(M) on Tuesday staged a demonstration here demanding that the Governor immediately give his assent to a Bill passed by the Assembly providing 7.5% horizontal reservation for NEET-qualified government school students in medical admission. The party cadre also demanded the removal of Anna University Vice Chancellor M.K. Surappa for acting in a manner that usurped the rights of the State.
21 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Protest against UP govt.||A group of about 50 members of Makkal Adhikaram staged a demonstration here on Tuesday demanding the removal of the BJP government at Uttar Pradesh in the wake of alleged gang rape and assault on a 19-year-old Dalit girl at Hathras leading to her death last month. The protest, which was organised in front of Passport Office, was led by the outfit’s zonal coordinator Cheziyan. The demonstrators raised slogans in support of their demand.
21 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Southern Railway to operate special trains for festival season||Southern Railway has announced operation of special trains to clear the extra rush during the ensuring festival season. The Mysuru - Mayiladuthurai - Mysuru superfast daily special trains (Train Nos. 06232/06231) will be operated with one 2-tier AC coach, two 3-tier AC coaches, 12 sleeper class coaches, four general second class coaches and two luggage cum brake vans. Train No. 06232 Mysuru-Mayiladuthurai superfast special will leave Mysuru at 4.30 p.m. and reach Mayiladuthurai at 7 a.m. the next day. The services will be operated from October 25 to November 30. Mayiladuthurai-Mysuru In the return direction, Train No. 06231 Mayiladuthurai - Mysuru special will leave Mayiladuthurai at 5.50 p.m.and reach Mysuru at 8.20 a.m., the next day. It will be operated from October 26 to December 1. The trains will stop at Kuthalam, Aduthurai, Kumbakonam, Papanasam, Thanjavur, Budalur, Tiruverumbur, Tiruchi Junction, Tiruchi Fort, Kulithalai, Karur, Pugalur, Erode Junction, Salem Junction, Dharmapuri, Hosur, Karmelram, Bangalore East, Bangalore Cantonment, KSR Bengaluru, Kengiri and Mandya. The Bhubaneswar - Rameswaram weekly special (Train No. 08496) will leave Bhubaneswar on October 23, 30, November 6, 13, 20 and 27 (Fridays) at noon and reach Rameswaram on Saturdays at 11 p.m. In the return direction, the Rameswaram- Bhubaneswar weekly special (Train No. 08495) will leave Rameswaram on October 25, November 1, 8, 15, 22 and 29 (Sundays) at 8.40 a.m. and reach Bhubaneswar on Mondays at 6.55 p.m. The trains will stop at Ramanathapuram, Paramakudi, Manamadurai, Sivaganga, Devakottai Road, Karaikudi, Pudukottai, Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai, Sirkazhi, Chidambaram, Tirupadripuliyur, Villupuram, Chennai Egmore, Gudur, Nellore, Vijayawada, Duvvada, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Berhambur and Khurda Road. It will have one AC 2-tier coaches, four AC 3-tier coaches, 11 sleeper class coaches, two general second class coaches, one pantry car and two luggage cum generator cars. Madurai to Bikaner The Madurai-Bikaner weekly AC superfast special (Train No. 06053) will leave Madurai on October 22, 29, November 12, 19 and 26 (Thursdays) at 11.55 a.m. and reach Bikaner at 5.45 p.m. on Saturdays. In the return direction, Train No. 06054 Bikaner-Madurai AC superfast special will leave Bikaner on October 25, November 1, 8, 15, 22 and 29 (Sundays) at 3 p.m. and reach Madurai at 6.40 p.m. on Tuesdays. Stoppages The special train will stop at Kodaikanal, Dindigul, Tiruchi, Srirangam, Ariyalur, Vriddhachalam, Villupuram, Chengalpattu, Tambaram, Chennai Egmore, Sullurpeta, Gudur, Nellore, Ongole, Vijayawads, Khamam, Warangal, Ramgundam, Sirpur Kagaz Nagar, Balharshah, Chandrapur, Nagpur, Itarsi, Bhopal, S Hirdharamnagar, Sehore, Shujalpur, Ujjain, Nagda, Shamgarh, Kota, Sawaimadhopur, Bansthali, Durgapura, Jaipur, Phulera, Makrana, Degana, Nagaur and Garhnokha. It will have one first class AC coach, four AC 2-tier coaches, 14 AC 3-tier coaches, a Southern Railway press release said.
21 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Gang murders advocate, kin in Thanjavur||An advocate P. Kamaraj, and his relative Sakthivel, both aged 45, were murdered by an armed gang in Kuppankulam village under the Nachiyarkoil police station limits in Thanjavur district on Monday night. The gang, armed with sharp weapons, targeted Kamaraj and Sakthivel separately. Police said around 8.45 p.m., Kamaraj was returning home on a two-wheeler with his father Parthiban riding pillion, when the gang intercepted them near a school and hacked him to death on the spot, while sparing his aged father. The gang members thereafter went to the house of Kamaraj apparently with the intent to murder his elder brother Kaviraj. However, Kaviraj managed to escape. The gang members chased his relative, Sakthivel and hacked him to death on a farm land nearby. Police sources said the murders were suspected to have been committed due to previous enmity between Kamaraj and his close relative Rajavelu, also an advocate, over a land dispute. Rajavelu is a State-level office bearer of the Bahujan Samaj Party. The Nachiyarkoil police have registered a case of murder and named Rajavelu, his son Anand, Rajasekhar, Sethumurugan and some others as accused in the killings. The sources said two persons, Anand and Kannan, surrendered before the police on Tuesday. Further investigations are on.
21 October 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||CPI (M) seeks dismissal of Surappa||Communist Party of India (Marxist) cadre staged a demonstration in front of Anna University’s Regional Office here on Tuesday seeking the dismissal of Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa for ‘unilaterally’ acting and backing the Central Government’s move to bring the Anna University under its control in the guise of according ‘Institute of Eminence’ status. The protestors also urged the Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit to immediately accord his consent for giving 7.50% reservation to rural government school students in medical admission. The protestors, led by the party’s Tirunelveli district secretary K. G. Bhaskaran said the Vice-Chancellor of Anna University, who was hand-picked by the Governor ‘for his connections with right wing groups’, had been functioning in an ‘autocratic manner’. When the Union Government decided to bring the Anna University under its control with the ulterior motive of denying reservations to students from the Backward Community, a proposal on offering ‘Institute of Eminence’ status to the University was sent for which the State had to ensure the allocation of Rs. 1,500 crore over a period of five years as its share. However, without consulting the Tamil Nadu Government, Prof. Surappa had written to the Centre saying that Anna University had the ability to mobilise this fund to get the ‘Institute of Eminence’ status. Instead of seeking permission from the Tamil Nadu Government, which founded the Anna University, for allocation of funds for the development of the world-renowned institution, he was functioning in an “unilateral manner”. The protestors also alleged that the proposed division of Anna University would affect its standards and deny reservation to students. They also condemned the ‘attitude’ of the Governor for indefinitely delaying his nod for the State Government’s decision to give 7.50% reservation to the rural students in medical admission. A agitation was also organised by the party at Chidambara Nagar bus stop in Thoothukudi district. This was led by district secretary Arjunan.
21 October 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Mysuru – Thoothukudi special train announced||The Southern Railway has proposed to operate the following festival season special train for the convenience of travelling public: Composition of train number 06236 / 06235 Mysuru –Thoothukudi – Mysuru Daily Special Trains will be one 2-tier AC coach, two 3-tier AC coaches, twelve sleeper class coaches, four general second class coaches and two luggage-cum- brake vans. Train Number 06236 Mysuru- Thoothukudi Daily Festival Daily Special will leave Mysuru at 6.20 p.m. from October 23 to November 30 (39 services) and reach Thoothukudi at 11.15 a.m. the next day. In return direction, Train Number 06235 Thoothukudi - Mysuru Daily Special Train will leave Thoothukudi at 4.25 p.m. from October 24 to December 1 (39 services) and reach Mysuru at 9.55 a.m. the next day. These trains will stop at Vaanchi Maniyachi, Kadambur, Kovilpatti, Sattur, Virudunagar Junction, Thirumangalam, Tirupparankundram, Madurai Junction, Sholavandan, Kodaikanal Road, Dindigul, Karur, Pugalur, Kodumudi, Erode, Salem, Dharmapuri, Palakkodu, Hosur, Karamelaram, Bengaluru East, Bengaluru Cantonment, KSR Bengaluru City Junction, Kengeri, Bidadi, Ramanagaram, Channapatna, Maddur, Mandya and Pandavapura. Reservation for the above trains will open at 8 a.m. on Wednesday (October 21), a statement said. Southern Railway has also announced operation of special trains to clear the extra rush during the ensuring festival season. The Mysuru - Mayiladuthurai - Mysuru superfast daily special trains (Train Nos. 06232/06231) will be operated with one 2-tier AC coach, two 3-tier AC coaches, 12 sleeper class coaches, four general second class coaches and two luggage cum brake vans. Train No. 06232 Mysuru-Mayiladuthurai superfast special will leave Mysuru at 4.30 p.m. and reach Mayiladuthurai at 7 a.m. the next day. The services will be operated from October 25 to November 30. In the return direction, Train No. 06231 Mayiladuthurai - Mysuru special will leave Mayiladuthurai at 5.50 p.m.and reach Mysuru at 8.20 a.m., the next day. It will be operated from October 26 to December 1. The trains will stop at Kuthalam, Aduthurai, Kumbakonam, Papanasam, Thanjavur, Budalur, Tiruverumbur, Tiruchi Junction, Tiruchi Fort, Kulithalai, Karur, Pugalur, Erode Junction, Salem Junction, Dharmapuri, Hosur, Karmelram, Bangalore East, Bangalore Cantonment, KSR Bengaluru, Kengiri and Mandya.  Weekly special The Bhubaneswar - Rameswaram weekly special (Train No. 08496) will leave Bhubaneswar on October 23, 30, November 6, 13, 20 and 27 (Fridays) at noon and reach Rameswaram on Saturdays at 11 p.m. In the return direction, the Rameswaram- Bhubaneswar weekly special (Train No. 08495) will leave Rameswaram on October 25, November 1, 8, 15, 22 and 29 (Sundays) at 8.40 a.m. and reach Bhubaneswar on Mondays at 6.55 p.m. The trains will stop at Ramanathapuram, Paramakudi, Manamadurai, Sivaganga, Devakottai Road, Karaikudi, Pudukottai, Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai, Sirkazhi, Chidambaram, Tirupadripuliyur, Villupuram, Chennai Egmore, Gudur, Nellore, Vijayawada, Duvvada, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Berhambur and Khurda Road. It will have one AC 2-tier coaches, four AC 3-tier coaches, 11 sleeper class coaches, two general second class coaches, one pantry car and two luggage cum generator cars. The Madurai-Bikaner weekly AC superfast special (Train No. 06053) will leave Madurai on October 22, 29, November 12, 19 and 26 (Thursdays) at 11.55 a.m. and reach Bikaner at 5.45 p.m. on Saturdays. In the return direction, Train No. 06054 Bikaner-Madurai AC superfast special will leave Bikaner on October 25, November 1, 8, 15, 22 and 29 (Sundays) at 3 p.m. and reach Madurai at 6.40 p.m. on Tuesdays. It will stop at Kodaikanal, Dindigul, Tiruchi, Srirangam, Ariyalur, Vriddhachalam, Villupuram, Chengalpattu, Tambaram, Chennai Egmore, Sullurpeta, Gudur, Nellore, Ongole, Vijayawads, Khamam, Warangal, Ramgundam, Sirpur Kagaz Nagar, Balharshah, Chandrapur, Nagpur, Itarsi, Bhopal, S Hirdharamnagar, Sehore, Shujalpur, Ujjain, Nagda, Shamgarh, Kota, Sawaimadhopur, Bansthali, Durgapura, Jaipur, Phulera, Makrana, Degana, Nagaur and Garhnokha. It will have one first class AC coach, four AC 2-tier coaches, 14 AC 3-tier coaches, a Southern Railway press release said.
21 October 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||5-Star rating for Francis Xavier Engineering College||The Union Ministry of Education, under its National Innovation and Startup Policy 2020, has awarded 5-Star rating to Francis Xavier Engineering College here based on the evaluation jointly done by the All India Council for Technical Education and National Innovation Council. A statement from the College said the Union Ministry of Education, which has awarded the prestigious 5-Star rating to 125 institutes of higher education across the country, has accorded the enviable rating to Francis Xavier Engineering College under the National Innovation and Startup Policy 2020. This Policy was formulated to encourage innovative inventions by educational institutions. Based on the joint evaluation done by the AICTE and National Innovation Council on the efficiency of the products designed and fabricated by Francis Xavier Engineering College, the Union Ministry of Education has awarded 5 Star-rating to the College. This information has been shared by Union Minister for Education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank online, said S. Cletus Babu, chairman of SCAD Group of Institutions, which runs Francis Xavier Engineering College, in the statement.
21 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for molesting girl||The Kangeyam All Women Police on Tuesday arrested a 26-year-old man on charges of sexually assaulting a nine-year-old girl. The police said that the youth, a native of Bihar, used to frequently visit the neighbour of the girl’s residence near Uthukuli. The man sexually assaulted her on Monday and the victim told her mother about the incident. Based on the mother’s complaint, the Kangeyam All Women Police registered a case under sections 3 (Penetrative sexual assault) and 4 (Punishment for penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The police arrested the accused on Tuesday and remanded him in judicial custody.
21 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Murals of mountain flora to decorate outer walls of Coonoor Sims Park||The beautification of the outer wall of the Sims Park in Coonoor with murals of flora seen only in mountains began here on Tuesday.  Local artists, who are volunteers from the NGO ‘Clean Coonoor’ that has been working on cleaning up the town for the last few years, have been commissioned by the Department of Horticulture and the district administration to paint the murals. Nilgiris Collector J. Innocent Divya and Monitoring Officer Supriya Sahu inaugurated the start of the beautification process. P.J. Vasanthan, trustee of ‘Clean Coonoor’, said that the murals would feature a few species of flowering plants endemic to the Nilgiris as well as other species of hill flora. Samantha Iyanna, managing trustee of the NGO, said that she hoped the murals would help showcase the unique flora found in mountain ecosystems. Also present at the Sims Park during the inauguration was Joint Director of Horticulture Sivasubramaniam Samraj.
21 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Nilgiris district launches website||A website providing residents and visitors to the Nilgiris with up-to-date information connected to COVID-19 in the Nilgiris was launched on Tuesday. The website,www.nilgiriscovidcare.inwas developed by the district administration along with the assistance of Jenny Pinto, a local resident, alongside the Coonoor Citizens’ Forum and local NGO, Clean Coonoor. The website features general information about the symptoms of COVID-19 as well as precautions people can take to prevent contracting the virus. Website users can also get information about the testing centres nearest to them, as well as get their test results online. E-passes for visiting tourists can also be applied through the website, which also has information about how tourists can apply for a pass, the check-posts which are open as well as entry rules. The website is available to view in both English and Tamil. Speaking to reporters, Monitoring Officer for the Nilgiris district, Supriya Sahu, said that the website would help provide key information to local residents and tourists and help slow the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Ms. Sahu also appreciated the efforts of the district administration in bringing down the number of daily recorded cases. “Due to the continuous efforts of the Collector, Innocent Divya and other staff and officials from the district administration, the number of cases has come down over the last few weeks,” said Ms. Sahu. “More than 1.35 lakh swab tests have been done in the Nilgiris, and after an initial spike in the number of cases a few weeks ago, the positivity rate has reduced to less than four % while the recovery rate stands at well over 90 %,” said Ms. Sahu.
21 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Clinics fined for improper disposal of medical waste||Coonoor Municipality on Tuesday (CMC) imposed a total fine of Rs. 15,000 on two clinics for improperly disposing of medical waste. Officials from the CMC said that clinics have been directed to pay for the pick-up and disposal of the waste to a common facility in Coimbatore. Coonoor Municipality Commissioner K. Balu said that two clinics in Mount Road, Coonoor, were found to be improperly disposing of the medical waste. A total amount of Rs. 15,000 were imposed on the clinics.
21 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Action to be taken against shops violating virus norms in Vellore||With the festival season round the corner, the Vellore City Municipal Corporation is gearing up to monitor big commercial establishments and hotels, and take action against those that are violating the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued by the State Health Department. The Health Department, in an order, said that a fine of Rs. 5,000 would be imposed on those violating the SOPs issued for salons and spas, gymnasiums, commercial establishments and other public places. Those not wearing a face mask in public places will have to pay Rs. 200. Those spitting in public places and violating distancing norms will have to pay Rs. 500 as a fine amount. The Vellore City Municipal Corporation has 60 wards and four zones. “In the last one month, we have collected close to Rs. 3 lakh as fine from shops and establishments for not following SOPs, including for not wearing masks or not following physical distancing norms. Prior to that, too, we collected close to Rs. 3 lakh. Over 75 staff from the Health Department are on the job,” said S. Chitrasena, City Health Officer, Vellore City Municipal Corporation. Ms. Chitrasena said that there are 150 big shops and hotels in her area. “During the festival season, there will be a crowd. We are first going to create awareness about the SOPs. If they do not follow the regulations, we will impose a fine of Rs. 5,000 on them,” she added. Ms. Chitrasena said that autorickshaw announcements to create awareness about the SOPs are also being done in all the four zones. “We will be intensifying awareness in the coming days,” she added. P. Balamuragan, Sanitary Officer, Vellore City Municipal Corporation, Zone 1, said that he conducted inspections in Katpadi on Tuesday and found that most of the shop owners and salespersons were not wearing masks. “On Tuesday, I imposed a fine on 10 shops that flouted norms,” he said.
21 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||73 new cases registered in Vellore district||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 17,205, with 73 new cases reported on Tuesday. While a total of 16,211 have recovered, the active cases in the district stands at 700. The district’s death toll stands at 294. In Ranipet district, a total of 21 fresh cases were reported, taking the total to 14,395. In Tirupathur, the total number of cases stood at 6,180, with 47 cases on Tuesday. In Tiruvannamalai, 37 new cases were reported, taking the number to 17,156.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem reports 169 cases, one death||Salem district on Tuesday reported 169 new COVID-19 cases, of which 141 were indigenous including 95 within Salem Corporation limits. Health officials said that 28 patients returned from Chennai, Dharmapuri, Erode, Kallakurichi, Namakkal and Krishnagiri. The district reported the death of a 46-year-old woman. In Namakkal, 95 persons tested positive, of whom 10 patients returned from Coimbatore, Salem, Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Karur and Erode and three from Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Bihar. Erode district reported 72 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 9,290. While 134 persons were discharged, 931 persons continue to be under treatment. Krishnagiri recorded 26 cases, and Dharmapuri 66.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||263 test positive in Coimbatore district||Coimbatore reported 263 fresh COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday, and the daily case load in the district remained below the 300 mark for the second consecutive day. The Health Department said that 3,831 persons from Coimbatore district were undergoing treatment for the disease as of Tuesday. According to the Department, two COVID-19 patients died on Sunday and Monday, taking the district's death toll to 526. On Tuesday, 328 persons who recovered from the disease got discharged from treatment centres. The number of persons who recovered from the disease in Tiruppur district crossed the 10,000-mark on Tuesday. A total of 10,178 persons are reported to have recovered, including 179 who were discharged from various hospitals on Tuesday. The district on Tuesday reported the death of five persons aged 50, 72, 77, 83 and 87. The toll so far in the district is 171. With 125 fresh cases on Tuesday, Tiruppur district’s overall tally stood at 11,436. Out of these, 1,087 were active cases. Erode district reported 72 new cases taking the district’s tally to 9,290. While 134 persons were discharged, 931 persons continue to be under treatment. A 46-year-old woman died of the disease in Salem. Health officials said she was suffering from coronary artery disease, hypertension and respiratory illness. The district reported 169 new cases, with 141 of these being indigenous. Namakkal reported 95 cases. The Nilgiris reported 31 new positive cases that raised the district’s tally so far to 6,180. Krishnagiri reported 26 cases, and Dharmapuri 66.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DMK stages demo||The DMK cadre on Tuesday staged a demonstration in Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district condemning the “lethargic functioning” of the municipal administration. The demonstrators raised slogans condemning the civic authorities for their lethargic attitude in closing pits dug for drinking water supply and underground drainage. The stir held near the old fish market was led by the party’s town secretary, Tamilalagan. DMK MP S. Ramalingam, MLA Govi Chezian and others participated.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Purohit likely to clear quota in medical admissions||The Ministers held discussions with the Governor for more than an hour. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and other senior officials were also present at the meeting. The discussion was only on the 7.5% quota Bill, according to Mr. Jayakumar. The Fisheries Minister said the Governor was “examining” the quota Bill from various angles, adding, “We are confident that he will come out with a favourable decision on the matter.” He said the team of Ministers had impressed upon the Governor the need for him giving his assent early to the medical admissions quota Bill. Apart from the State being a “land of social justice”, Mr. Jayakumar said that the horizontal quota would enable more government school students to pursue medical courses. Varsity bifurcation On the issue of Anna University’s bifurcation, the government source said Mr. Purohit apparently felt that if the government considers Anna University, under the present circumstances, to be “overloaded”, there could be two technical universities sharing the load equally instead of the proposed arrangement of one university having the affiliated system and another being a unitary-type institution and bringing under its fold the College of Engineering, Guindy, the Alagappa College of Technology, the School of Architecture and Planning, and the Madras Institute of Technology. Though the bifurcation was originally conceived in the light of the Central government’s decision last year to provide the status of Institution of Eminence (IoE) to Anna University, Mr. Anbalagan recently went on record stating that the university did not require the status if it meant the “loss” of 69% vertical reservation and “denied admission to poor students”.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi vendors seek permission to set up shelter for stalls||Vendors affiliated with the Tiruchi Street Vendors’ Association on Monday staged a protest demanding permission to carry on their trade during the festival season and set up temporary tents to shelter their wares. Authorities had asked the vendors to remove the shelters earlier, they said. The vendors, who put up shops around Teppakulam in Bazaar area, installed shelters due to the uncertain weather. “It is too hot during the day and rains in the evening. Clothes and jewellery tend to fade and get damaged in the harsh weather and the vendors will incur heavy losses,” said A. Ansardeen, district secretary, Street Vendors’ Association attached to All India Trade Union Congress. The protesters said the livelihood of the vendors had taken a hit amid the lockdown and they had now pinned their hopes on a reasonable festive sale. “We only request that the district administration grants us permission to shelter our goods. We have struggled for over six months are now looking forward to earning some money,” Mr. Ansardeen added.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||POST COVID LUNG REHABILITATION CENTER @ KMCH||KMCH has opened post covid lung rehabilitation center to manage patients with advanced lung diseases awaiting for lung transplantation, and post COVID disorders. This center and ward is to cater to select number of patients who have persistent respiratory issues after COVID infection. Even 3 weeks after initial hospitalization, they may no longer are COVID positive but still have lung issues for which they have shortness of breath and still require oxygen and are in the hospital. 80% of people affected by COVID -19 have mild illness. 15-20% has moderate to severe illness requiring hospitalization. Surprisingly 60-80% of the patients who recovered from COVID -19 have some of symptoms like cough, fatigue, body ache, joint pain and tiredness for weeks to months. Researchers and patient groups use a term “Long Covid” for these ongoing symptoms. Lung Fibrosis after COVID pneumonia is fortunately rare but patients more than 65 age with severe pneumonia requiring prolonged ICU stay, Ventilation and under nutrition are risk factors. Rehabilitation with multi-disciplinary team will help to bring back the life of post Covid patients to normal or near normal and make them independent to do their daily activities. KMCH will offer this service to Moderate to severe COVID patients. (4 weeks Post 1st COVID test and also with recent Negative COVID test), who also 1. Continues to require oxygen and other respiratory support even after the acute Phase, 2. Continues to have breathlessness limiting day to day activities. If patients feel that they have above problems they can contact their team. After a preliminary talk through phone they may be called to the center (KMCH –Pulmonary rehabilitation center). Once they arrive, preliminary clinical evaluation will be performed to look for the eligibility, stability of physical condition and contra indications. Based on this they will be offered Outpatient or Inpatient rehabilitation options. Patients can be transferred from other facilities. For enquiries call at : +91 93449 14737 / +91 97906 90153 (9.00 am – 4.00 pm)
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||21-10-2020-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA  NAADA INBAM, 24992672 Celebrating Devi on Navarathri online at www.youtube.com/parivadinimusic 6.15 p.m. Nisha Rajagopalan, L.Ramakrishnan, Delhi Sairam, K.V. Gopalakrishnan.
21 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Two shepherdess, 20 sheep killed in lightning strike||Two shepherdess died after they were struck by lightning in Chikka Ulligeri village near Saundatti in Belagavi district on Tuesday. The two were identified as Bhagavva Kadakol (50) and Yallamma Inchal (35). They died on the spot. Another shepherdess, Renavva Appanna, who suffered burns in the incident, is admitted to a local hospital. They had gone to a field near the Naviluteertha dam to graze sheep. They were standing under a tree when they were struck by lightning, the police said. As many as 20 sheep too died in the incident, the police said.
21 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Congress ready for polls’||Reacting to Basanagouda Patil Yatnal’s statement that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa would not remain in power for long, Congress Legislative Party (CLP) leader Siddaramaiah said his party would face mid-term polls if they were to be held. He was speaking to journalists at Badami in Bagalkot district on Tuesday. He clarified, however, that the Congress would not make any attempt to destabilise the government, but would act if dissidence among BJP leaders leads to the fall of the government.
21 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State sees dip in COVID-19 cases||Following a significant rise in the State’s testing capacity, Karnataka is now among five States where active cases have seen a considerable drop in the past few days. While Maharashtra had seen the highest reduction (of 9,210 active cases), Karnataka’s drop of 3,050 was the second highest as on Monday. The number of daily new positive cases too has reduced in the past one week. Karnataka, which reported over 10,000 COVID-19 cases consistently for the first 13 days of October, saw the numbers come down to around 7,500 daily. While the number came down to 5,018 on Monday, it was 6,297 on Tuesday. While officials attributed this to increased testing — over one lakh samples a day continuously for the past 19 days — sources said some test results were “deliberately” being delayed to show a reduction in numbers. In September, when an average of 65,000 tests were conducted daily, around 8,500 cases were being reported per day. The State’s average Test Positivity Rate (TPR), which had touched 13% in August and September, reduced to 9% in October. Tuesday’s TPR stood at 6.41%, while the Case Fatality Rate touched 1.04%. Crucial period Doctors, who said that the drop in cases was an all-India trend, asserted that people should not become complacent now. V. Ravi, senior professor and head of Neuro Virology at NIMHANS, who is also part of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee, said, “We need to see this trend continuing for another one week to 10 days before we call it a decline. It is all the more important for people to safeguard themselves during the festival season.”
21 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yatnal’s remarks bring discontent to fore again||Though senior BJP leader Basanagouda Patil Yatnal is known to make sweeping and controversial statements, his remarks that Chief Minister B. S. Yediyurappa’s tenure is set to end soon have brought to the fore the simmering discontent among party old-timers who are waiting for a change of guard. “The party’s old-timers feel that they are left out as outsiders have cornered a sizeable number of Ministerial posts. There is no other way as the government was formed due to their defections. But this has become a cause of dissatisfaction among old timers,” observed a party State leader. “Mr. Yatnal’s remarks are an indication that several leaders in the BJP especially those from his own Lingayat community are hoping to get a Chief Ministerial opportunity if there is a leadership change,” observed another prominent leader in BJP State unit. Mr. Yatnal’s comments come in the run-up to the bypolls and biennial polls to the Council. Though several senior leaders sought to immediately clarify that leadership change is not on agenda, none of them took Mr. Yatnal to task, but for those in Mr. Yediyurappa’s camp. Newly-appointed BJP National General Secretary C.T. Ravi ruled out any leadership change and said Mr. Yediyurappa was the party’s unanimous choice for the post. Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said, “Mr. Yediyurappa is our leader and he will continue as CM.” On his part, CM’s political secretary M.P. Renukacharya launched a counter attack on Mr. Yatnal. “He is daydreaming of becoming CM. But the chief ministerial post is not vacant. Such views are personal and issued out of selfishness. They are not the views of legislators of North Karnataka,” Mr. Renukacharya said and warned that the party would take suitable action against those issuing such statements on leadership change.
21 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Festivities go online as part of low-key Durga puja||Durga puja, which is usually celebrated with much fanfare in the city, is going to be low-key this year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Bengali associations across the city are trying to keep the festivities, from October 22 to 26, down to a minimum. They have to fall in line with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) guidelines, which limit the size of idols to four feet, restrict the number of food stalls to four, and prohibit public queues, among other things. Barsha Bengali Association, based in HSR Layout, has planned to have most of the celebrations online. “The puja, pushpanjali and arati at Sidhartha Convention Hall will be streamed live on Youtube and Facebook,” says Priyanka Sinha Roy, a core committee member of Barsha. They have partnered with an FMCG company for an online food demonstration by some renowned chefs. “It will feature preparation of the best sweets from Kolkata during puja,” said Priyanka. “There’s a special tribute to Satyajit Ray on his 100th anniversary, including live concerts, among other things,” she added. The association has tied up with a delivery app to distribute the bhog (prasad) to its members. At the venue, it will employ a QR-code based registration app to track the number of visitors. Sarathi Socio Cultural Trust in Koramangala, which claims to get over 1.5 lakh visitors every year, has decided to skip the celebrations. The trust, formed in 2003, will use its festival funds to help people, like idol-makers, whose livelihoods have been affected due to the restrictions on celebrations. “Those who make the Durga and Ganesha idols, dhak (a percussion instrument used in puja celebrations) and a lot of others are out of work this year. So, we have decided to support them this year,” says Sudipto Das, general secretary of the trust. Tarun Paul, an idol-maker from West Bengal, has been coming to Bengaluru since his father, Sudhir, started making idols in the city in 1971. He usually makes about 40 big idols of Durga and 125 Ganesha idols. This year, Tarun decided to stay in Bengal. “This is the first time in 50 years I will be missing the puja in Bengaluru,” he says.  The puja, pushpanjali and arati at Sidhartha Convention Hall will be streamed live on Youtube and Facebook Priyanka Sinha Roy, member, Barsha Bengali Association, HSR Layout   Those who make the Durga and Ganesha idols, dhak (a percussion instrument used in puja celebrations) and a lot of others are out of work this year. We have decided to support them this year Sudipto Das, general secretary, Sarathi Socio Cultural Trust. Koramangala
21 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Cong. conspired against coalition govt.’||The Bharatiya Janata Party on Tuesday accused Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar and Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah of being responsible for the collapse of the coalition government led by H.D. Kumaraswamy. Speaking at a press conference, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said the BJP would soon release audio evidence in this regard. This was part of the party’s counter attack against the Congress leaders who have accused the BJP candidate in the by-poll to Rajarajeshwarinagar constituency, Mr. Munirathna, of migrating to the saffron party from the Congress for monetary gains. The Deputy Chief Minister said Mr. Munirathna had not taken any money or favour from the BJP for joining its fold. He had joined the BJP “at the behest of Congress leaders who had conspired to bring down the coalition government” by sending out MLAs from their party, he said. He accused Mr. Shivakumar of “backstabbing” Mr. Kumaraswamy while projecting himself as his close associate. Interestingly, though Mr. Munirathna was present at the press conference, he desisted from commenting on the issue. Speaking on his behalf, Mr. Ashwath Narayan said more things would come out in this regard in the future. He maintained that the Opposition parties were not prepared for the by-polls as they were under the impression that the legal issue over holding the by-polls would not be resolved. Hence the Opposition parties were levelling the allegations against Mr. Munirathna to cover up for their lack of preparation forthe polls, he alleged.
21 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Special drive against those who do not wear helmet||After issuing an order to impose penalty and suspend the licence of those who fail to wear helmets while riding two-wheelers, the Transport Department has formed teams to carry out special drives against violators. Eleven teams have been formed to carry out drives in Bannerghatta, Gorguntepalya, Kanakapura Road and Sumanahalli Circle. While the traffic police have started booking cases as per the new rules, a Transport Department official said they will start conducting special drives from Wednesday. On October 16, the RTOs were instructed to book cases for not wearing helmets and suspend the DL for three months. The official says rules apply for both riders. “We confiscate DL from violators. They are barred from riding during the suspension period. If they are found riding without a licence, further action will be initiated,” said the official.
21 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RMZ sells realty assets worth $2 billion||City-based realty development and management firm RMZ Corp on Tuesday announced the sale of 12.5 million sq. ft out of its total real estate holding of 67 mn sq. ft to a fund managed by Toronto-based Brookfield Asset Management for close to Rs. 15,000 crore ($2 billion). The transaction covers RMZ realty assets in Bengaluru and Chennai and divestment of the group’s co-working business, CoWrks. A significant part of RMZ Ecoworld, a 14 m sq. ft development in Bengaluru is also part of this deal, as per the company. Manoj Menda, Corporate Chairman, RMZ Corp said: “RMZ has decided to divest a part of our core portfolio across Bengaluru and Chennai to raise US$2 billion of fresh capital. Upon divestment, RMZ is now amongst the only zero debt real estate companies globally. With this deal, we have ample headroom to achieve our next phase of growth.” “This real estate transaction is momentous for the commercial real estate industry, in light of its large scale at the right juncture. Also, it further accentuates the unabating strength and resilience of the commercial office business,” said Arshdeep Singh Sethi, Managing Director RMZ Corp. RMZ Corp claims to have assets worth $10 billion.  This transaction is momentous for the commercial real estate industry, in light of its large scale at the right juncture. Arshdeep Singh SethiManaging Director RMZ Corp.
21 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New Police Commissioner||The State government on Tuesday posted Labhu Ram as the new Police Commissioner of Hubballi-Dharwad. He replaces R. Dileep, who has now been posted as DIG, Economic Offences Wing, Criminal Investigation Department. P. Krishnakant, who was DCP (Law and Order), Hubballi-Dharwad, is the Superintendent of Police of Dharwad.
21 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||6,297 cases, 66 deaths||Karnataka on Tuesday reported 6,297 COVID-19 cases, taking the total cases to 7,76,901. With 66 new deaths, the toll rose to 10,608. This is apart from 19 deaths of COVID-19 patients due to other reasons. As many as 8,500 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 6,62,329. Of the remaining 1,03,945 active cases, 941 patients were being monitored in ICUs as on Tuesday. Bengaluru Urban reported 2,821 cases, taking its tally to 3,12,842. With 36 of the 66 deaths being from Bengaluru, the toll in the district rose to 3,578.
21 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||EPIC data: DEO told to submit report in 24 hours||The Chief Electoral Officer, Karnataka, has directed the District Electoral Officer and BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad to inquire into allegations of voters in Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly segment being coerced into divulging details of their voters’ identity cards and submit a report within 24 hours. This was after several Congress leaders, led by former MP V.S. Ugrappa, met with CEO Sanjiv Kumar and lodged a formal complaint against the BJP’s candidate in R.R Nagar Muniratha Naidu, seeking his disqualification from the election. The bypoll to this Assembly constituency is scheduled on November 3. Mr. Ugrappa maintained that the Congress had proof that the BJP was collecting EPIC (electoral photo identity cards) from voters of poor socio-economic groups and minority communities. “We have received in writing from some voters that they were forced to handover their cards and that they were given Rs. 5,000 in exchange. Nearly 5,000 such cards have been so far collected by the BJP agents,” he charged and stated that this clearly showed that BJP was employing coercion and threats in the segment. He also pointed out that this was the same modus operandi that Mr. Munirathna had employed in the previous Assembly polls held in May 2018. “After more than 9,500 EPICs were seized from an apartment in Jalahalli, coming under R.R. Assembly constituency, several cases were registered against Mr. Munirathna,” he said. In May 2018, Mr. Munirathna contested on a Congress ticket. Asked why the party did not initiate any action against him then, Mr. Ugrappa claimed that Congress “believed the allegations were politically motivated.” The Congress has now demanded that the CEO direct the authorities concerned to register an FIR against the BJP candidate, his agents and others involved in collecting voters’ details, apart from initiating steps for the conduct of free and fair polls. Despite several attempts, Mr. Munirathna was unavailable for comment. However, Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, reacting to Congress’ allegation, claimed the party was trying to divert public attention by creating an episode of collecting EPIC by unknown persons.
21 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||KASSIA calls for strict implementation of 25% procurement policy||Small industries apex body KASSIA on Monday demanded the strict implementation of government notification on procurement from MSMEs. In a statement released on Monday, K.B. Arasappa, president, KASSIA, demanded implementation of the notification on 25% of the procurement by government departments and undertakings under the MSMED Act. There are glaring examples of the same being flouted with impunity on one pretext or the other. On the other hand, if properly executed, the move will be a substantive stimulus for MSMEs, he said. Mr. Arasappa, said, “There is a need for increased spending on infrastructure, housing for the weaker sections and public works, and health in order to kickstart growth, which will automatically generate demand for products and employment, which in turn will generate consumer spending creating a virtuous cycle for the economy.” But, he said, MSMEs in the State are staring at an uncertain future as they are unable to come out of the shocks inflicted by the pandemic and its continuing spread even after six months, with no respite in sight in the near future. Listing out the steps needed to help the sector, he said banks must advance loans to industry borrowers as mandated without creating hurdles so that the schemes may have the desired impact during a difficult time.
21 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power shutdown in parts of city today and tomorrow||There will be disruption in power supply on October 21 and October 22 between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. in the areas serviced by 220 /66/ 11KV HSR MUSS of F-17 and F18 feeders in view of conversion works. According to a Bescom release, the areas that will be affected are HSR Layout 7th Sector, 9th Main Road and surrounding areas (F-17 feeder) on October 21, and HSR Layout 2nd Sector, 22nd Cross Road, 24th Main Road and surrounding areas (F-18 feeder) on October 22.
21 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Chief Electoral Officer gets doctorate||Senior IAS officer Sanjiv Kumar, presently the Chief Electoral Officer, Karnataka, has been awarded a doctorate by University of Mysore. Mr. Kumar did his PhD under the guidance of Dr. Srijay Devaraja Urs of Development Studies on “MGNREGA Rights, Processes and Sustainable Livelihoods: A critical study in Karnataka.” He was awarded the doctorate at the university’s hundredth convocation held on Monday.
21 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rs. 4.4 crore fine collected in one week for traffic rule violations||The traffic police continued to clamp down on motorists ignoring rules, instances of which have, according to officials, increased after the lockdown restrictions were eased. In one week from October 11 to 17, over one lakh cases were booked and Rs. 4.4 crore collected in fine. “Motorists, who lack road discipline, pose a danger to the lives of fellow motorists and pedestrians,” said B.R. Ravikanthe Gowda, Joint Commissioner of Police (Traffic). With the increasing number of violations, the number of fatal accidents are also on the rise. Out of 1,06,907 traffic violations over the week, the maximum number of cases, 54,549, was against two-wheeler riders and pillions riding without helmets. The other major offences included jumping signals (12,552 cases) and not wearing seat belts while driving (6,127).
21 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||SBI celebrates Daan Utsav||State Bank of India, Bengaluru circle, recently celebrated Daan Utsav – joy of giving week. Staff donated grocery items, clothes, books, stationery, toys, toiletries at the utsav to Surabhi Foundation Trust, which runs an orphanage for deprived children and an old age home for abandoned senior citizens. Chief General Manager Abhijit Majumder handed over the donated items to A.S. Patil, Director, Surabi Foundation Trust in the presence of Vincent M.D., GM (R&DB 1), and Ravi Ranjan, GM (R&DB 2), and other senior officials.
21 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||N-95 mask for only Rs. 25?||The court directed the registrar of the city civil court in Bengaluru to find out whether N-95 mask was available for Rs. 25 at Jan Aushadhi Kendra (JAK) outlet in the civil court complex, and submit a report. The Bench issued the direction after advocate Shridhar Prabhu, advocate for another petitioner Rajiv R. Gothe, questioned the Union government’s claim that now an N-95 mask of minimum prescribed standard is available for a low price of Rs. 25 per piece, which was charged Rs. 60 during June, at JAK, established under the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat health scheme. The advocate, showing packaging of a mask, said to have been purchased at JAK, claimed that it was only an anti-pollution mask and not of N-95 standard.
21 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man arrested for duping people at ATM kiosks||The Bagalagunte police on Tuesday arrested a 30-year-old man who was cheating gullible people at the ATM kiosks while pretending to help them withdraw cash. The accused Arun Kumar, from Tumakuru district, is a habitual offender. According to the police, the accused is involved in over half a dozen cheating cases. “While offering to withdraw cash, he would divert their attention and swap their ATM cards with a dummy card. After pocketing the stolen ATM card, Kumar would withdraw cash and escape,” said a police officer. In this manner, he allegedly duped at least four people of Rs. 1.6 lakh.
21 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Disruption in water supply||There will be disruption in water supply on October 21 between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m. in BEML 3rd, 4th, and 5th stages, Aditya Layout, Kodipalya, and Channasandra.
21 October 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||844 COVID-19 tests done at CCC set up by Rail Wheel Factory||As many as 844 COVID-19 tests have been conducted till now at the 100-bed COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC) set up by Rail Wheel Factory to effectively handle cases of its 12,000 retired and serving employees and their families. According to a Rail Wheel Factory release, till now, as many as 1,648 patients were screened in fever clinics and authorities have conducted 844 COVID-19 tests. Of these, 386 persons tested positive and 276 patients have recovered. Symptomatic cases are being admitted to railway hospital and cases that need ventilator are referred to Ramaiah hospital and other super speciality hospitals.
21 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Sites, houses for all poor people: CM||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has said the State government will provide sites and houses for all the poor of the State in a phased manner. He was speaking at a programme organised to distribute benefits to beneficiaries of various schemes at Shikaripura, his constituency, on Tuesday. “The government is committed to ensure nobody is rendered homeless. People should not go after mediators and lose money. If anybody demands for a bribe to sanction houses or sites, the applicants concerned should complain to the Deputy Commissioner”, he said.  Allotment Mr. Yediyurappa has said the State government will develop Udutadi, the birthplace of Akkamahadevi, the 12th Century poet of Vachana movement, in hikaraipura taluk. The government had allocated Rs. 30 crore for the purpose, he said during his visit to the place on Tuesday. After reviewing the works, the Chief Minister said it would be developed into a major tourist attraction
21 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||BJP’s role will be crucial in Southern States: C.T. Ravi||National General Secretary of the BJP and former Minister C.T. Ravi has said that the BJP would be a force to reckon with in the general Assembly elections in the States of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Puducherry and that it would play a crucial role in government formation. Addressing presspersons in Hubballi on Tuesday, Mr. Ravi said that under Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Union government has taken several development initiatives and has ruled according to the aspirations of the people. He said that an era of change has begun under Mr. Narendra Modi and there was no space for separatism in the country now, including Kashmir. “Under Modiji there is no scope for corruption and the Opposition did not have any valid reason to oppose the government,” he said. Mr. Ravi said that because of reforms, the people of the country have been supporting the party in all recent elections. And, in the Karnataka bypolls too, the people would support the party as amid the COVID-19 situation and the floods, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa was working relentlessly to help the affected people and meet their aspirations. The election results would provide answers to political questions, he said. The former Minister admitted that because of the COVID-19 situation, the economy of the State was not that good and consequently, funds were not being released to constituencies as per the expectations of the MLAs. However, amid the challenges, development activities were being carried out on priority, he said. Mr. Ravi clarified that the State government was doing everything for flood relief and as relief had been released from the centre as per NDRF guidelines, there was no dearth of funds for flood relief works. District-in-charge Ministers were monitoring the relief operations to mitigate the sufferings of the displaced people, he said. No discussion To a query on reports in a section of the media about former Ministers M.B. Patil and Vinay Kulkarni joining the BJP, Mr. Ravi clarified that no such discussion had taken place in the party. And, even if there was any such issue, a decision would be taken on their inclusion only after consulting the local party units, he said. Regarding grants for house construction, he said that Rs. 5 lakh was being given for reconstruction of houses that have collapsed. However, in several places, no progress report on construction of houses has been received and this would be brought to the notice of the Chief Minister.
21 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Sripathi Acharya dead||Senior journalist S.N. Sripathy Acharya (89) passed away in Hubballi on Monday night after a brief period of illness. He is survived by a son and a daughter. A native of Sagri near Udupi, Sripathy Acharya had served in the Kannada daily Samyukta Karnataka for 32 years before retiring as News Editor.
21 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Reservation: Panchamasalis plan fast||Seeking the inclusion of the Lingayat Panchamasali community under 2A category in the State and Central list of OBCs, members of the community led by Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami of Lingayat Panchamasali Peetha at Koodalasangama will stage a one-day fast in front of the Suvarna Soudha in Belagavi on October 28. At a press conference in Hubballi on Tuesday, he said that as the members of the community were ‘soft-natured and hard working’, their rightful demand had been neglected by successive governments. “Only 5% of the community is rich, while the remaining are economically and socially backward. For most of them, agriculture is the main occupation and several earn their livelihood as farm workers,” he said. Lingayat religion The swami, among prominent leaders seeking the status of independent religion for Lingayat, clarified that the fight for independent religion was still on and it should not be presumed that it has ended.
21 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Condolences pour in for Communist Maruti Manpade||Condolences from people from across the State and beyond poured in for senior Communist leader Maruti Manpade. “Manpade quit a comfortable government job in 1981-82 to be completely involved in people’s movements for a better future,” said Sharanabasappa Mamashetty, his long-time associate. Speaking to The Hindu from London, Neeraj Patil, Chairman of the Basaveshwara Foundation, said Mr. Manpade was a true people’s leader.
21 October 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Journalist dead||Shama Sunder (70), journalist who had worked with The Hindu, Indian Express, and Kannada Prabha , died of cardiac arrest at a private hospital in Ballari on Tuesday. He is survived by his wife, daughter, and son. He was admitted to the hospital late on Monday after he developed health complications. A native of Hoovina Hadagali, Mr. Shama Sunder had settled in Ballari after retiring as The Hindu ’s correspondent in Hassan. He was serving as media adviser to K.C. Kondaiah, Member of the Legislative Council, and K.C. Ramamurthy, Member of the Rajya Sabha. He was a recipient of the Suvarna Karnataka Rajyotsava Award. Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu and Mr. Kondaiah paid their last respects to the departed journalist.
21 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Creating more awareness on waste segregation||Mangaluru City Corporation will use the services of its mutli-purpose workers and valvemen to create awareness on segregating waste at source, Mayor Diwakar said here on Tuesday. Speaking at a consultative meeting with councillors on waste segregation, he sought the cooperation of councillors to create awareness among people on segregating waste. Commissioner of the corporation Akshy Sridhar said that the civic body will also use the services of junior engineers to supervise waste segregating operations in the city. The corporation will popularise composting of wet waste in houses to reduce the quantity of garbage being generated in the city, he said. Some councillors told the meeting that Antony Waste Handling Cell Pvt. Ltd. which collects and transports solid waste for the corporation is not collecting waste daily from some wards, especially those on the outskirts of the central business district area. Garbage is being collected in such wards once in three days. As per the contract with the civic body, the company should collect waste daily. Replying to this, Environment Engineer of the corporation Madhu S. Manohar said that the company has told the civic body that it is facing the issue of maintenance of some of its vehicles due to delay in getting spare parts. The company was operating 84 vehicles for waste collection and transportation. Now, about eight of its vehicles are not operating due to maintenance issues. Hence, it is collecting waste in some wards once in three days. In response, the Mayor said that in such a case the company should make alternative arrangements by hiring vehicles on its own to collect and transport waste. If not, it should outsource collection in such wards. Lack of availability of spare parts cannot be an excuse for stopping daily collection of waste. Naveen R. D’Souza, a councillor, said that the civic body should collect all segregated waste daily. It should collect dry waste daily instead of once in a week that is on Fridays. If dry waste is collected only on Fridays, garbage will only pile up in apartments, he said.  Another councillor Praveenchandra Alva said that the QR code system of monitoring waste segregation which has been implemented in a ward in the city on an experimental basis should be extended to all wards. It is to monitor whether solid waste has been collected from all houses and establishments or not.
21 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Take action against illegal cow transportation: Kateel||Member of Parliament from Dakshina Kannada Nalin Kumar Kateel has instructed Mangaluru Police Commissioner and Superintendent of Police to take steps to prevent stealing and illegal transportation of cows in the district. In a release here on Tuesday Mr. Kateel said that the police should take steps to identify those involved in the transporting cows illegally in a violent manner. They should check suspected vehicles. Illegal transportation of cows is likely to disturb peace in the district.
21 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kendriya Vidyalaya No 1 gets open air gymnasium||Giving impetus to fitness, an open air gymnasium was inaugurated at the Kendriya Vidalaya No 1, Panambur, here on Tuesday. School principal Ganesh S. Indrale said that a set of eight equipment worth about Rs. 8 lakh was sanctioned by the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sanghatan as part of the “Fit India” programme. These equipment made of galvanised iron have been installed on the school’s playground. These equipment will help in whole body workout. The 1,500 students of the school and staff members will make use of these equipment and maintain their fitness, he said.
21 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two booked for abusing watcher||The Byndoor Police have registered a case against two persons on the charge of abusing and threatening a forest watcher after he questioned them why they were carrying out a survey on a forest land. On October 18, Forest Watcher Manjunath S. Duggannavar found Kushal Shetty and Chandrashekar Shetty surveying a land in the Gudde Reserve Forest area. The two told Duggannavar that the land had been allocated to them. When records were checked, the land was found to be in the name of Durgi and Chikkayya Poojary. Duggannavar objected to the survey work saying that permission was required from the department for carrying out any activity in a forest area. However, the two accused went ahead with their work after abusing Duggannavar and also issuing a threat to his life. On a complaint by Range Forest Officer T. Kiran Babu, the Byndoor Police registered a case against the two men under various sections of the Indian Penal Code.
21 October 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Tourist footfall low due to pandemic, low-key Dasara||Halfway through Dasara, places of tourist interest in the city including Chamundi Hills, palace and zoo are wearing a deserted look and the revival of the sector is a long haul ahead. Though the city roads tend to be choked with traffic at night, it is mainly due to local people driving in their private vehicles to witness the illumination of the streets. The tourist spots are barely getting any visitors. In normal times, Chamundeshwari temple atop the Chamundi Hills is a must-visit during Navaratri not only for the thousands of tourists but also for the local people. The rush would be such that it would take anywhere between 2 hour to 3 hours for a fleeting darshan of Goddess Chamundeshwari. But the pandemic has kept the visitors away. Shashishekar Dixit, chief priest of the temple, told The Hindu that the past four days since the commencement of Dasara has seen limited footfall. “We have not received more than 1,500 to 2,000 devotees and tourists per day since the commencement of Dasara. In the earlier years, the crowd would be unmanageable requiring a special queue which too would be highly patronised.’’ But the footfall is higher than what it was during July when the Muzrai temples were opened after the lockdown, he added. The situation is similar at the Mysuru palace which used to received anywhere between 10,000 and 15,000 tourists per day during Dasara every year. But since October 1, the footfall has hovered below 1,000 visitors on most days. It crossed the 2,000 mark only on four occasions this month so far. On Monday, there were 752 visitors. The Mysuru zoo – which is otherwise closed for visitors on Tuesdays but kept open on October 20 in anticipation of tourists – received less than 500 people. The hospitality sector too is not faring any better. “There are nearly 2,000 registered taxis in Mysuru catering to tourists and they tend to be booked in advance during Dasara. But only 20 per cent of them are plying due to poor demand’’, said Prashanth of Mysore Travels Association. Narayana Gowda, representing the hospitality sector, said there was nearly 25 per cent bookings but the occupancy rate in properties outside the city limits was less than 15 per cent. This is the lowest occupancy rate ever for Mysuru, he added , The peak tourism season would commence with Dasara and peak from the second half of October every year. But tourism revival is not a priority for a majority of people grappling with challenges of managing with reduced income and insecurity over jobs. For now, remaining safe till the pandemic subsides is the priority.
21 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||PCR tests gain traction, but rapid test numbers fall by 50%||The average number of Rapid Antigen Tests (RATs), that had touched nearly 3,000 per day last week, has dropped by nearly 50 per cent in Mysuru with about 1,404 tests per day being carried out between October 14 and 19. However, the average number of RT-PCR tests has seen a jump last week with tests per day crossing 3,000. The average PCR tests between October 7 and 14 were 2,241 a day, according to the statistics provided by the COVID-19 War Room, Bengaluru. Sources said the PCR tests saw an upsurge after they were made mandatory for the participants of Dasara inaugural here last week. As a precaution, following the advice of COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC), the authorities subjected the participants (who had been permitted to attend) to the PCR method of testing 48 hours before the inaugural event since these tests were considered confirmatory in nature. RT-PCR negative test report (done after October 14) should be made mandatory for COVID-19 safety at the Dasara venues. The test for officials, staff, security personnel, media persons, artists and others should be made compulsory, the TAC had recommended. Crucial period Also, the PCR tests may go up again ahead of the finale this weekend with the participants, including those who had been tested last week, having to provide their swabs under this method. The RATs may also go up this week with the launch of mobile testing booths in view of the festive season. Mass testing in factories/industries had been arranged for free. The RAT had achieved 200 per cent of its target between October 7 and 13 but it could achieve 100 per cent target last week. Despite having over 22 centres where the RATs are done for free besides PHCs, the tests did not exceed the target. Does this indicate not many people are making use of the testing facilities after the fall in the weekly positivity rate? In the last seven days, Mysuru has reported 2,820 new cases, a significant fall, may be by 50 per cent, when compared to new infections in September and cases reported early this month. The report from the COVID-19 war room said there has been overall improvement in all parameters.
21 October 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Govt. flayed for lifting ban||The Congress has cautioned the government that it will be held responsible for any surge in COVID-19 positive cases in Mysuru consequent to its decision to lift the ban on entry to tourist places in the district. M. Lakshman, party spokesperson, said here on Tuesday that while the district administration has issued the ban orders to curb a possible surge, the Chief Minister had got the ban lifted which could backfire.
21 October 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Festival special’ trains||The Mysuru Division of South Western Railway is introducing two pairs of “festival special trains’’ from Mysuru to destinations in Tamil Nadu in view of Durga Puja, Dasara, Deepavali etc. A release said the trains will operate only till November 30 and boarding will be through reservation only for which booking can be made either online on the IRCTC website or at reservation counters. Train number 06231 will run from Mayiladuthurai to Mysuru daily from October 26 to November 1 while 06232 service from Mysuru will depart for Mayiladuthurai on October 25. Train number 06235 will operate from Tuticorin to Mysuru and the services will commence from October 24 while the corresponding pairing train – 06236 – will run from Mysuru to Tuticorin from October 23.
21 October 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Kateel firmly rules out any change in leadership in State||State Bharatiya Janata Party president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Tuesday firmly set aside rumours about a change in the leadership of the party government. Speaking to reporters in Surpur city, Mr. Kateel,who is touring various parts in Kalyan Karnataka to campaign for the elections to the Legislative Council seats, said that “there is no change in leadership and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will continue for the remaining three years in office.” “Our party will not effect any change now,” he added. His statement has gained importance as another senior leader and Vijayapura MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal has criticised the Chief Minister over withdrawal of special grants to the Vijayapura City Corporation, saying that it was time for him [Mr. Yediyurapp]a to step down. Responding to a question about changing the Ministerial portfolio of B. Sriramulu to Social Welfare from Health and Family Welfare, Mr. Kateel said that a bigger responsibility has now been given to Mr. Sriramulu and that he has no dissatisfaction about it, as, earlier, he had sought the same portfolio. Appreciating local MLA Narasimha Naik for his work, Mr. Kateel said that “he [Mr. Naik] has been able to carry out work given to him and he has not wished for a Cabinet berth. Mr. Naik and district BJP president Sharanabhupal Reddy and others were present.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Motorist bids Rs. 10.75L for fancy number||The economic impact of the pandemic has had little impact on the demand for fancy vehicle numbers. The Transport Department received its highest ever bid of Rs. 10.75 lakh for a fancy number – KA01 MV 0001 – during an auction that was conducted on Monday. According to an official, the owner bid for the number for his Mercedes Benz. It includes a Rs. 75,000 fee fixed by the department. The department auctioned various numbers, including ‘1’, ‘123’, ‘1234’, ‘7777’, ‘555’, ‘999’, ‘9090’ and ‘9999’. “A total of 15 people made successful bids. The auction helped the department earn Rs. 18 lakh,” the official added. The second highest bid was for registration number KA01 MV 9999, which was sold for Rs. 3.40 lakh. Another car owner paid Rs. 3 lakh for the number 0009. An official of the Transport Department said, “Monday’s auction was the first one to happen after the imposition of lockdown, which has not affected the demand for fancy numbers.” Buoyed by the success of the auction, the department is banking on demand to increase in the coming days. “Compared to other cities,demand for fancy numbers is higher in Bengaluru,” the official added. As per the rule, bidders have till Wednesday to make the payment. If they fail to do so, they will forfeit the Rs. 75,000 fixed fee that they had to deposit prior to the auction. The department has been auctioning fancy numbers since 2015 to increase revenue.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||SEC seeks High Court nod to hold elections in 198 wards||The State Election Commission (SEC) has sought direction from the Karnataka High Court to go ahead with the process initiated to hold elections to 198 awards of the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) by ignoring the government’s notification of increasing the number of wards to 243 following a recent amendment to the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act. The SEC has filed an application in this regard in the PIL petition, filed by the Commission on January 23, 2020, seeking directions to the government to complete the process of delimitation of 198 wards and fix caste-based reservation in the wards. Pointing out that valuable public time and money has already been spent since July this year for holding elections by preparing revised voters list to the 198 wards after the government on June 23 notified delimitation of 198 wards as per the court’s direction, the SEC has said that the amendment to the KMC Act cannot result in postponement of elections to be held within the time limit mandated in the constitutional provisions. The SEC has brought to the court’s notice that after amending the KMC Act on October 3 to increase wards up to 250, the government on October 14 issued a notification fixing 243 wards for the BBMP and set up a delimitation commission, giving it six months to complete the process of carving out 243 new wards and fixing their boundaries. As the process of delimitation of the new wards, fixation of caste-based reservation for the wards to-be-created, and preparation of new voter list would take at least 12 months. the SEC said not holding elections as per the process already undertaken would defeat the constitutional mandate of timely holding of elections to the BBMP. The SEC has pointed out that elections to the BBMP could not be completed before expiry of its term, on September 10, due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi adjourned further hearing on the petition till November 10, asking the government file its response.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP mulls over granting civic chief power to hike property tax||To ensure that property tax rates are enhanced on time, the civic body is exploring the possibility of vesting the power to approve the increase in tax rates to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner. Sources in the civic body said that this proposal has come up for discussion in a few forums. A senior official in the civic body’s Revenue Department said that as per the Karnataka Municipal Corporations Act, 1976, property tax rates have to be enhanced every three years. “There are different interpretations… while some say the Commissioner can approve the hike in tax, there are others who say that the tax revision may be approved only by the elected body first and later by the State government. Since 2008, the civic body has been seeking approval of the BBMP council and then the State government,” the official said. However, the BBMP council and State government have not been approving the proposal to revise tax rates. After 2008-09, the tax rates were revised in 2015-16. Though BBMP Commissioners had tabled proposals to hike tax rates, they were all deferred. Property tax is one of the largest revenue sources for the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). Though the property tax rates have to be enhanced every three years, it seldom is approved by the elected body for various reasons. With the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the BBMP’s coffers have been running low, despite collection of around Rs. 2,060 crore in property tax. Top 100 defaulters Meanwhile, the Revenue Department has drawn up a list of top 100 defaulters of property tax in the city, who owe the civic body nearly Rs. 131 crore. In all, the BBMP has to collect arrears amounting to Rs. 650 crore from property owners who have not paid tax for more than one year, sources said. Though there are over 19.8 lakh properties in the city, many are yet to be brought under the property tax net. So far this fiscal, the BBMP has been able to collect Rs. 2,060 crore. To collect arrears, civic officials had issued nearly 22,000 warrants and notices to property owners, sources added.  There are different interpretations… while some say the Commissioner can approve the hike in tax, there are others who say that the tax revision may be approved only by the elected body first and later by the State government. Since 2008, the civic body has been seeking approval of the BBMP council and then the State government A senior official in the Revenue Department
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Demand to reverse complete lockdown of schools||A group of individuals have demanded a ‘balance’ in education similar to the one being applied to health and economy. They have asked for reversal of the complete school lockdown. They said school opening needs to be phased, different classes and sections can be open on different days, school timings can be limited and staggered. “These measures can keep the number of students in the school at levels that allow for physical distancing. Even two days a week with limited hours of schooling is a huge improvement over not having school at all, or having some version of online education,” they say. Those who have endorsed the demands include B.T. Venkatesh, human rights activist and lawyer, and Niranjanaradhya V.P., Senior Fellow, Centre for Child and the Law, NLSIU.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Drugs probe: Kannada reality show star arrested||Officials with the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Tuesday arrested Kannada reality show ‘Bigg Boss’ contestant Adam Pasha in connection with their probe into the drug racket. Adam has been accused of buying MDMA from a dealer, Anikha Dinesh, who had been arrested during a raid in August. “He has been sourcing drugs from Anikha Dinesh for a long time. We have evidence of financial transactions between the two and bank details,” a senior NCB official said. In August, the NCB had carried out a series of raids in and around Bengaluru as part of an investigation into an international drug racket. Three people, including Anikha, were arrested at the time, and a cache of MDMA pills and LSD blots had been seized. Adam’s name cropped up during the probe after call record details showed his link to the accused. According to NCB officials, Adam had close ties with Anikha. “He not only procured drugs from her, but also introduced many of his friends to her. We are ascertaining his exact role in the drug racket,” the NCB official added. The NCB are also ascertaining whether he had ties with the two other accused M. Anoop and R. Ravindran, who were arrested during the raids.  He has been sourcing drugs from Anikha Dinesh for a long time. We have evidence of financial transactions between the two and bank details A senior NCB official said
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Two women die in lightning strike||Kavita and Gangamma were killed on the spot. The other women are safe. A case has been registered by Serigeri Police.
21 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Reawakening maritime legacy||The Alappuzha port museum being set up as part of the Alappuzha heritage project is nearing completion. It will showcase the State’s rich maritime history, especially the story of the Alappuzha port, including its formation, growth as a commercial hub of the erstwhile State of Travancore, and the decline towards the fag end of the 20th century. The museum is set up by renovating the old port office and godowns attached to it near the Alappuzha beach. “Alappuzha port will not make a comeback. But through the museum, we can relive the glory days. The renovation of the buildings will be completed in two months and the museum will be opened to the public in February 2021,” says Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac. According to P.M. Noushad, managing director, Muziris Spice Route Heritage Project, the museum will have details of all ancient ports that existed in the State. Artefacts from countries that had trade links with the State through the ancient ports and materials collected from the port sites will be exhibited.   Besides, miniature models of important ships that had called at the Alappuzha port along with models of boats and other materials used will be displayed at the museum. The functioning of the Alappuzha port and experiences of its workers will be recreated with the help of photographs and videos. Those visiting the museum can have an interactive experience — with the help of augmented reality — travelling with Thomas Norton, a missionary who sailed from Plymouth in England to the State in 1816. A real ship will be installed on the seashore. “The Indian Navy has promised to provide a ship. We hope the ship will reach Kochi by next month. From there, it will be brought to Alappuzha. The last time a ship came to Alappuzha port was in 1989,” Dr. Isaac says.  Rs. 5.6-crore project By displaying documents and photogrpahs, the museum will be a treasure trove of information about the State’s maritime history, ports, personalities, and so on. The museum is getting ready under the guidance of Benny Kuriakose, a conservation architect, at a cost of Rs. 5.6 crore. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will launch various works of the museum, including materials to be displayed, designing, and electrification, on November 3. The Chief Minister will also inaugurate completion/ renovation work of various other projects under the Alappuzha heritage project at the function.
21 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha sees 592 new cases||The district witnessed an increase in COVID-19 cases with 592 people testing positive for the infection on Tuesday. As many as 574 patients contracted the virus locally, while the source of infections of another 17 people remains undetected. One person who came from abroad was also diagnosed with the disease. The district recorded two COVID-19-related deaths, taking the toll to 73. The deceased were identified as a 50-year-old man from Pandanad and an 85-year-old man from Vandanam. Both died on October 18. Of the new COVID-19 cases, 112 were reported from Alappuzha, and 74 from Punnapra North. Panavally (45), Cherthala (31), Cherthala South (29), Mararikulam North (26), Chengannur (20), Veliyanad (18), and Edathua (15) also reported a high number of COVID-19 cases.  7,007 active cases Meanwhile, 286 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. Active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 7,007. The police have registered 58 cases and arrested 71 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was initiated against 267 people for not wearing face masks; 1,039 for not maintaining physical distance; and one person for violating home-quarantine norms. Another 10 cases were registered for violating prohibitory orders imposed in the district under Section 144 of the Cr.PC. Action was initiated against 72 people in connection with the 10 cases. Ward 14 in Kodamthuruth, parts of Ward 1 in Pulinkunnu and ward 15 in Kodamthuruth grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.
21 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||KSSP insists on eco-impact assessment of projects||No development project should be implemented in the district without considering environmental impacts, the Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP) district committee has said. A resolution passed at a recent KSSP district conference demanded that agriculture, house construction, and tourism projects and infrastructure development be scientific and environment-friendly. Natural calamities Projects showing disregard to Vembanad Lake, Kuttanad and other ecologically fragile ecosystems will increase the impact of natural calamities and affect the socio-economic fabric of the region, the resolution said. B. Krishnakumar and Jayan Champakulam have been elected district president and secretary of KSSP Alappuzha unit respectively.
21 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||In Munnar, stay on KSRTC bus||An accommodation on a Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) bus will soon be possible, if a project for giving economy class living rooms to tourists is realised in Munnar. Two old deluxe buses with 16 berths have reached the Munnar KSRTC depot for the purpose. “It is hoped that the project will be realised by November when the tourism season starts,” says depot in-charge Sevi George. 16 berths The buses have facilities to serve food and 16 berths are arranged similar to that on trains. It is most suited to group and family travellers. The daily rent has been fixed at Rs. 1,600. Only one group will be allowed on a bus. Though the maximum capacity is 16 persons, a small family can also use the accommodation. The bus will be parked in an open space near the depot providing an ideal view from the room, says Mr. George. Two bathrooms have been made exclusively at the depot for the use of those accommodated on the buses. KSRTC sources say by November the tourist flow to Munnar is expected to pick up and the facility will be ready then. The KSRTC is expecting a favourable response from tourists as accommodation facilities will be costly at the hill station during the peak season. Moreover, proximity to the town and readymade accommodation near the depot will make it attractive to travellers reaching Munnar. The accommodation can be booked in the depot phone number. The diversification of the KSRTC to the tourism segment is the idea of Managing Director Biju Prabhakar. Old deluxe buses kept off the road are being converted to provide lodging. The other hill stations and tourism destinations will also be ready soon with KSRTC accommodation in sleeper class, according to the sources.
21 October 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Harsh Vardhan’s remarks on State unfortunate: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi has said the recent remarks of Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan about the rising COVID-19 cases in Kerala are unfortunate. Speaking to media after attending a meeting of the District Development Coordination and Monitoring Committee and a review meeting of the district administration on the COVID-19 situation in Wayanad district on Tuesday, Mr. Gandhi said the collective response of the people of Kerala had contributed to containing the pandemic. When the State witnessed a spurt in infections, Mr. Vardhan said the State was “paying the price for gross negligence” during Onam festivities when unlocking of services along with an increase in travel led to the spread of COVID-19. Though the district had fared well in tackling the pandemic, weaker sections, including the tribespeople, needed more support, Mr. Gandhi said. Criticising his party leader Kamal Nath’s remarks about Bharatiya Janata Party leader Imarti Devi, Mr. Gandhi said it was unfortunate. “Kamal Nathji is from my party, but personally, I don’t like the type of language he used. I don’t appreciate it, regardless of who he is. It is unfortunate,” Mr. Gandhi said. Regarding a query on the approach of the Enforcement Directorate (ED ) to former Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Farooq Abdullah, Mr. Gandhi said the BJP was using national agencies such as the ED and the CBI for its political motives.
21 October 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Isaac opens tree banking project in Wayanad||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has said that the government was in its final step to set up a coffee processing factory in Wayanad district to market coffee powder under the “Wayanadan Coffee” brand. Speaking after inaugurating the tree banking project of the Meenangadi grama panchayat through video conferencing here on Tuesday, Mr. Isaac said that the project envisaged ensuring sustainable income to coffee farmers in the district, a major Robusta coffee growing region in the country. The tree banking project has been launched as part of developing the panchayat as the first “carbon-neutral panchayat” in the country. The carbon neutral project of the civic body would help to market the “Wayanadan coffee” powder even in foreign markets, Mr. Isaac said. Hence, all grama panchayats should adopt steps to expand the project in the district, he said. According to the scheme, for each newly planted sapling of the tree species enlisted by the panchayat, a farmer will get Rs. 50 every year from the second year onwards after the sapling takes root as interest-free loan. The Meenangadi Service Cooperative Bank would provide the loans, Dr. Isaac said. The government had deposited Rs. 10 crore in the Meenangadi Cooperative Bank to run the scheme. As each tree under the project would be geo-tagged, the panchayat authorities could easily identify the growth or destruction each plant. The project would take an active role in the social and economic development of the in the district, the Minister said.
21 October 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Police begin probe into death threat to MLA||The Valapattanam police have registered a case and started an investigation on a petition filed by K.M. Shaji, MLA, claiming According to the police, the MLA claimed to have received a death threat made by one Tejas of Pappinisseri. However, no such person had been identified. A day earlier, Mr. Shaji had said that he had received death threats and released an audio recording in support of his claims.
21 October 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Crude bomb found on road||A crude bomb was found on the Payyannur Pattoli Temple road on Tuesday morning. The bomb was found by people residing in the area while they were on their morning walk. They immediately informed the police, who reached the spot. The bomb squad, which arrived from Kannur, took the bomb with them to defuse it. Bomb squad sub inspector T.V. Sasidharan said that the crude bomb seemed to have been made recently and was highly explosive. The dog squad was also brought to the spot. The bomb was found a day after a pistol and 23 cartridges were found on the roadside in Annur, near Payyanur.
21 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Medical college denies lapse, sees plot to defame institution||Doctors at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, reiterated on Tuesday that there had been no lapse in the treatment given to COVID-19 patients at their facility, which is a designated COVID-19 hospital and the largest in the district. Their clarification came after an audio clip sent out by a nursing officer at the hospital suggested that the staff's negligence had led to the death of a COVID-19 patient. In the audio clip, the nursing officer had said that a patient’s ventilator tube had not been placed properly. Dr. A. Fathahudeen, pulmonologist and nodal officer for COVID-19 care at the hospital, said that the deceased patient mentioned in the audio clip, C. K. Haris, had been in a critical condition with pneumonia even on the day he died. The fact that he was seriously ill was communicated in the daily report sent from the hospital to the Director of Medical Education. He was on ventilator support and doctors had not considered moving him from the ICU to the ward. Haris had been under treatment at the hospital for about three weeks and remained positive for the virus even when he died. He was overweight and had diabetes and hypertension, besides COVID-19 pneumonia, and obstructive sleep apnea that made it difficult for him to breathe when asleep. Haris was not on a mechanical ventilator but was on non-invasive ventilation where a tube is not inserted. The nursing officer had explained that the audio message was only meant to keep her juniors aware, and it was routine to ask staff to be careful about oxygen supply, Dr. Ganesh Mohan, resident medical officer, told the media. The nursing officer was not directly involved in treating critically ill COVID-19 patients, had not interacted with the patients, and only played a supervisory role, Dr. Fathahudeen said. A junior doctor had told TV channels on Tuesday that the audio clip was likely to be true and that ventilator tubes and oxygen masks were sometimes not placed properly. In their statement, hospital officials said that the junior doctor, working under the supervision of several specialists, had never alerted her seniors to such a problem. The junior doctor had also not been on duty when Haris died and doctors on duty at that time had not alerted the administration to any problems in his treatment, said a statement issued by Dr. Fathahudeen, Dr. V. Satheesh, Principal of the MCH, and Dr. Peter P. Vazhayil, Medical Superintendent. False statements on purported inefficiency and lapses in treatment at the facility were being made in an attempt to besmirch the institution, their statement said. Dr. Fathahudeen said that the patient’s family was asked to purchase a CPAP machine in order to help him breathe after his discharge from the hospital, since oxygen levels could fall even a few weeks after the patient’s recovery.
21 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||PCB asks Kochi Corporation to pay up Rs. 13.95-crore penalty||The State Pollution Control Board (SPCB) has asked the Kochi Corporation to show cause within 15 days as to why it shall not recover an environmental compensation of Rs. 13.95 crore for its failure to comply with the norms under the Solid Waste Management Rules (SWM), 2016. The notice was issued by the board chairman to the secretary of the civic body on October 15. The amount was fixed for a period starting from November 22, 2018, to September 30 this year. The notice was issued as a follow-up of the steps being taken on the basis of a directive by the Principal Bench of the National Green Tribunal on a case related to non-compliance with SWM Rules, 2016 at the Brahmapuram solid waste processing plant, resulting in environmental pollution and posing a threat to public health. The tribunal had stated that the Pollution Control Board could independently proceed against local bodies that were not complying with rules and assess the damage caused to the environment owing to such a lapse. The board had also used its powers prescribed under Section 5 of the Environment Protection Act, 1986, while fixing the environment compensation based on ‘polluter pays principle’. Waste generation The assessment of environment compensation was done as per the population and class of the civic body. Kochi Corporation’s population was estimated at 6.77 lakh as per the 2011 Census data and it was included as a Class 1 local body. The daily waste generation was pegged at 315.96 tonnes. The waste disposed as per the rules was only 31.6 tonnes per days. The waste management capacity gap was estimated at 284.36 tonnes per day. A meeting convened by the Chief Secretary in Thiruvananthapuram on September 22 had proposed that the compensation might be assessed for non-compliance from April this year onwards based on the population in each local body and as suggested in the tribunal’s order on July 3. The corporation would have had to pay a total of Rs. 25 lakh only as compensation from April 1 to September 30 based on this formula. The board later decided to stick to the assessment procedure prescribed for the Central Pollution Control Board for cities included under the Class 1 category based on population. The notice also said that the corporation had not obtained authorisation under the SWM Rules, 2016.
21 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||New authentication system for LPG supply from Nov. 1||The public sector oil marketing companies, Indian Oil Corporation, Bharat Petroleum Corporation, and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation, will introduce a digital method for confirming receipt of LPG cylinders by customers from November 1 in Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram. The delivery authentication code will be a one-time password (OTP) sent to customers. The consumer will have to share the OTP with the delivery boy to confirm receipt, said a communication from the IOC here on Tuesday. The communication said that LPG being an essential commodity, was subsidized to a large extent and it was important to account for each LPG cylinder sold to registered customers of the oil companies. The sharing of the OTP to confirm receipt of the cylinder will replace the traditional method of confirming receipt, which was for the customer to sign the distributor’s copy of the cash memo. The delivery boy then made an entry in the domestic gas consumer card or the ‘Blue Book’ issued to the customers. From June 2020, oil companies had introduced the digital method for taking confirmation of the receipt of LPG cylinders by customers. Whenever a cash memo is generated by the distributor in the name of a customer, a four-digit code goes to the customer through an SMS to the registered mobile number. The communication said that the digital method of taking confirmation of receipt was a safe and more sure method as it was a contactless and could be done by maintaining a distance of six feet between the customers and the delivery boy. The new digital system was going to be made mandatory in all the 100 smart cities across the country from November 1, including in Kochi and the State capital, the communication said.
21 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Study finds only 12% of NHGs generates income||Only about 12% of Kudumbashree neighbourhood groups (NHGs) in rural Kerala is involved in income-generating activities, and for a large section of its members, the NHGs mainly work as a source of credit and easy means to access government-given benefits, says a pre-COVID-19 study of indebtedness among rural households in the State. At the same time, the Kudumbashree Mission, established in 1997, has emerged as the second biggest source of formal credit for rural women after primary agricultural cooperative banks, says the study by Kochi-based Centre for Socio-Economic and Environment conducted in 12 districts. Wide acceptance The wide acceptance of Kudumbashree has drawn rural women away from moneylenders and other informal sources. A total of 540 households with yellow and pink ration cards, who are priority targets of the public distribution system, were chosen for the study. Three wards and 45 households were drawn from each panchayat on a random sampling basis. Loans availed of through NHGs largely go into house construction or renovation, health care, purchase of consumer durables, repayment of existing loans and meeting expenses arising from social obligations, the study says. No exception The pattern of using most of the credit for consumption is visible across the spectrum of loan sources, and Kudumbashree group loans, as such, are no exception though the mission prescribes that bank-linkage loans availed of by NHG members should preferably be used to create income-generating activities. “Only a meagre share of Kudumbashree loans has been utilised for directly productive or income-generating activities such as business or agriculture,” says the study, which raised a question about the long-term viability of NHGs because a significant number of Kudumbashree members considered thrift loan as not having a stringent repayment schedule and gave it a low priority for repayment. Revitalise mission The study suggests that given the wide acceptance of the Kudumbashree network, the mission should be ‘revitalised as a facilitator of income-generating activities.’ Perception of the Kudumbashree as an easy source of credit should be changed. Understanding factors limiting the involvement of NHGs in income-generating activities is necessary to develop a strategy for improving the livelihood of the rural poor, the study adds.  Only a meagre share of loans has been utilised for productive or income-generating activities such as business or agriculture.
21 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Keel laid for first boat of Water Metro||The keel-laying of the first boat being built by Cochin Shipyard for Kochi Water Metro was conducted on Tuesday. Kochi Metro is constructing a hybrid electric catamaran ferry with a capacity of 100 passengers. Classification rules of a vessel apply as on the date of the keel is laid. “The boat is finally taking shape. We are glad about the progress. Construction of terminals as well as that of the boat is progressing well. We are looking forward to inaugurating the Water Metro’s operations in early 2021,” Alkesh Sharma, managing director of Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL). Thiruman Archunan, Director (Projects) of KMRL; Suresh Babu N.V., director (operations) of Cochin Shipyard; and V.J. Jos, director (finance) of Cochin Shipyard, attended the event.
21 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Livelihood innovation plan for migrant workers being explored||Efforts are on to draw up a livelihood innovation plan for migrants in the second phase of the ‘Let’s Reach Out Kerala’ initiative, which was launched in the district a fortnight ago. The project is being run by Atithi Devo Bhava, a migrant welfare project under the Ernakulam unit of the National Health Mission (NHM) in association with the Centre for Livelihoods and Social Innovation of School of Social Work, Tata Institute of Social Sciences (TISS), Mumbai. In the first phase during the lockdown, the initiative had reached out to nearly 15,000 stranded migrants across the State using a network of 200 volunteers. “Our students will attempt to come up with such a plan based on their interactions with multiple stakeholders, including migrants, employers and State officials. For them, it is a fieldwork training offering them a hands-on learning platform on how issues related to migrant workers are being dealt with while also giving them an opportunity to actively contribute towards a more inclusive and equitable system, said Devisha Sasidevan, Assistant Professor, TISS, Mumbai. Students are likely to suggest ideas and changes if something is not working, and help identify strong points of migrant workers, enhancing the effectiveness of official interventions. Healthcare and livelihood assessment of migrant workers remain the priorities of the second phase of the initiative. Call centre Six students of social work from TISS, Mumbai, are in the city, while one student is working remotely, for associating with the project as part of their larger academic field work. They were key in setting up a call centre as part of the Atithi Devo Bhava project’s initiative of linking NGOs in the district such as Kismat offering support to migrant workers returning to the State. The centre addresses doubts of migrant workers and contractors on various formalities to be complied with on returning to Kerala like registering with the Atithi portal, and ensuring quarantine space.  The students being engaged are proficient in Hindi, Assamese, Marathi, Bengali, Bihari and Bhojpuri, enabling them to converse with migrants in their regional languages. “Efforts are on to scale up the number of volunteers and even draw up a list of frequently asked questions,” said Dr. Akhil Xavier Manuel, nodal officer of Atithi Devo Bhava project.
21 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Few takers for rainwater harvesting project||A rainwater harvesting project being implemented by the Kochi Corporation under the Union government’s Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) saw few takers among city residents, and has turned to government buildings to achieve its targeted fund utilisation. Around Rs. 1 crore had been set aside under the AMRUT project to set up rainwater harvesting systems in about 513 houses in the city. But only a little over 100 applications were received for the project and of them, only ten households were willing to pay the beneficiary contribution of Rs. 2,750, an official associated with the project said. The implementing team was now in the process of identifying other buildings, mostly schools and anganwadis, to set up the rainwater harvesting system, they said. A rooftop system that would collect rainwater and transfer it to a tank for immediate use after filtering would be set up. The Government Girls School in the Ernakulam South area was being considered as a possible site. Government offices might not be a feasible option, considering that some of the buildings were taken on rent, the official said. Of the ten beneficiaries who were willing to pay their contribution, work had begun in a few houses. The lukewarm response to the scheme was difficult to explain, since the project does not require the availability of much space, the official said. All AMRUT projects are to be completed by March next year. Since there was little work to be done on the site itself, the team would be able to meet its target by next year, the official added.
21 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Actor Prithviraj tests positive for COVID-19||Actor Prithviraj tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. The actor-filmmaker, who was shooting for his forthcoming movie Jana Gana Mana , took to the social media to announce the development. Dijo Jose Anthony, the director of the film, was also confirmed positive. Stating that strict protocols were in place with regard to COVID-19 regulations on the location, Mr. Prithviraj said that all involved in the shoot were tested before the schedule started and the tests were repeated after the last day of the shoot in the courtroom set created for the film. “Unfortunately, the test results this time came back positive and I have gone into isolation. I’m asymptomatic and am doing fine now. All primary and secondary contacts have been advised to go into quarantine and get tested. Hoping to recover soon and get back to work as early as possible,” Mr. Prithviraj said.
21 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam records 644 fresh cases||Of the 644 people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Tuesday, the source of infection of 190 patients remains untraced. As many as 438 people contracted the infection through local contact. Four health workers were among the infected. Forty-two people from Thrikkakara were tested positive, Thripunithura had 26 cases and Manjapra 37. Other positive cases of the infection were reported from areas including Palluruthy, Cheranalloor, Kalamassery, Fort Kochi, Aluva and Vengola. 974 recover With 974 recoveries on the day, the district’s active case load stands at 11,142. A total of 30,113 people remain in quarantine. At the Government Medical College Hospital, 206 patients are being treated, 57 patients are at PVS hospital and 8,179 people are recovering at home. About 934 people are under observation at first-line treatment centres and 746 patients are at private hospitals. For testing, 4,230 samples were sent from government and private facilities.
21 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Applications invited||The Kerala Lalithakala Akademi has invited applications from MFA, MVA, BFA, BVA students pursuing painting, sculpting, and graphics for the K. Karunakaran memorial scholarships. For details, log in towww.lalithkala.org. The last date for applying is November 20.
21 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Bail plea hearing today||The Special Court of the National Investigation Agency (NIA), Kochi, will hear the bail application of Hamzat Abdusalam and T.M. Samju, two accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, on Wednesday. As the court took up the applications on Tuesday, P. Vijayakumar, Assistant Solicitor General of India, sought time for presenting his arguments. During his argument, the defence lawyer submitted that there was nothing against the accused to implicate them in the offence booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. At the most, the two could be accused of getting involved in smuggling activity. The accused might have invested money for smuggling gold with the sole intention of making profit out of it, the defence awyer submitted.
21 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||MGU to use verified online question bank||A scrutiny of the online question bank by external and internal experts is expected to avoid ‘out-of-syllabus’ and repetitive question papers for various exams conducted by the Mahatma Gandhi University. They will be invited to the main campus of the varsity to verify the questions included in the online question bank, which was introduced by the varsity earlier to offer error-free and quality question papers to hundreds of students in its affiliated colleges. “We have formed the question bank enrichment supervisors’ team to step up the quality of question papers. The forthcoming exams for the B. Ed course offered by the varsity will be based on the online question bank. The idea is to gradually bring the exams for all the courses under the question bank mode,” said B. Keralavarma, Syndicate member and convener of sub-committee for examinations. The question bank has numerous questions to check the knowledge of each student. A team of faculty members under the supervision of the chairperson of each Board of Studies will generate the questions. It will be vetted by experts to avoid inaccuracies and to ascertain that the questions were within the syllabus. Bloom’s taxonomy Mr. Keralavarma said care would be taken to ensure that the question bank was based on the Bloom’s taxonomy in assessment. The application of the system will help in setting question papers that will test different cognitive skills. It enables faculty members to bring a balance while preparing question papers.
21 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Decision pending on municipalities||A decision on issuing notices for recovery of environment compensation from five municipalities dumping their biodegradable waste in Brahmapuram has been put on hold temporarily for want of clarity on the compensation regime. Besides the Kochi Corporation, the Pollution Control Board had assessed the environment compensation for five municipalities including Aluva, Angamaly, Thrikkakara, Kalamassery, and Thripunitura for non-compliance of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The compensation estimated was Rs. 2.77 crore for Kalamassery, Rs. 1.72 crore for Aluva, Rs. 1.96 crore for Angamaly, Rs. 2.92 crore for Thrikkakara, and Rs. 2.72 crore for Thripunithura as on July 31, 2020. Clarification sought Senior board officials said that they had sought clarification from the Central Pollution Control Board on the formula to be followed for fixing the environment compensation on local bodies having population below one lakh. The five municipalities did not figure in the Class 1 category like the Kochi Corporation in terms of their population. A decision on whether notices should be issued to these five local bodies would be taken on the feedback of the Central board, they said. The secretaries of the five municipalities had a recent online meeting with senior board officials on the action taken to manage the solid waste generated under their jurisdiction based on SWM Rules, 2016. Officials of the civic bodies claimed that they had internal systems in place to handle non-biodegradable waste. However, they admitted that biodegradable waste was still being transported to the dump yard in Brahmapuram. As per the compensation scale proposed by the National Green Tribunal for non-compliance from April 1 this year, the local body having a population above 10 lakh would have to pay a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh a month while the corresponding figure for civic bodies having population between 5 lakh and 10 lakh will be Rs. 5 lakh per month. The tribunal had stated that the compensation would be Rs. 1 lakh a month for other local bodies.
21 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Transwoman Sajana hospitalised for drug overdose||Amidst a raging controversy over whether transwoman Sajana Shaji had made up her claim of having been stopped from selling packets of biriyani on the wayside at Thripunithura, Sajana was hospitalised in Ernakulam following a drug overdose. A hospital spokesperson said that she was admitted to the ICU early on Tuesday after a drug overdose and her condition was stable. After a post on social media last week in which Sajana had said that she and a few other transpersons were threatened and abused by a vendor nearby while selling biriyani packets, help was promised from all quarters. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja and actor Jayasurya were among those who offered assistance to the transwoman. But an audio clip, followed by insinuations of Sajana having made up the whole episode to rake in the moolah, soon began to circulate on the social media. In a more recent video on Facebook, Sajana explained that apart from the help, she had faced some backlash after the incident and a few insinuations were made about the problems she faced being untrue. An audio clip, in which she was talking to a friend, was edited and circulated on social media recently, to portray her differently, she said. People with suicidal tendencies can seek counselling on 0484-2540530.
21 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||New KVK sales counter opened at CMFRI||The newly-designed sales counter of Ernakulam Krishi Vigyan Kendra has been commissioned at the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI). Relocated to the roadside for the convenience of the public, the sales counter now enables easy access directly from the Goshree Road, said a communication here. The sales counter has a ‘Farm Shoppe’ which offers fresh and packed food products, including vegetables and fish, and a ‘Farm Store’ where seeds, plants, feeds and organic manure are available. The ‘Farm Shoppe’ offers branded food products directly procured from farmers, farmer collectives and self-help groups. Food and health products that are being used at home on a daily basis such as cleaned fish, cut vegetables, fruits, pokkali rice, country eggs, milk, cooking oil, pulses, spices, ghee, etc. are available at the Farm Shoppe. Frozen ripe jackfruit, raw jackfruit and jackfruit seeds are available throughout the seasons at the shop which was set up to ensure reasonable price to farmers. The sales counter will remain open from 9.30 a.m. to 7 p.m. on all working days. Phone: 8281757450.
21 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam has 569 fresh cases, 746 recoveries||The district reported 569 new cases of COVID-19 and 746 recoveries on Tuesday. Among the patients are 556 contact cases, five persons with no known source, six health workers, and two persons who had travelled from other States. While Kollam Corporation once again reported the highest number of cases with 129 persons testing positive, Thevalakkara, Kadakkal, Kottarakara, Punalur, Karungappally, and Pathanapuram are also among the places with several new patients. Cases with no known source have been reported from Madannada, Mevaram, Aryankavu, Perinadu, and Munroe Thuruthu. The health workers who tested positive include residents of Kacheri, Karicode, Kottarakara, Neendakara, Pathanapuram, and Veliyam. Contact tracing The district currently has 19,748 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 2,95,369. While 1,850 persons completed home quarantine on Tuesday, the Health Department has traced 67,110 primary and 7,353 secondary contacts of the positive cases. Kollam currently has 6,772 active cases. Meanwhile, the Health Department has requested the cooperation of the public for promoting home care of COVID-19 patients. “Those under home care have not reported issued such as anxiety, depression, insomnia, and suicide tendency. By wearing masks at home and following the guidelines issued by the department, the patients can stay home without experiencing any social isolation,” said District Medical Officer.
21 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Elampalloor is Kollam’s ninth fallow-land-free village||Elampalloor has become the ninth fallow-land-free village panchayat in Kollam by expanding its green cover to 90% of the area available. The target was achieved through the joint efforts of panchayat authorities, Agriculture Department, and Haritha Keralam Mission. As part of the project, paddy was cultivated in a 20-acre field that had been lying idle for the past two decades. Kudumbashree units were in charge of the farming, who also reaped a bumper harvest. Similarly, farming was resumed in a couple of other fallow paddy fields at Kallingal and Kulapra while vegetables and tubers were cultivated in another 35 acres. Tapioca, banana, paddy, ginger, and turmeric are among the main crops cultivated with the support of youth and political organisations, Kudumbashree groups, cooperatives, voluntary organisations, and private parties. According to officials, the new farms have yielded around 25 tonnes of extra produce and the local body is expecting to become self-reliant in food production in near future. At present, paddy and other crops claim a total of 100 hectares of paddy fields in the panchayat. Poothakulam, Perinad, Kulasekharapuram, Kareepra, Mayyanad, Nedumpana, Thazhava, and Kummil are the other village panchayats in the district that are fallow- land-free. Elampalloor is also the third grama panchayat in Mukhathala block to get the tag.
21 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||KMML starts supplying liquid oxygen||Kerala Minerals and Metals Limited’s (KMML) newly inaugurated 70-tonne-per-day (TPD) oxygen plant will be providing six tonnes of liquid oxygen every day for medical needs. Managing director Chandrabose flagged off the first sales, handing over 30 tonnes of liquid oxygen to two licensed agencies. “The plant will help reduce the medical oxygen scarcity. KMML will also supply it to medical colleges,” he said.
21 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||College gets associate membership in Hyperledger project||In a major achievement, the Blockchain Club of Saintgits College of Engineering, Kottayam, has been awarded associate membership by the Hyperledger Project of Linux Foundation. According to a statement released here on Tuesday, Saintgits becomes the country’s first educational institution to join the cluster of 17 educational institutions to collaborate with the project. The membership offers the students a platform to associate with industrial stalwarts such as IBM, Intel, and SAP Ariba who contribute to the Hyperledger Project, through internships and direct recruitment, the statement said. Hyperledger is an open source ecosystem hosted by the Linux Foundation to develop a range of secure frameworks, tools, and libraries for enterprise-grade blockchain deployments.
21 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||474 test positive in Kottayam||The district on Tuesday reported 474 new COVID-19 cases and 404 recoveries. Of the new cases, 463 persons, including three health care workers, contracted the virus through local contact. The total cases included 75 persons above the age of 60 and 69 children. Erattupetta reported 72 cases, followed by Kottayam with 78 cases. A high number of cases were reported from Vazhappally (30), Changanassery (29), Ettumanur (25), Kanakkari and Erumely (15). With 404 recoveries, the district currently has 6,685 active cases.
21 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode records 806 new cases||As many as 806 people were declared tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Tuesday when 7,581 samples were tested. The test positivity rate declined to 11.28%. According to the District Medical Officer, 751 people got infected through local transmission. The source was unknown in 42 cases. The number of locally acquired infections from within Kozhikode Corporation is 379. As many as 1,029 people recovered from the infection and the number of active cases now is 10,513. Meanwhile, an 85-year-old woman from Mullamboth, and a 65-year-old woman from Valakkulam, both in Malappuram, and a 68-year-old man from Kolathara in Kozhikode, died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Tuesday. Six others died at the hospital the previous day, according to a bulletin from the hospital. In Malappuram Malappuram heaved a sigh of relief when 1,093 people recovered from COVID-19 on Tuesday. The district registered 786 fresh cases, out of which 692 were of local transmission. There were 78 cases in which the source of infection was not identified. Five health workers have been infected. The number of active cases in the district stands at 10,503. In Kannur In Kannur, 293 people tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. As many as 260 contracted the disease through contact, while seven new patients came from abroad and 14 from other States. Twelve health workers also tested positive. In Kasaragod A total of 120 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod on Tuesday. Of them, 107 contracted the disease through contact, while seven came from abroad and six from other States. In Wayanad As many as 87 people tested positive in Wayanad district on Tuesday. Eight-two of them were infected through contact, while five persons came back from other States. The total number of active cases stands at 993 in the district.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Kannur, Kasaragod and Wayanad bureaus)
21 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Underground crematorium coming up at Ulliyeri||An underground crematorium, probably the first of its kind in the State, is coming up at Ulliyeri grama panchayat in Kozhikode district. Work on Prashanthi Garden, claimed to be a “model crematorium”, is under way on a 2.6-acre plot near the Palora hills. The crematorium, set against a scenic view of the hills, has been designed by architect Vinod Cyriac. It is being built at a cost of Rs. 3.9 crore, using the local area development fund of Purushan Kadalundi, MLA. Smriti Vanam There will be a ‘Smriti Vanam’ on the premises of the crematorium, a garden to commemorate noted personalities and where bodies may be kept for the public to pay their last respects. The Smriti Vanam will have reading rooms and waiting areas attached to it. Once completed, the crematorium would be accessible to people from at least nine grama panchayats in the Balussery Assembly constituency, said Ulliyeri panchayat president Shaju Cherukavil. There will be two furnaces at the gas crematorium, with the provision to add electric furnaces in the future. Facilities to carry out last rites are also being set up on the plot.
21 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Action against shop that sold glucose as COVID prophylactic||The Drugs Control Department is expected to take action against a drug store in Koyilandy in Kozhikode district, after reports emerged that glucose in liquid form was being sold there apparently as a preventive drug for COVID-19. According to K. Sujith Kumar, Assistant Drugs Controller, the shop was found to be selling liquid glucose in bottles. “A show-cause notice will be issued to the owner of the shop. Their licence could be suspended and the drug dispensing permission will be revoked,” he told The Hindu on Tuesday. Mr. Kumar said that they searched the shop after directions from the State Drugs Controller. It is learnt that the officials have warned other shops against its sale. E. Sukumaran, a former Deputy Director of Health and a well-known public health practitioner from Koyilandy, had earlier claimed that 25% of glucose in liquid form could prevent SARS-CoV-2 infection if it is applied as nasal drops. A major newspaper published a report quoting him. Later, Dr. Sukumaran also wrote an article in the same newspaper in defence of his claim. Public health activists pointed out that the sale of liquid glucose should be viewed against the backdrop of this statement. Meanwhile, Campaign Against Pseudo Science Using Law and Ethics (CAPSULE), a platform of the Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad, has filed a complaint with the Travancore-Cochin Medical Council, which is the registration body for doctors. CAPSULE chairman U. Nandakumar said that Dr. Sukumaran’s claim neither had any scientific basis nor the support of randomised-controlled trials, which are essential for the use of any drug. Liquid glucose was yet to be proved effective to counter COVID-19. The claim had already misled a section of the society and led to widespread discussion, he added.  A show-cause notice will be issued to the owner of the shop. The licence could be suspended and drug dispensing permission will be revoked K. Sujith Kumar Assistant Drugs Controller
21 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||CU accused of filing false affidavit in HC||Calicut University authorities have been accused of filing a false affidavit in the Kerala High Court in a case related to the appointment of the Registrar. In a letter to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, who is also the Chancellor of the university, Syndicate member P. Rasheed Ahammed alleged that the section officer in the legal cell had provided incorrect information to the court. The affidavit said that “... the Syndicate in its meeting held on 09/09/2020 discussed the entire issue and authorised the Vice Chancellor to take action in the matter and based on the discussion in the Syndicate, the Vice Chancellor has issued an office order to take necessary action to notify the post of Registrar, Controller of Examinations, and Finance Officer on a permanent basis...” The case in the High Court was filed by a person named Rajesh, questioning the appointment of the present Registrar. ‘No discussion’ Mr. Ahammed alleged that the Syndicate had not discussed the appointment to the above posts and the Vice Chancellor had not been authorised to take a call at the meeting held on September 9. The Syndicate did not have the power to make permanent appointments to the above posts as they had fixed tenures, he pointed out. Mr. Ahammed urged the Chancellor to direct the university to withdraw the affidavit.
21 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||New facilities at botanical garden||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan opened several advanced facilities at the Malabar Botanical Garden and Institute for Plant Sciences in Kozhikode on Tuesday, including a research block, guest house complex, a public amenity complex and conservatory for ginger varieties and cacti. P.T. A. Rahim, MLA, presided over the event in the presence of T.P. Ramakrishnan, Minister for Excise, and District Panchayat President Babu Parasseri. The event also marked the work inauguration of the Aquatic Bio Park coming up on the premises of the institute. The research block consists of state-of-the-art laboratories featuring advanced equipment and high quality microscopes. The guest house complex consists of six rooms and a 44-bed dormitory. A digital garden that enables anyone to access any botanical data online was also opened. The Aquatic Bio Park is aimed at conservation of biodiversity and rain water harvesting.
21 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||403 positive in Palakkad||As many as 403 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Tuesday. While 242 of them got the infection through direct local contact, the source of infection could not be identified in 152 cases. District officials said that nine patients had come from other States and abroad. There were 271 recoveries on the day. Among the new cases, 24 were in Palakkad municipality, 21 in Pattambi municipality and 29 in Puthunagaram panchayat. There are 7,246 active cases under treatment in the district.
21 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Bodies of two hooch victims exhumed||The bodies of two men who died after drinking hooch at the Chellankavu tribal colony on Sunday were exhumed and an autopsy was conducted on them on Tuesday. They were among five people from the colony who died after consuming alcohol. The police said the exact cause of death could be confirmed only after the chemical examination of their internal organs. Early signs indicated that they consumed poisoned liquor. A special police team was constituted under a Deputy Superintendent of Police to investigate the incident. Raman, 61, and Ayyappan, 58, who died on Sunday were buried by their relatives. Their deaths were never ascribed to liquor poisoning until three others from the colony died and several others were hospitalised. Three dead Sivan, 37, Murthy, 28, and Arun, 25, were the others who died in the tragedy. Sivan, who resisted being hospitalised, died on Monday morning at his house. Murthy was admitted to District Hospital here, but ran away from there and died near the municipal bus stand. Arun died on Monday night. The police said that it was Sivan who supplied liquor to the people at the colony. But grapevine had it that spirit and sanitiser were used to add punch to the liquor. Funeral held The funeral of all the victims took place on Tuesday afternoon. All of them had tested negative for COVID-19. When Sivan’s body was taken to the electric crematorium at Chandranagar, the others were taken to the gas crematorium at Kanjikode. A few others who drank together with them were in hospital. However, hospital authorities said their condition was stable.  Cause of death can be confirmed only after chemical examination of internal organs
21 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||248 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 248 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Wednesday. Of the new cases, 206 persons contracted the virus through local contact. Six cases had landed from abroad. The contact source of 26 persons were yet to be traced. With 39 cases, Pathanamthitta municipality reported the highest number of cases while Thiruvalla came second with 14 cases. Meanwhile, a 42-year-old Thengamam native, who had tested positive on October 7, died at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital during the day. The person had been undergoing treatment for blood pressure and liver disease. The death, however, was yet to be included in the State-level statistics. With this, the total number of COVID-19 deaths in Pathanamthitta rose to 71. With 332 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 2,444 active cases.
21 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2 Smart City projects launched||The redevelopment work of Rajaji Nagar and construction of smart roads, two major projects under the city Corporation’s Smart City project, were launched on Tuesday. Minister for Local Self-Governments A.C. Moideen inaugurated the first phase of works at Rajaji Nagar. A master plan has been prepared for the redevelopment work at Rajaji Nagar, spread over an area of 12.6 acres. First phase In the first phase, construction work will be carried out in 2.81 acres of land accommodating 248 dwelling units in eight blocks. Livelihood centres, community hall, and green open spaces for recreation are also part of the project. A space within the premises is allocated for solid waste management that will have aerobic bins and dry waste segregation hub. Solar panels will be installed on the rooftop of these eight blocks. Each dwelling unit will have a hall (living-cum-dining area), two bedrooms (one bedroom with attached toilet), kitchen, two toilets, and a balcony area. The area of each dwelling unit will be 586 sq.ft. Initially, about 180 households will be temporarily shifted out of the Phase I area for construction purposes. The project cost for the first phase of redevelopment at Rajaji Nagar is Rs. 61.42 crore and is expected to be completed in two years. The Smart roads project will cover a stretch of 9.86 kilometres of Corporation roads spread over nine wards in the core city area, including the Palayam, Vazhuthacaud, Vanchiyoor and Chala wards. As part of this, shifting of the KSEB, KWA and other utility cables would be carried out in the primary phase for which multi-utility ducts will be constructed. Once all the lines are shifted, all the electric poles along these roads will be removed. Resurfacing of roads, road junction improvement, and upgrading of stormwater drainage will be carried out in parallel manner. Other improvements planned at road surface levels, including landscaping, signages and road markings, would be taken up in the final phase. New footpaths will be laid, cycle tracks and street furniture will be added. The objective is to provide safe and walkable streets in all public zones, tree plantation along major roads, organised on-street parking, and 100% coverage of automated LED-based street lighting. In addition, roads under the Public Works Department (PWD) and the Kerala Road Fund Board (KRFB) will be upgraded to smart roads as part of a separate tender floated by the KRFB. Within the nine wards, 36.94 kilometres of roads will be transformed into smart roads at a cost of Rs. 418.1 crore.
21 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A fatigued health system battles critical-care demands||As COVID-19 pushes up the demand for critical-care facilities, late presentation in hospitals with respiratory distress and other symptoms is emerging as one of the primary reasons why more people are ending up in ICUsand ventilators. If such people can be picked up early, appropriate interventions can reduce mortality significantly, according to critical-care physicians. The current problem is two dimensional. COVID patients with mild illness and in home care are ending up in ICUs after they develop complications past the fifth or seventh day and turn up late in hospitals. But mortality rate is higher in the case of those patients whose COVID-positive status becomes known only late. Oxygen saturation These are usually people with uncontrolled diabetes or asthma but who may not recognise their symptoms to be linked to COVID. These are the kind of cases which the system should track, investigate and prevent through active surveillance. However, many people still have not been made aware of the importance of monitoring oxygen saturation and most do not have pulse oximeter at home. “Unless the health system is primed to watch out for the various signs and symptoms that signal a patient’s downhill path, a lot of preventable deaths will happen. But the health system is fatigued,” says a senior public health expert. “Interventions at the right time is the key to reducing patient mortality. Delay in recognising oxygen desaturation can be dangerous. COVID patients in home care should be taught about the possible danger signs and the importance of immediate medical attention,” R. Anoopkumar, Consultant in Critical Medicine, Baby Memorial Hospital, says. COVID complications usually set in after seventh day and even patients who had mild or no symptoms need to be careful during this time. Things to watch out for People with co-morbidities, especially renal disease or asthma, should watch out for excessive fatigue, fever spikes and respiratory issues, which can happen quite suddenly. It is not possible to develop expertise in critical care in a week’s crash course and in many ICUs hastily opened up during the pandemic, the management of critically ill patients has been less than perfect. “The outcome of our patients who go on ventilators have been quite bad because of the lack of trained ICU staff and the absence of 1:1 nursing care. We can try to prevent patients going into ventilators by putting them on high flow nasal oxygen, non-invasive ventilation and awake proning, but all of this requires dedicated nursing care, which we are short of,” a senior doctor at Thrissur Government Medical College Hospital says. If Kerala’s case fatality has been low, ICU mortality figures speak differently. About 66 % to 91% of COVID patients who required mechanical ventilation have been dying. “The State should have focussed better on improving ICU training right from the initial days of the pandemic. The proposal for setting up teleICUs is a thought in the right direction,” says Dr. Anoopkumar.
21 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala Neem G autos to ply on Nepal roads||Kerala Neem G autorickshaws, manufactured by the public- sector Kerala Automobiles Limited (KAL), will ply the streets of Nepal from November. Two trucks carrying the first lot of 25 eco-friendly electric vehicles manufactured at the KAL’s plant at Aralumoodu, near here, started their journey to the Himalayan kingdom from here on Tuesday. After covering 3,500 km via Uttar Pradesh and crossing the border in Chhattisgarh, the two trucks will reach Nepal in 12 days. Eight more soon The KAL has got orders for eight more e-autos from Nepal and they will be shipped soon. The Nepal government is procuring the e-autos through Himalaya Motrad Private Ltd. as part of promoting e-mobility. For KAL, it is the first export after 17 years. It is also the first export of the e-autorickshaw from the country by a State public sector undertaking. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan flagged off the Kerala Neem G autorickshaws in the presence of KAL chairman Karamana Hari; Managing Director A. Shajahan; Chairman, Public Sector Restructuring and Internal Audit Board (RIAB), N. Sasidharan Nair; and officials of KAL and the RIAB. Talks with countries The aim is to sell 500 e-autos in Nepal annually. Talks are also on to export KAL’s e-autorickshaw to Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Kenya, the Minister said. The three-seater autorickshaws are being sold to Nepal at Rs. 2.85 lakh, the same rate as in the country. The indigenously made battery which uses German technology can be charged within three hours and 55 minutes using a three-pin plug in households. With full charge, the e-auto will travel 80 to 90 km.  The three-seater autorickshaws are being sold to Nepal at Rs. 2.85 lakh, the same rate as in the country.
21 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Capital’s caseload slumps to 470||The daily COVID-19 caseload in the district went below 500 for the first time on Tuesday after the major surge in cases began. A total of 470 positive cases were reported from the district. The fall in the number of cases is in keeping with the ongoing trend all through the week, during which the numbers have been progressively reducing with every passing day. As on Tuesday, the number of active cases in the district was 9,307, after 360 recoveries were also recorded during the day. Five more deaths were reported. The deceased include 56-year-old man from Poozhanad, a 25-year-old man from Kulathoor, an 80-year-old man from Vedivechankovil, a 50-year-old man from Valiyathura, and an 85-year-old man from the city. The number of health workers who tested positive is 13. As many as 324 people who tested positive over the past 24 hours contracted the infection though local transmission. A total of 2,282 people have been newly put under observation, taking the total number of people under observation in the district to 26,195. Out of this, 5,578 are those who have tested positive. On Tuesday, 2,658 persons completed their observation period without any symptoms. The number of people under treatment in the district is 10,902. Action taken In checks conducted by the sectoral magistrates in various places, action was taken against 484 people for not following the restrictions that were imposed as part of the declaration of Section 144 of the CRPC in the district. Cases were charged against five people. Fine was imposed on 101 and 378 were let off with warnings.
21 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Paivalike solar project to be ready for commissioning next month||The 50 MW solar project at Paivalike, part of the Solar Park in Kasaragod district, is expected to be ready for commissioning next month. The work on the project had entered the final stages, said officials of Renewable Power Corporation of Kerala Limited (RPCKL), a joint venture of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) and central PSU Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI). With the commissioning of the Paivalike component, the total capacity of the Solar Park would go up to 100 MW, said RPCKL chief executive officer Augustine Thomas. Initially, a 50 MW project had been commissioned at Ambalathara in the district on September 14, 2017. The upcoming 50 MW component is spread over 250 acres in Paivalike village in Manjeswaram. The tariff has been fixed at Rs. 3.10 per unit. The power would be evacuated to the KSEB grid via the 110 kV substation at Kubanoor, situated 8.5 km from the Paivalike, officials said. “Construction of a 33 kV transmission line for evacuating power from Paivalike to Kubanoor is in progress,” said Mr. Thomas. Tripartite deal The KSEB had signed a tripartite agreement with SECI and the THDC India Limited (THDCIL) on March 31, 2015, for developing the 50 MW solar photovoltaic project at Paivalike as part of the Solar Park envisaged in Kasaragod. The RPCKL and THDCIL had inked the land-use agreement on February 7, 2019. In August, the work was awarded to Tata Power Solar Systems Limited. The work was originally scheduled to be completed by August, but the COVID-19 pandemic had caused delays. The total capacity of the Solar Park is expected to go up to 105 MW in the near future. Another 5 MW project was envisioned at Ambalathara, said RPCKL officials.
21 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Theme-based handicrafts showroom in the capital||Minister for Industries E.P. Jayarajan inaugurated a theme-based showroom of international standards and permanent sale-and-exhibition venue for handicrafts in the city on Tuesday. The new venture of Handicrafts Development Corporation of Kerala has come up in a new ‘centenary building’ adjacent to the SMSM Institute. The sale and exhibition venue and the theme-based showroom have been set up under one umbrella on the lines of Craft Village. Aimed at tourists The facility, targeted at tourists too, also has a huge conference hall. Artistes will be invited to manufacture and sell handicrafts at the facility. Wood, bronze, bell metal, aluminium, block metal sculptures, gifts, ornamental products, and daily-use products will be available here. A Kerala crafts gift package, including Kerala handloom sari, ‘nettippattam,’ ‘ashta mangalya’ set, Aranmula mirrors, traditional boat models, and so on will be available at the international pavilion. The permanent venue will reduce the expenses involved in arranging temporary venue, besides supporting makers of handicrafts who have been hit hard by the pandemic.
21 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Going greatly vocal for the local||They are at Kovalam as part of a 36-day expedition throughout the country to promote Domestic Tourism and help revive the tourism industry hit badly by the pandemic-induced lockdown. Led by Rajiv Shah from Surat, the six-member team of travel agents, moving in two cars, has reached here to spread the message ‘Vocal for Local’ and to persuade citizens to travel within the country. The team comprising Ritesh Parekh, Sanjay Patel, Nitin Gupta, all from Surat, Pawan Dubey from Mumbai and Thomas Koshy from Ahmedabad, will cover over 18,000 km in 36 days. They will be going to the four corners of the country — Koteshwar in the west, Leh in the north, Tezu in the east and Kanyakumari in south — and capitals of 34 States. During the trip, they will interact with local travel fraternity. Besides, they are motivating people to begin domestic travel by telling them how hotels and destinations are COVID-ready and looking forward to welcoming guests with utmost health and safety measures. Mr. Shah said as Unlock is going on in phases and everything was falling back to place, travel industry also deserved the chance to bounce back. Domestic tourism As international travel was not possible with flights yet to resume in full gear, only domestic tourism could help revive the industry. Along with ATTOI, SKHF, IATO, SKAL, KTM, TAAI, SIHRA, KHRA and ADTOI, the Kovalam Hotel Association gave a reception to the team on Tuesday evening in the presence of Shreevats Sanjay, Regional Director, South, India Tourism.
21 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Vconsol to help students perform well in exams||The district panchayat and the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) have roped in the award-winning Techgentsia Software Technologies Pvt. Ltd. to support students from Classes 10 to 12 to perform well in the public examinations. The Vidyajyothi scheme that had been launched by the district panchayat in association with DIET a few years ago was found to be very successful. However, with schools still closed owing to the pandemic and classes remaining digital as part of the State government’s First Bell programme, the challenge was how to ensure that Vidyajyothi study material, prepared by expert teachers in an easy-to-understand format, reached students. It is to overcome these challenges that the district panchayat turned to Vconsol, developed by Techgentsia that won the Union government’s ‘Grand challenge for developing video conference solution.’ Increase in reach Not only does Vconsol reduce data use, it can include more people thus increasing its reach, Techgentsia CEO Joy Sebastian was quoted in a statement. At a time, nearly 300 students can watch the classes. Through the link provided to a school, the students can not only watch the classes taken by the teachers but also interact with them and clear their doubts. Govt. recognition Classes can also be recorded and stored on Vconsol. Students who cannot log in for the online classes can watch these recorded classes whenever possible. The services of Vconsol were bring provided completely free, district panchayat Education standing committee chairperson V. Ranjith said. Activities connected with the First Bell classes and teachers’ classes shot in a studio by DIET can be conveyed to students, DIET Principal in-charge T.R. Sheejakumari said. PTA meets, and meeting of district education officials too can be organised via Vconsol.
21 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Efforts on to raise MCH to global standards: CM||The government is trying to raise the Government Medical College Hospital here, the first in the State, to international standards, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating digital subtraction angiography, digital fluoroscopy, and digital mammogram machine at the Radio Diagnosis department of the hospital here on Tuesday. Second phase The Chief Minister said Rs. 194.33 crore had been sanctioned for the second phase of the hospital master plan. A six-storey Medical Laboratory Technology (MLT) block, 11-storey paediatric block, and eight-storey surgical block were coming up in this phase. The MLT block would have a lecture hall, lab, mini conference hall, and library. Paediatric block The SAT paediatric block will have medical gas room, out-patient consultation, lab, radio diagnosis, wards and so on, while the surgical block will have procedure rooms, 16 operation theatres, and wards. The government had already sanctioned Rs. 5 crore to upgrade the stroke centre, he said. The digital subtraction angiography machine, set up at a cost of Rs. 6 crore, would help obtain accurate depiction of blood vessels, thus helping treat serious illnesses such as blocks, cancer, stroke, blood pressure, and so on. The digital fluoroscopy machine has been installed at a cost of Rs. 65 lakh. It aids in studying the functioning of the internal organs using a form of X-ray in real-time. These tests carried out by a radiologist need to be printed on a film only in cases it is necessary, thus saving on the film’s expense. Breast cancer The digital mammography machine, costing Rs. 1 crore, was donated by the Thiruvananthapuram district Rotary Club. The machine aids in the early detection of breast cancer, and is hence very essential for a public health system. The diagnostic test will cost anything above Rs. 3,500 in the private sector.
21 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Green shoots of hope as caseload tapers||It might be early days yet to rejoice, but if the data being released by the Health Department are reliable, Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph is indeed showing a downward trend with cases evidently declining in many districts. However, the declining trend is not likely to be permanent and the case graph could spike again every time an exogenous factor – like school reopening, Sabarimala pilgrimage or local body elections – has the play, public health experts have cautioned. On Tuesday, the State registered 6,591 new cases, when 53,901 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden to 3,53,472 cases. The number of recoveries reported on the day, exceeded the number of new cases, with 7,375 patients leaving hospitals. The test positivity rate went down from 13.7% to 12.2 %. The total number of recoveries till date has been 2,60,243. The number of active cases or patients currently undergoing treatment in hospitals is 91,922. Though a week ago, it did look like the State’s active cases were inching towards the three lakh mark, the number of recoveries has been on the high side all of last week, balancing out the increase in new cases. 24 more deaths The Health Department added 24 deaths to its official list of COVID deaths on Tuesday, taking the cumulative death toll to 1,206. Of the new cases, 6,486 cases (98.4%) are locally acquired infections, with the source of infection remaining unknown in 707 cases. The number of health-care workers who contracted the infection is 62. Thrissur reported the highest number of cases on Tuesday at 896, Kozhikode 806, Malappuram 786, Ernakulam 644, Alappuzha 592, Kollam 569, Kottayam 473, Thiruvananthapuram 470, Palakkad 403, Kannur 400, Pathanamthitta 248, Kasaragod 145, Wayanad 87, and Idukki 72.
21 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SHRC asks KSRTC to care for the ill, elderly, women||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) to put a stop to the practice of its employees forcing the ill, the elderly, and women to get off the buses in the middle of the road at night. Commission member V.K. Beenakumari directed the KSRTC to take strict action against such employees and inform the commission of it. The action comes on a complaint by Kadappakada resident K.R. Radhakrishnan. A cardiac patient, he had boarded a KSRTC bus at Adoor and sought to disembark at Kollam cotton mill bus stop, but was forced to get off at Randakutti stop, the complainant said. Report sought The commission sought a report from the KSRTC managing director who in turn informed the panel that disciplinary action was taken against the conductor and driver of the bus that starts from the Adoor depot. However, the commission demanded that the KSRTC’s usual practice of issuing a show-cause notice and seeking an explanation should not be repeated, nor should people be forced to disembark in the middle of the road at night in violation of existing directions on the matter.
21 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. may order probe against Chennithala||The State government on Tuesday seemed favourably disposed towards ordering a preliminary anti-corruption investigation against Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala. The move to conduct a prefatory probe against Mr. Chennithala stems from an allegation by hotelier Biju Ramesh on Monday that the Kerala Bar Hotel Association (KBHA) had paid a considerable backhander to the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) to salvage their business from a crippling hike in the licence fee. Mr. Chennithala was the KPCC president at the time. The allegation Mr. Ramesh had stated that the KBHA had collected a large sum of money from its members. He alleged he had delivered Rs. 1 crore to the office of Mr Chennithala at the behest of the then Excise Minister K. Babu. Mr. Ramesh had also alleged that he had delivered a part of the bribe to the offices of Mr. Babu and V.S. Sivakumar, MLA. The Congress has not reacted to the charges publicly. But, a senior leader said in private that Mr. Ramesh had attempted in vain to breath new life into the dead and discredited controversy to cater to specific political interests. The cabal believed the move against Mr. Chennithala would help draw public attention away from the “follies” of the government in the election year, he said. LDF charge Left Democratic Front (LDF) convener A. Vijayaraghavan on Tuesday seized on the charges to demand a comprehensive inquiry into the accusations. United Democratic Front (UDF) leaders were under a cloud, and many faced criminal charges. A Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) official said the agency would reinvestigate the accusations if the government gave the nod. The agency possessed a tranche of digital evidence and statements from its previous investigations into the allegations, he said.
21 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Jallikattu bags Film Critics Award for best film||Jallikattu directed by Lijo Jose Pellissery has been chosen as the best film at the 44th Kerala Film Critics Award for the year 2019. Geetu Mohandas has been chosen as the best director for the film Moothon while Nivin Pauly won the best actor (in the male category) award for his performance in the same film. Manju Warrier has been chosen for the best actor (in the female category) award for her performance in the film Prathi Poovankozhi . Second best film State-award winner Vasanthi , which was directed by Rahman brothers, won the second best film award by the critics. Sajin Baabu was chosen for the best screenplay award for the film Biriyani . The award for the best popular film went to Thanneermathan Dinangal , which was directed by A.D. Gireesh. The Chalachitra Retnam lifetime achievement award has been bestowed on veteran Malayalam filmmaker Hariharan. Mammootty felicitated Actor Mammootty has been awarded with the Ruby Jubilee Award constituted to commemorate the 40th year of his outstanding contributions to Indian cinema. Chalachitra Pratibha Cinematographer S. Kumar, director and art director Nemom Pushparaj, actor Sethulekshmi, and photographer Kollam Mohan have been selected for the Chalachitra Prathibha awards.  Geetu Mohandas has been chosen as the best director for the film Moothon
21 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Four projects across State inaugurated online||Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran inaugurated the Kattakada mini civil station in the capital district, Sreedhari bridge in Thrissur district, the Mylapra-Panchayathupadi-Mekazhiyoor-Idakkara road in Pathanamthitta, and the Poojappura section office of the Public Works buildings wing, on Tuesday. Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekhar presided over the inauguration of the Kattakada mini civil station, designed by the Public Works Department and built at a cost of Rs. 23 crore. O. Rajagopal, MLA, presided over the inauguration of the building wing section officer at Poojappura in the Nemom constituency. The Mylapra-Panchayathupadi-Mekazhiyoor-Idakkara road in Konni constituency in Pathanamthitta district was built at a cost of Rs. 2.5 crore. The Sreedhari bridge across the Manali river in Malloor constituency in Thrissur district is being constructed at a cost of Rs.10.24 crore.
21 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ensure quality of security systems for elderly: MLA||The quality of security mechanisms for the elderly should be ensured, C. Divakaran, MLA, has said. Inaugurating a seminar that was organised by the Senior Citizens’ Service Council on Facebook, the MLA said that the State government should ensure that the current social mechanisms to protect the elderly who had been abandoned by theor kith and kin were faultless.
21 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rosscote Krishna Pillai dead||Veteran broadcaster, author, and socio-cultural activist Rosscote Krishna Pillai died in the capital on Tuesday. He was 93. Grandson of the legendary C.V. Raman Pillai, one of the greatest novelists of Malayalam, Rosscote Krishna Pillai held several key posts at various units of the Information and Broadcasting Ministry. He was editor of the Malayalam wing of the All India Radio in New Delhi. Author of several books, including Children's Illustrated Science Dictionary, Mr. Pillai, a Harvard Fellow, had retired as Deputy Principal Information Officer, Press Information Bureau, Thiruvananthapuram. He is survived by his wife, K.R. Hemakumari, two daughters, and son. The cremation will take place later.
21 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Local body polls in two phases in Dec.||The elections to local bodies in the State will be held in two phases in December, the State Election Commission said on Tuesday. The dates have not been finalised. But it has been decided to schedule the elections so as to enable the local body governing councils to assume office on December 11, State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran said. Seven districts each will go to the polls in the two phases of the elections. Earlier, an all-party meeting had decided to put off the elections by one month in view of the spike in COVID-19 cases. Going to the polls in December are 15,962 wards in 941 grama panchayats, 2,080 wards in 152 block panchayats, 331 wards in 14 district panchayats, 3,078 wards in 86 municipalities, and 414 wards in the six municipal Corporations. The electorate is 2.71-crore strong, and consists of 1.41 crore women, 1.3 crore men, and 282 transgender voters.
21 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Muthukad ambassador of Balasouhrada Keralam||Magician Gopinath Muthukad has been named brand ambassador of the Balasouhrada Keralam promotional programme of the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights. The programme was capable of significant changes in society, Minister for Women and Child Development K.K. Shylaja said.
21 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Achuthanandan turns 97||Chairman of the Administrative Reforms Commission and veteran Communist leader V.S. Achuthanandan turned 97 on Tuesday. Mr. Achuthanandan is convalescing at his official residence here after doctors treated him for a minor cerebral haemorrhage in 2019. He has shunned public programmes and avoided visitors since. His 97th birthday was a quiet affair compared to past years. He spent it with his family and close aides. Governor Arif Mohammad Khan conveyed his greetings to Mr Achuthanandan via Twitter. CPI State secretary Kanam Rajendran also gave his best wishes and described his association with Mr. Achuthanandan in warm terms. Mr. Achuthanandan was born in a family of agricultural workers in Alappuzha on October 21, 1923. He had participated in the Punnapra-Vayalar uprising against the colonial government.
21 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Local audit halted: Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Tuesday said the government had stopped the auditing of local self-governments to mask misuse of plan funds and large-scale corruption at the grassroots level of governance. Similarly, the government had derailed the probe into the Sprinklr deal and attempt to spirit away sand from River Pampa. Kerala government had failed in COVID-19 pandemic control. Its attempts were all bluster and no action.
21 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||First allotment||The first allotment for admission to the MCA course in AICTE- approved institutions in Kerala for the year 2020-21 will be published on October 21 at 12 noon on the websitewww.lbscentre.kerala.gov.in. Admission fees can be remitted up to October 23. For details, dial 0471-2560363, 364.
21 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SAY exam from November 1 to 13||The Class 10 equivalency SAY exam will be held from November 1 to 13. Application and exam fee will be accepted at SAY exam centres from October 21 to 27. For details, visitwww.kerala pareekshabhavan. in.
21 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||College gets clearance to hold MBA course||The Thalassery engineering college under CAPE has received clearance to offer MBA course from the academic year 2020- 21. The college will be considered a centre of the Cochin University of Science and Technology for the course. The admission process is expected to be completed in October. There will be 60 students in a batch. Students can opt for the specialisations offered by CUSAT. For details, dial 0490 2388930, 6238340901 or visithttp://mba.cethalassery.ac.in.
21 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sri Chitra Home gets computer lab||Children at the Sri Chitra Home here can now log on to online learning sessions from the safety of their abode without much of a hassle. HAS Technology Solutions and QuEST Global have collaborated to set up a computer lab at the institution to facilitate online learning during the COVID-19 pandemic. Secretary, Electronics and IT, Mohammad Safirulla inaugurated the new lab at an online function. The facility includes eight new laptops and accessories. HAS is also planning to upskill the software skills of the resident children.
21 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur tops in number of cases||Thrissur registered the highest number of new COVID-19 cases in the State on Tuesday at 896. The district also saw 760 recoveries on the day. Currently there are 8,560 active cases in the district while 132 patients from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 29,442 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 20,591 patients have recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 894 of the new patients contracted the disease through local contact. Among the patients 125 are above 60 years and 51 are children below 10. As many as 5,534 patients are under home care. In all, 2,638 antigen tests were conducted on Tuesday. So far, 2,21,901 samples have been tested in the district. One dead Meanwhile, COVID-19 was confirmed posthumously on a 48-year-old man who collapsed and died at Vadama, near Mala, on Tuesday. The deceased was identified as Sabu Kannampuzha, a retail businessman at Mala. He collapsed on Tuesday morning following an epilepsy attack. Though he was rushed to the hospital, his life could not be saved. The body of Sabu will be cremated at the Chalakudy municipal crematorium and the remains will be buried at Forane Church, Mala. His death, however, has not been included on the official list released by the State government.
21 October 2020||THRISSUR,KERALA||No alarming situation in Thrissur district: DMO||District Medical Officer (DMO) K.J. Reena has denied reports that treatment facilities for COVID-19 are insufficient in the district and the positivity rate is alarming. “Around 5,500 to 6,000 people are undergoing COVID-19 tests daily. The positivity rate from January 30 to October 20 in the district is 12.1%. Allegations that the positivity rate in the district is above 25% on the basis of test results in one or two centres is unfortunate,” she said in a press release. The allegation of the Kerala Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA) that the health workers were forced to reuse PPE kits would be examined. Reports had been sought from heads of various institutions, she said. Team expresses satisfaction The Central team that visited the district on Monday had expressed satisfaction at the preventive measures taken by the district, the DMO said.
21 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||113 gazetted officers appointed sectoral magistrates||As part of controlling the spurt in COVID-19 cases in the district, a total of 113 gazetted officers from various departments have been appointed sectoral magistrates and COVID-19 sentinels on reserve duty. They have been appointed at taluk level. They will take over responsibility in the absence of sectoral magistrates and COVID-19 sentinels appointed earlier. The gazetted officers have been appointed according to Criminal Procedure Code Section 144 for enforcing COVID-19 containment measures, a statement issued here said.
21 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Training on strategies for IP protection in farming||The Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) Cell of Kerala Agricultural University is organising a four-day training programme for MSc and PhD students of the university on ‘Strategies for IP protection in Agriculture.’ The training programme, which began on Monday, was inaugurated by R. Chandra Babu, Vice chancellor, KAU. He emphasised the need for protection of Intellectual Property in the areas of research findings, biodiversity of Kerala, germplasm, traditional products, copyrights, trademarks and so on. Geographical Indications (GI) registration became more significant in the context of Central government projects under the ‘one district, one product’ concept, the Vice Chancellor said. Support promised He said that the university would always support the farming community to ensure IP protection in the agricultural sector and for improved marketing of their products. Madhu Subramanian, C.R. Elsy, C. Narayanankutty, T.C. James, Anil Kuruvila and Deepthy Antony P. spoke during the programme. The training programme will include classes on patent protection, copyright and GI protection.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Long wait||
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||After the fall||
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Upset equations||
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Uncivil act||
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fasting together||
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||SHRC wants SKV school gates closed||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed the Attingal district education officer (DEO) to ensure that the gates of SKV UP School are closed after school hours. Panel chairperson Antony Dominic gave the direction on a complaint that anti-social elements posed a problem with the gates open. The DEO said the head teacher had allowed former students access to the playground from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. However, even after 6 p.m., the gates were not being closed, the complaint said.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Versatile bamboo||
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||At the site of tragedy||
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||COVID recovery centre set up||Anant National University of Design, Ahmedabad, in partnership with the State government and Parliamentarians with Innovators for India (PI India), has set up a COVID-19 recovery facility here. The facility is located in a large conference hall at the Panchkarma Ayurveda Institute. The team has set up a 30-bed recovery facility under phase 1 of a 100-bed project to treat patients with moderate symptoms of COVID-19.
21 October 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vegetable prices hit the roof||Skyrocketing prices of vegetables in these times of COVID-19 add to the woes of the poor and middle class families, who have already been hit by the pandemic. Rates of almost all vegetables are on the rise and a family of four has to shell out not less than Rs. 500 on vegetables per week. Onion price is Rs. 57 a kg at rythu bazaars and in the open market it is around Rs. 80 a kg. Field and cluster beans are priced at Rs. 70 and Rs. 50 respectively, capsicum around Rs. 65, potals at Rs. 52, tomatoes hover around Rs. 35 and bitter gourd Rs. 40.  Vegetables grown in 26 hectares, banana crop in 23.6 hectares, and papaya in over 84 hectares in 49 villages of 15 mandals in the district, suffered extensive damage due to the recent rains, according to District Collector V. Vinay Chand. “We are hardly getting any vegetables for Rs. 200. Despite the threat of the virus looming large, some consumers, especially youths, jump the queue and fail to observe physical distance. This is observed more at onion and tomato stalls at the Rythu Bazaars,” says D. Nagajyothi, a professional LIC Agent, residing at MVP Colony. “Most of the local farmers, who grow vegetables, switch over to paddy before the rains,” says a farmer at the Kancharapalem Rythu Bazaar. “Fifty metric tonnes (two lorry loads) of onions are normally sold every day through the 13 Rythu Bazaars in the city. An additional two lorry loads would be sold in the open market. Due to heavy rains in Maharashtra, from where we get most of our onion stocks, we are only getting one lorry load for the Rythu Bazaars,” says the Assistant Director of Marketing M. Kaleswara Rao. “The heavy rains this year in Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra have caused extensive damage to crops and resulted in the steep hike in vegetable prices. Tomatoes are grown mostly in Kurnool and Karnataka and heavy rains have damaged the crop in a large area,” says A. Kurma Rao, vice president of the Wholesale Vegetable Dealers Association, Gnanapuram.
21 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Floods: CM announces Rs. 5-lakh ex gratia to kin of the deceased||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials to act on humanitarian grounds in dealing with the people affected by the floods by providing basic food supplies, financial assistance, and ex gratia. Addressing the district Collectors and Joint Collectors during the Spandana video conference here on Tuesday, the Chief Minister said that during these hard times, people expect the officials to be more empathetic. As part of the relief measures, the officials were asked to provide 25 kg rice along with one kg each of cooking oil, red gram, onions and potatoes. Further, the Chief Minister ordered the District Collectors to provide an ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh each to the kin of the deceased at the earliest. Of the 19 deceased, 14 families were given ex gratia. He told the officials to clear the rest. The Chief Minister asked the officials to be on high alert and provide help to the people taking shelter in relief camps and give Rs. 500 to each person in the camps while returning home. He further directed the officials to focus on restoration of power supply and repairs to damaged roads on a war-footing and also stressed on providing safe drinking water and sanitation measures. With regard to the crop damage, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy instructed all the Joint Collectors to submit the report on the enumeration of crop damages due to the incessant rains by October 31, including the budget estimates for the agri sector. He directed the officials to provide input subsidy to farmers without leaving any eligible farmer behind and a social audit has to be done in case any farmer was left out. “The State government is providing input subsidy in the same season, and the kharif subsidy will be given along with the second instalment of Rythu Bharosa. The total subsidy of Rs. 145 crore for the months of June, July, August, and September will be credited on October 27.” For the month of October, the Chief Minister asked the officials to list the beneficiaries and submit them by November 15. The beneficiaries of RoFR pattas would also be provided with Rythu Bharosa. In addition to the agriculture sector, the Chief Minister also reviewed the functioning of Village Secretariats and NREGA works. He directed the district Collectors to visit village/ ward Secretariats twice a week along with Joint Collectors and other district officials. The governance at the village level has to be efficient, leaving no scope for any sort of corruption, he said. On NREGA, the Chief Minister directed the officials to work keeping a target to utilise Rs. 10 crore material component in a week in every Assembly constituency. He instructed the authorities to take up the construction of village and ward secretariats, RBKs, YSR health clinics, milk cooling units, and anganwadi centres. Upon successful completion of works, an additional Rs. 5-crore works would be provided. Free power He stressed on creating awareness among farmers on electricity meters for farm connections to enhance the supply of quality power. The farmers would not be burdened with the introduction of Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) of free power subsidy, but would bring in more transparency and accountability into the system. The previous government left a debt of Rs. 8,700 crore for agricultural use. Deputy Chief Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, Ministers Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, Botcha Satyanarayana, Adimulapu Suresh, Thaneti Vanita, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney and others were present.
21 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus on post-COVID ailments: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials to be alert to the post-COVID-19 ailments that are showing up, and to include them in the Aarogyasri scheme. Addressing a review meeting through video-conference on tackling COVID-19 as part of the ‘Spandana’ programme here on Tuesday, the Chief Minister said that post recovery, 10% of the patients were returning with complaints pertaining to ear, lungs, brain, or kidneys. “They have to be identified and brought under the purview of Aarogyasri,” he added. Fall in positive cases “I urge patients to take precautions for at least six to eight weeks even if the symptoms are mild and approach the Aarogyasri empanelled hospitals. The number of positive cases has come down with nearly 70,000 tests being conducted daily, and the recovery rate is as high as 94.5%. The State stands first in the country as its tests per million ratio is 1,33,474,” he said. Stating that patients should be made aware of the precautions to be taken, the Chief Minister said awareness should also be created on the ‘104’ emergency number. Patient should be admitted to hospital in 30 minutes, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, and added that extra care should be taken about health and hygiene in the 200-odd empanelled hospitals. Help-desks should function at all the hospitals, and this should be ensured in private hospitals within 15 days, he said. Posters should be arranged at the help-desks giving details about the precautions to be taken, and two Aarogya Mitras should run the help-desks. CCTVs should be arranged at the help-desks to monitor their functioning, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said. He said there should be no room for corruption in any of the hospitals, and that strict action should be taken against those who resort to graft. The Aarogya Mitras should monitor the availability of doctors and medicines.
21 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Food Hero’ from Tenali gets featured in FAO documentary||A few years ago, a documentary team from the Food and Agricultural Organisation (FAO) of the United Nations, which was moving around the Krishna delta region, chanced upon a banana plantation with the stems standing tall, while the other plantations in the region were flattened by heavy gales. ZBNF system The team met the Kakani Sivannarayana, a progressive farmer from Annavaram in Kollipara mandal of Tenali revenue division and shot a two-and-a half-minute documentary featuring agroecology, a farming approach inspired by natural ecosystems by the farmer. The methods is being promoted as Zero Budget Natural Farming (ZBNF) system in Andhra Pradesh. The documentary titled ‘When farmers become trainers in agroecology through farmer field schools’ was uploaded to a YouTube channel on last Friday, omnthe occasion of World Food Day. The documentary was featured as part of a global series on ‘Food Heroes’. The same has also got good reviews in Instagram as ‘Kakani’s story’. ‘Input cost reduced’ “I started using natural farming methods some three years ago, which has reduced my cost of cultivation from Rs. 20,000 an acre to Rs. 3,500. I earn a profit up to Rs. 70,000 per acre. Now, I also train other farmers as the internal cluster resource person,” says Mr. Sivannarayana. Natural farming system is being encouraged to help farmers tide over the rising input costs of fertilisers, presicide and others in Andhra Pradesh. More than 20,000 hectares divided into 10 organic clusters in the State have been identified by agricultural scientists for organic farming this year. Training programme More than two lakh farmers would be trained in the best farming practices, said T. Vijaya Kumar, a retired civil servant and head of Andhra Pradesh Rythu Pradhikaraka Samstha. “It is estimated that 42% of arable land would be lost due to urbanisation. Organic farming can be a key to reducing the farm distress,” he said.
21 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Speed up clearances to Bhogapuram airport’||Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy has urged Union Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri to expedite the clearances for the development of the international airport at Bhogapuram in Visakhapatnam, the airport at Orvakallu in Kurnool district and the naval airport in Visakhapatnam. Mr. Rajendranath Reddy, accompanied by Special Chief Secretary Adityanath Das and Principal Secretary S.S Rawat, called on Mr. Puri in New Delhi on Tuesday, and discussed a wide range of issues relating to the infrastructure projects in the State. ‘Waive taxes’ “We have discussed various technical aspects and clearances by the Union Aviation Ministry to ground the airport at Orvakallu. Since the project is being executed by the Centre, we have urged the Union Minister to waive various taxes and licence fee. We have also urged Mr. Puri to expedite the clearances to the Bhogapuram and naval airports in Visakhapatnam,” said Mr. Rajendranath Reddy. Water project Later, Mr. Reddy called on Niti Aayog Vice-Chairman Rajiv Kumar and discussed the pending projects, which included the Uttarandhra Sujala Sravanthi and the super-speciality facility to treat kidney patients in north coastal districts.
21 October 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Put Kadapa banana on the global map, says Collector||Collector Ch. Hari Kiran on Tuesday directed horticulture officials to leave no stone unturned in securing global recognition for the banana crop grown in Kadapa district. Banana, one of the major crops in Kadapa, is grown in 20,000 hectares across the district. At a Cluster Development Committee meeting here on Tueday, Mr. Hari Kiran wanted strengthening of the Farmer Producer Organisations (FPOs) functioning under the aegis of the horticulture department. Three companies have already began taking up fruit care activities, eyeing 30,000 a tonne spread across 1,500 acres. “Integrated packing houses have to be established and special training needs to be imparted to the FPOs to handle them,” Mr. Hari Kiran explained. He wanted an action plan prepared in a week encompassing the above issues. Mr. Hari Kiran harped on a twin-pronged strategy to increase crop acreage as well as establishing food storage, processing and ripening units in the vicinity to reduce wastage and crop loss. Joint Collector (Revenue and RBK) M. Gauthami, Deputy Director (Horticulture) Vajra Sri, APMIP Project Director Madhusudhan Reddy and NABARD Assistant General Manager Srinivasulu took part.
21 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Come out with strategy to save crops, Minister tells scientists||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu on Tuesday appealed to scientists from Acharya N.G. Ranga Agricultural University and Y.S.R. Horticulture University to help farmers save crops that survived the recent rains and floods in the East Godavari district. “Design a scientific strategy to assure the farmer that the crops that survived the recent floods and rains would be protected without further damage owing to submergence,” Mr. Kannababu appealed to the scientists in an interaction here on Tuesday. Ground-level study The scientists have been asked to conduct a ground-level study to come out with a strategy and campaign, suggesting the farmers on how to manage the agricultural fields by adopting crop management practices. Mr. Kannababu has also stressed the need for a strategy for the cotton crop that was damaged in Agency areas across the State. “The campaign should also include a voice-over by the scientists on the measures required to be taken to manage the crops in the Kharif season,” said Mr. Kannababu. Inspection On being directed by Mr. Kannababu, Rajamahendravaram Sub-Collector Anupama Anjali on Tuesday inspected the plants and flower nurseries in the Kadiyam region, the flower nursery hub in the State. Accompanied by revenue officials, Ms. Anjali inspected the nurseries damaged during the recent rains in the areas of Kadiyapulanka, Vemagiri and Veeravaram. In a meeting, the nursery owners said that the nurseries have been damaged due to absence of drainage on both sides of the Kadiyam road. Revenue and Horticulture officials have been asked to enumerate the damage suffered by the nurseries and submit a report to the State government for compensation.
21 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister backs creation of BC corporations||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Chelluboyina Venu Gopala Krishna on Tuesday stated that the constitution of 56 Corporations would help speed up the uplift of the 139 Backward Class castes in the State. ‘Long-pending dream’ “The creation of 56 corporations for the Backward Classes in the State speaks volumes about the realisation of a long-pending dream for the communities. Such a move has not been initiated by any Chief Minister in the country for the uplift of the Backward Classes since Independence,” Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna said. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s goal is to hear the voice of the Backward Classes through their Corporations. This decision to create the Corporations has been taken only to give a fillip to the lives of the Backward Classes irrespective of their vote bank,” the Minister said. Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna took pary a rally that was taken out in Ramachandrapuram town on Tuesday, hailing the creation of the Corporations. Representatives of Backward Class communities also participated in the rally.
21 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Boat ambulances deployed in Kakinada||In an attempt to provide medical aid to the flood-hit areas, Kakinada Municipal Corporation (KMC) has deployed boat ambulances. “Each boat ambulance has a Medical Officer, an ANM, ward development secretary and a volunteer. They will be rendering services round the clock,” said KMC Commissioner Swapnil Dinakar. The boat ambulances have been deployed at Padmanabba Nagar, Dalmill, Kacherioeta, Venkateswara Colony, Phrazerpeta, Gollapeta, Chinnaswami Nagar, Madhuranagar, Jana Chaitanya Nagar and Tulasi Brundavan Colony.
21 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Procurement target set for rice millers in E. Godavari||The East Godavari Rice Millers’ Association has been told to extend timely support to achieve the target of procuring 13.60 lakh Metric Tonnes of paddy in the Kharif season in the East Godavari district. In a preparedness meeting with rice millers here on Tuesday, Mr. Lakshmisha said, “The harvesting of paddy is likely to begin from the first week of November across the district. Millers are required to support the government to achieve the target of procuring of 13.60 lakh Metric Tonnes in Kharif 2020.” The rice millers have been told to depute their representatives to guide the farmers to register in the e-Karshak application to be able to sell their produce. On the other hand, all the Paddy Procurement Centres will procure the paddy under the aegis of the Rythu Bharosa Kendras, ensuring the Minimum Support Price. The paddy was sown in above 2.25 lakh hectares in the district where a majority of the standing crop was damaged due to rains.
21 October 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stay away from Dasara festivities, SP tells staff||Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu has asked the police personnel and their family members not to celebrate Dasara festivities in the wake of the situation prevailing in some police families due to COVID-19. As many as 15 police personnel died due to various reasons this year, including six with coronavirus, and 297 policemen were affected by the virus in the district. The recovery percentage was good, the SP said. Mr. Ravindranath Babu said as part of the ten-day Police Commemoration Day activities, which begin with the commemoration day parade on Wednesday, officers would visit the bereaved families and enquire about their welfare. “Hundreds of police personnel were suffering with COVID and their families were in distress. I request the staff to stay away from celebrations and focus on helping the needy,” the SP urged the staff. He said that 2,300 Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits, 30,000 litres of sanitiser (in bottles), vitamin tablets, 300 thermo scanners, oximeters, dry fruits, hand washers, cleaners, juice bottles and other material wee supplied to the police free of cost. Promotions Mr. Ravindranath Babu said that 19 civil and one armed reserve ASIs were promoted as Sub-Inspectors, 70 head constables were elevated as Assistant Sub-Inspectors (ASIs) and 60 constables were promoted as head constables in Krishna district. Scholarships worth about Rs. 66 lakh were given to 60 police children on merit basis. Rice, oil, dal, pulses and other essentials were supplied to 1,000 home guards, outsourcing staff and Class-IV staff during the pandemic, the SP added.
21 October 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan and Naidu are backing BJP’s anti-people policies: Congress||APCC president S. Sailajanath on Tuesday faulted the ruling YSRCP and the Opposition TDP for competing with each other in extending their support to the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre. Leading the signature campaign against the three farm Acts, Dr. Sailajanath said that while the Chief Ministers of several States opposed the legislations, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu backed the BJP’s “'anti-people policies.” Calling upon people to actively take part in the signature campaign, he said it was the Congress party that had introduced the Minimum Support Price and reached out to the farmers as and when the prices of farm produce fell below the MSP in the open market. Leaving the farmers at the mercy of market forces would lead to more farmer suicides, he feared, and said that the country’s economy was in a shambles after the BJP came to power at the Centre because of its “corporate-friendly” policies. Dr. Sailajanath further said the Congress was against the YSRCP government’s decision to fix meters to farm pump-sets at the behest of the Centre.
21 October 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recovery rate improves further in south coastal AP||Health situation in south coastal Andhra Pradesh improved further as 1,364 patients recovered from the viral disease in the two districts, while 490 persons got infected in the last 24 hours. The death toll marginally rose by five to 1,040 in the region as four more patients succumbed to the disease taking the toll to 560 in Prakasam whereas one death took toll to 480 in Nellore. In Nellore district, the tally inched closer to 60,000 with over 180 persons contracting the disease. The number of active cases dropped to 2,249 with 956 recoveries. In Prakasam, 308 fresh cases took the count to 57,198. However, with 408 recoveries, active cases came down to 3,034 in the district.
21 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Differently-abled singers strike a melodious chord with audience||As a couple, both differently-abled, picked up the mike, people, captivated by melodious numbers they sing, start coming out of their houses to the busy Rathna Mahal Centre. The duo, a part of the ‘'Kanipinchani Nayanalu, Vinipinchina Ragalu’ troupe, instantly struck a chord with the audience by singing hit songs, before moving to court centre in the city late in the night. The couple -- a 20-year-old E. Sudhakar and his wife Rebecca -- select the songs with powerful social message to make people ponder over. The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affects different sections of people. It is more so in the case of persons with visual impairment. Not getting disheartened, they entertain the people on the move on the trunk road and other important junctions which have less vehicular traffic. ''We do not want to be a burden to our parents. Hence we decided to hit the streets,'' says a troupe member G. Anil, a post-graduate in music while waiting for his turn to exhibit his talent. They also raise funds for community members who find the going tough during COVID-19 times with no scope for viable economic activity and unsure when the intensity of the pandemic subsides, adds another troupe member, Ch. Bhushanam, who was busy accessing a music track app.
21 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Advisory on sex workers welcomed||Tafteesh, a coalition of human rights activists, survivors, lawyers and researchers, has welcomed the advisory of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to recognise sex workers as informal workers and extend all benefits and services being provided to citizens. Reacting to a section of non-governmental organisations view to recognise sex work as slavery and violence against women, Tafteesh, in a release, said: “We consider this moralistic approach as an attack on the rights of vulnerable communities like the sex workers.” Financial benefits sought While calling for criminalisation of brothel keepers who exploited sex workers for debt bondage, Tafteesh underscored the need for extending all financial and welfare inclusion benefits to victims of trafficking while differentiating between the exploited and the exploiter – those who run brothels and profit from sex trade. The Union Home Ministry was right in activating anti-human trafficking units to combat a COVID19-induced trafficking, it said, adding: “as grassroots activists, survivors of sex trafficking and sex workers, we desist from making ideological proclamations. However, the State, while drafting public policy cannot get driven by narrow ideological groups who push agenda based on their own beliefs and rigid stances”. “The State is constitutionally obligated to remove all forms of inequality that lies at the heart of exploitation of people on the basis of their work, class, gender and caste that pushes people into stigmatised labour. Let us work towards realisation of that goal,” it said.
21 October 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fervour marks ‘Garuda Seva’ at Tirumala||Religious fervour marked the auspicious ‘Garuda Seva’ on the fifth day of the Navaratri Brahmotsavams at the Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala on Tuesday . Lord Malayappa Swamy mounted atop the golden Garuda vahanam at the Kalyanotswava mandapam inside the temple. Garuda, the celestial carrier of the Lord, was adorned with precious jewels like Makara Kanti, diamond-studded golden crown, Saligrama Haram and others. Even as the rituals were confined to the inner precincts of the temple, in strict adherence to COVID-19 protocols, devotees gathered at the open space in front of the main temple complex. In the morning, Lord Malayappa Swamy, adorned as Mohiniwas paraded on a flower bedecked ivory palanquin to Kalyanotsava mandapam from the Ranganayakula mandapam where the priests carried out the customary rituals.  Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court Justice Jitendra Kumar Maheswari took part in the ‘Garuda Seva’ rituals. On his arrival at the main temple complex, Justice Maheswari was accorded a traditional welcome by the temple authorities.After taking part in the rituals, he offered prayers to the presiding deity. Tirumala Tiruapti Devasthanams (TTD) Additional Executive Officer A.V Dharma Reddy, Chittoor District Collector Narayan Bharat Gupta, Superintendent of Police Ramesh Reddy, CVSO Gopinath Jatti welcomed Justice Maheswari on his arrival at the Padmavati guest house earlier in the day.
21 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nurtured by agri varsity, they sow seeds of innovation||E. Babu Rao of Parvathipuram in Vizianagaram district has developed a drum seeder which not only improves productivity in sowing 20 different crops, but also increases yield by 70%. The seed sowing process is brought down from a whopping 20 days to less than an hour. The cocoon harvester designed by Gurumurthy Chetty of Gangavaram (Chittoor) is a path-breaking de-weeding equipment in sericulture. Sainath Reddy of Gadwal (Telangana) offers custom-made organic fertilisers depending on the crop. S. Lakshmi of Kurnool brings hydroponic solutions at one’s doorstep to grow healthy greens and vegetables. B. Sarala Kumari has gone a step further to develop chopped curries that get cooked once dropped in boiling water. Chandrasekhar of Thottambedu (Chittoor) develops a plant juice to kill weed. Hanumappa of Ananthapuram has brought out a groundnut harvester that can also bring the agrowaste to use. Vijaya Bhaskar and B. Vijaya Gowri Devi, both from Tirupati, are into millet processing to make delicious cakes and eatables. Nurtured at Acharya N.G. Ranga Agricultural University’s (ANGRAU) Agri Innovations and Entrepreneurship Cell and ‘Poshan’ incubator, these are some of the innovative brains that found solutions to many of the vexatious problems plaguing the farm sector. Apart from a warm pat on their back, the Union government has also provided financial grant to these farmers and entrepreneurs to kickstart their operations. Cheques were formally handed over by the varsity’s board member T. Muralinatha Reddy and Director of Research T. Giridhara Krishna at the Regional Agricultural Research Station (RARS) here on Tuesday, in the presence of Associate Directors M. Subba Rao (RARS), B. Ravindranath Reddy (SV Agricultural College) and Principal Investigator P. Bala Hussain Reddy. New proposals invited Mr. Muralinatha Reddy said the refreshingly-new ideas would be incubated and developed as a ‘marketable product’ at the centre and invited farmers and farm students to come up with proposals. As agriculture gets market-driven, Dr. Giridhara Krishna saw the need for the fraternity of researchers to meet the aspirations of farmers, for which he called documentation of old practices and gauging the transformation as the first step. He said the university would reach out to farmers through the newly-established Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBK).
21 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 5,000 fine on use of plastic||Think again if you are planning to carry the ubiquitous carry bag or any other single-use product made of plastic. Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT) has announced to levy a hefty fine of Rs. 5,000 on those caught using it. MCT Commissioner P.S. Girisha announced that the fine could be between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 5,000, depending on the gravity of the offence. Also, those found dumping garbage on the road or in the drain would be fined Rs. 100 to Rs. 500. Civic staff carrying swiping machines would levy the fine on the spot and collect it, he said. Collection of monthly user charges from the public, at the rate of Rs. 30 in urban areas and Rs. 20 for slums, will now be digital as the same will be collected through swiping machines and deliver an e-receipt to the user.
21 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM announces Rs. 10k annual assistance for craftspersons||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday said the government would support the traditional weavers and artisans by giving them an annual financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 each and also help them market their products through the online store of the AP State Handloom Weavers Cooperative Society (APCO) and the webstore of Lepakshi which have global reach. Their products would be made available on Amazon, Flipkart and other e-commerce platforms, the CM said. He was speaking after launching online facility to market Apco handlooms and Lepakshi handicrafts. Mr. Jagan asked the Collectors to direct the village volunteers to identify handloom weavers and artisans and enlist their names and details. Stating that the condition of traditional weavers and artisans was in dire straits and that they needed government support, he said the Collectors should devise the welfare programme which would be launched by February. It may be noted here that The Hindu had published a story last week on the plight of the artisans making wooden toys. Andhra Pradesh is one of the richest States with around two lakh craft persons scattered in around 20 major and 100 minor crafts clusters in different districts. Lepakshi has 17 showrooms, including one each at Kolkata, Delhi and Hyderabad and around 350 items are displayed in the e-commerce web portal in various crafts. Major crafts of the State in the webstore include Kondapally and Etikoppaka toys, wood carvings, Udayagiri cutlery, Kalamkari paintings and Kalamkari block paintings, Bobbili veena and crochet lace. Through the support of the government, the department has set a target of Rs. 1 crore sale through the e-commerce platform in the current financial year.
21 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM will pay tributes to police martyrs today, says DGP||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will pay tributes to the policemen who have died in the line of duty at the martyrs’ pylon, and review the Commemoration Day parade at the Indira Gandhi Municipal Corporation (IGMC) Stadium here on Wednesday, Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang has said. Addressing the media at the A.P. Police Headquarters at Mangalagiri, near here on Tuesday, Mr. Gautam Sawang said that 101 police personnel succumbed to COVID-19 in the last six months and 13,229 others contracted the virus. Conveying his condolences to the bereaved families, the DGP promised to extend them all help. He further said that 3,780 personnel found to be at “moderate risk” and 1,334 at “high risk” were kept under constant watch by the COVID-19 nodal officers. The number of infected personnel, which was 45 in April, had risen to 256 in June, 765 in July and 1,611 by the first week of August. By the end of August, 1,389 personnel had contracted the disease, he said, and added that “the number has come down to 374 by October 10.” MoU with SBI Meanwhile, the Police Department entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the State Bank of India (SBI) to provide insurance coverage to the personnel in the State. Inspector General of Police (Welfare) Sridhar Rao and SBI Deputy General Manager Y. Satyanarayana Prasad and Assistant General Manager Satya Swaroopini signed the pact in the presence of Mr. Gautam Sawang, DG (Railways) Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao and Additional DGs P.V. Sunil Kumar and Ravi Shankar Ayyannar. Under the agreement, SBI will offer Suraksha Bima Yojana (SBY), Jeevan Jyothi Bima Yojana (JJBY), and Sukanya Samridhi Yojana (SSY) policies to the police personnel. “An insurance cover of Rs. 3 lakh will be provided for natural death. It will be Rs. 30 lakh for accidental death and Rs. 10 lakh for permanent disability,” said Mr. Satyanarayana Prasad.
21 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Nadda raking up CAA issue for political gain’||APCC president S. Sailajanath on Tuesday criticised BJP national president J.P. Nadda’s statement on the Centre’s plan to implement the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA). In a statement on Tuesday, Mr. Sailajanath, referring to the reported statement of Mr. Nadda in Siliguri on Monday, said despite protests across the country, it was unfortunate that the Centre was gearing itself up to implement the “draconian law.” He alleged that the BJP and the RSS were eyeing political gains in view of the impending elections in Bihar and West Bengal. ‘YSRCP double standards’ “The ruling YSRCP in the State had extended its support to the passage of the Act in Parliament. But when the minorities in the State protested against it, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy adopted a resolution in the Assembly against the CAA. This is nothing but an eyewash,” Mr. Sailajanath said. “There is a need to expose the double standards of the YSRCP government on the issue,” he added. Stating that implementation of the CAA would trigger unrest in the country, Mr. Sailajanath said it was ridiculous to ask people who were born here to prove their citizenship. Stating that CAA implementation would polarise people on the basis of community and religion, he said certain regional parties such as the YSRCP and the TDP were trying to add fuel to the fire to further their selfish motives. Mr. Nadda had raised the issue of separate Gorkha land in West Bengal only to mount pressure on the Mamata Banerjee government, he alleged, and added that the States would again witness movements against the discriminatory law.
21 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jesuits at ALC seek Fr. Stan Sawmy’s release||Expressing solidarity with Fr. Stan Swamy, an 83-year-old Jesuit (a member of the Society of Jesus), faculty and Jesuits in Andhra Loyola College (ALC) took out a rally on the college premises on Tuesday. Speaking on the occasion ALC Rector Fr. P. Bala Showri, who led the rally, said that Jesuits across all over the world in over 80 countries were deeply pained by the arrest of Fr. Stan Swamy in Ranchi of Jharkhand in alleged connection with the Elgar Parishad-Bhima Koregaon case. He said Fr. Stan, a human rights defender has been in Bagaicha, a Jesuit-run Social Action Centre, for the past 15 years and was working with the Adivasis. He documented and published the untold sufferings of hundreds of Adivasi youth, he said. “We, as Jesuits of Andhra, involved in works of education, caring and defending the rights of the poor and the vulnerable all over the world, stand in solidarity with Fr. Stan and other human rights defenders in India and strongly condemn the false allegations and defamatory charges against Fr. Stan Swamy,” Fr. Showri said. Participants in the rally demanded the release of Fr. Stan.
21 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMC to take part in ‘Streets for People’ challenge||The Vijayawada Municipal Corporation is taking part in the ‘Streets for People’ challenge, a competition among urban local bodies across the country being organised by the Ministry of Urban Development through Smart Cities Mission. It is aimed at making streets pedestrian-friendly and neighbourhoods safe and vibrant. Poster for the same was released by Municipal Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh and others. As part of the challenge, VMC should work on pilot intervention and conceptual city-level scale-up plan and scaling up of transformation and strategising measures for long term impact and submit stage one proposals by February 21, according to officials.
21 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna flood yet to abate, first warning in force||Flood in the Krishna persisted with continuous inflows from projects upstream from over a week. The first flood warning issued on October 14 is still in force and the inflow and outflow continue to be above 5 lakh cusecs as of 8 p.m. on Tuesday. Throughout the day, the inflow and outflow of the flood in the river at Prakasam Barrage was more than five lakh cuses. However, the flood level is likely to come down on Wednesday as the discharge at projects upstream decreased. As of 6 p.m., Srisailam was discharging 4.12 lakh cusecs and Nagarjuna Sagar project was discharging 3.01 lakh cusecs. Meanwhile, thousands of people continue to stay in flood relief centres set up across the district. The CPI(M) has demanded that the government convene an all-party meeting to discuss the damage caused by the flood.
21 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||3,503 new cases, 28 deaths in State||The State reported 3,503 new COVID-19 infections and 28 deaths in 24 hours ending Tuesday morning, taking the infection tally to 7,89,553 and the toll to 6,481. As many as 5,144 patients recovered during the period, leaving the active cases at 33,396. While the number of recoveries increased to 7,49,676, the recovery rate too went up to 94.95%. In the last one day, 69,095 samples were tested, and the daily positivity rate was put at 5.07. The overall positivity rate from the 71,96,628 tests conducted so far had, for the first time, come down to 10.97%. For the first time in several months, three districts reported fewer than 100 new infections, and one of them reported less than 50 cases. While West Godavari reported the highest single-day tally, four districts reported the highest number of deaths in the last one day.
21 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan to present ‘vastrams’ to Kanaka Durga today||Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will present silk robes to the goddess Kanaka Durga on Wednesday afternoon, on the auspicious ‘Moola Nakshatram’ day when the deity will be adorned as Saraswathi Devi. Endowments Minister Vellampalli Srinivas, in a video conference on Tuesday, reviewed the security arragements at the temple with regard to the Chief Minister’s visit. A team of the top police officials visited inspected the temple surroundings to assess the safety aspects. No VIP darshan The Minister instructed the temple management, police and revenue officials to follow the slots booked for darshan by the devotees without fail. “Instead of sending back the excess number of devotees, the vacant slots could be opened for spot booking of darshan tickets and the excess number of people be allowed inside,” he said. He said there would not be any VIP darshan on ‘Moola Nakshatram’ day and hence the vehicles allotted for the purpose should not be allowed atop the hill on Wednesday. The devotees should bring the online tickets, must wear masks and cooperate with the temple authorities in maintaining physical distance. A steady stream of devotees had darshan of the deity in Sri Annapurna Devi alankaram. Devasthanam Chairman Pyla Somi Naidu and Executive Officer Suresh Babu said 11,981 devotees had darshan from 5 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Tuesday and that the temple earned a revenue of Rs. 14,54,345 till evening.
21 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flyover is safe, assures official||R&B superintendent engineer (quality control) and in-charge of the Kanakadurga Flyover project M. John Moshe has said that there are no shortcomings in the construction of the flyover. In response to the incident where a police constable was injured when chunks of concrete fell off the flyover, Mr. John said due to movement of vehicles on the flyover, ‘excess’ concrete chunks fell off.
21 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM urged to inaugurate Tungabhadra ‘pushkarams’||Representatives of the Raghavendra Swamy Peetham at Mantralayam in Kurnool district met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Tuesday and requested him to declare open the Tungabhadra Pushkaralu scheduled from November 20 to December 1. They presented him a memento. Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy was present.
21 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter admissions in online mode||The BIE announced admissions in two-year Intermediate courses in general and vocational streams for 2020-21 academic year. Board secretary V. Ramakrishna said registration process would be done in online mode . The details are available onhttps://bie.ap.gov.in. The registration can be done from October 21 to 29. For details, dial 1800 2749868.
21 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tejaswini case: CM promises tough action against accused||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has promised to take stern action against the youth, who allegedly killed an engineering student, V. Divya Tejaswini, at her residence in the city a few days ago. The victim’s parents -- V. Joseph and Kusuma -- along with Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharita, met the Chief Minister at his camp office, Tadepalli, on Tuesday. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy announced Rs. 10-lakh ex gratia to the bereaved family and assured the family of support in all aspects. Action would be taken against the accused under ‘Disha’, he said. Meanwhile, Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang said the police would file charge sheet in the case within seven days as per the Andhra Pradesh Criminal Law (Amendment) Bill - 2019, also called the AP Disha Bill. “The Machavaram police handed over the case to Disha police, and the case is under investigation,” Mr. Sawang told the media.
21 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Operation to salvage aground Bangladeshi vessel begins||Operation to salvage the 3000-tonne Bangladeshi ship MV Maa that ran aground near Tenneti Park in Visakhapatnam on October 13, took a baby step here on Tuesday with the salvor company, engaged by the owners, commencing the pumping of fuel oil from the ship. The ship is carrying around 40 tonnes of fuel oil, and high power pumps have been deployed to pump out the oil. “The ship has no power on its own and that is why we have deployed generators not only to supply power to the ship, but also commence the pumping operation,” said Surender Gill of Gill Marines, who have been assigned the first phase of the salvage operation. Pipelines laid “Pipelines have been laid from the ship to the road point and the oil will be pumped into mobile tankers. On the first day, we ran a trial run and was successfully able to pump out about 2,000 litres of fuel,” said Mr. Gill. It is estimated that about 200 to 300 litres will be pumped out per hour and the company expects to complete the job in four to five days, working in all the three shifts. The distance of the temporary pipeline from the ship to the road point is around 500 metres, but since the gradient is steep, the company is contemplating moving the mobile tankers to the Jodugudlapalem temple side on Wednesday. “This may increase the length of the pipeline from 500 to 700 metres, but the gradient is flat and thus it will not put much pressure on the pumps and we can draw more in an hour,” he said. Second phase Once the fuel is drained out, the ship will become lighter by 40 tonnes and also the danger of oil spill while pulling it out using high-power tugs will cease to exist. After this operation is completed, the second phase of towing it out during high tide will begin. The salvage of the ship has gained importance, after environment activists, raised a hue and cry and urged the authorities concerned to take up the operation on a war-footing.
21 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||240 new cases take tally to 54,678, one person succumbs to virus||After a brief lull, the district reported 240 COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours taking the COVID-19 cumulative tally to 54,678, as per the COVID-19 bulletin released on Tuesday. The death toll also rose to 463, as one more person succumbed to the coronavirus in the last 24 hours. As many as 114 persons recovered since Monday. With the new cases and recoveries, the total number of recoveries in the district stands at 51,928 and active cases at 2,287. According to the bulletin, very active and active clusters in the district are nine and 16 respectively. Though the very active clusters increased from four to nine, the active clusters fell from 64 to 16 in the last 24 hours. The number of dormant clusters is 293 in the district. It may be remembered that 627 clusters were de-notified in the district.
21 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) seeks continuation of Best Available Schools scheme||The CPI(M) district committee has sought continuation of the scheme for provision of education to SC/ST, BC and minority students through Best Available Schools scheme, which has produced good results among these students over the years. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday, party district committee secretary K. Lokanadham and district secretariat member Killo Surendra noted that there were 12 such schools under the purview of the Paderu ITDA. A total of 3,340 students were studying in these schools. The idea of starting this scheme was to encourage and motivate talented students from these communities to go for higher studies. It’s unfortunate that the scheme is being scrapped now on the plea that ‘Amma Vodi’ scheme was introduced under ‘Navaratnalu.’
21 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police Commemoration Day: parade at Beach Road||The city and district police will be observing Police Commemoration Day on Wednesday and will organise a commemoration parade near Police Martyrs’ Memorial, Beach Road, at 7.30 a.m. Police personnel, their families, senior officials from district administration, Ministers, MLAs and other political representatives will pay tribute to the police martyrs on the occasion. The day is observed every year in remembrance of the 10 CRPF men who had laid down their lives fighting Chinese aggression at Hot Springs in Ladakh on October 21, 1959. A contingent of 20 men led by Sub-Inspector Karam Singh of the CRPF was ambushed by the Chinese Army. While 10 died fighting, others were imprisoned. Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said that police personnel who have been working in the frontline since the outbreak of the pandemic have performed bravely in non-combat situation. Deputy Inspector General ( DIG - Visakha Range) L.K.V. Ranga Rao recalled the services of police personnel in the range limits, especially during the pandemic.
21 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Timely treatment helps youth||Dhana Srinivas (18), an avid sports lover, hailing from the city, could have lost his right leg as a side effect of contracting COVID-19 virus a month ago but for the timely intervention of doctors at Medicover Hospitals. The traces of coronavirus had an adverse impact on the lower limb of the boy, leading to acute thrombosis, which could have necessitated amputation. The team of experts at Medicover Hospitals identified the problem and treated him.
21 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Improve the lot of railway employees: RMU||The Rail Mazdoor Union (RMU), East Coast Railway (E Co R), has demanded better working conditions to railwaymen, who were putting in their best efforts despite the pandemic threat. The working conditions and industrial relations have gradually deteriorated in the railways in the recent past. The rights and welfare of workers were neglected, payment of TA and DA and night duty allowances were stopped unilaterally, ignoring the hard work being done by railwaymen in the pandemic situation, RMU president Ch. Gandhi told the media here on Tuesday.
21 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Isolated rain, thunderstorms in coastal A.P. likely||The north coastal Andhra districts are likely to witness widespread rain under the influence of the low pressure formed over the central Bay of Bengal. Cyclonic circulations over the Bay of Bengal, extending up to 7.6 km above the mean sea level persists and it is likely to become more marked in the subsequent three days, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).  Thunderstorm, along with lightning and heavy rainfall, is likely to occur at isolated places in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam districts and in Yanam from October 21. Similar weather is likely to continue in south coastal Andhra Pradesh till October 23.  ‘Sea may remain rough’ Meanwhile, the Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC) in Visakhapatnam, has warned of squally winds with a speed reaching up to 50 km per hour along and off north Andhra Pradesh and south Odisha coasts on October 21 and 22. The sea condition is expected to remain rough during the same time. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea.
21 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoist militia member held||The district police arrested a wanted Maoist militia member and reportedly foiled Maoists’ attempt to plant landmine between Rallagadda and Korukonda area in Balapam panchayat of Chintapalle mandal, in Visakhapatnam district, on Monday night. The arrested was identified as Koda Krishna Rao of Labadampalli village of Balapam panchayat, who works for Korukonda Militia Committee. According to the district police, following instructions from senior Maoist leaders, Korukonda Militia Committee members have attempted to plant explosives on the route. Upon concrete information, a police team was deployed immediately. The police team noticed militia members and caught Krishna Rao. Police said that Krishna Rao is one among the most wanted militia members.
21 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Apollo launches Post-COVID Recovery Clinics||The Apollo Hospitals Group announced the launch of ‘Post-COVID Recovery Clinics’ across the hospital network on Monday. These clinics will address the needs of the rising number of patients, who have recovered from COVID, but are suffering from mid and long-term persistent effects of the infection.  Sami, Chief Operating Officer, Apollo Hospitals, Visakhapatnam, said that these clinics would help patients to get the specialised care they need. For appointments, one can visit Apollo Hospitals, Visakhapatnam, either at Health City and Ramnagar, or call: 0891-2867777/2727272.
21 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sri Sathya Sai devotees plant saplings||Saplings were planted by the youth wing of Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisation to mark the ‘Avatar prakatana’ day of Sri Sathya Sai Baba on Tuesday. The youth wing, led by A. Ram Prasad, State youth coordinator, SSSSO, Andhra Pradesh, planted saplings at different places like temples and schools in the city.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Today’s alankaram||
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In full bloom||
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Today’s alankaram||
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cake mixing ceremony organised||A cake mixing ceremony was held at Novotel Visakhapatnam Varun Beach to mark the beginning of the joyous Christmas celebrations. The culinary team, led by executive chef Krishna Kishore, platted a host of nuts which consisted of tutti fruity, raisins, cashews, apricots and almonds with a variety of alcohol for the heady mix at the Poolside lawn. Ravi Rai, cluster general manager, was present.
21 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Disbursal of aid to rain-hit begins||The State government has started disbursal of financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 to poor families that faced the brunt of the recent deluge losing valuables as well as essentials that are stored in their houses. Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao said that three to four lakh people affected by the unprecedented floods would be extended financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 each. With Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announcing his government’s resolve to provide succour to affected families in Greater Hyderabad and certain other districts in the form of financial assistance as immediate relief, the government commenced distribution of the financial assistance in less than 24 hours of the announcement. Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao took the lead in the process visiting several affected areas throughout the day and interacting with residents in the affected areas braving the intermittent showers that lashed parts of the city. He enquired with the officials about the extent of the damage and the amounts that would be needed for providing permanent solutions to check the problems like water logging and inundation on account of heavy rains. He also sought information about the measures that should be taken to avoid occurrence of flood-like situations in future in spite heavy rainfall. Officials of the State administration as well as Ministers and MLAs fanned out into the affected areas to instil confidence among the affected families and distributed the assistance as announced by the Chief Minister. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar personally tracked the distribution process throughout the day and ensured that all the eligible beneficiaries were given the assistance. Mr. Rama Rao conducted whirlwind visits to the affected areas and enquired with the residents about the losses they incurred as well as the problems they were facing in the aftermath of the deluge. He assured that the government was committed to coming to their rescue and take steps to ensure that normalcy returned in these areas at the earliest. Mr. Rama Rao, accompanied by Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav and MLA Danam Nagender visited the MS Maktha in front of Raj Bhavan and distributed Rs. 10,000 each to affected families. He visited the Shaikpet area, one of the worst affected in the State capital, and enquired with the residents about the problems they were facing. The Minister made it a point to visit Nadeem Colony which continued to witness water-logging and affected areas in Nagole and distributed the assistance besides instilling confidence among the residents that the government would stand by them. He also asked all the public representatives to spend their time for the next one week in the rain affected areas and handover the financial assistance. MP Asad Uddin Owaisi, MLAs Danam Nagender, Sudheer Reddy, Mayor Bonthu Rammohan, and local GHMC corporators accompanied the Minister. Review meet Earlier in the day, the Minister held a review meeting with the city MLAs and MLCs at Pragathi Bhavan. He asked all the public representatives to stay on the ground for the coming ten days and assist the people. He instructed them to ensure toilets are set up apart from availability of medicines, blankets, and food. The Minister also appealed to the residential welfare associations and NGOs to come together and support the government in providing relief measures to the citizens. He assured that the government will come up with permanent solutions to avoid flood-like situations in the city. On the call given by the Chief Minister, K. Chandrasekhar Rao the city-based MLAs and MLCs decided to donate their two-month salaries to Chief Minister’s Relief Fund. Mr. KTR appreciated them for their decision.  (With inputs by R. Ravikanth Reddy)
21 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hopes pinned on opening of lake’s sluice gate||It has been a week since torrential rains on October 13 inundated several localities in and around Hyderabad, including hundreds of homes in Uma Maheshwar Colony, Kompally. The colony runs alongside Fox Sagar Lake. On Tuesday, scores of people came to see the efforts of experts to open sluice gate of the lake to send excess water into nalas. The efforts have been on for the past three days. Among those waiting a few metres from the work site were residents of the colony who are holding on to hope of the gate opening at the earliest so that the flood water recedes, allowing them to return to their homes. “It was at 11 p.m. last Tuesday that water level rose rapidly in a span of half hour and inundated our homes. We collected whatever we could and ran to safer places,” recalled V. Rameshwari, who waited for more than four hours hoping for the gate to open. Earlier flood She and others from the locality alleged that water had flooded their colony six years ago, although not a major one, but no corrective measures were taken then. As she started walking back, more people were headed towards the site where the team of experts was working. On the path leading to the sluice gate, a row of 14 shanties built on the banks of the lake are submerged. The smell of fish still emanates from thermocol boxes lying alongside the path. Around 14 families who rely on fishing started living in those shanties three years ago. One among them, B. Panduraju, said that when the water level started to rise last Tuesday night, they shifted some belongings out of their home. “But we had to leave when the water reached chest level. Our fishing nets worth Rs. 5-6 lakh were swept away into the lake. Now, we have to start from scratch, but we don’t know how will we do it,” Mr Panduraju said. Satya, an elderly woman who also lives there, said they did not eat for two days after water submerged their homes. She hopes for some compensation to get back to their routine. Pouring her heart out, Ms Rameshwari, who along with her husband and two children shifted to their relative’s home in Quthbullapur, said, “Will the wooden furniture and most other things be usable after they have remained in water for seven days? We have lost all hopes. We had built our home with all our savings; we cannot build it again. We only wish that the walls of our building are intact. People say the house is on land which encroaching the lake. If government officials had not given us the permission, we would not have built it there.” After the inundation, they managed to find a safe roof only because her relative D. Sharadha shifted from the colony to another locality after the minor flooding six years ago. Quthbullapur MLA K.P. Vivekananda flagged the rumours of a breach being made to the lake as false. Experts from Nagarjuna Sagar dam and Srisailam dam were on the job of opening the sluice gate. He, along with Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar inspected the works at the gate on Tuesday, and said that water from the sluice gate will be sent into nalas and that it won’t pose a problem to low-lying areas.  Will wooden furniture and other things be usable after they have remained in water for seven days? We have lost all hopes. V. Rameshwari, Resident of Kompally
21 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A deluge of claims awaiting insurance companies||From damaging automobiles, flooding properties to ripping portions of roads, the havoc wreaked by torrential rain in Hyderabad and its suburbs is set to flood general insurance companies with claims in the days ahead. They have begun in the form of motor claims, said sources in insurance industry, estimating property damage claims arising from the downpour to be around Rs. 500 crore. In case of a flood-like scenario, two lines of business that get impacted are motor and property insurance. Stating this, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance Chief Technical Officer T.A. Ramalingam said the number of motor claims are bound to be relatively high and have started coming. “We expect a couple of more days’ time before we get the full impact of the number of claims [as some areas are still waterlogged],” he said. The cost of repairs of automobiles, especially new generation vehicles equipped with electronics, is likely to be an expensive affair. While that is an issue for vehicle owners and how much own damage insurance have they opted, for the automobile service sector the challenge is to handle the increase in the number of vehicles. At the over 50 authorised Maruti Suzuki service centres, the emphasis is on expediting the turnaround, according to a senior executive of the company’s service division. Severely damaged cars, however, require more time to be brought back to running condition, especially those that remained under water for more than 24 hours. Besides authorised centres, a number of private multi-brand garages also are witnessing increase in the number of vehicles coming for repairs following the rain. Bal Reddy of S.K. Motors Bosch Car Service in ECIL said his workshop is receiving 3-4 rain rain impacted cars every day. According to him, workshops in some areas remain shut because of water logging. Most of the cars damaged are those parked on the road, he says, adding there also are likely to be cases where the cost of repairs will be more than the resale value. Not all service centres are willing to undertake repairs on such cars as it is a time-consuming process, sometimes requiring a couple of months. Senior surveyor P. Sowjanya Kumar said the insurance industry is estimating Rs. 500 crore of property damage in the rain. “Usually the reported claims are high, but the net will be less as the insured’s psychology is to report everything as damaged,” he said. Noting that many claims were being reported, he said roads also form part of insurance and are covered, by the road contractors, under operational policy. A clear picture on claims will take sometime. Reliance General Insurance ED and CEO Rakesh Jain said, “We have received 150 motor insurance claims and 21 commercial claim intimations. It is too early to determine the actual count and quantum of claims, as claims related to MSMEs start flowing 10 days after occurrence of the event. Going by the magnitude of the flood and property impacted, the actual claim numbers are expected to be high and we will be able to assess the situation fully only once the flood water recedes.”
21 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MoU on industry-oriented curriculum||Cyient has signed an MoU with Warangal-based SR University, a collaboration as part of which the digital engineering and technology solutions company will help the university develop an industry-oriented curriculum focused on advanced manufacturing systems. “This will greatly help reduce the skill gap between the need and availability of resources trained in areas such as design for additive manufacturing,” a release on Monday from Cyient announcing the signing of the MoU said. Cyient has been a key promoter and user of additive manufacturing technology and has established polymer and metal additive manufacturing facilities in India and in the US. It has trained over 100 associates in design for additive manufacturing through its comprehensive internal training programme. The company will share its expertise in the field to further faculty and student research at SR University, the release said. Senior vice-president of Cyient Rajendra Velagapudi said this collaboration will help advance the additive manufacturing industry in India which is a key tenet of the Make In India initiative. “We will develop industry-ready engineers with the capabilities in additive manufacturing to build cutting-edge solutions. Further, Cyient will look to its academic partners such as SR University to lead innovation through industry-aligned research and development in the field of advanced materials, design, and process controls,” he said. SR University vice-chancellor G.R.C Reddy said advanced manufacturing tools like digital manufacturing, flexible automation, additive manufacturing and autonomous robots have the potential to influence manufacturing landscape in increasing productivity. They can boost innovation too.
21 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flood victims return to ramshackle homes||Flood victims of several colonies in Chandrayangutta have begun to return to their dank homes, braving the possibility of collapse any time. Musty walls, sludge and vegetation knee deep on streets, soggy mattresses and pillows, and rotten rations are greeting them and reminding them of the mountainous work ahead before they can resume normal lives. Minister K.T.Rama Rao’s appeal to the residents of flood-affected areas to stay in the relief camps set up by the government has found no takers here. Mr. Rama Rao, during a press conference, cautioned about weakening of the flood-soaked structures, and urged the residents to move to relief camps. Helpless and clueless “Where are the relief camps? We do not know about any relief camp. Nobody has come to tell us, nor has volunteered to take us there. We are waiting in the hope of receiving financial assistance announced by the government,” says Md. Iqbal, a resident of Kabgir Nagar Colony near Falaknuma. Escaping the flood-ravaged colony, he moved to his relatives’ house in another locality close by along with his wife, parents, brother and sister-in-law, after sending the four children in the family to his in-laws’ place. “For how many days can we stay in relatives’ home? It will be a burden for them too to feed six of us,” he says. The entire family is presently engaged in cleaning the house. Reports are arriving from Omar Colony of Hafiz Baba Nagar, Royal Colony in Balapur, Hashamabad in Chandrayangutta, Nimrah Colony in Falaknuma, Ali Nagar in Mylardevpally, Talabkatta Chacha Garage, and Dhobi Ghat in Yakutpura, that several families are returning to their decrepit homes, many of which are nothing but walls and asbestos roof. Financial help announced by the government is one more enticement for them to return, informed local volunteers. Volunteers step in While no official or politician has visited them so far, philanthropists and youth activists are streaming in with food and other necessities. “If not for them, we would have been in dire straits. All our utensils have been washed away, and the ration is rotten. We are penniless and not in a condition to find work either,” says Mr.Iqbal.
21 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MAUD to enumerate losses caused by floods||The State Government has given detailed instructions to the civic authorities for enumeration of the losses incurred by the people, especially the poor living in the low lying areas due to the heavy rains and floods in the recent past. The orders come in the light of the Chief Minister, Mr K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s announcement that the government was committed to go to the rescue of the poor who suffered miseries because of the heavy rain that hit the city after more than a century.  Series of measures The Chief Minister accordingly announced a series of measures that would be initiated by the Municipal Administration & Urban Development Department (MAUD) and this was immediately followed by release of Rs. 550 crore to the Municipal Administration department to start relief works in the right earnest. According to the orders issued late on Monday evening, the government had set a deadline of seven days for the officials concerned to ensure that problems in the affected areas were redressed so that life returned to normalcy in these areas. The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) commissioner had been asked to constitute three-member inter-departmental teams comprising Special officer, Grater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) official and Revenue/other department officials locality wise. Enumeration for distribution of relief amount should cover all the inundated houses without any omission covering such localities including slums and other such areas severely impacted by the rains. Geo-coordinates Special care should be taken to ensure that individual/group of houses which belong to the poor persons, slums, areas belonging to the vulnerable sections and other such downtrodden sections which were impacted by the heavy rains were covered by the distribution of aid. Distribution of the relief amount should be done at the doorstep of the affected families and would be done through an App that would capture the Geo-coordinates of the family concerned and its details which would cover relevant details including Aadhaar numbers. The government had decided to involve public representatives in the distribution of the relief material and officials had been directed to ensure that there was no duplication in distribution and that each family would get the relief only once. Officials should take adequate care to ensure that acknowledgment was obtained from the concerned head of family and this would be counter signed by the three officers to avoid duplication. The same procedure should be adopted in the other urban local bodies which were affected by the heavy rain/flood with the constitution of teams of three officials each by the district collector in consultation with the municipal authorities concerned. The Chief Minister, Mr K. Chandrasekhar Rao, reviewed with senior officials of the government the situation arising out of the incessant rains that resulted in inundation of many low-lying areas in the State during the last week resulting in displacement of people and damage to civic infrastructure in the GMC and other urban local bodies.
21 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Heavy rain lashes Hyderabad||Heavy rain lashed many parts of the city on Tuesday, starting around noon, and continuing up to evening hours with varying intensities. While the rainfall and the related destruction has been less when compared with the previous bouts, the downpour was nevertheless considerable in quantity. As per the automatic weather monitoring stations across the city, Dammaiguda has received the maximum rainfall at over five centimetres, followed by Peerzadiguda at three centimetres. South Hastinapuram, Tarnaka, Habsiguda, L.B.Nagar, Santoshnagar, Bandlaguda, Hayatnagar, Prashanth Nagar, Attapur, Sardarmahal, Asmangadh and other areas too have received considerable rainfall. While roads still got inundated at several locations, traffic jams were lower when compared with previous bouts. Waste removal Department of Meteorology has predicted thunderstorm accompanied with lightning very likely to occur at isolated places over Telangana over the coming two days, under the impact of depression in Central Bay of Bengal, and the upper air circulation. The depression may deepen, and travel towards Northwest in the coming 48 hours and North-Northwest in subsequent three days. Generally cloudy sky is likely to prevail in Hyderabad, with one or two spells of rain or thundershowers, it said. Meanwhile, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation has identified 7,608 heaps of garbage at various locations in the city, following the flooding. So far, a total of 8,293 metric tonnes of waste has been removed, 4,782 MT of it from Charminar zone alone. A total of 277 additional vehicles are being deployed to remove the garbage, a statement from GHMC said.
21 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘No leader or officer has visited our area’||It has been a harrowing experience for the residents of Barkas, especially those living south of the Gurram Cheruvu bund, following the lake bund breach. Residents of Hamshan Colony, Ali Gulshan Colony and Sayeed Colony say when the waters rose as rains lashed the city last Tuesday night, alarm bells went off. By Wednesday, without warning, water gushed into the neighbourhoods. This Tuesday, almost a week later, help was yet to arrive. Unbearable stench “I called leaders so many times and there has been no response. No government officer has come to take stock of the situation. All you can see are four or five GHMC sanitation workers who are trying to clear the muck off the roads. What can only four or five people do? The stench here is unbearable,” said Ali bin Abdallah, a resident of the area, even as he points to bags of spoiled rice, wet and soiled mattresses, adding that a large number of residents are daily wage earners. Later in the day, a couple of trucks arrived, and began clearing slush and mud. The simmering anger over a delayed response among the locals was palpable. When the waters rose, they only had each other’s help. TJ workers on the job A short distance away, Tablighi Jamaat (TJ) workers, wearing latex gloves and armed with mops, were seen clearing properties of muck. “The Mallepally Markaz asked us to come here to clean houses. So far, we must have cleaned 100 houses,” said a man who identified himself as Waris, a TJ worker. There are two educational institutions on both sides of the road — the Madrasa-e-Ilahia, which imparts religious education, and the Al Qarmoshi Global School, which prepares students for Secondary School Certificate exams. “Our school recognition and extension of recognition certificates are damaged. Old records have been washed away. What will we do now,” asked Mohammed Abdul Raheem Al Qarmoshi, who has been teaching at the school for over 20 years. Masood bin Abdul Raheem from the madrassa on the other side of the slush covered road asks something similar. “We are still waiting for help from leaders and baldiya (GHMC) officials. Our religious books are drenched as the water here reached over 5 feet hight,” he said. A banana seller in Hamshan Colony opened the small wicket gate to his house, pointed inside and said, “There is nothing left.”
21 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||INCOIS cautions of high velocity winds, swells and flooding on coasts||Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS) cautioned about the possibility of flooding in low lying coastal areas during the high tides on both the east and west coasts till October 22. Sustained strong onshore winds reaching upto 50 kmph, high near shore waves/swells and heavy rainfall and associated discharge can cause inconvenience to the public in these areas during the day time on the west coast at Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka and Kerala. On the East Coast, flooding is expected to occur during both day and night at West Bengal, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Lakshadweep and Andaman & Nicobar Islands. It has advised fishermen on either coasts not to venture out during this period. Third mock drill Indian Tsunami Early Warning Centre of INCOIS on Tuesday had also issued four test bulletins between 11.30 a.m. and 12.30 p.m. to simulate the third and last Tsunami mock drill this month. ‘Warnings’ of an ‘earthquake magnitude 9.0’ off Pakistan coast to test the preparedness was issued to all 25 Indian Ocean rim countries, 10 nations including India, Iran, Kenya, Madagascar, Maldives, Mauritius, Oman, Pakistan, Seychelles and United Arab Emirates actively participated to test their warning chains and standard operating procedures. Exercise ‘IOWave20’ and other two scenarios were simulating earthquake magnitude 9.1 in Java Region, Indonesia on October 6, earthquake magnitude 9.2 in Andaman trench of India on October 13. West coast States/UTs of Kerala, Lakshadweep Islands, Karnataka, Goa, Maharashtra, and Gujarat took part in the exercise. Indian Navy, Coast Guard, NDRF, nuclear power plants and ports and harbours also participated. The drill was limited to check communication channels instead of public evacuation because of COVID-19 pandemic. Results of the exercise will be sought through a questionnaire and analysed to rectify any shortcomings, said INCOIS director T. Srinivasa Kumar. Buoy recovered INCOIS, which had deployed a ‘Flux Buoy Mooring’ designed by the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI), US, in the Bay of Bengal on May 23 last year as part of the Ocean Mixing and Monsoon project under the Ministry of Earth Sciences (MoES) National Monsoon Mission Program, has been recovered by the scientific vessel ORV Sagar Nidhi few days ago. The sophisticated flux buoy and mooring system is heavily equipped with surface marine meteorological and sub-surface oceanographic sensors to observe the annual cycle of the surface, upper ocean temperature, salinity, and velocity structure at select depths to help in improving the ocean and atmospheric forecast models. It is first of its kind deployed in Indian Ocean and designed to acquire data for one year, said Mr. Kumar
21 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HYSEA annual summit to be held on Nov. 5||HYSEA Innovation Summit 2020, the 28th edition of the annual summit of Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association, comprising a conference, product expo and industry awards will be held on November 5. With ‘Surge ahead: win the new normal’ as its theme, the event will be take place in a hybrid (virtual and physical) mode, HYSEA president Bharani K Aroll said on Tuesday. The virtual conference and expo will happen from 9 a.m. to 1.30 p.m., while the awards function will be held at HICC from 5 p.m. onwards. For the awards function, the attendance will be limited to 100 people. Industries and IT Minister K. T. Rama Rao will be the chief guest. More than 150 start-ups and over 1,000 delegates, including around 200 IT Industry leaders, are expected to attend the event virtually, which will feature keynotes and panel discussions. A white paper on ‘Post-Covid imperatives for Hyderabad IT industry’ is to be launched at the summit. Prepared in association with KPMG, CBRE and TS government, the report covers aspects like how the businesses and government responded to the pandemic and how they are preparing for the future.
21 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Discom plea to apartment dwellers||In the wake of unprecedented rains and flood in the GHMC area this season, Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd (TSSPDCL) has suggested the consumers, particularly those living in apartments, to shift their energy meters and panel boards from cellars and ground floor to first floor to avoid power supply breakdown in rainy season. According to officials of the Southern discom, the utility has suffered a loss of about Rs.2 crore in GHMC limits due to heavy rains and flooding. Of the 1.17 lakh distribution transformers in the GHMC area, about 1,170 were either affected or damaged in the floods/rains. Of the affected transformers, only 89 have not been charged, not reconnected or power supply not restored, including 32 in apartments and 57 in public areas. Of the 1,295 damaged poles, 37 were yet to be replaced. Discom officials suggested buildings of new apartments to allot some space, at least 10×10 feet on the first floor in case of small apartments for installation/fixing panel board and other power related equipment including energy reading meters to avoid situations like the present ones. The discoms has recommended including such a provision while giving building permissions.
21 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rescue rain-hit ryots: Cong.||The Congress party has requested the Telangana and Central governments to come to the rescue of the farming community that has been facing nature’s fury in the form of excessive rain in the State, causing extensive damage to standing crops. In the absence of insurance coverage to crops following a dispute between the State and Central governments over bearing the share of premium amount, the farmers were not in a position to get any compensation, senior legislator and former minister T. Jeevan Reddy said on Tuesday. Only the reimbursement of cultivation costs at Rs. 20,000 per acre could alone bring the farmers out of the present crisis as the prospects of crop production had gone down to one-third of normal/expected quantity. Mr. Jeevan Reddy, who also addressed a letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on the hand-holding needed by the farming community, requested the State government to conduct a field survey on the damage caused by the rains to crops.
21 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kaloji varsity to offer Master’s in Public Health||Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences has issued notification seeking applications for admission into the Master’s couse in Public Health (MPH) 20-21 through an online entrance examination proposed to be held on Nov.10 in Hyderabad. Age is no bar and graduates of any discipline can apply for the course from Oct.21 to Nov.4, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Log onto -http://knruhs.telangana.gov.infor applying online and for more details.
21 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRR Medical College gets approval for 150 seats||The TRR Institute of Medical Science, Patancheru, has been given sanction for 150 seats for the 2020-21 academic year to run the MBBS courses. TRR Group chairman T. Rammohan Reddy in a statement here said that the college has fulfilled all the criteria and created facilities to offer the course. With the addition of these new seats the number of MBBS seats in Telangana has increased to 5,040.
21 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kishan to contribute 3 months’ salary||Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy has announced he will contribute his three months’ salary towards relief measures due to the heavy rainfall and flooding in the twin cities. The Minister said on Tuesday he is continuously monitoring the situation and extending all the assistance required for the relief operations. He had personally visited the affected areas in the city and expressed his deep concern over the situation, a press release said.
21 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSWREI last date extended||Last date for submission of online applications for free long-term intensive NEET coaching at Telangana Social Welfare Gowlidoddi residential educational institution has been extended from Oct. 20 to Oct 30. Interested boys and girls from Scheduled Castes (SC) are requested to visit the Telangana Social Welfare Residential Educational Institution Society websitewww.tswreis.infor details.
21 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Academic certificates to be reissued free of cost||The State government has decided to issue fresh educational certificates to students who have lost them in the floods. The certificates will be issued free of cost. Several parents and students had expressed worry after the certificates were either lost or damaged with their houses being inundated due to the unprecedented floods. The government has directed the Commissioner of school education, Intermediate education, Collegiate education and technical education as well as registrars of universities to issue fresh or duplicate certificates as and when the students apply, either online of offline. All the students who require a copy of their lost certificate can apply to the concerned authority duly giving details of name, type of exam, hall ticket number and year of exam. Applications can be made online or offline.
21 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Course on health planning for hearing impairment||International centre for evidence for disability, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, UK & South Asia Centre for disability inclusive development & research of the Indian Institute of Public Health, Hyderabad of the Public Health Foundation of India are jointly conducting an online short course on ‘Public Health Planning for Hearing Impairment (PHPHI)’ from November 23 to December 4, 2020. Course highlights are: International and national experts in hearing care, nominal registration fee, scholarships for deserving candidates on a first-come-first-serve basis, group discount and certification from PHFI & LSHTM. Aim of this course is to enable participants to understand the magnitude and causes of hearing impairment and the challenges of providing hearing health in developing countries. The course will familiarise participants with public health approaches to ear and hearing care and show how to develop programmes for prevention and management. It is also to build the capacity of the participants in planning for control of hearing impairment and deafness in their respective communities. For registration and details, please contact the course in-charge and director Dr G.V.S. Murthy at email address:murthy.gvs@iiphh.org Weblink https://phfi.org/training /public-health-planning-for-hearing-impairment-phphi workshop/
21 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,486 COVID cases in TS||Telangana recorded 1,486 COVID-19 cases on Monday taking the total to 2,24,545. Seven more COVID-19 patients died. While 42, 99 people underwent tests on October 19, results of 923 were awaited. The new cases include 235 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 112 from Rangareddy, 102 from Medchal Malkajgiri,98 from Bhadradri Kothagudem,89 from Khammam,82 from Nalgonda. Of the 42, 99 people who underwent examination for coronavirus, 40,765 opted government facilities and the remaining 1,534 got tested at private labs. From March 2 to October 19, 38, 98,829 samples were tested and 2,24,545 were positive.
21 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Page 3 - brief Appointed as Dean||Sujatha Mukiri, Department of Communication, School of Inter-Disciplinary Studies, has been appointed Dean, School of Inter-Disciplinary Studies, English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) by Vice-Chancellor E. Suresh Kumar. Her tenure will be for a period of three years, sources said.
21 October 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Teaching craft skills to the mentally disabled||The vocational training centre at Shanthi Nilayam, the home for mentally retarded girls, in Bonakal is striving to promote vocational skills cum craft activities among its inmates apart from catering to their special needs through various interventions such as special education, speech and physiotherapy. Set up in 2004 by a non-governmental organisation, the institution has won accolades for its consistent services to mentally retarded girls with compassion. It opened a vocational training centre in January this year to impart vocational training to the inmates. The centre has carved out a niche for itself in a short span with the organisers taking keen interest to make utility items such as paper plates and glasses as well as sanitary pads. The centre is also helping women from poor families of the mandal learn the vocational skills and tread the path of financial self-reliance. As many as 68 mentally retarded girls from both Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are presently sheltered in the home. “We have been consistently providing special education, various therapies to our inmates to improve their speech and language skills besides promote their overall well-being,” said Sister Alphie, the in-charge of the home, who hails from Kerala. Bishop Maipan Paul of Khammam RCM Church and other philanthropists are supporting us in our endeavour, she said. The vocational training centre has made the home self-sufficient in terms of meeting the requirement of utility items such as sanitary napkins, she remarked.
21 October 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Recent floods continue to test Musi Project||Musi project in Nalgonda continues to face one of the biggest tests of flood in its 57 years of service, as torrential rain in upstream Hyderabad threaten to continue heavy inflows. The project which can hold 4.46 tmc ft water at full reservoir level (FRL) of 645 feet and provide irrigation to 30,000 acres in its command area, has set new records this season. Not only has the impounded water crossed the FRL by up to three feet, but also the outflow, on October 14 alone, was an unprecedented 16 tmc ft, 3.58 times the project’s gross capacity. The total discharge for two successive days was 25 tmc ft, say officials. By contrast, the total discharge from the project to downstream between June and October this year was 38 tmc ft. The recent bout of heavy rains is is also one of the rarest times when officials breached a section of the dam to let out up to 25,000 cusecs of water. The dam was breached near the abutting Ratnapuram village in “an emergency move”. According to records at the project office, the 1983 flood saw the maximum inflows of about 2.28 lakh cusecs, in comparison the project received nearly 2.5 lakh cusecs in the past few days. The maximum flood capacity of the project is 4 lakh cusecs. In 2005 and 2013, water levels rose up to the embankment, however, related figures of inflows and outflows were unavailable. Threat to dam? Is the current swelling flood a threat to the dam? District Minister and Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy recently dismissed the question of a threat and said: “There is no danger to Musi or the ayacut. This is an unprecedented flood, from Hyderabad and Bikkeru Vagu, receiving more than 2 lakh cusecs. We breached a section of the dam and officials are monitoring the levels.” However, the project officials said: “The question of Musi dam safety is dependent on the gates and their operation and their capacity to withstand the flows and not about the volume of flood received and discharged. The structure is fine.” Maintenance of the project was in question in October 2019, when a regulatory gate got washed away, and more than 4 tmc ft impounded water, at 643 feet, drained in a few days. This brought into focus the maintenance as all the gates had been replaced with new ones at an estimated cost of Rs. 18 crore in 2015. Thankfully, subsequent bountiful rains filled the reservoir, which not only saved face for the administration but also served the needs of the farmers in the ayacut. The recent rains too tested the maintenance of the project. On October 14, when 13 gates (of the total 12 crest gates and eight regulatory gates) were operated to a height of 10 feet, crest gate no. 9 failed to open as its counterweight had snapped in August this year. Fortunately, the 35-ton beam did not break the gate, but fell away. The gate is not working well, the officials agree. On Tuesday, when this correspondent visited the site, workers and welders were busy patching up the foot of regulatory gate no. 2. Other gates also show leakages, or throw up problems at closing and opening, officials said. It is not just the gates, the nearly six-decade-old dam is also visibly old, with the meagre staff that is ready for retirement, and the decrepit stairs and cracked structures. The border railings of the earth dam and the gate columns, braced with sticks and wires like bandages, welcome officials and visitors alike.
21 October 2020||R. AvadhaniSIDDIPET,TELANGANA||We will present oustees’ case to NGT: activist||Md. Hayath Udin, who filed a case at the Principal Bench of National Green Tribunal (NGT) at New Delhi, opined that the judgment delivered by the bench on Tuesday will offer justice to the land oustees under Kaleshwaram as the entire project was constructed without getting environmental clearance. “We are not against the project but let the farmers get justice for the lands and houses they lost from Kannepalli in Jayashankar Bhupalpally district to Yadadri Bhongir district. Several oustees were not offered Rehabilitation and Resettlement by the government. Now we will see that they should also get right compensation for the sacrifices they made for the construction of irrigation projects in the State,” Mr. Hayath Udin told The Hindu . He said that the arguments and sufferings of all oustees would be presented before the seven-member committee that would be constituted as per directions by the NGT.
21 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Harish accuses Cong, BJP of misinformation campaign||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao called upon the party activists to be active on social media and refute the allegations being levelled against the party. “Goebbels campaign is being taken up by both the BJP and Congress against our party. Do not remain silent. Refute the allegations with proofs. Tell the people what we have done so far and what we are planning to do. Telangana stood as a role model for development and the entire nation is looking at our State. Explain this to the people,” said Mr Harish Rao while interacting with the TRS party activists at Dubbak on Tuesday. In another programme held at Toguta, where Congress mandal president Lakshma Goud joined the party, Mr Harish Rao said that the Congress leaders are responsible for the delay in execution of Mallannasagar and Kondapochammasagar projects by approaching the courts. He wondered how the Congress leaders could seek votes after filing cases against Kaleshwaram project.
21 October 2020||New Delhi,||Gulfisha’s statutory bail plea rejected||A Delhi court has rejected statutory bail plea of student activist Gulfisha Khatoon, arrested under the anti-terror law UAPA, in a case related to the Delhi riots. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat also rejected similar statutory bail applications made separately by Saleem Khan and Tasleem Ahmed, who also have been charged under the stringent UAPA in connection with the riots. “There is no merit in the present application,” the judge said while dismissing the statutory bail pleas. Ms. Khatoon, in her plea, stated that she has been in judicial custody for over 183 days. She contended that no chargesheet has been filed by the police and, therefore, she has the right to be released on bail.
21 October 2020||Bhopal,||BSP will emerge as kingmaker in M.P. bypolls: State party chief||Madhya Pradesh Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) president Ramakant Pippal has exuded confidence that the party would pose a tough fight to the BJP and the Congress in the forthcoming by-election and emerge as kingmaker. “Voters have lost faith in both the parties,” Mr. Pippal told The Hindu . “While they voted out the BJP in 2018 as it didn’t keep its promises over the years, the Congress betrayed their mandate as they couldn’t keep their flock together and defections brought down the government.” In 2018, the BSP secured two seats in the Vidhan Sabha and supported the Congress to form the government along with four independent MLAs and the lone Samajwadi Party legislator. When asked which way the party will swing this time, Mr. Pippal claimed, “We will hold the key to the government. Behenji (BSP president Mayawati) will take a call later.” While the BJP requires nine seats to retain government, the Congress needs to bag all the seats to return to power single-handedly. To canvass for candidates on the 28 seats, nine reserved for Scheduled Castes (SC) and two for Scheduled Tribe candidates, the BSP will raise the issues of continuing atrocities against Dalits, including the Hathras case, custodial deaths in the State, plight of migrant workers in the Gwalior-Chambal region during the lockdown and inability of the Congress to implement 27% Other Backward Classes reservation in government jobs and educational institutions, which has been challenged in court. The Congress also hadn’t kept its promise of dropping cases against Dalit youth for reportedly taking part in the April 2018 protests against the Supreme Court order on the atrocities Act, Mr. Pippal claimed. This time, two former Congress leaders are contesting on a BSP ticket in the Gwalior-Chambal region. Congress sources said former State Congress Scheduled Castes wing president Mahendra Boddh was likely to be a strong contender against Congressman Phool Singh Baraiya, a former BSP leader, on the Bhander seat. The BSP enjoyed support in the Chambal and Vindhya Pradesh, especially among Jatavs, said Yatindra Singh Sisodia, director, Madhya Pradesh Institute of Social Science Research, Ujjain. “The party has a committed vote of 2.5-12% which favours it irrespective of the candidate,” he said. The conservative idea that the BSP’s strong performance caused the Congress damage wasn’t applicable to Madhya Pradesh anymore, he said. “Dalits don’t just vote for the BSP or the Congress. The BJP, through social engineering, has been able to secure a sizeable non-Jatav vote over the years.” According to the CSDS-Madhya Pradesh Post-Poll Survey 2018, the BJP enjoyed the support of 25% SC voters, the Congress 48% and the BSP 19%. Still, the BSP vote share has declined over the years in Madhya Pradesh, from 7.26% in 2003 to 5.07% in 2018. In the previous election, the party registered its strongest presence in Chambal, securing 13.08% of the vote on 35 seats. Most voters in the 26-35 years age group, at 28%, across the State supported the BSP in the 2018 election, according to the survey. ‘Dalits with Congress’ Dismissing the BSP role in the by-election, Congress media in-charge for the Gwalior-Chambal region K.K. Mishra said Dalits would favour the Congress for the pro-poor policies of the erstwhile Kamal Nath government. “We have kept the election promise of waiving crop loans of farmers, including those from the SCs,” he said. Meanwhile, BJP spokesman Pankaj Chaturvedi said Rajya Sabha M.P. Jyotiraditya Scindia and his supporters enjoyed considerable support among the Dalits. “If at all, BSP’s strong presence will damage the Congress,” he claimed. The by-elections were necessitated after 25 Congress MLAs, 19 pledging support to Mr. Scindia, joined the BJP, while three seats fell vacant after deaths of sitting MLAs.
21 October 2020||CUTTACK,||HC allows Puri temple to celebrate Durga puja||Recognising the importance of the rituals of the Shree Jagannath Temple in Odisha, the Orissa High Court on Tuesday allowed the Satasahi Puja Committee of Puri to go ahead with the Durga puja even as the idol size of the deity is taller than the stipulated size fixed by the State government. The State government in September this year had restricted among others, the idol sizes of the deities to only four feet as part of its COVID-19 guidelines. “As a one-time measure, if the idol of the committee has already been constructed beyond four feet and having connection with the rituals of Shree Jagannath Temple, which has got special status in Odisha, this Court does not want to disturb the same and allows the petitioner (Satasahi Puja Committee) to go ahead with puja,” said an order delivered on Tuesday by a Division Bench headed by Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq. The High Court also directed the Puri district administration to make separate arrangements for immersion.
21 October 2020||Mumbai,||PNB hasn’t recovered any money from Nirav Modi, Mehul Choksi: RTI reply||The Punjab National Bank (PNB) has neither recovered any cash nor any amount from the auction of various assets seized from fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi, according to a reply given by the bank under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. Mr. Modi and Mr. Choksi, the prime accused in the alleged fraudulent issuance of Letters of Undertaking, collectively owe Rs. 15,423.39 crore to the bank. Mr. Modi was arrested in London and his extradition is pending. The information dated September 28, 2020, was provided to social worker Jeetendra Ghadge.The bank refused to reveal the total assets seized from the duo.
21 October 2020||Mumbai,||Court acquits 20 foreign attendees of Tablighi event||Ruling that “there is no iota of evidence”, a magistrate court in Andheri acquitted 20 foreign attendees of a Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi who were booked by the Mumbai Police for allegedly violating lockdown rules. Metropolitan magistrate R.R. Khan said, “The witnesses were not found in a position to tell where and how the accused were residing at the time of the alleged offence. Thus, there is no iota of evidence with prosecution to show any contravention of order beyond all shadow of doubt. During the imposition of lockdown, their taking ultimate shelter in a mosque or nearby will not render them responsible for such contravention.” The court said there is no legal evidence adduced by prosecution to show that accused infringed on the notification lawfully made under the Bombay Police Act.”
21 October 2020||Mumbai,||Sushant’s house help seeks Rs. 10 lakh for ‘illegal’ detention||Sushant Singh Rajput’s house help, Dipesh Sawant, has moved the Bombay High Court, seeking a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh for his ‘illegal’ detention by the Narcotics Control Bureau. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik heard the criminal petition filed by Mr. Sawant (25), through advocates Ravindra Rathore and Aamir Koradia. He has been out on bail since October 7. The petition states that on the statement of Kaizan Ebrahim, he was arrested on September 4 and taken in custody at 10 p.m. He was produced before the holiday magistrate court after more than 36 hours, on September 6. The next day, Mr. Ebrahim was granted bail. Mr. Sawant, however, continued to remain in custody till September 9. Soon thereafter, he was granted judicial custody.
21 October 2020||Mumbai,||Centre must pay GST dues worth Rs. 30,000 cr.: Thorat||State Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat on Tuesday said the Centre must help Maharashtra fight COVID-19 and provide relief to rain-hit farmers by paying GST dues worth Rs. 30,000 crore. “Maharashtra is in a financial crisis due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Central government should extend a helping hand in the current situation, where heavy rains have caused large scale damage, but it has not done so yet,” he said. The State government is also yet to receive its rightful GST refund worth Rs. 30,000 crore till the end of September. The Centre should clear this outstanding amount at the earliest,” said Mr. Thorat. He said the State has raised Rs. 55,000 crore for paying salaries and other expenses through loans.
21 October 2020||Pune,||‘MVA govt. should first extend relief to rain-affected farmers’||Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Tuesday targeted the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government for not yet announcing a relief package for rain-hit farmers in the State and tossing the ball into the Centre’s court to provide financial assistance. After surveying rain-hit regions in Osmanabad district, Mr. Fadnavis said, “It is high time the Uddhav Thackeray government stops playing politics over financial aid and shows sensitivity towards the plight of farmers. It has become the norm for the MVA leadership to point a finger at the Centre if anything happens.” He added, “Now the Prime Minister himself has called the Chief Minister and told him clearly that we [the Centre and the State] are together in this disaster. He has promised any help Maharashtra needs. In the meantime, the State should first extend some relief to the farmers on an urgent basis.” Mr. Fadnavis pulled out a video clip of Chief Minister Thackeray and Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar dismissing his announcement of a Rs. 10,000 crore package for farmers after the unseasonal rains in November 2019. In the video, Mr. Thackeray demanded that Mr. Fadnavis {the then caretaker Chief Minister) give immediate assistance of Rs. 25,000 to 50,000 per hectare to every afflicted farmer, while Mr. Pawar dubbed the relief package a “pittance”. Mr. Fadnavis said, “This is an ideal opportunity for Mr. Thackeray and Mr. Pawar to fulfil their promises as they are in power today. Last year, even though I was a caretaker Chief Minister, I immediately announced a relief of Rs. 10,000 crore for farmers without waiting for the Centre. I see no such action by Mr. Thackeray’s government when faced with a similar crisis today.” The BJP leader said while he was in no mood for ‘political talk’ during a crisis, the MVA government is persisting in politicising the issue. “It is said that where there is a will, there is a way. But where there is no will, there is only a survey and this government seems to lack all willpower… while I don’t want to play politics, I am astonished at the amount of politicisation done by ruling party leaders,” he said. Mr. Fadnavis approved of Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar’s suggestion to borrow loans to tackle the economic crisis and damage to crops wrought by the retreating monsoon. Mr. Fadnavis said despite the States having a provision for doling out relief under the State Disaster Response Fund, the Chief Minister had not announced anything yet. On Monday, Mr. Thackeray, during his visit to rain-hit areas in Solapur district, said that the Maharashtra government has not yet announced a relief package because the retreating monsoon is not yet over and the India Meteorological Department has predicted more showers this week.
21 October 2020||Pune,||Cases outpace recoveries for first time in 2 weeks||Maharashtra reported 8,151 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday to take its total case tally to 16,09,516. For the first time in nearly a fortnight, the recoveries were less than the case surge, with 7,429 patients being discharged. The State’s active cases stand at 1,74,265. With 213 more deaths, the death toll has reached 42,453. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 13,92,308, with the recovery rate rising to 86.5%. “Of a total of 82,51,234 laboratory samples tested thus far, 16,09,516 (19.51%) have returned positive, with around 66,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate stands at 2.64%. Pune district reported more than 1,100 cases to take its total case tally to 3,25,379, while 58 deaths — of which 51 are from an earlier period — saw its death toll climb to 6,561. Mumbai reported 1,091 cases to take its tally to 2,44,260, of which 19,553 are active. As many as 45 fatalities saw its toll rise to 9,864. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported 301 cases as its tally crossed 77,500. Eight deaths saw its toll rise to 2,018.
21 October 2020||Washington,||Fauci is a terrific guy but not a team player, says Trump||A day after claiming that the American people were tired of listening to Dr. Anthony Fauci, President Donald Trump insisted on Tuesday that he gets along with the nation’s top infectious disease specialist while also complaining that the doctor, who has clashed with him at times over the coronavirus pandemic, was not a “team player.” Mr. Trump’s strained relationship with Mr. Fauci has political overtones as the President defends his record on the coronavirus just two weeks before Election Day. Polls show him trailing Democrat Joe Biden in key battleground States, but Mr. Trump says he’s confident of victory. “He’s a nice guy,” Mr. Trump said of Mr. Fauci in a telephone interview with “Fox & Friends” from the White House ahead of an evening rally in Erie, Pennsylvania “The only thing I say is he’s a little bit sometimes not a team player,” Mr. Trump said, denying that the two were “at odds.” The President late on Monday wound up a western swing facing intense pressure to turn around his campaign and hoping for the type of last-minute surge that gave him a come-from-behind victory four years ago. But his inconsistent message, another rise in coronavirus cases and his attacks on experts like Mr. Fauci could jeopardise his final efforts to appeal to voters outside his most loyal base. “I’m not running scared,” Mr. Trump told reporters during the trip. “I’m running angry. I’m running happy, and I’m running very content ‘cause I’ve done a great job.” Mr. Trump’s aggressive travel comes as he plays defence in States he won four years ago, though the Republican President insisted he was confident as he executed a packed schedule despite the pandemic. Seeking to shore up the morale of his staff amid growing private concerns that he is running out of time to make up lost ground, Mr. Trump blasted his government’s own scientific experts as too negative, even as his handling of the pandemic, which has killed more than 220,000 people in the United States, remains a central issue to voters. “People are tired of hearing Fauci and all these idiots,” Mr. Trump said. “Every time he goes on television, there’s always a bomb. But there’s a bigger bomb if you fire him. But Fauci’s a disaster.”  Mr. Trump and Democratic rival Joe Biden will face off in the final debate this week. Mute button The debate will feature a mute button to allow each candidate to speak uninterrupted, the organisers said, looking to avoid the disruptions that marred the first matchup. The Trump campaign voiced objections to the change — made after the President repeatedly talked over both Mr. Biden and the moderator at last month’s debate in violation of its agreed-upon rules — but said the Republican would still take part in the Thursday night event.   (With Reuters inputs)
21 October 2020||COLOMBO,||‘Amendment needs referendum’||The controversial  20th Amendment aimed at  enhancing  the Sri Lankan President’s powers cleared its first hurdle when the country’s Supreme Court cleared it for passage. However, it identified four clauses that is said would require approval by the people at a referendum. Informing Parliament of the top court’s position on Tuesday, the Speaker said the proposed sections, including those exempting the President from being answerable to Parliament and providing him immunity from lawsuits, were against public sovereignty, and therefore needed approval in a public referendum, unless the sections are amended in line with the apex court’s determination. The Supreme Court’s determination came consequent to 39 petitions filed by opposition parties and civil society groups, challenging the 20th Amendment Bill, based on arguments that “it impacts the sovereignty of the people” and seeks to make the judiciary and legislature “subservient” to the executive. Unbridled powers Following up on its poll promise, the Rajapaksa administration introduced the 20th Amendment Bill in order to roll back the 19th Amendment, a 2015 legislation that clipped presidential powers and empowered Parliament. As per the proposed Bill, the President will have unbridled powers, while the Prime Minister’s office will be reduced to a ceremonial one. Though opposition parties have expressed fear that the Bill threatens to reduce the legislature to a “rubberstamp Parliament”, wider Opposition emerged more recently, including from members of the influential Buddhist clergy, Catholic bishops and the National Christian Council. While it remains to be seen what amendments the government might bring in, the Bill will be debated in Parliament on Wednesday and Thursday. If the four provisions cited by the Supreme Court are suitably amended, the Bill can be passed with a two-thirds majority.
21 October 2020||Beijing,||China’s super rich got $1.5 tn richer during pandemic: report||China’s super wealthy have earned a record $1.5 trillion in 2020, more than the past five years combined, as e-commerce and gaming boomed during pandemic lockdowns, an annual rich list said on Tuesday. An extra 257 people also joined the billionaires club in the world’s number-two economy by August, following two years of shrinking membership, according to the closely watched Hurun Report. The country now has a total of 878 billionaires. The U.S. had 626 people in the top bracket at the start of the year, according to Hurun in its February global list. The report found that there were around 2,000 individuals with a net worth of more than 2 billion yuan ($300 million) in August, giving them a combined net worth of $4 trillion. Jack Ma, founder of e-commerce titan Alibaba, once again topped the list after his wealth surged a whopping 45% to $58.8 billion as online shopping firms saw a surge in business. He was followed by Pony Ma ($57.4 billion), boss of gaming giant Tencent who made an extra 50% despite concerns about his firm’s U.S. outlook after it was threatened with bans there over national security fears.
21 October 2020||Washington,||U.S. files anti-trust lawsuit against Google||The Justice Department plans to accuse Google of maintaining an illegal monopoly over search and search advertising in a lawsuit to be filed on Tuesday, the government’s most significant legal challenge to a tech company’s market power in a generation, according to officials at the agency. In its suit, to be filed in a federal court in Washington, D.C., the agency will accuse Google, a unit of Alphabet, of illegally maintaining its monopoly over search through several exclusive business contracts and agreements that lock out competition, said the officials, who were not authorised to speak on the record. Such contracts include Google’s payment of billions of dollars to Apple to place the Google search engine as the default for iPhones. The agency will argue that Google, which controls about 80% of search queries in the United States, struck agreements with phone makers using Alphabet’s Android operating system to pre-load the search engine on their phones and make it hard for rival search engines to become a replacement. By using contracts to maintain its monopoly, competition and innovation has suffered, the suit will argue. The suit reflects the pushback against the power of the nation’s largest corporations, and especially technology giants like Google, Amazon, Facebook and Apple. Conservatives like President Donald Trump and liberals like Sen. Elizabeth Warren have been highly critical of the concentration of power in a handful of tech behemoths. Attorney General William P. Barr, who was appointed by Trump, has played an unusually active role in the investigation. He pushed career Justice Department attorneys to bring the case by the end of September, prompting pushback from lawyers who wanted more time and complained of political influence.Ny times
21 October 2020||Moscow,||Russia offers U.S. freeze on N-warhead numbers||Russia said on Tuesday it was ready to offer the U.S. a mutual one-year freeze on the number of nuclear warheads held by both countries in order to extend a landmark arms reduction deal due to expire next year. “Russia offers to extend the New START by one year and is ready to take on a political commitment with the United States to freeze the number of nuclear warheads both sides have for this period,” the Foreign Ministry said in a statement. Russian President Vladimir Putin last week proposed extending by one year the New START treaty, which caps the number of nuclear warheads held by Washington and Moscow and expires on February 5, 2021. The White House described the proposal as a “non-starter” unless accompanied by a freeze on the number of nuclear warheads. The Ministry said the suspension could only take place on the understanding that there were no “additional” demands from the U.S. But it added the extra time gained could be used for talks on the future control of nuclear weapons.
21 October 2020||Bangkok,||Thailand shuts down news site linked to ex-PM||A Thai news outlet connected to exiled former premier Thaksin Shinawatra was ordered to close on Tuesday over its coverage of anti-government protests that have rocked the capital for nearly a week. Voice TV, a website partly owned by Mr. Thaksin’s family, was one of four media organisations under investigation. Thousands of protesters have massed daily in the capital since last week, flouting an emergency edict prohibiting gatherings of more than four people. The largely leaderless youth movement is calling for the resignation of Prime Minister Prayut Chan-O-Cha — a former army chief and mastermind of a 2014 coup — as well as a re-writing of the military-drafted Constitution they say rigged last year’s election in his favour. They are also calling for the reform of the kingdom’s powerful and ultra-wealthy monarchy. “Media freedom is important but in some cases there are some media outlets disseminating distorted information that is inciting unrest,” Mr. Prayut said after a court order following a complaint from the Digital Economy Ministry.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Quad group should be formalised: Biegun||U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Stephen Biegun has said that eventually the Quad group of countries — India, the U.S., Japan and Australia — should become more formalised once the parameters of cooperation were understood. His statement comes days after the Defence Ministry announced that Australia will join the other three Quad countries in the Malabar naval exercises, three years after it had requested to participate in the exercise. “I will say that it is our view that in the passage of time, the Quad should become more regularised and at some point formalised as well as we really begin to understand what the parameters of this cooperation are and how we can regularise it,” Mr Biegun said on a briefing call to reporters on Wednesday. “That’s very important because the type of cooperation that we would gain in the Quad and ultimately in working with other countries in the Indo-Pacific is to have the practice of cooperation in place when we face a crisis, whether that comes in terms of natural disaster, economics, or even security.” Mr. Biegun, who is the second highest U.S. State Department official, was discussing his trip to India and South Asia last week and responding to a question on whether South Korea had been asked to join a “Quad plus” [expanded Quad] grouping. Mr Biegun said there is no policy to expand the Quad.
21 October 2020||Lahore,||Sharif’s daughter booked for holding anti-govt. rally||Former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif’s daughter and Opposition Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz’s vice-president, Maryam Nawaz, was on Tuesday booked along with more than 2,000 party members for holding an anti-government rally in Lahore. The rally by the 11-member Opposition alliance Pakistan Democratic Movement was held here on October 16 before the Gujranwala public meeting. Ms. Maryam had openly called Prime Minister Imran Khan a “coward, selected and puppet” in the rally, saying he hid behind the Army to cover up his nalaaiki (bad governance). She dared the “selected” Prime Minister to arrest her as she is not afraid of going to jail. The Pakistan Army, which has ruled the country for more than half of its 70 plus years of existence, has hitherto wielded considerable power in the matters of security and foreign policy. Husband named in FIR The First Information Report (FIR) was registered for chanting slogans against the government and the state institutions, causing trouble for citizens, blocking roads, using loudspeakers and microphones, and violating coronavirus standard operating procedures. Ms. Maryam’s husband Capt. (retd) Mohammad Safdar was also named in the FIR. He was earlier arrested in Karachi for allegedly violating the sanctity of Quaid-e-Azam mausoleum. He was later released on bail. Probe ordered Pakistan Army chief Qamar Javed Bajwa on Tuesday ordered an inquiry into the “incidents” that took place in Karachi. The Army chief directed the Karachi Corps Commander to “immediately inquire into the circumstances” to determine the facts and file a report as soon as possible, according to a statement issued by the military’s media wing. The statement did not specify which incident it was referring to, but it comes after PPP chairperson Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari called on “institutions” to investigate the circumstances surrounding the arrest of Mr. Safdar.
21 October 2020||Lahore,||Shehbaz Sharif sent to jail||Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N) chief and Opposition Leader in the National Assembly, Shehbaz Sharif, was sent to jail on Tuesday in a money laundering case. Mr. Shehbaz, the younger brother of three-time former Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, was arrested by the National Accountability Bureau (NAB) on September 28 after a court here rejected his bail application in the Rs 700 crore money laundering case. Next day, the 69-year-old former Chief Minister of Punjab province was sent on a physical remand by an accountability court. On Tuesday, an accountability court of Lahore rejected the NAB’s plea seeking further extension to his physical remand. ‘No questions asked’ Mr. Shehbaz told the court that NAB didn’t ask any questions about money laundering during his three weeks detention. Talking to reporters, Mr. Shehbaz criticised the Imran Khan government for arresting Mohammad Safdar, son-in-law of Nawaz Sharif. Mr. Shehbaz also termed unholy alliance of Imran Khan and NAB behind political victimisation of opposition leaders. He has been shifted to Kot Lakhpat jail in Lahore.
21 October 2020||Brasţlia,||Brasţlia, Oct 20, 2020 (AFP) -||Far-right President Jair Bolsonaro’s government threatens press freedom in Brazil by using “indirect censorship,” including virulent attacks against journalists, Reporters Without Borders said on Tuesday. “This stance of open hostility toward the press has become the government's trademark,” the agency said.AFP
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Offset dilution in defence, a flawed policy turn||Recently, the government diluted the “offset” policy in defence procurement, reportedly in response to a Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India’s report tabled in Parliament last month. Many contend that the move is a setback for augmenting domestic capabilities or for realising the goal of Atmanirbhar Bharat. But why is it a setback for the goals under Atmanirbhar Bharat? The experience with the procedure in the aerospace industry since 2005 seems to offer useful lessons in redesigning defence offsets. What is an offset policy? And how is it expected to boost domestic capabilities? What lessons can we draw from a similar system in the aerospace industry? These questions are addressed below. Offset ties up the ends Most countries restrict trade in defence equipment and advanced technologies in order to safeguard national interest. Yet, for commercial gains and for global technological recognition, governments and firms do like to expand the trade. Negotiated bilateral sales between countries are a way out of the dilemma. Soft credit often sweetens the deals, with restrictions imposed on use, modification and resale of such equipment and technologies, to protect the proprietary knowledge and expertise embedded in them. In such trade negotiations, the price of the product is one of the many other factors. Geopolitics and the technical knowhow involved in the equipment weigh-in considerably since the contracts are for the long term, with technological fixities. The product and technology compel buyers to stick to them for: the advantages of bulk purchase, and dependence on the supplier for spares and upgrades. In other words, there is considerable “path dependency” in such choices, rendering the decisions difficult to reverse. Developing country buyers often lack an industrial base and research and development (R&D) facilities (which take a long time to mature). The price and the terms of the contract often reflect the government’s relative bargaining strength and also domestic political and economic considerations. Large buyers such as India seek to exercise their “buying power” to secure not just the lowest price. They also try to acquire the technology to upgrade domestic production and build R&D capabilities. The offset clause — used globally — is the instrument for securing these goals. A number of changes Initiated in 2005, the offset clause has a requirement of sourcing 30% of the value of the contract domestically; indigenisation of production in a strict time frame, and training Indian professionals in high-tech skills, for promoting domestic R&D. However, the policy has been tweaked many times since. As of November 2019, as in a reply to a parliamentary question, the Defence Ministry had signed 52 offset contracts worth $12 billion via Indian offset partners, or domestic firms. The duration of these contracts extends up to 2022. According to the recent CAG report mentioned above, between 2007 and 2018, the government reportedly signed 46 offset contracts worth Rs. 66,427 crore of investments. However, the realised investments were merely 8%, or worth Rs. 5,457 crore. Reportedly, technology transfer agreements in the offsets were not implemented, failing to accomplish the stated policy objective. We are unable to verify the claim as the government has not put in place an automatic monitoring system for offset contracts, as initially promised. On September 28, the government has diluted this policy further. Henceforth, the offset clause will not be applicable to bilateral deals and deals with a single (monopoly) seller, to begin with. Setback for defence Most defence deals are bilateral (as stated above), or a single supplier deal (given the monopoly over the technology). The dilution means practically giving up the offset clause, sounding the death knell of India’s prospects for boosting defence production and technological self-reliance. The government, however, has defended the decision by claiming a cost advantage. It is a lamentable excuse for the reported policy failure. Price is but one of many factors in such deals, as explained above. The higher (upfront) cost of the agreement due to the offset clause would pay for itself by: reducing costs in the long term by indigenisation of production and the potential technology spill-overs for domestic industry. Hence, giving up the offset clause is undoubtedly a severe setback. Shortlived in aerospace The offset policy can, however, succeed, if it is designed and executed correctly, as a parallel episode in aerospace industry demonstrates. Despite the heft of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited, India is a lightweight in global civilian aircraft manufacturing, as the public sector giant mostly devotes itself to defence production. The much-touted National Civil Aircraft Development (NCAD) project — to come up with an indigenously designed Regional Transport Aircraft (RTA) — has remained a non-starter from day one. However, with the introduction of the offset policy in 2005, things changed dramatically. For contracts valued at Rs. 300 crore or more, 30% of it will result in offsets, implemented through Indian offset partners. As aerospace imports rose rapidly, so did the exports via the offsets, by a whopping 544% in 2007, compared to the previous year. By 2014, exports increased to $6.7 billion from a paltry $62.5 million in 2005, according to the United Nations Comtrade Database. The offset clause enabled India to join the league of the world’s top 10 aerospace exporters; the only country without a major domestic aerospace firm. The success was short-lived, however. Exports plummeted after the offset clause was relaxed, primarily when the threshold for the policy was raised from the hitherto Rs. 300 crore to Rs. 2000 crore, in 2016. The offset exports fell to $1.5 billion by 2019. The 2005 policy helped promote a vibrant aerospace cluster, mostly micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) around Bengaluru. The policy dilution undid success. The moral of the story is there for everyone to see. Aiding self-reliance Reportedly because of the CAG’s critical remarks in its latest report tabled in the Parliament, the government has virtually scrapped the defence offset policy. Thus, India has voluntarily given up a powerful instrument of bargaining to acquire scarce advanced technology — a system that large and politically ambitious nations seek to exercise. There are successful examples to draw lessons from, as the aerospace industry episode demonstrates. India needs to re-conceive or re-imagine the offset clause in defence contracts with stricter enforcement of the deals, in national interest, and in order to aim for ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan’, or a self-reliant India. Sunil Mani is Director, Centre for Development Studies, Thiruvananthapuram. R Nagaraj is Professor (retired), Indira Gandhi Institute of Development Research, Mumbai. The views expressed are personal
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Towards fewer deaths in Tamil Nadu||The COVID-19 pandemic is continuing to rage across the world. Europe is trying to tackle the second wave of cases and deaths. Its worried leaders are implementing frantic measures to prevent the spread of the disease and reduce the mortality rate. India’s COVID-19 spread India is caught in the first wave. It is slowly inching towards beating the U.S. in terms of cases and assuming the no. 1 position in the world, despite the amateurish way in which the U.S. is handling the pandemic. Why has India been unable to achieve what China or other East Asian countries have been able to achieve? One view is that India is not an authoritarian state like China. But India did impose a stringent lockdown in March when the country had just over 600 recorded cases. But now, to save the economy, it has been forced to open up despite having over 75 lakh cases. Many experts say the lockdown was premature, and the way it was implemented led to the spread of COVID-19 from major urban centres like Mumbai and Chennai to rural pockets in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, etc. Another view is that it did not prevent the spread much but only delayed the peak. Also, with movement restrictions imposed between States and districts, the virus was seen spreading at different rates in different districts and peaking at different times. As a result, India saw an increase in the number of cases and reached the peak in September. Hopefully, the decline in cases will continue. Unlike in Spain, Italy, France, etc., India did not reach the peak rapidly perhaps because districts were compartmentalised. We must now be prepared for the second wave if a vaccine or a proven cure is not found in the near future. Fortunately, India’s mortality rate is not as alarming as in the Western countries; with 1,08,000 COVID-19 deaths till October 10, India’s deaths per million is 78, against the world average of 138. The country’s younger age profile is cited as one reason. Natural immunity to the virus thanks to large-scale use of malarial drugs and the BCG vaccine might be another. Fortunately, India has suffered low mortality despite poor tertiary healthcare facilities in most States. Whatever may be the reasons, we hope that this holds up till the end. The main issue for policymakers is what can be done at this stage to keep cases and deaths under check. The Tamil Nadu picture Let me attempt to answer this question with reference to Tamil Nadu, a State with which I am familiar. The number of deaths due to COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu crossed 10,000 recently. Although the accuracy of this number is questionable, as it is with other States, this is the official figure, and we have to accept it for want of any independent survey. The question is whether the State has done better than others and whether anything more can be done to reduce mortality. In view of data inaccuracies, a useful measure of mortality is deaths per million/lakh of the population. The data for a few States are furnished in the table above. Surprisingly, Tamil Nadu has not done that well despite excellent tertiary healthcare infrastructure. Tamil Nadu has seen 14 deaths per lakh of the population against the national average of 7.8. This is far higher than Kerala’s figure of 3 deaths per lakh of the population. The State must attempt to reduce it to about 6 per lakh or 7 per lakh, below the national average. It is time to spell out what can be done to contain mortality, given the possibility of a second wave hitting us with no credible vaccine in place in time. Here are some suggestions. The State government along with many task forces and the best medical brains is already implementing some or many of these ideas.  Suggestions to contain mortality We have handled the pandemic mostly as a law and order problem, whereas it is primarily a public health issue. Therefore, public health professionals must lead the fight against the virus. The primary responsibility to prevent the spread lies with the public, most of whom do not seem to care. They must follow the guidelines strictly. However, the government also has a duty to properly educate them. It could launch an effective media campaign to bring high awareness among the public. My interactions with the public reveal considerable deficiency of information. Printed handouts must be given to every household along with media advertisements. In addition to well-known measures such as wearing masks and physical distancing, the public must be warned of the danger of being in a closed environment. They must be told how to seek timely medical assistance. An independent survey on public awareness should be conducted to create better awareness. Saving lives is the primary responsibility of the government. It is not that the government is unaware or has not done anything, but it must set a goal so that the number of deaths per lakh is reduced further. This is achievable if there is a coordinated effort by the State Health Department. A helpline for fever for every city, which is run by medical professionals, would be useful to detect early cases of fever. Doctors may guide patients with fever symptoms through telemedicine. Private medical personnel may also be roped in. Most are now familiar with WhatsApp and can therefore access telemedicine services. This will enhance confidence in the public of handling an episode of fever. Reporting will be better in this arrangement. Patients could be guided for testing for COVID-19 wherever necessary. In case of a positive result, the patient may be given an option of quarantining at home or a government facility. A trained doctor must take over at this stage and guide the home-quarantined patients towards recovery through telemedicine. Whenever any patient needs hospital care, he must be able to get immediate admission, with help from government online data on bed availability in public and private hospitals. This bed management requires some effort. The private sector must be persuaded to come on board — the government must avoid any attempt to fix the price. The online system must be accessible to the public and managed by the Health Department to ensure data accuracy. A public health professional may be posted in each hospital to assist patients in admission. Another important task is to publish standard treatment guidelines. Given the innumerable research findings pouring from across the world, these guidelines cannot be static but modified regularly. This would help all medical professionals to know the latest treatment protocol. To protect senior citizens who are at high risk, the government could delay renewal of their driving licence, ration cards, etc. Smooth running of an efficient mechanism is difficult and requires many administrative leaders at different levels. The day a common man can immediately get a free bed in a government hospital or a paid bed in a private hospital is the beginning of our effective control of deaths per lakh of the population. We hope that this day will come soon. R. Poornalingam is former Health Secretary, Government of Tamil Nadu
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The many bright spots on India’s innovation horizon||Innovation rearranges existing elements into permutations and combinations that benefit society. In his Brāhmaphutasiddhānta , Brahmagupta’s marvellous take on his innovation of zero was, “A debt minus zero is a debt. A fortune minus zero is a fortune. A debt subtracted from zero is a fortune. A fortune subtracted from zero is a debt. The product of zero multiplied by a debt or fortune is zero.” The Indian innovation of zero fundamentally reordered history. The novel coronavirus pandemic provides an opportunity for similar reordering for posterity. Realistic potential India is a fertile ground to be a technology-led innovation garage. It is the fastest growing country in terms of Internet usage, with over 700 million users and the number projected to rise to 974 million by 2025. The JAM trinity (Jan Dhan, Aadhaar, Mobile) trinity has 404 million Jan Dhan bank accounts with 1.2 billion Aadhaar and 1.2 billion mobile subscribers. There is a potential to add over $957 billion to India’s GDP by 2035 with artificial intelligence (AI), according to a recent report by Accenture. Innovation in India is being structured around the triad of collaboration, facilitation and responsible regulation. It is advanced by cross-disciplinary collaboration. In his famous essay, ‘I Pencil’, Leonard Read brings forward the wonder of collaboration between people cutting trees, mining graphite, working in factories, marketing, designing and managing, just to produce a single pencil. Innovation is a recombinant and brings tangential benefits through products and services that may not even have been its initial purpose. The founders of Twitter had set out to make a platform for people to find podcasts; Instagram was first intended to be a sign-in application; CRISPR, or the clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats, which is the transformative gene editing tool, was partly being researched for fixing problems in the yoghurt industry. It won this year’s Nobel Prize in Chemistry. The realistic potential of technology for India resonates in the ‘Amara law’ named after Roy Amara, a Stanford computer scientist, who said that “People tend to overestimate the impact of a new technology in the short run, but to underestimate it in the long run.” October 2020 saw two disruptive events that were organised by the Government of India for collaborative knowledge creation. At the Vaishvik Bharatiya Vaigyanik (VAIBHAV) summit (https://bit.ly/35aC3O8), which was inaugurated on October 2, more than 3,000 overseas Indian-origin academicians and scientists from 55 countries, and about 10,000 Indians participated to ideate on innovative solutions to our challenges. The Prime Minister articulated this spirit of knowledge sharing while inaugurating the summit; he called it “a true sangam or confluence of great minds” where “we sit to form our long-lasting association for empowering India and our planet”. The concluding session has been planned on October 31. This has been concomitant to the Responsible AI for Social Empowerment (RAISE) 2020 summit (https://bit.ly/2IN0Dx4), which was from October 5-9. It was to charter a course to effectively use AI for social empowerment, inclusion, and transformation in key sectors such as health care, agriculture, finance, education and smart mobility. Start-up disruptions This focus on celebrating innovation has led to several start-ups disrupting the Indian market. The recent winners of the ‘Digital India AatmaNirbhar Bharat Innovate Challenge’ (https://bit.ly/3jer2QV) Chingari with its video communication tools and MapMyIndia with its elaborative maps, ‘Logically’, with its news delivery features are becoming household names. Furthermore, Setu, true to its name, is building a bridge to bring banks to people. It has built an application programming interface which allows customers to make small ticket payments without going to the bank. Yelo is offering neo-banking payment and money transfer services online for workers in the gig economy. Niramai (or Non-Invasive Risk Assessment with Machine Intelligence) uses an AI-based thermal imaging portable tool that carries out non-invasive breast cancer screening for women for early detection. This intervention is of great importance as an estimate suggests that one in two affected women in India die due to late detection. Qure.ai uses AI for health-care diagnostics in rural India, tackling challenges such as tuberculosis and now COVID-19. Gramophone offers pricing information from mandis , advice on soil and crop health and access to agricultural inputs via micro-entrepreneurs to farmers in Madhya Pradesh, aiding their operation efficiency. Vernacular.ai offers a voice-based AI product that can understand up to 10 Indian languages and around 160 dialects. It is helping build virtual, smart, responsive and effective chat assistants suitable for diverse Indian consumers. Many incentives Innovation needs risk capital in terms of resources and psychological security for researchers. It needs an environment where it is safe to fail. The government has been building a comprehensive framework to this end. It is incentivising research and development with several schemes such as Innovation in Science Pursuit for Inspired Research (INSPIRE) scholarships, the Ramanujan Fellowship, the Knowledge Involvement in Research Advancement through Nurturing (KIRAN) scheme, Smart India Hackathons (SIH), Atal Innovation Mission (AIM), the Biotechnology Ignition Grant (BIG) scheme, setting up of the Future Skills PRIME (Programme for Reskilling/Upskilling of IT Manpower for Employability) capacity building platform and also the triad of Scheme for Transformational and Advanced Research in Sciences (STARS), Scheme for Promotion of Academic and Research Collaboration (SPARC) and Impactful Policy Research in Social Science (IMPRESS). The National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems aims to ‘catalyse translational research across “Al, IoT or the Internet of Things, Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Big Data Analytics, Robotics, Quantum Computing, Data Science”. Furthermore, the government has been actively facilitating collaborative and light touch regulatory practices to promote innovation and incentivise risk-taking. It has increasingly relied on collaboration, communication and creativity, taking the route of standard and principles adherence. The Reserve Bank of India, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) and the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India allow for regulatory sandboxes for piloting new ideas. The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) has recently introduced recommendations for regulating cloud services in India, suggesting a light-touch regulation in collaboration with industry, balancing commercial freedom and principles adherence. A better life Walter Isaacson once cited this: “Advances in science when put to practical use mean more jobs, higher wages, shorter hours, more abundant crops, more leisure for recreation, for study, for learning how to live without deadening drudgery which has been the burden of the common man for past ages.” Innovation has the potential to build a future where AI will transform education and health care, machine learning and blockchain will make commerce robust and resilient, clean energy will drive our economy, gene-drives would exterminate invasive and harmful species, gene-editing would help us bring back extinct species and reinvigorate depleted ecosystems, quantum computing will raise our processing capability to resolve challenges which seem insurmountable and augmented, and virtual reality will optimistically change the way we interact with the physical world. Steam engines made us understand thermodynamics, flights made us understand aerodynamics. There is ‘in-deed’ merit in relentless focus on innovation as it essentially augments ease of living for citizens, dematerialising and democratising products and services. Amitabh Kant is CEO and Satwik Mishra is a Young Professional, respectively, at NITI Aayog. The views expressed are personal
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Flawed Foreigners Tribunal||Nurjahan Nessa was asked to prove that she is Indian before Foreigners Tribunal No. 4 in Hajo, Assam, in 2016. She produced several documents based on which the tribunal declared her Indian. Nessa was one of the very few suspected foreigners who got an opportunity to defend themselves before this tribunal. We analysed 818 orders passed by this Foreigners Tribunal between June 16, 2017 and December 30, 2019, obtained through the Right To Information Act, and found that 96% were decided ex parte. Also, the orders were inconsistent, vague and biased. Claims by the police A majority of the orders followed set templates with only the names of persons, police stations, and dates being changed. The descriptions of investigations by the police are questionable. In 733 cases, the police claim to have met the suspected foreigners. The police asked these suspected foreigners to produce documentary proof of their citizenship, and 570 of them allegedly produced no documents (the remaining orders did not mention whether any documents were produced). It is hard to believe that when it comes to a matter as serious as citizenship, 570 people could not produce even a scrap of paper furthering their claim. In 218 of these cases, the police went on to declare that the suspected foreigners were from Bangladesh (mostly from Maimansingh). Apart from these alleged meetings with the suspected foreigners, the orders do not allude to any other investigation by the police. Although the police claimed they were able to meet suspected foreigners before submitting their inquiry report, in at least 98% of such cases, they were unable to locate the suspected foreigners subsequently to serve a notice to appear before the tribunal. The police alleged that these persons were not residents of their earlier locality and could not be traced despite their asking local residents and gaonburahs (village headmen). A practising advocate revealed that in some of his cases, the gaonburahs also appeared as witnesses for the suspected foreigners and confirmed that they were not questioned by the police as to the whereabouts of these suspected foreigners. Foreigners Tribunals do not allow for the police to be cross-examined, thereby leaving no room to disprove or challenge submissions made by them regarding their alleged meetings with the suspected foreigners and their subsequent inability to find them. All this works out conveniently for the police and the tribunals given the anxiety in Assam about finding and deporting Bangladeshis. Unlike regular criminal trials where an accused is presumed not guilty and the state has to prove that he committed a crime, the burden of proof under the Foreigners Act of 1946 is on the accused. If a person fails to appear before the Foreigners Tribunal, it can pass an order declaring him a foreigner ex parte, without allowing him an opportunity to defend himself. In all the ex parte orders, the police produced no evidence to indicate that the suspected foreigners were not Indian, yet the latter were declared Bangladeshi. A desperate search for Bangladeshis Only in 31 cases were the suspected foreigners allowed to refute the allegations made against them. All these 31 orders were passed by the same tribunal member. The progression of her career as a member of the Foreigners Tribunal gives us an inkling of how the desperate search for Bangladeshis in Assam has tainted the quasi-judicial process of adjudicating citizenship claims. She was appointed as a member of the tribunal in July 2015 on a contractual basis. On June 20, 2017, she was denied an extension along with several other members because she had not declared enough people as foreigners. She was reinstated only after she and the others challenged the termination of their services before the Gauhati High Court. Since most of the cases analysed were decided ex parte, we expected that these proceedings would have at least been swift. This tribunal took an average of 10 years to dispose of a case. It is interesting to note that 92% of the cases analysed were disposed of in 2018 and 2019 alone. In 82% of the cases, the police gave the tribunal reports of service of notice in 2018 and 2019, although some cases dated as far back as 1999. The cases appear to have been kept in cold storage for several years and disposed of with undue haste in 2018 and 2019. On average, the tribunal took 39 days from the date of receipt of this report to pass an ex parte order. The tribunal ordered the deportation of the suspected foreigners in 97% of these cases. However, very few, if any, will actually be deported since deportation requires Bangladesh to accept the deportees. Assam’s Parliamentary Affairs Minister said only 227 persons were deported between March 13, 2013 and July 31, 2020. There is an urgent need to make the procedure followed by the Foreigners Tribunal fair and transparent. The claims of 19 lakh people excluded from the National Register of Citizens will go before these tribunals. Their cases cannot be decided arbitrarily and callously as they have been in the past. Leah Verghese and Shruthi Naik are with DAKSH, a non-profit based in Bengaluru
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||In the U.S., it could go either way||With scarcely two weeks of campaigning remaining before voting day in the U.S. presidential election, it appears that the Democratic challenger, former Vice President Joe Biden, is building a considerable lead over the incumbent, President Donald Trump. However, there are warning signs that the Democrats would be unwise to take the prospect of victory for granted. First, consider the onslaught of the pandemic, which brought the U.S. economy to its knees. A grinding slowdown in business activity led to a historic high in unemployment levels (14.7%) in April 2020. While the joblessness rate has come down since, it has put the spotlight on the federal government’s failure to respond with an agile, science-driven pandemic strategy that could have saved lives and refloated the economy. Many may now consider Mr. Trump a bungling commander-in-chief, who attacked masks, lockdowns and social distancing as Democratic scare tactics. Yet — and this is where it is important to understand the psyche of American society — there is a considerable segment of voters — mostly white, in semi-urban and rural areas, either blue collar workers or small business owners — who genuinely abhor diktats on mask-wearing and dread the crushing economic impact of lockdowns. This is why, even though the latest polls suggest that north of 53% of Americans disapproved of Mr. Trump’s performance of his job and only a little more than 41% approved, his approval ratings have remained stable. Not only does this reflect that Mr. Trump likely has a core cohort of supporters who are intensely loyal and will vote for him, it is also driven by the intensifying partisan polarisation of voters — namely the fact that over the course of his term in office, an average of 87% of Republicans have approved of Mr. Trump’s handling of the job, compared with an average of only 6% of Democrats. Second, the election outcome will be driven to a large extent by undecided and independent voters, many of them situated in swing states. Currently, Mr. Biden enjoys a lead in the swing states of Florida, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, North Carolina, Arizona and Michigan, whereas Mr. Trump holds the lead in Ohio and Iowa. However, a caveat that most sensible analysts of opinion polls underscore is that these polls undercounted Trump supporters in 2016, and there is no clarity on whether they have corrected this; and also that the same polls may be overcounting Democratic support given the likelihood that more people may express support for Mr. Biden than actually turn out on voting day. Anecdotal evidence from battleground states suggests that undecided voters are seeing the election as a choice between an incumbent with a weak character but a Republican-based economic policy that lifted up the economy until COVID-19 struck; and a challenger who has integrity of character — read as ‘not prone to abuse people on social media and elsewhere’ — but might raise crushing taxes on the middle classes. The possibility of a showdown Third, the historically unfounded controversy whipped up by Mr. Trump around mail-in voting has the potential to dent Democratic prospects as election month rolls around. In a survey by the Pew Research Center, 50% of Trump supporters said they would cast their votes in person versus 20% of Biden supporters. Similarly, 51% of Biden supporters said they would vote or already have voted by absentee or mail-in ballot compared with 25% of Trump supporters. With Republicans rushing to confirm a conservative Supreme Court nominee and Mr. Trump refusing to commit to a peaceful transition of power, the stage may soon be set for a political showdown of biblical proportions that sees the election outcome decided in court. These factors point to swirling uncertainty over which of the two candidates hold sway. Regardless of opinion polls — proved wrong in predicting the 2016 outcome — neither candidate ought to find reasons for complacency in this terrain, during these final, critical days of campaigning. narayan@thehindu.co.in
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||The triumph of hope||Jacinda Ardern was expected to win Saturday’s parliamentary election in New Zealand given that almost all opinion polls had predicted this for the 40-year-old global liberal icon, noted for her inclusive politics and tough handling of the coronavirus pandemic. But it was the margin of the victory that surprised many. Her centre-left Labour Party won 49.1% of the popular vote and is projected to take 64 seats in the 120-member Parliament. This is Labour’s greatest victory in almost 50 years and the biggest victory of any party since the nation adopted a proportional representation voting system, which gives assembly seats to any party winning more than 5% vote, in 1996. The Opposition centre-right National Party won 26.8% of the vote and is projected to take 35 seats, down from the 56 seats it won in the previous election. Ms. Ardern, who came to power in 2017 by forming a coalition with the Greens and the nationalist New Zealand First party, faced unprecedented challenges in her first term, from the Christchurch terrorist attack and the White Island volcanic eruption to the COVID-19 outbreak. She herself had turned the polls into a de facto referendum on her government’s handling of the pandemic by calling it the ‘COVID election”. New Zealand, home to over five million, recorded just 25 pandemic deaths — one of the lowest fatality rates in the world. It has eliminated community transmission by imposing strict lockdowns and brought back relative normalcy before the election. What makes Ms. Ardern’s victory significant is that her brand of politics — socially liberal, economically inclusive and politically democratic — has bucked the trend of conservatives and the anti-immigrant, anti-minority far-right parties making gains in crisis-ridden societies. Offering a new way of governance, she presented herself as an empathetic co-citizen who happens to be running the government. This approach was successfully tested when a far-right terrorist opened fire at two mosques in Christchurch in March 2019, killing 51. She immediately reached out to the country’s Muslim minority and backed a Bill that banned most assault style weapons. She has also promised to alleviate child poverty and fight climate change more vigorously. Inclusive politics and a humane approach, coupled with quick decisive actions to tackle crises, transformed her into the most popular New Zealand leader. But the emphatic victory also means great expectations. The lockdowns have had a heavy economic cost — a contraction by 12.2% in April-June. One of the criticisms she faced during the campaign was that she did not have a recovery plan. The COVID-19 threat is still looming large. She will have to prove her critics wrong and live up to the expectations of those who supported her while ruling for, what she said, “all New Zealanders”.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Heckler’s veto||Opposition from sections of Tamils has led to versatile Tamil film star Vijay Sethupathi withdrawing from a planned biopic on the Sri Lankan bowling legend, Muttiah Muralitharan. Opponents mainly from the Tamil film industry and political parties in Tamil Nadu claim that Muralitharan had “whitewashed genocide” by not raising his voice against the Sri Lankan state, and warned the actor against playing his character, contending that he would only jeopardise his career and alienate his fan following. It is a shame that these protests have prevented a talented actor from essaying a role based on the story of Muralitharan, who scaled Himalayan peaks in international cricket through talent and determination. Noting the unfair and unrelenting attacks on Sethupathi to the point of accusing him of being a traitor, Muralitharan appealed to the actor to keep out of the biopic. The ultimate decision may have been Muralitharan’s own, but it is quite clear that Sethupathi dropped the idea only after the onslaught. The film’s motion poster released recently had evoked great expectation among cinema aficionados, especially because of the actor’s highly convincing resemblance to the cricketer. Appropriately named ‘800’, in celebration of the number of Test wickets the bewitching off-spinner bagged, the biopic appears to aim at showcasing his rise in the backdrop of the violent ethnic conflict that shook Sri Lanka for three decades. Exponents of art being cowed down by protests is not new to Tamil Nadu. The real problem in the latest example of popular intolerance prevailing over artistic ventures is that an old chestnut in Tamil Nadu politics — the idea that every Tamil should pass a ‘Tamil nationalist’ test — has been resurrected to stymie this project too. Madras Cafe , a Hindi film, could not be screened in the State after opposition to its portrayal of the LTTE. In 2008, a Sri Lankan producer was forced to give up his footage while he was in Chennai to process his film at a studio. Some of those who demanded that Sethupathi withdraw from the biopic have emphasised that they were merely making an appeal to him, given his past political views in favour of causes that resonate with the people of Tamil Nadu. Whether it was an appeal or a threat, it is a no-brainer that pressure was brought to bear on an artist to give up his professional decision. As for Muralitharan’s political views, it may be that some of his remarks were seen as supporting the Sri Lankan Army’s triumph over the LTTE and questioning the truth behind the grief of the mothers of the disappeared thousands. However, that is no reason to run down his monumental achievements in his chosen sport. And nothing prevents any detractor from questioning the film’s motive or content after its release. It is unfortunate that the heckler’s veto has prevailed.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Why tourists skip India (From an editorial)||Tourism has become the world’s biggest export industry, but India gets a very small slice of this lucrative business. The reason for our failure is not far to seek. We lack hotel accommodation of international standard and our air transport system is defective. The number of hotel rooms now available is less than 10,000 for the whole country, whereas even single cities like Bangkok and Singapore have more accommodation. Rather late in the day, the building of hotels has been speeded up with foreign collaboration (only in Delhi and Bombay) and another 5,000 rooms will soon be available, but the Minister for Tourism wants twice this figure by 1973. The Hotel Development Fund has Rs. 500 lakhs for lending to entrepreneurs but this sum will not suffice. At the Madurai conference of the Tourist Development Council, the Union Minister of Tourism and Civil Aviation has drawn attention to the plans afoot to provide tourist attractions in the southern States.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||A lecture by Mr. S. Srinivasa Aiyangar||Mr. S. Srinivasa Aiyangar arrived here [Cuddalore] yesterday [October 17], and delivered a lecture, in the Pudupalayam Reading Room, mainly dwelling on the topic of “Non Co-operation” as resolved upon by the Congress, at Calcutta. The following is a summary of the main points, he forcibly impressed on the audience:- My one gospel, throughout, has been a “united front”, in Indian politics. In our circumstances, all parties, Nationalists, whether ‘Non-Co-operators’, or not, Moderates, and Non-Brahmins, should fuse together and make a united attack on the bureaucracy. The latest cause of disunion is the split among Nationalists over the problem of “Non-Co-operation”. Opinion is quite sharply divided, whether the new method will be the shortest cut, or a long wearisome one, to the common goal of Swaraj Non-Co-operators, should not obstruct dissenting Nationalists from continuing to fight the Government from inside the Council, while Non-Co-operators, having the deeper faith in the new experiment pursue their own ways.
21 October 2020||MUMBAI,||HUL net rises 9% on rural sales||Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) major Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUL) reported a 9% increase in second-quarter net profit to Rs. 2,009 crore, aided by a robust performance in rural markets while demand in urban areas, especially in metropolitan cities, remained muted. Sales climbed 16% to Rs. 11,276 crore. However, excluding the impact of the merger of GSK Consumer Healthcare and the acquisition of ‘VWash’ (a hygiene product), turnover rose by 3%.  Double-digit growth “Health, hygiene and nutrition, forming about 80% of our portfolio, grew in double digits [during the quarter],” the company said in a regulatory filing. “In the context of a challenging economic environment, our growth has been competitive and profitable,” said CMD Sanjiv Mehta. “Our operations and service levels are now back to pre-COVID-19 levels and we have accelerated the pace of digitising our operations,” Mr. Mehta added. “The economic outlook has improved given the various initiatives taken by the government and Reserve Bank of India. In our sector, rural markets have been resilient and providing robust performance but the demand in urban India especially in metropolitan cities has been muted and uncertain. We believe that the worst is behind us and we are cautiously optimistic on demand recovery,” he said. The soaps to packaged foods maker declared an interim dividend of Rs. 14. During the quarter ended September 30, the company’s household care business did well across all segments led by continued penetration gains. But consumption of laundry products were affected due to confined living in metros. HUL said while the health, hygiene and nutrition businesses performed well, discretion and out-of-home products lagged as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
21 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Videocon can earn Rs. 6,000-cr. revenue’||Videocon Industries can garner at least Rs. 6,000 crore in revenue in the first year after recommencing operations if the promoters’ proposal to repay about Rs. 30,000 crore to regain control of the firm is accepted by the lenders, said Pradeep Dhoot, former director of the debt-laden firm.. “Before going to the NCLT in October 2017, we and the banks had agreed on the repayment of Rs. 30,000 crore,” Mr. Dhoot said in an interview. “However, the RBI directed that the company be sent to debt resolution. We have given the same proposal with an extended timeline of three years as two years have already been wasted in the IBC,” he added. He stressed the proposal submitted under clause 12A of the IBC would lead to the promoters just managing the company again and not owning the firm. “All the shares, equity and the assets will remain with the bank till all the loans are repaid. “A decision by the Committee of Creditors (CoC) is likely within two months,” Mr. Dhoot said. “We have given a proper business plan of up to 10-12 years. Of the Rs. 30,000 crore plus interest up to December 31, 2020, that we have proposed to repay, a major portion will come from asset monetisation and business generated by the company,” he added. Monetising ‘huge’ assets Mr. Dhoot said the company and Videocon Group had ‘huge assets’ which would be monetised in due course. He also expressed confidence in the proposal getting accepted. If the proposal is accepted, “we will be able begin operations in a month and generate revenue of at least Rs. 6,000 crore in the first fiscal when the total market for the four products [ACs, washing machines, TVs and refrigerators] will be about Rs. 70,000 crore. We will target about 9% of the market.” He pointed out in 2017, when Videocon was still operational, the total share of Chinese players in these segments was about 12%. It had now grown to about 35%. “The new players took our share, not the established players like Samsung and LG. Hence, I think it will be easier for us to take it back.” Further, on account of the pandemic, the lenders were hardly receiving any offers. The highest offer right now was about Rs. 3,000-Rs. 3,500 crore. “Videocon has 15,000 retailers, 30,000 employees, many vendors. They will be saved,” he said. “Because of the pandemic, they hardly have four bidders. New investment is not coming,” he said. “The second thing is we know the company and we will be able to run this company very well. So, there is a great chance that they will accept this,” he added. If the proposal was not approved, the firm would likely go to a new investor, he said adding the chance of liquidation was very low.
21 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Mercedes to begin making AMG cars locally||Mercedes-Benz has announced localisation of its luxury performance car sub-brand AMG. To begin with, the company will manufacture AMG GLC 43 4MATIC Coupé at its assembly line in Chakan near Pune. Wide portfolio Under AMG, Mercedes-Benz has a wide portfolio of performance limousines, performance SUVs, SUV coupés, and sports cars in India. “The decision to locally produce AMG in India underlines Mercedes-Benz’s clear roadmap for the Indian market and our long-term commitment to our Indian customers,” Martin Schwenk, managing director and CEO, Mercedes-Benz India said. “The AMG GLC 43 4MATIC Coupé is an important model in our portfolio having the distinction of being one of the highest-selling AMG models in India. The addition [in local manufacturing] will further cement our strong position in the performance SUV segment,” he added.
21 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Siemens Healthineers to invest Rs. 1,300 cr. in India||Siemens Healthineers announced its largest-ever single investment of about Rs. 1,300 crore (€160 mn) in India on Tuesday. This will be in addition to the company’s earlier investment of Rs. 2,500 crore, made in phases, at its R&D facility in the country. The fresh investment will be deployed over five years to set up the company’s own campus in Bengaluru and an innovation hub, which would comprise a medical imaging factory and centres of competence in data analytics, artificial intelligence, immersive technologies such as augmented and virtual reality, user experience and cybersecurity. The investment is part of the firm’s Strategy 2025, in which India is seen as a key growth market, the healthcare company said in a statement. Elisabeth Staudinger, president, Asia Pacific, said the investment would play a key role “in taking our business to the next level by driving digitalisation and in expanding our portfolio for emerging markets.” The India hub would be a part of Siemens’ global network of innovation capabilities and work with its other hubs in the U.S., Germany and China. The company was formerly known as Siemens Healthcare, Siemens Medical Solutions and Siemens Medical Systems.
21 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Ather Energy offers buy-back for e-scooter||Electric vehicle (EV) manufacturer Ather Energy has introduced an assured buy-back programme for its Ather 450X electric scooter, weeks before its roll-out in 11 markets including Chennai and Bengaluru. The company is guaranteeing a buy-back for the Ather 450X at Rs. 85,000 [with certain conditions], at the end of three years of use. The scooter will be delivered to customers during Diwali. The buy-back programme is aimed at accelerating EV adoption in the country, the company said. Depending on the response to the lease model in Bengaluru and Chennai, the company would extend the same for the Ather 450X in the other nine cities, it added. The lease model will allow customers to access the Ather 450X at a lower price and a nominal monthly fee. “To reduce the overall cost of ownership of the Ather 450X, Bengaluru consumers can exchange their old petrol ICE 2-wheeler,” the company said. It has also reduced the ex-showroom price of the Ather 450 Plus model to Rs. 1,39,990.
21 October 2020||Mumbai,||‘Sales of manufacturing firms shrank 41% in Q1’||Aggregate sales of private sector manufacturing companies recorded a sharp contraction of 41.1% year-on-year in the first quarter of 2020-21, reflecting the impact of the pandemic-induced lockdown, an RBI analysis on Tuesday said. The data on the performance of the private corporate sector during the first quarter of 2020-21 has been drawn from abridged quarterly financial results of 25,361 listed non-government non-financial (NGNF) companies, the RBI said. “Aggregate sales of 1,619 manufacturing companies recorded a sharp contraction of 41.1% [y-o-y] in Q1:2020-21 following 15.6% decline in Q4:2019-20 reflecting the impact of the pandemic-induced lockdown,” it said. The contraction was broad-based and varied across industries — only pharmaceutical companies recorded higher sales on both annual and sequential (q-o-q) bases.
21 October 2020||Mumbai,||‘InvITs to buy Rs. 4 lakh crore of infra assets’||Infrastructure Investment Trusts (InvITs) are likely to acquire infrastructure assets worth more than Rs. 4 lakh crore in the next five years as the market matures, a domestic ratings agency said on Tuesday. At present, there are six InvITs that have raised more than Rs. 27,600 crore from investors, while a seventh entity is at an advanced stage of raising Rs. 25,200 crore, ICRA said. The total value of assets under these seven InvITs is estimated at Rs. 1.3 lakh crore and InvITs are likely to gain significant traction in the next few years, it said. The PowerGrid Corporation and NHAI are planning to transfer some of their operational assets to InvIT platforms, the agency said.
21 October 2020||New delhi,||‘Bidders may get leeway on Air India debt’||In a bid to resurrect the privatisation process for Air India, the Centre plans to give flexibility to investors to decide on the carrier’s debt, an official said. The flexibility to potential investors, on the quantum of the Rs. 60,074 crore debt that they want to absorb, will replace the current condition of the buyer taking over more than a third of the debt and transferring the rest to a special purpose vehicle, Department of Investment and Public Asset Management Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said. Potential investors had felt that due to the prevailing uncertainty, the debt portion should not be fixed at this stage, he added.
21 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Cybercrimes caused loss of Rs. 1.25 lakh cr.’||Cybercrimes in India caused losses of Rs. 1.25 lakh crore in 2019 and cyberthreats will continue to increase as the country starts developing smart cities and rolling out 5G networks, among other initiatives, National Cyber Security Coordinator Lt Gen. (Dr.) Rajesh Pant said on Tuesday. He said that there were only a few Indian companies that were making cybersecurity products and that there was a big vacuum in the sector. He also called for the setting up of a dedicated industry forum for cybersecurity to develop trusted indigenous solutions to check cyberattacks.
21 October 2020||Mumbai,||Webinar on hybrid mutual funds||ICICI Prudential Mutual Fund and The Hindu BusinessLine will conduct a webinar on the topic ‘Hybrid Mutual Funds — Dissected’ on October 22 at 5 pm. Experts from the industry will answer all queries related to mutual funds. Attendees will get insights that will help them to plan their individual finance. Experts on the panel include Mr. Haresh. S, Zonal Head-South, ICICI Prudential MF, and Mr. Kaustubh Belapurkar, Director, Fund Research, Morningstar India. The session will be moderated by Aarati Krishnan, Editorial Consultant, The Hindu BusinessLine.  To register for this free webinar, log on to: https://bit.ly/2FFbjMT
21 October 2020||New Delhi,||Jio Platforms, Qualcomm successfully test 5G solutions, clock over 1 Gbps speed in trials||Qualcomm and Reliance Jio said they had aligned efforts to fast-track development and roll-out of an indigenous 5G network. Using Qualcomm technology, Jio has indigenously developed a 5G RAN product that has achieved ultra-high throughputs. The product had been tested by a tier-1 carrier in the U.S., said Mathew Oommen, president, Reliance Jio.PTI
21 October 2020||Mumbai,||Sterlite Power gets Rs 2,070 crore debt funding from PFC||Sterlite Power Ltd. on Tuesday said it had achieved financial closure for its Vapi II North Lakhimpur Transmission Ltd. (VNLTL) project by securing the entire debt funding of Rs. 2,070 crore from the Power Finance Corporation Ltd. The closure has been achieved within four months of the SPV acquisition of the project, said Sterlite Power, which acquired VNLTL SPV in June.
21 October 2020||New Delhi,||Granules India Q2 net profit surges 71 pc to Rs 164 cr||Drug firm Granules India on Tuesday reported a 70.8% rise in its consolidated net profit to Rs. 163.63 crore for the second quarter ended September 30, mainly on account of robust sales. Consolidated revenue from operations rose to Rs. 858.12 crore from Rs. 699.53 crore, the company said in a BSE filing. The firm declared a second interim dividend of 25 paise per equity share.
21 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||We will fight for every ball, says Marquez||Manuel ‘Manolo’ Marquez, head coach of Hyderabad FC, insists players must trust their abilities. “That is what brings success,” says the 51-year-old former Spanish defender. In an exclusive interview with The Hindu ahead of the team’s second ISL season, Marquez said there is plenty to do — getting players back to full-fitness, training as a group and improving the confidence of everyone involved. “The hard work every individual puts in training sessions and their hunger to learn are what will get them to the competitive level required for the ISL. Doing this as a group will be the biggest challenge,” Marquez said. “I prefer to play an attractive brand of football, and there are many ways to achieve it. But it is important to change my ways to get the best out of the players currently at the club. It is important that players trust their abilities as that is what brings success,” he said. Fitness challenges “Most of the players have not trained for over five months now and it is a challenge for the staff to get them back to full fitness. But we are really happy with the efforts of everyone involved — the players and the staff,” Marquez said. “It is a challenge to be playing all the games in one city, but this is the best way for the league to go ahead in the given conditions. Due to the pandemic, we are aware that the game will be a lot different this year, but we know that our fans will be with us and will cheer us all the way,” he said. “We will try to give our best in every game, fight for every ball and hope that we can make the fans of Hyderabad FC proud of us as a team,” the head coach said.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Kings’ resurgence continues with impressive win over Capitals||The pitches are slowing down in the United Arab Emirates but nothing seems to be affecting Shikhar Dhawan. The southpaw scored his second successive hundred (106 n.o., 61b, 12x4, 3x6) — the first batsman in IPL history to do so — and guided Delhi Capitals to 164 for five against Kings XI Punjab at the Dubai International Stadium on Tuesday. During the course of his knock, the India international also completed 5000 runs in the IPL, the fifth batsman to do so after Virat Kohli, Suresh Raina, Rohit Sharma and David Warner. Encore On Saturday, Dhawan had scored an unbeaten 101 off just 58 balls against Chennai Super Kings in Sharjah. The opponent and the venue changed this time around, but the dashing opener rode on the same intent and carried his bat again. KXIP has had a forgetful start to the season. Despite K.L. Rahul’s and Mayank Agarwal’s presence at the top of the run charts, it has lost six out of nine games. However, the Super Over victory over Mumbai Indians — the first Super Over also ended in a tie before KXIP won it in the second — must have restored some self-belief. Skipper Rahul, not shying away from experimenting, started proceedings by tossing the ball to off-spinner Glenn Maxwell again. Prithvi Shaw and Dhawan like pace on the ball and are not too comfortable against spin upfront. The Australian almost pulled off a caught-and-bowled dismissal off Dhawan off his sixth delivery. In the initial overs, Rahul also kept Chris Gayle at first slip in order to trap the Delhi left-hander. Shaw’s miserable run continued (7, 11b, 1x4) as Maxwell caught him off Jimmy Neesham in the fourth over. Dhawan did not allow the pressure to get to him, dealing in boundaries as he usually does. He collected 12 runs from a Mohammed Shami over, thrice piercing the gaps expertly. DC finished the PowerPlay with the score reading 53 for one. KXIP made inroads by picking up a few crucial wickets, but Dhawan ensured the scoreboard moved as swiftly as his feet did against the seam bowlers. Shreyas Iyer (14, 12b, 1x6), Rishabh Pant (14, 20, 1x4), Marcus Stoinis (9, 10b) did not fire. Leg-spinner M. Ashwin induced an edge off Shreyas’ attempted flick, with Rahul completing a smart catch behind the stumps. The KXIP skipper moved along the line of the ball to pouch the offering. Pant — returning from injury — found Mayank at long-on while trying to clear Maxwell. Mayank took his second catch when Stoinis tried to charge Shami who stood out among the KXIP bowlers.   Kings 137 for four  Kings were 137 for four in 14 overs. Maxwell (25) and Hooda (3) were at the crease Rahul (15), Mayank (5), Gayle (29) and Pooran (53) were the batsman out    Shikhar’s day out  Dhawan’s unbeaten 106 came off 61 deliveries His innings contained 12 fours and three sixes Though Capitals lost vital wickets, the opener continued to flourish After the Super Kings, it was the turn of Kings to face the fury of Dhawan’s blade
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Royals trounce Super Kings||Jos Buttler slammed an unbeaten 70 off just 48 balls (7x4, 2x6) to guide Rajasthan Royals to a seven-wicket win over Chennai Super Kings at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi on Monday. Chasing a modest target of 126, RR was struggling at 28 for three before Buttler and Steve Smith (26 n.o., 34b, 2x4) took charge and sealed victory with 2.3 overs to spare. RR’s fourth win in 10 games keeps its hopes of a playoff spot alive. CSK’s seventh defeat means its chances are remote. Walking in at five, Buttler slowly but steadily took control of the chase and was able to find the boundary when needed while Smith was happy to play second fiddle in their unbeaten 98-run stand for the fourth wicket. Piyush Chawla faced the fury of Buttler’s willow in the 15th over, going for three straight boundaries.   RR still in it  RR’s fourth win in 10 games keeps its playoff hopes alive. CSK’s seventh defeat means its chances are remote
21 October 2020||Abu Dhabi,||KKR looks to make amends||Kolkata Knight Riders has finally found its ‘mojo’ with the late inclusion of tearaway pacer Lockie Ferguson and it would look to avenge its first leg rout by the star-studded Royal Challengers Bangalore when the two sides clash in the IPL here on Wednesday. It needed KKR nine games, and a change of captaincy, to realise the true potential of the World Cup star pacer for runner-up New Zealand, and when the Eoin Morgan-led side finally brought him in, he blew away Sunrisers Hyderabad with his relentless pace and variations. Ferguson made all the difference to KKR’s yet another ordinary show, returning with figures of three for 15 (four overs) and two for two off three balls in the Super Over. Aussie recruit Pat Cummins has not made much impact of late. AB de Villiers’ incredible assault of 73 not out off 33 balls, which led to an 82-run defeat not many days ago, will be still fresh in the minds of the KKR players. However, KKR is still struggling with star all-rounder Andre Russell who capped yet another flop show with the bat. The opposition bowlers seem to have found out his weakness for short deliveries. If his poor form was not enough, Russell has picked up some niggles and it would not be a bad ploy to give him a breather.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Captaincy will decide the winner of the IPL||It is permutations and combinations time at the IPL. Teams in the bottom-half of the table are busy working out what the other teams have to do to help them sneak into the knockouts. This is, of course, assuming that they themselves win all their matches from here on. This is a difficult phase for the sums man in a team. He has to reduce everything to: “If A beats B and C loses to D by less than 20 runs and we win by three wickets and hope that F wins but by a margin of 12 runs or by one wicket….” Someone is making just these calculations as you read this. Others are making deals with the Almighty. Bottom-placed Chennai Super Kings have lost most matches, seven, in the league so far. It must be a strange place for Mahendra Singh Dhoni to view the tournament from. He has admitted it is all over for his team, and expressed unhappiness over some of the younger players (“lacked spark”). Dhoni under the lens This is unusual for Dhoni, and indicates just how badly the results have affected him. He is not usually given to blaming the younger players. CSK are hit by withdrawals and injuries, but they seldom looked a champion side. Questions will be asked about Dhoni’s own form, and his captaincy decisions. Is the end of the team the end of their captain too? Perhaps there is a call here for Dhoni to give up the captaincy and play with the kind of freedom that has been missing from his game. His legacy is secure, after all. Kolkata Knight Riders has shown the way, elevating Eoin Morgan and taking the responsibility off Dinesh Karthik’s shoulders. Captaincy might well decide the winner of this year’s IPL. This goes against prevailing wisdom — that of all formats of the game, it is in the shortest that the captain has the least role to play. For one, the game moves too fast, and those sitting in the dugout might have a better picture overall. For another, the top bowlers like to set their own fields, and don’t depend too much on the captain’s inputs. But for these very same reasons, the captaincy is crucial too. When things move fast, it is the man in charge at the pitch who is in the best position to make the calls. Mistakes are made, which is only human. An unfit Andre Russell bowls the last over in one game, a super fit A.B. de Villiers is held back when his team is chasing in another. All captains make mistakes. A good captain makes fewer of them. Sometimes the captain can make the right call which leads to the wrong result (for his team); occasionally it is the other way around, when a blatantly wrong decision leads to a surprisingly positive result. It is like a spinner getting a wicket off a rank bad ball. Such things happen. But as the tournament progresses, and the knockout picture depends on inches and decimal points and the odd moment of brilliant out-cricket, the captain’s role becomes increasingly important. Field placings are crucial; captains must understand angles and arcs on the field. Where do you place your fastest fielders, how many do you need behind the wicket? That might sound basic, but you will be surprised how many get it wrong. The placement of fielders is one of the most fascinating aspects of a short game. The formation can change by the over, as the batsmen change ends, and as the restrictions come and go. What is logical in the first six overs is not so in the next six or the six after that. Rahul impresses Of the five Indian captains in the IPL this year, Kings XI Punjab’s K.L. Rahul has been impressive. He opens the batting, keeps wickets, and has to make the final calls in tight games. He seems to be enjoying it, and that’s always a good sign. This is also the only team where both captain and coach (Anil Kumble) are from India. There are too many things happening for one man to retain everything in his head, hence the support staff. The captain-coach relationship can be fascinating too. Few coaches are likely to go against a strong captain when it might mean a loss of earnings the following year. Will Stephen Fleming, one of the best in the game, tell Dhoni, for instance, that the time has come for him to step down? They go back a long way, and have been a successful pair, after all. It was said in a different context, but David Warner’s reaction to the defeat against Kolkata is symbolic: “I want to bite my tongue,” he said, “to stop from saying something harsh.” To whom? The pressure is on the captains now.
21 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Satendra sets up a range in Dadri||By taking the first step into his dream project, a shooting range in Dadri, Satendra Kumar aspires to be a catalyst for the overwhelming talent in the country. “We have a lot of talent. Ours is an attempt to bring opportunity to the needy, without being greedy,” said Satendra, about his venture. The range has 85 firing points, including 15 in the 50-metre section. “Anyone can walk into this place empty handed and go back as a champion. We will provide everything possible at affordable rates,” assured Satendra, who served the Navy for 27 years till he took voluntary retirement last year. Finishing third behind Jaspal Rana and Vivek Singh in the National championship in Kanpur had opened the career path for Satendra into the Navy, and he has helped groom shooters of the calibre of Rahul Panwar, Harpreet Singh and Omkar Singh. Vision “I want thousands to benefit from this range. It has been my dream, my vision and it has become a reality. I didn’t go into any other place to coach. I was waiting to have my own place,” said Satendra, pleased to have dynamic partners, who believed in his vision to make matching investment. Both his son Ayush and daughter Anshika, college students, have shown a lot of ability in shooting. Satendra is happy to give them a chance to train and achieve their goals. After the range was inaugurated by Noida Police Commissioner Alok Singh on Sunday, Satendra announced that he would conduct a two-day Mission Shakti camp over the ensuing weekend to educate women about the weapons, safety measures etc. The 46-year-old Satendra hopes to keep improving the range with electronic targets, etc. in future and make it a centre of excellence.
21 October 2020||London,||Can Guardiola lead City to the elusive crown?||Pep Guardiola starts his latest bid to lead Manchester City to Champions League glory with the shadows of past failures casting doubt on his ability to secure that elusive title. City hosts Porto in its opening group match on Wednesday with Guardiola’s failing in the tournament weighing heavily on both the Spanish boss and his club. Vexing Despite all its domestic success in recent years, City has never gone beyond the semifinals of the Champions League and Guardiola has found the competition equally vexing for much of the last decade. Since he won the Champions League as Barcelona boss for the second time in 2011, Guardiola has failed to return to the final of Europe’s elite club competition. That nine-year drought includes four years of frustration since he took charge at City in 2016. In that time, Guardiola has seen City beaten by Monaco in the last-16 and Liverpool, Tottenham and Lyon in the quarterfinals. He also lost in three semifinals during his time as Bayern Munich manager before moving to City.  Adding to the unease around City ahead of its European campaign is the unresolved issue of Guardiola's future. Guardiola is out of contract at the end of the season and has yet to agree a new deal amid speculation that he may decide to leave the Etihad Stadium in 2021. For now, Guardiola will focus on Porto’s visit to Manchester rather than entertaining questions about his long-term plans. Significantly, Guardiola was able to welcome back Sergio Aguero last weekend as City's record goalscorer made his first appearance for four months after knee surgery. City has lacked a cutting edge in Aguero’s absence and Guardiola’s hopes of a serious Champions League challenge hinge on the Argentine striker staying fit.
21 October 2020||KOLKATA,||EB names 22 Indians in its squad||SC East Bengal has named 22 Indians in its squad for the upcoming Indian Super League season. The signings include star forward Jeje Lalpekhlua and the likes of Balwant Singh, Narayan Das, Eugeneson Lyngdoh and Mohammad Rafique. Jeje, who spent six seasons with two-time champion Chennaiyin FC, is ready to resume action after recovering from a knee surgery he had in May 2019. “I am hungry to play football again after a prolonged break due to injury. I cannot wait to don the red and gold colours and give my best every time I take the field,” Jeje said. Jeje’s upfront colleague Balwant also brings in a lot of experience having spent the last two seasons with three-time winner ATK. He made 23 league appearances for the club and won the Federation Cup with Churchill Brothers before joining Mohun Bagan in the 2014-15 season to help it win the I-League. Narayan Das played all the 18 matches for Odisha FC last season, while Eugeneson began with a lot of promise after joining ATK in the 2017-18 season. Lyngdoh joins East Bengal after spending a season with Bengaluru FC. “East Bengal is a club with a lot of history and I am thrilled to be a part of that legacy in its hundredth year,” Lyngdoh said. The signings for the ISL leaves out certain names who had completed pre-season contracts with the erstwhile administration of the East Bengal, which has since been taken over by Shree Cement. The new club management has assured to honour the contract of those players, numbering about six, if they fail to find any clubs in the ensuing I-League season.  East Bengal’s domestic players for ISL: Goalkeepers: Sankar Roy, Debjit Majumder, Mohammad Rafique Ali Sardar, Mirshad Kootapunna; Defenders: Gurtej Singh, Narayan Das, Samad Ali Mallick, Lalram Chullova, Mohammed Irshad, N. Rohen Singh, Abhishek Ambekar, Rana Gharami; Midfielders: Sehnaj Singh, Bikash Jairu, Eugeneson Lyngdoh, Yumnam Gopi Singh, Wahengbam Angousana, Mohammad Rafique, Moirangthem Loken Meitei, Surchandra Singh Chandam; Forwards: Jeje Lalpekhlua, Balwant Singh .
21 October 2020||BENGALURU,||BFC ropes in Opseth and Gonzalez||Bengaluru FC, on Tuesday, announced the signings of Norwegian striker Kristian Opseth and Spanish centre-back Francisco ‘Fran’ Gonzalez on one-year deals ahead of the 2020-21 Indian Super League campaign, scheduled to begin in November in Goa. The duo will replace Brazilian midfielder Raphael Augusto and Spanish defender Alberto Serran, and complete the 2018-19 champion's roster of foreign players. Opseth is new to Indian football and most recently turned out for A-League side Adelaide United. Gonzalez, though, has prior experience of playing in India, having plied his trade with Mohun Bagan in its title-winning 2019-20 I-League campaign. The Spaniard scored 10 goals for the Kolkata side, and was joint-second highest goalscorer in the I-League. “The additions of Kristian and Fran makes us a very competitive team," said Coach Carles Cuadrat. “Fran has won a title last season, and is familiar with Indian conditions. Kristian is a proven goalscorer, and along with Deshorn Brown and Cleiton Silva, he gives us the confidence we need in attack.”
21 October 2020||KOLKATA,||Pink ball Test against England at Ahmedabad: Ganguly||Ahmedabad will host the day-night pink ball Test during England’s tour of India early next year, BCCI president Sourav Ganguly said here on Tuesday. England is scheduled to visit India between January and March for five Tests and a limited overs series. “Ahmedabad will hold the day-night Test,” Ganguly said while launching a book written by CPI(M) MLA Ashok Bhattacharya. BCCI is determined to host England and it is already exploring all possible options, including creating bio-secure bubbles. Ahmedabad, Dharamsala and Kolkata are likely to be the three Test venues. “We have made some tentative plans but nothing has been decided as of now. We still have four months’ time.” Priority  He added the priority now is the upcoming Australia tour and the team selection will take place in a few days. “We have Australia series coming up. The team will be selected in a few days’ time.” Ganguly said switching to the Test format immediately after the IPL will not be a problem for the players. “They are all quality players, they will be fine.” The Ranji Trophy will start from January 1 and Ganguly said details will be worked out at the upcoming AGM. “The AGM will happen soon and there we will decide about the Ranji Trophy.”
21 October 2020||LONDON,||Jimenez is Wolves’ hero||A Raul Jimenez shot that took a heavy deflection off the head of Leeds United midfielder Kalvin Phillips gave Wolverhampton Wanderers a hard-fought 1-0 away win in the Premier League on Monday. Leeds dominated possession in the opening half, firing crosses into the box at a variety of angles and threatening from set pieces without creating much in the way of clear-cut chances. Wolves improved greatly in the second half and had a Romain Saiss goal ruled out for offside before Jimenez drifted in from the right and cut back to shoot. Phillips attempted to head clear, but only succeeded in wrong-footing his goalkeeper. The victory put Wolves sixth on nine points from five games, behind Leicester City and Arsenal on goal difference. Newly-promoted Leeds is 10th with seven points. Promoted West Bromwich Albion and Burnley fought out a 0-0 draw after both sides missed chances to register a first win of the season in a pulsating clash. In Serie A, Genoa held on for a 0-0 draw away to Verona despite having its squad decimated following a COVID-19 outbreak at the club.  The results:   Premier League: Leeds 0 lost to Wolves 1 (Jimenez 70); West Brom 0 drew with Burnley 0.   Serie A: Verona 0 drew with Genoa 0 .
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Team may have run out of juice, says Fleming||Following its seven-wicket loss to Rajasthan Royals, seventh from 10 matches, Chennai Super Kings’ path to the playoffs now looks remote and coach Stephen Fleming conceded that the team is running out of juice with its ageing squad. “It’s fair to say looking at the table now that this team may have run out of juice,” said Fleming after the loss pushed the team down to the bottom spot. “If you’re looking at a three-year cycle, we won the first year; lost off the last ball last year. We always thought that the third year with an ageing squad would be difficult. And Dubai (UAE) has challenged us with a whole new set of requirements,” he added. Bravo out for two weeks Dwayne Bravo, who suffered a right groin injury against Delhi Capitals on Saturday, has been ruled out for two weeks. He is likely to miss the remainder of the league stage.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||It will be an MI-DC final, says Aakash Chopra||Former India batsman Aakash Chopra expects Mumbai Indians and Delhi Capitals to square off in the final of IPL 2020. “I find them very balanced, even though Delhi is now having a fair bit of injury worries. They still have enough resources. I see Delhi-Mumbai as finalists,” said Chopra on the Tissot P resents Sportstar Extras T20 Time show. While Chopra predicts Royal Challengers Bangalore to be the third team to make the playoffs, he feels that the competition will be stiffer for the fourth spot. “There will be a scamper for that [fourth] berth. There are quite a few teams that are there, and in the end, it may not be about which is the best of the remaining teams,” he said. “The teams with fewer holes will reach the final four and not necessarily the one with the steadiest ship.” Chopra, who played for Kolkata Knight Riders in IPL 2008, says the tournament was like nothing that he had seen before. “I remember walking out on the field for an IPL game and asking myself and the people around whether we were there to play cricket. Because that was the first time the loudspeakers were at their loudest,” he recalled. The full interview can be watched on:  youtu.be/QCsPoGtaKh8
21 October 2020||Dubai,||Extended bio bubbles can cause ‘extreme burnout’: Morgan, Holder||Eoin Morgan and Jason Holder have expressed their reservations about players spending long periods of time in bio-secure bubbles, warning that it can lead to “extreme burnout”. Both Morgan and Holder have spent time in bio-secure bubbles over the past few months, including the one put in place by the ECB to manage the home summer season. “We managed to fulfil all of our international fixtures for the summer. That was an unbelievable achievement for the teams that came across and the commitment the ECB showed. We’re extremely fortunate enough to be back playing,” Morgan was quoted as saying by ESPNCricinfo . He added that players can’t be expected to to spend extended periods in these bubble. “But to keep that level of bubble for a 12-month period, or 10 of the 12 months that we normally travel, I think is untenable. I actually think it’s probably one of the more challenging times. You can drill a player both mentally and physically. And it can cause extreme burnout, which nobody wants to see. Holder said: “Something needs to be thought of in order to just try to free up things a little bit more for the players’ mental health.” The 34-year-old Morgan predicted that more and more players will pull-out from tours to protect their mental health. “As a team, we’ve accepted that guys will come in and out of the bubble as they feel it’s affecting their mental health. Their health is a priority.”
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Kalinga’s story||Duryodhana takes the help of Kalinga to get rid of Dhritarashtra’s affection for the Pandavas, said V.S.Karunakarachariar in a discourse. Kalinga tells Dhritarashtra a story. In a forest there was a clever fox, who sought the help of a tiger, a rat, a wolf and a mongoose to kill a lion. The rat was to bite the lion when the latter was asleep. With the lion in pain, killing it would be easy for the tiger. All five friends would then feast on the lion’s flesh. The fox’s plan worked, and the tiger killed the lion. The fox then told the other animals that they should bathe before eating the meat, while the fox stood guard over the dead lion. The tiger was the first to return, and the fox said, “The rat was here and said, ‘If not for my biting the lion, would the tiger have been able to kill it? Does this tiger deserve to be treated with respect?’ The rat’s words about you upset me.” The tiger felt that it would be a disgrace to eat the lion, for the killing of which a mere rat took credit. So, the tiger left. The rat arrived next. The fox said,” The mongoose was here just now and said that your bite would have poisoned the meat. It also wanted to hurt you. How could I allow a friend to be hurt?” The frightened rat ran into its hole. To the wolf, the fox said: “The tiger wanted to kill you, because you apparently doubted his strength.” The wolf ran away. To the mongoose, the fox said, “I fought the tiger and wolf and they ran off in fear. Let us fight. If you win, you can have the meat.” The mongoose felt that he stood no chance, and went away. Kalinga says that the moral of the story is that Dhritarashtra must give up his affection for the Pandavas, and resort to every means possible to safeguard the kingdom for his sons.
21 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Love downs Anuj in a thriller||Love Kukreja fought hard to oust former champion Anuj Uppal 21-32, 32-42, 37-0, 40-17, 7-40, 58-53, 40-11 in the pre-quarterfinals of the Suresh Sharma memorial Delhi State 6-Red snooker championship. In the quarterfinals, Love Kukreja was scheduled to play Altmash Saifi who beat another former champion Monu Choudhary in a similar thriller. Former State champion Sandeep Gulati was beaten by Sunil Kumar with relative ease and the latter will play Sanchit Gupta. The two other quarterfinals will feature Sunny Solanki against Jaison Malhotra and Harpreet Singh against Shoaib Khan.  The results (pre-quarterfinals): Love Kukreja bt Anuj Uppal 21-32, 32-42, 37-0, 40-17, 7-40, 58-53, 40-11; Sunil Kumar bt Sandeep Gulati 25-16, 38-0, 3-46, 39-0, 39-27; Altamash Saifi bt Monu Choudhary 36-0, 37-6, 39-13, 12-43, 7-36, 9-55, 41-36 .
21 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Jakub Sylvestr joins CFC||Chennaiyin FC (CFC) announced on Tuesday that Slovakian centre-forward Jakub Sylvestr has joined the club on a free transfer for the duration of the 2020-21 Indian Super League (ISL) season. The 31-year-old former Slovakia international joins CFC from Israel’s top flight after the expiry of his contract at Hapoel Haifa FC. Sylvestr is set to become the first player from Slovakia to feature in the ISL and the club’s seventh and final overseas player for the upcoming season.
21 October 2020||KOZHIKODE,||We must keep believing: Buttler||Jos Buttler made it all look easy. On a surface where others struggled to keep the scoreboard ticking, he scored a 48-ball 70 to guide Rajasthan Royals to a badly-needed victory against Chennai Super Kings. And he did that not in his more accustomed role as an opener, but in the middle-order. “I enjoy both the roles,” the star batsman from England said. “I am happy to play wherever the team needs me to.” The win allowed Royals to maintain hopes of a place in the playoffs, but they may have to win all the remaining games. “It’s very clear what we have to do,” Buttler said. “We have to stay very tight as a group and trust each other more, trust our method of playing. We must keep believing.”
21 October 2020||NEW DELHI:,||Nagal loses his way||Lucky loser Sumit Nagal lost from the brink of victory in the first round of the €271,345 ATP tennis tournament in Cologne on Tuesday. Sumit, who had lost the second and final round in the qualifying event, was beaten 4-6, 7-6(4), 6-1 by Momir Kecmanovic of Serbia in the main draw. In the Challenger in Ismaning, Prajnesh Gunneswaran and Ramkumar Ramanathan made singles pre-quarterfinals.  The results:   €271,345 ATP, Cologne, Germany: Singles (first round): Momir Kecmanovic (Srb) bt Sumit Nagal 4-6 7-6(4), 6-1.   Qualifying singles (second and final round): Pierre-Hugues Herbert (Fra) bt Sumit Nagal 6-2, 6-2; First round: Nagal bt Norbert Gombos (Svk) 7-5, 6-4.   €44,820 Challenger, Ismaning, Germany: Singles (first round): Prajnesh Gunneswaran bt Tomas Martin Etcheverry (Arg) 6-4, 3-6, 7-6(3); Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Quentin Halys (Fra) 7-6(5), 6-3.   $15,000 ITF men, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Vladyslav Manafov (Ukr) & Arjun Kadhe bt Marko Miladinovic & Miljan Zekic (Srb) 6-3, 6-4; Felix Corwin (US) & Vladyslav Orlov (Ukr) bt Kelsey Stevenson (Can) & Sidharth Rawat 6-4, 6-4 .
21 October 2020||Kottayam:,||Jubin Jimmy wins title||FIDE Master Jubin Jimmy (Kollam) won the Kottayam leg of the qualifiers for the all-Kerala online Open chess tournament on Tuesday. Jimmy kept a clean slate in the nine-round tournament to win his third title in the qualifiers. He had earlier won the Kozhikode and Thrissur legs of the qualifiers. Vishnu Surendran (Ernakulam 8 points) and C.R. Raveendran(Ernakulam 8 points) finished second and third respectively. Sravan Renjith, Jake Shanty, M.J. Thomas, K.K. Asokan, George John, Haritha Sunil, Joel Mathew, Sony P. James, Sobichen and P.N. John qualified for the mega final from Kottayam.  Final standings (open): 1. Jubin Jimmy (Klm 9 points), 2. Vishnu Surendran (Ekm 8), 3. C.R. Raveendran (Ekm 8), 4. Jinan Jomon (7.5), 5. Abdallah M. Nisthar (Klm 7.5), 6. N. Jyothilal (Koz 7), 7. M.Niyas (Klm 7), 8. Sraven Renjith (Ktm 7), 9. John Veny Akkarakaran (Koz 7), 10. Gagan Bhardwaj (Ksg 7) .
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 08:45 IST,||Sudoku - October 21, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Honouring heroism!||Representing the civil authority of government, Police typically are responsible for maintaining public order and safety, enforcing the law, and preventing, detecting, and investigating criminal activities. Although, policing is a concept that is perhaps as old as the kings and emperors who ruled in ancient India, with each kingdom having its own style of policing. Eventually, it was the British who brought about a unified policing system in India, that was embodied in the Indian Police Act, Act-V of 1861. Though in ‘British India’, police were mainly used for quelling disturbances by the civil population, rather than assisting the civilians in society. The police are a constituted body of persons empowered by a State, with the aim to enforce the law, but also to ensure the safety, well-being and possessions of citizens, and to prevent crime and civil disorder. In Andhra Pradesh, it is the Director-General of Police (DGP) who heads the Police Department of the State. He is assisted by Additional DGPs, each heading various departments like Law and Order, Crime Investigation, Personnel, Intelligence and Security, Recruitment and Training, Armed Police, Technical Services. An integral part of today’s society, the police are the first responders in any emergency, invariably risking their own lives to assist and rescue. Ensuring that such deeds of valour are recognised and valued, the National Police Commemoration Day is observed every year on October 21 to remember the brave policemen who sacrificed their lives while discharging their duties. The Police Martyrs' Day or Police Commemoration Day, is observed by police departments nationwide in memory of an ambush on a Central Reserve Police Force patrol at the Indo-Tibetan border in Ladakh by Chinese forces, as part of the ongoing Sino-Indian border dispute. The attack, referred to as the ‘Kongka Pass incident’ happened in 1959. In October 1959, Indian troops crossed the Kongka Pass while attempting to establish posts at Tsogstsalu, Hot Springs, and Shamal Lungpa. On 20 October, an initial Indian reconnaissance team was captured by the Chinese forces. On 21 October, with signs of Chinese presence becoming available, a larger search party was formed for the missing reconnaissance team. Chinese troops opened fire and threw grenades at the party of 20 police personnel near the Kongka Pass. Chinese forces had a more favourable position in this engagement. Ten were killed in the incident, which left seven others injured, who were later taken as prisoners. Three weeks later, China returned the bodies of the ten personnel which were later cremated with full police honours at Hot Springs in North Eastern Ladakh. Incidentally, the incident contributed to the heightening of tensions that led to the Sino-Indian War in 1962. Back then, the Indian media described the event a "brutal massacre of an Indian police party." Police personnel had been responsible for manning the 2,500-mile-long border of India with Tibet until the autumn of 1959. A memorial was erected at Hot Springs and members of Police Forces from different parts of the country trek to Hot Springs to pay homage to the martyrs. Since the year 2012, the Police Commemoration Day Parade is being held at the National level at the Police Memorial, Chanakyapuri. In the year 2018, India's first national police museum was inaugurated in Delhi on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day. The museum - depicting the history, artefacts, uniform and gear of central and state police forces - is as an underground facility in the premises of the national police memorial in Delhi’s Chanakyapuri. This year, in Andhra Pradesh, the police plan to organise a series of programmes for ten days to mark Police Commemoration Day on October 21. Chief Minister, Home Minister, Cabinet Ministers, Parliament Members, MLAs, MLCs and top police personnel led by Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang will review the commemoration day parade, and pay tributes to the police martyrs on October 21. Officers will meet the families of martyred police personnel. About 90 police personnel died due to COVID-19 in Andhra Pradesh. Tributes will bepaid to all those who died of COVID. Uma Chodavarapu
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Honouring heroism!||Representing the civil authority of government, Police typically are responsible for maintaining public order and safety, enforcing the law, and preventing, detecting, and investigating criminal activities. Although, policing is a concept that is perhaps as old as the kings and emperors who ruled in ancient India, with each kingdom having its own style of policing. Eventually, it was the British who brought about a unified policing system in India, that was embodied in the Indian Police Act, Act-V of 1861. Though in ‘British India’, police were mainly used for quelling disturbances by the civil population, rather than assisting the civilians in society. The police are a constituted body of persons empowered by a State, with the aim to enforce the law, but also to ensure the safety, well-being and possessions of citizens, and to prevent crime and civil disorder. In Andhra Pradesh, it is the Director-General of Police (DGP) who heads the Police Department of the State. He is assisted by Additional DGPs, each heading various departments like Law and Order, Crime Investigation, Personnel, Intelligence and Security, Recruitment and Training, Armed Police, Technical Services. An integral part of today’s society, the police are the first responders in any emergency, invariably risking their own lives to assist and rescue. Ensuring that such deeds of valour are recognised and valued, the National Police Commemoration Day is observed every year on October 21 to remember the brave policemen who sacrificed their lives while discharging their duties. The Police Martyrs' Day or Police Commemoration Day, is observed by police departments nationwide in memory of an ambush on a Central Reserve Police Force patrol at the Indo-Tibetan border in Ladakh by Chinese forces, as part of the ongoing Sino-Indian border dispute. The attack, referred to as the ‘Kongka Pass incident’ happened in 1959. In October 1959, Indian troops crossed the Kongka Pass while attempting to establish posts at Tsogstsalu, Hot Springs, and Shamal Lungpa. On 20 October, an initial Indian reconnaissance team was captured by the Chinese forces. On 21 October, with signs of Chinese presence becoming available, a larger search party was formed for the missing reconnaissance team. Chinese troops opened fire and threw grenades at the party of 20 police personnel near the Kongka Pass. Chinese forces had a more favourable position in this engagement. Ten were killed in the incident, which left seven others injured, who were later taken as prisoners. Three weeks later, China returned the bodies of the ten personnel which were later cremated with full police honours at Hot Springs in North Eastern Ladakh. Incidentally, the incident contributed to the heightening of tensions that led to the Sino-Indian War in 1962. Back then, the Indian media described the event a "brutal massacre of an Indian police party." Police personnel had been responsible for manning the 2,500-mile-long border of India with Tibet until the autumn of 1959. A memorial was erected at Hot Springs and members of Police Forces from different parts of the country trek to Hot Springs to pay homage to the martyrs. Since the year 2012, the Police Commemoration Day Parade is being held at the National level at the Police Memorial, Chanakyapuri. In the year 2018, India's first national police museum was inaugurated in Delhi on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day. The museum - depicting the history, artefacts, uniform and gear of central and state police forces - is as an underground facility in the premises of the national police memorial in Delhi’s Chanakyapuri. This year, in Andhra Pradesh, the police plan to organise a series of programmes for ten days to mark Police Commemoration Day on October 21. Chief Minister, Home Minister, Cabinet Ministers, Parliament Members, MLAs, MLCs and top police personnel led by Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang will review the commemoration day parade, and pay tributes to the police martyrs on October 21. Officers will meet the families of martyred police personnel. About 90 police personnel died due to COVID-19 in Andhra Pradesh. Tributes will be paid to all those who died of COVID.
21 October 2020||October 21 2020 00:00 IST,||Honouring heroism!||Representing the civil authority of government, Police typically are responsible for maintaining public order and safety, enforcing the law, and preventing, detecting, and investigating criminal activities. Although, policing is a concept that is perhaps as old as the kings and emperors who ruled in ancient India, with each kingdom having its own style of policing. Eventually, it was the British who brought about a unified policing system in India, that was embodied in the Indian Police Act, Act-V of 1861. Though in ‘British India’, police were mainly used for quelling disturbances by the civil population, rather than assisting the civilians in society. The police are a constituted body of persons empowered by a State, with the aim to enforce the law, but also to ensure the safety, well-being and possessions of citizens, and to prevent crime and civil disorder. In Andhra Pradesh, it is the Director-General of Police (DGP) who heads the Police Department of the State. He is assisted by Additional DGPs, each heading various departments like Law and Order, Crime Investigation, Personnel, Intelligence and Security, Recruitment and Training, Armed Police, Technical Services. An integral part of today’s society, the police are the first responders in any emergency, invariably risking their own lives to assist and rescue. Ensuring that such deeds of valour are recognised and valued, the National Police Commemoration Day is observed every year on October 21 to remember the brave policemen who sacrificed their lives while discharging their duties. The Police Martyrs' Day or Police Commemoration Day, is observed by police departments nationwide in memory of an ambush on a Central Reserve Police Force patrol at the Indo-Tibetan border in Ladakh by Chinese forces, as part of the ongoing Sino-Indian border dispute. The attack, referred to as the ‘Kongka Pass incident’ happened in 1959. In October 1959, Indian troops crossed the Kongka Pass while attempting to establish posts at Tsogstsalu, Hot Springs, and Shamal Lungpa. On 20 October, an initial Indian reconnaissance team was captured by the Chinese forces. On 21 October, with signs of Chinese presence becoming available, a larger search party was formed for the missing reconnaissance team. Chinese troops opened fire and threw grenades at the party of 20 police personnel near the Kongka Pass. Chinese forces had a more favourable position in this engagement. Ten were killed in the incident, which left seven others injured, who were later taken as prisoners. Three weeks later, China returned the bodies of the ten personnel which were later cremated with full police honours at Hot Springs in North Eastern Ladakh. Incidentally, the incident contributed to the heightening of tensions that led to the Sino-Indian War in 1962. Back then, the Indian media described the event a "brutal massacre of an Indian police party." Police personnel had been responsible for manning the 2,500-mile-long border of India with Tibet until the autumn of 1959. A memorial was erected at Hot Springs and members of Police Forces from different parts of the country trek to Hot Springs to pay homage to the martyrs. Since the year 2012, the Police Commemoration Day Parade is being held at the National level at the Police Memorial, Chanakyapuri. In the year 2018, India's first national police museum was inaugurated in Delhi on the occasion of Police Commemoration Day. The museum - depicting the history, artefacts, uniform and gear of central and state police forces - is as an underground facility in the premises of the national police memorial in Delhi’s Chanakyapuri. This year, in Andhra Pradesh, the police plan to organise a series of programmes for ten days to mark Police Commemoration Day on October 21. Chief Minister, Home Minister, Cabinet Ministers, Parliament Members, MLAs, MLCs and top police personnel led by Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang will review the commemoration day parade, and pay tributes to the police martyrs on October 21. Officers will meet the families of martyred police personnel. About 90 police personnel died due to COVID-19 in Andhra Pradesh. Tributes will be paid to all those who died of COVID. Uma Chodavarapu
21 October 2020||Gurugram,||Ban on genset leaves 1,000 families in dark for 12 hours||Around 1,000 families residing in Ramprastha City, a 450-acre township along Dwarka Expressway in Sector 37D, were forced to go without electricity for nearly 12 hours on Tuesday after the developer turned off the diesel generator. The Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority has banned the use of diesel generators, with some exceptions, due to a spike in pollution levels. For the past four years, the residents of the township have depended upon the power supplied by the generator for 10-12 hours daily. As many as 22 residential societies in Millennium City do not have regular power connection and depend on generators. Ramprastha City’s Atrium Condominium Welfare Association president Pradip Rahi said the developer refused to supply power through the generator without citing any reason. The power went off around 5 a.m., leaving the residents in the lurch. “Most residents are working from home and have important meetings scheduled. The children could not attend their online classes,” said Mr. Rahi. Meanwhile, the developer did not respond to repeated calls and messages for a comment on the issue. The power was restored around 5 p.m. after intervention by the Department of Town and Country Planning. Haryana Chief Secretary Vijai Vardhan said a letter would be submitted to the EPCA on Wednesday with a detailed plan to supply power through the grid in these areas and seek temporary exemption. The Air Quality Index (AQI) of Delhi was 223 (poor) on Tuesday, and the values for Gurugram and Noida were 192 (moderate) and 219 (poor), respectively. according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The air quality of Delhi is likely to slightly deteriorate on Wednesday, as per SAFAR. “Delhi AQI is forecast to stay in ‘poor’ to lower end of ‘very poor’ category for the next two days,” it said. Over 1,000 fires The stubble burning fire counts around Haryana, Punjab, and neighbouring regions of Delhi were 1,017 on Monday, as per SAFAR. The contribution of stubble burning to PM2.5 levels in Delhi was estimated to be around 8% on Tuesday, and is likely to increase.
21 October 2020||New Delhi,||Active cases rise after dip||As many as 3,579 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the Capital in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 3,36,750, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Also, 41 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 6,081. Of the total cases, 3,06,747 people have recovered and there are 23,922 active cases. Number of tests A total of 56,593 COVID-19 tests were done in the past 24 hours. Of the total tests, 14,253 RT-PCR tests were done, which is higher compared to September and early October. Also, the number of active cases increased after seeing a dip on Monday and the number of people in hospitals also increased for the third straight day. However, number of people under home isolation fell slightly on Tuesday. Of the total 15,704 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 67.23% were vacant, as per government data. But, 57.5% of the ICU beds with ventilators have been occupied and 52.7% of the ICU beds without ventilators are full. The positivity rate is 6.3% — which is higher than early October. The overall positivity rate till now is 8.2%.
21 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Over 1K Delhi govt. school students cleared JEE, NEET’||After a stellar performance in CBSE results, Delhi government school students have set another benchmark with 569 students qualifying in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) for admission to medical colleges and 443 clearing the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) with 53 of them eligible for direct admission to IITs, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday. Due to the ongoing COVID-19 crisis, these results have emerged as stories of hope, featuring students from humble backgrounds who fought all odds to qualify in these exams with flying colours, he said. “Of the 569 students who cleared NEET, 67% (379) are girls. I am extremely proud of the fact that girls have performed extremely well,” Mr. Kejriwal said at a digital briefing, adding: “At least 443 students cleared JEE Mains and 53 students have qualified for JEE Advanced and have secured a seat for themselves in IITs.” He also told students seeking to pursue higher studies not to be concerned about finance if they had cleared Class 12 and lacked the means to move forward. “The Delhi government has scholarships to offer and any student, rich or poor, can get a loan of up to Rs. 10 lakh from the government without submitting any collateral and can exercise their right to education,” he said. Among the successful JEE candidates was Nikhil from RPVV Dwarka Sector 19, whose father runs a cycle repair shop. Tamanna Goyal from RPVV, Rohini Sector 11, whose mother is a domestic help, cracked NEET. “I am apprising you about these students and their background because talent isn’t determined by money. If given equal opportunity, children belonging to lower middle-class families have the ability to achieve great heights,” Mr. Kejriwal said.
21 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Blanket extension of bails must end’||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday remarked that its blanket order extending interim bail and parole to prisoners following the COVID-19 pandemic should come to an end. The full Bench headed by Chief Justice D.N. Patel made the observation after the Delhi govt. in an affidavit stated that the number of infected persons in jails stands at six. “Let us bring to an end the COVID chapter. Let these people surrender or go back to jail. We passed the order in view of the pandemic. Our order has nothing to do with overcrowding of jails. We are not concerned by the nature of the crimes,” the court said, adding it would sit together and take a decision on whether to extend the order. The government, in response to a query from the HC during the last hearing, stated that over 5,500 prisoners have been granted interim bail since the pandemic outbreak.
21 October 2020||New Delhi,||Gymkhana Club’s bar licence cancelled||The bar licence of Gymkhana Club has been cancelled for allegedly selling liquor during the lockdown in violation of guidelines as well as other infractions, read an official order. On September 17, the Excise Department had inspected the premises and found a bar sub-store, which had no approval from the department. A hearing was conducted following which a decision was taken to suspend the club’s bar licence, said officials. Deputy Excise Commissioner Ranjeet Singh issued the cancellation order on Monday while stating that liquor was issued in April and May to numerous people, including Delhi Police personnel.
21 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||14-year-old boy apprehended for raping toddler||An eight-month-old girl was allegedly raped by a 14-year-old boy in north Delhi’s Kotwali, the police said. The teenager has been apprehended. A senior officer said the matter was reported on October 15 by the victim’s mother. She told the police that she, her husband and their daughter sleep on the roof of toilets outside Old Delhi railway station. The accused and a few other boys also sleep at the same place. The woman said that on the intervening night of October 14 and 15, she had asked the juvenile to take care of the child for a while as she had some work. “When she returned, she saw the child crying and the boy was missing. The baby slept with difficulty,” the officer said. Next morning, the mother saw the baby bleeding from her private parts and took her to the hospital where the doctor told her that the girl had been raped. The woman then informed the police. The victim was discharged after treatment. Accused sent to observation home “A case under Section 376 [punishment for rape] of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was lodged and investigation was taken up,” the officer. The accused was produced before the Juvenile Justice Board after which he was sent to an observation home.
21 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Gurdwara employee ‘molests’ woman||A tea seller has alleged that she was molested by a 62-year-old gurdwara employee outside Gurdwara Bangla Sahib on Monday, the police said on Tuesday. A case on charges of molestation and other relevant sections has been registered. An officer said the woman, who has had the shop outside the gurdwara for many years, alleged that on Monday the accused came to her shop with a few others and demanded money in lieu of allowing her to set up shop. When she refused to pay, the accused allegedly molested and manhandled her.
