22 May 2020||Kolkata,||Amphan kills 72 in West Bengal, brings life to a halt||The death toll in Super Cyclone Amphan in West Bengal increased to 72, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Thursday. Fifteen of the deceased were from Kolkata, she said. Ms. Banerjee, who met senior officials at the State Secretariat to take stock of the damage, said she had not seen such a disaster in her life. “I haven’t seen such a disaster in my entire life. I will ask the Prime Minister to visit the State and see it for himself.” She said Union Home Minister Amit Shah had called her up, and she informed him of the enormity of the disaster. She said the impact of the cyclone was so severe that Nabanna, the State Secretariat building, shook. Deaths were reported from eight districts. South 24 Parganas recorded the maximum of 18 deaths, followed by North 24 Parganas with 17 deaths. People also died in Howrah, Hooghly, Purba Medinipur and Nadia. The deaths were mainly due to the falling of trees, electrocution and the collapse of poorly built houses. Such areas as Kakdwip and Namkhana in South 24 Parganas and Minakha and Hingalganj in North 24 Parganas were the worst affected by the cyclone, which made landfall near Sagar Island. Damage has been reported from eight districts, but the maximum damage has occurred in the coastal districts, including South and North 24 Parganas. Thousands of ‘katcha’ houses were damaged in the two districts and a large part of the Sunderbans police district was inundated because of the storm surge, which was four-five metres above the tide level. Ms. Banerjee said she would visit the affected areas after three to four days, once connectivity was restored. “There is no telephone connection and there is no electricity in these parts of the State.” She said the government had set up a Rs. 1,000-crore relief fund. The government has evacuated five lakh people and kept them in cyclone shelters. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will travel to West Bengal and Odisha on Friday to take stock of the situation, the Prime Minister’s Office said. “He will conduct aerial surveys and take part in review meetings,” the PMO said in a tweet.
22 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Death toll rises to 4 as Mumbai returnee dies||A 73-year-old woman, who had come to Chavakkad from Mumbai, died of COVID-19 on Thursday taking the death toll in the State to four. The woman, who had travelled in a car along with three others, developed breathlessness when they reached Perinthalmanna on Wednesday. Her son immediately took her to the Chavakkad Taluk Hospital in an ambulance. As her condition turned critical, the hospital authorities were preparing to shift her to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Thrissur. However, she died before being shifted to the MCH. The woman, who was suffering from diabetes, high blood pressure and breathlessness, had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. Her son and the driver of the ambulance were put under observation by the health officials after she tested positive. She hailed from Anchangadi Kadappuram panchayat in Chavakkad. Cases rise As more and more expatriates and Non-Resident Keralites from other parts of the country continue to return to the State, Kerala’s COVID-19 caseload is also on an upward spiral, with 24 more testing positive on Thursday. All 24 are imported cases of infection, with 14 cases reported in persons who had returned from abroad while 10 cases in persons who had come to Kerala from other States, particularly Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Malappuram accounted for five cases, Kannur four, Kottayam and Thrissur three cases each, Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, and Alapuzha two cases each, and Idukki, Palakkad, and Kasaragod one case each. The State also reported the recovery of eight patients. Kerala has so far reported 690 cases, of which 176 patients are currently undergoing treatment in hospitals. A total of 510 patients have since recovered from the disease. Three regions were newly added to the hotspot list of the State.  (With inputs from Thrisuur Bureau)
22 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Five men arrested for carrying chicken meat granted bail by HC||The Allahabad High Court on Wednesday granted bail to five persons jailed on the charge of carrying chicken meat allegedly in violation of lockdown norms. Asjad Gazi, Irshad Raza, Nihaluddin, Mohd. Aqeel and Mohd. Shahid had been in jail since April 13 after they were found carrying 3 quintals (300 kg) of chicken meat in a truck in Lucknow. They were booked under several sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and the Disaster Management Act, 2005. In his submission before Justice Rajeev Singh of the Lucknow Bench, the defence counsel argued that the Joint Secretary, Union Ministry of Fisheries and Animal Husbandry, had asked the States on March 30 to include live chicks, eggs and meat in the list of commodities exempted from the lockdown. Essential items The Director of Animal Husbandry, Uttar Pradesh, clarified on April 3 that these were essential items. The State government’s advocate opposed the bail saying the accused persons were carrying the meat with a forged pass. But he conceded that both State and Centre had clarified that chicken meat was an exempted commodity. “Considering the rival submissions of learned counsel for parties, material available on record as well as totality of fact and circumstances, and without expressing any opinion on the merits of the case, I am of the view that the applicants are entitled to be released on bail,” Justice Singh said.
22 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka revises testing protocol for travellers from six high-risk States||All asymptomatic travellers from high-risk States — Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Rajasthan, and Madhya Pradesh — will now be tested between the fifth and the seventh day of their arrival. So far, they were being tested on the 12th day, just before release from quarantine. This comes in the wake of a high number of travellers from these places testing positive in Karnataka. The State revised its lab testing protocols on Thursday. While Karnataka considered three States [Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat] on its list of high-prevalence States till May 20, now travellers from Delhi, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh will also be tested on priority. Immediate tests Those who are symptomatic (Influenza-Like Illnesses symptoms) will be tested immediately on arrival, stated an order issued by Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education) on Thursday. All symptomatic individuals, who have undertaken international travel in the last 14 days, will be tested immediately on arrival. The symptomatic primary contacts of confirmed cases will be tested immediately and if asymptomatic, on day 5 and day 10 of coming into contact with a positive case. Secondary symptomatic contacts of positive cases and symptomatic healthcare workers, front-line workers involved in containment and mitigation of COVID-19 will be tested immediately, stated the revised order. “Pooling of five samples has to be done at testing labs for asymptomatic international and inter-state returnees,” the order stated. All patients of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and ILI from containment zones and buffer zones will also be tested immediately. All pregnant women from containment zones will be tested once, 14 days before the expected date of delivery. Similarly pregnant women and elderly persons (above 60 years) with symptoms of ILI/ SARI will also be tested immediately. All persons with co-morbidity (HIV, tuberculosis, cancer, stroke, dialysis, organ transplant, diabetes mellitus, hypertension and other immuno-compromised) and having ILI symptoms will also be tested immediately. Swab samples of suspected COVID-19 deaths with history of ILI/SARI symptoms should be taken within six hours of death, the order stated. In view of the relaxation in movement of people and vehicles, the State Health Department has said that health screenings will no longer be conducted at inter-district check-posts. “Any health screening for passengers travelling by public transport (buses and trains) will be done at the origin of the journey and only those passengers found asymptomatic will be allowed to travel. Those symptomatic should be taken to fever clinics,” the circular said. “KSRTC and other bus corporations, Railways and private bus operators should ensure health screening of passengers before the start of the journey,” the circular stated adding that there will not be any health screening of passengers travelling by private vehicles across all districts in Karnataka.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,||HC: Public servants can’t misuse defamation law||In a landmark ruling, the Madras High Court on Thursday held that public servants and constitutional functionaries cannot be allowed to misuse the law of criminal defamation by using the State as a tool to initiate defamation proceedings against adversaries. Quashing multiple defamation proceedings initiated against media houses by the erstwhile Jayalalithaa government, Justice Abdul Quddhose said that public servants and constitutional functionaries must be able to face criticism since they owe a solemn duty to the people. “The State cannot use criminal defamation cases to throttle democracy,” he observed. The court quashed criminal defamation proceedings launched by the State government against a host of media houses and journalists, including N. Ram of The Hindu , during Jayalalithaa’s tenure as Chief Minister in 2012 and 2013. The judge urged prosecutors to desist from acting like a post office while filing criminal defamation cases on behalf of the State. Giving a piece of advice to public prosecutors, the judge said that they must desist from acting like a post office while filing criminal defamation cases on behalf of the State. Instead they must apply their mind independently before launching prosecution, besides being fair to the court. Listing out the basic qualities expected of a public prosecutor, the judge said that prosecutors must consider themselves as agents of justice, not exhibit blind eagerness to grasp a conviction, conduct a case with utmost fairness and “remember that prosecution does not mean persecution”. Justice Quddhose said that trial courts should also apply their judicial mind to materials available on record and issue summons to the accused only if they were satisfied that the ingredients required for taking cognisance of a criminal defamation complaint against the State had been made out. In so far as two proceedings initiated against The Hindu were concerned , the judge held that both of them fell under the category in which, on the face of it, a conclusive inference could be reached that no criminal defamation whatsoever had been made out. The first case was filed with regard to a report titled ‘AIADMK activists attack Nakkheeran office,’ published on January 8, 2012. The judge said and agreed with senior counsel P.S. Raman that it was nothing but a factual news report regarding the attack. “The role of a newspaper is only to publish news as it had happened. As a political personality/constitutional functionary, the then Chief Minister could have very well refuted those allegations by a counter press statement,” the judge pointed out. Similarly, the second case against the newspaper was with regard to publication of a statement issued in July 2012 by the then Leader of the Opposition Vijayakant accusing the CM of taking a long break from office and running the government through [media] statements. In this case too, “there is no criminal defamation at all,” as the newspaper had only published the statement of the then Leader of the Opposition and had not made any personal imputation against the then CM, the judge held. He also pointed out that the incumbent government had recently withdrawn the defamation proceedings initiated against Mr. Vijayakant, for having issued that statement, though he happened to be the “actual perpetrator” of the alleged crime. On proceedings against other media houses, the judge said that some of them could be prosecuted by the aggrieved, in their individual capacity, before a Judicial Magistrate under Section 199(6) of the CrPC but not before a Sessions Court since no defamation against the State had been made out. In his 152-page judgement, Justice Quddhose said that the State must act like a parent of all its citizens when it comes invocation of the law of defamation.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,||776 new patients take T.N. total to 13,967 cases||Tamil Nadu on Thursday recorded 776 cases of COVID-19 and seven deaths even as Chennai’s tally continued to mount, with 567 persons testing positive for the virus. The fresh cases took the State’s COVID-19 case load to 13,967*. The new patients included 297 women. The influx of people from abroad and other States continued to pose a challenge for the State government, with 87 of them testing positive on Thursday, according to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. The State’s recovery rate stands at 44%. With the discharge of another 400 patients, a total of 6,282 persons have been sent home from hospitals. T.N. currently has 7,588 active cases. With the death of three patients at government hospitals and four at private facilities, the toll has gone up to 94. Six of the deceased had diabetes, of which four had both diabetes and hypertension, Dr. Vijayabaskar said. A combination of age, co-morbidities and the adverse impact of COVID-19 was causing fatalities, he added.
22 May 2020||Mumbai,||ICICI offers FD scheme for senior citizens||Private sector ICICI Bank will offer 6.55% on fixed deposits of 5-year to 10-year tenure for senior citizens, which is 80 basis points (bps) higher than the ordinary deposits. Typically, banks offer 50 bps more to senior citizens for fixed deposits. “Named ‘ICICI Bank Golden Years FD’, the scheme offers senior citizens an interest rate of 6.55% per annum for deposits up to Rs. 2 crore with a tenure of more than five to 10 years,” the bank said in a statement. The scheme is available from May 20 to September 30, 2020. This offer from the ICICI Bank comes after the State Bank of India introduced a similar deposit product for senior citizens earlier this month. The SBI’s product also offered additional 30 bps interest rate with deposits of 5 years and above. We believe that this scheme will help create a good pension kitty,” said Pranav Mishra, Head, Liabilities Group, ICICI Bank.
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. announces price range based on duration of flights||The Centre on Thursday set a price range for air tickets, which would be a function of the flight duration when commercial airlines resume operations on May 25. The scale has been divided into seven categories, with the lowest range defined for flights of less than 40 minutes and the highest category set for the longest domestic flights of up to 210 minutes. The Ministry of Civil Aviation, which announced the price range as part of the guidelines prepared ahead of the resumption of flights, laid down several other norms, including a mandatory check in by travellers either online or on the phone before reaching the airport. Medical details must They would be allowed to complete the check-in only after providing medical details either through the Aarogya Setu app or a self-declaration form. A senior official said passengers would be “nudged” to use Aarogya Setu. To start with, airlines would operate 33% of flights, with operations increasing based on the experience of airlines, airports and other stakeholders.
22 May 2020||New Delhi,||HC tells police to pay Rs. 75 lakh to motorist||The Delhi High Court has directed the Delhi Police to pay Rs. 75 lakh as compensation to the parents of a man who is in a vegetative state after his motorcycle rammed into an unmanned and poorly lit police barricade five years ago. Justice Navin Chawla said that the victim was entitled to damages for the negligence of police in discharging their duty. As per rules, all barricades must have fluorescent paint and blinkers so that they are visible from a distance.
22 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||5 more succumb to COVID in TS||Telangana reported surge in deaths of COVID-19 patients for the third day in a row with five more people succumbing to the disease on Thursday. This is one of the highest till date in the State. While four deaths were recorded on May 19, two were reported on May 20. A total of 45 COVID patients have died till date. There was a spike in coronavirus positive cases as 38 more tested positive, including 26 from the GHMC area, two from Rangareddy and 10 migrants.
22 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Golfers in city have a field day||Around 45 golfers teed off at the Prestige Golfshire here on Thursday, marking the resumption of organised sports action after the long hiatus caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Golfers — comprising club members and guests — soaked in the sun while following several precautionary measures mandated by the State government. The precautions included wearing a mask, maintaining social distance, and sanitising of the carts before use.
22 May 2020||Belagavi,||Quarantine violators detained||Officials detained three persons who were found violating quarantine guidelines in Belagavi on Thursday. Two of them were from Maharashtra and one from Goa. They were loitering around the Central Bus Stand in the city. An alert police constable who noticed the quarantine stamp on their hands alerted his senior officers. Circle Inspector of Police Sangamesh Shivayogi ordered that they be detained and sent to the quarantine facility. The police said that they would register cases against them.
22 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Full salary for govt. staff in June||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials to pay full salaries to government employees for the month of May payable in June. A decision to this effect was taken at a review meeting on Thursday. Due to the corona pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, salaries of employees for March and April were deferred at different percentages. However, the Chief Minister directed that full salaries be paid for May to help them meet the contingency. Meanwhile, the GVK Group donated Rs. 2 crore to the Chief Minister's Relief Fund towards COVID containment measures.
22 May 2020||New delhi,||PLA blocking Indian patrols in Ladakh, Sikkim: MEA||New Delhi on Thursday rejected Beijing’s claim that Indian troops trespassed into Chinese territory, and accused the People's Liberation Army (PLA) of “hindering” patrols by Indian soldiers. In the first such statement after weeks of a stand-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers at four points along the boundary in Sikkim and Ladakh, the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) also told China that “peace and tranquility in border areas” is an “essential prerequisite” to developing bilateral relations. “Any suggestion that Indian troops had undertaken activity across the LAC [Line of Actual Control] in the Western Sector or the Sikkim Sector is not accurate. Indian troops are fully familiar with the LAC alignment in the India-China border areas and abide by it scrupulously,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. “All Indian activities are entirely on the Indian side of the LAC. In fact, it is the Chinese side that has recently undertaken activity hindering India’s normal patrolling patterns,” he observed. Mr. Srivastava’s remarks followed claims by the China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) on Tuesday that Indian troops were attempting to “unilaterally change” the status quo at the boundary between them. On Thursday, the MFA issued another statement repeating the claims. It said that Chinese troops “firmly” dealt with what it called the Indian troops’ “crossover and infringement activities,” while telling the United States not to interfere in the dispute between India and China. “We urge the Indian side to work together with us, abide by our leadership’s important consensus, comply with the agreements signed, refrain from unilateral actions complicating the situation,” said MFA spokesperson Zhao Lijian. Thus far, Indian Army officials had maintained that scuffles at two points on the border, at “Finger areas” of Pangong Tso (lake) in eastern Ladakh and Naku La in north Sikkim had been part of normal ground actions that emanate from a “difference in perception of the Line of Actual Control”. In addition there have been stand-offs at Demchok and Galwan Nalah both in eastern Ladakh, sources said. The MEA statement, more measured than the two statements that had been issued by the MFA, is the first time the government has said Chinese troops are blocking Indian patrols during the current stand-off, although it didn’t accuse the PLA of crossing into Indian territory. While both New Delhi and Beijing indicated that talks between military commanders are on to resolve the situation between them, neither said they had made progress yet. China confirmed consultations were under way, and reacted angrily to comments by senior American official Alice Wells on the stand-off, who had referred to the border dispute as proof of Chinese “provocative behaviour” and “threat to its neighbours”. When asked by The Hindu for a specific response to the U.S. decision to speak about the bilateral dispute, the MEA spokesperson said, “No comments”.  (With inputs from Ananth Krishnan in Chennai)
22 May 2020||New Delhi,||With 571 cases, Delhi records highest surge||Delhi reported 571 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 11,659, said the government health bulletin released on Thursday. This is the biggest single-day jump in the number of cases so far.
22 May 2020||New Delhi,||Notice to Centre, State over woman’s detention||The Delhi High Court has issued notices to both Centre and city government over continued detention of a 25-year-old woman involved in anti-CAA protest under UAPA when special courts which can extend her custody have not been functioning due to lockdown.
22 May 2020||BENGALURU,||Temple pujas to soon go online||The devout can now opt for a live telecast of puja proceedings at some chosen temples through the web and Facebook. The Muzrai Department has decided to provide such a facility by the end of this month, according to Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari.
22 May 2020||Shivamogga/Bengaluru,||FIR against Sonia Gandhi over tweet||The Sagar police have filed an FIR against Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi over tweets criticising the utilisation of the PM CARES fund and how Prime Minister Narendra Modi has handled the COVID-19 situation.
22 May 2020||Belagavi,||PM-CARES: Minister thanks senior citizen||Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi visited the house of retired librarian Nalini Kembhavi who had donated Rs. 1 lakh to PM-CARES Fund, in Belagavi on Thursday. He thanked the physically challenged senior citizen and said that such selfless acts were steps realising Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of an Atma Nirbhar Bharat, Mr. Agadi said. Ashok Potdar, P.A. Kembhavi and others were present.
22 May 2020||Chennai,||T.N. embarks on massive cost-cutting exercise||In the wake of a huge shortfall in revenue receipts owing to the COVID-19 outbreak and the consequent efforts to contain it, the Tamil Nadu government on Thursday decided to cut expenses across various accounts on a massive scale.
22 May 2020||Chennai,||No exam centres in containment zones||Examination centres for Class X and XI students will not be set up inside COVID-19 containment zones, the Tamil Nadu government has said. Alternate exam centres will be identified and allocated to the students.
22 May 2020||Chennai/Thiruvananthapuram,||T.N., Telangana and Kerala report virus deaths||Tamil Nadu on Thursday recorded the death of seven people and 776 new COVID-19 patients. In Telangana five more people succumbed to the disease and Kerala and Andhra Pradesh reported one more death. In Chennai, cases continued to surge. Tests showed 567 more persons were positive for novel coronavirus disease. The new patients included 297 women and the State’s overall tally climbed to 13,967. The influx of people from abroad and other States posed a challenge, with 87 testing positive on Thursday, according to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. The State’s recovery rate stood at 44%. With the discharge of another 400 patients, a total of 6,282 persons had been sent home after recovery. T.N. presently has 7,588 active cases.  Toll in Kerala A 73-year-old woman, who had come to Thrissur in Kerala from Mumbai, died of COVID-19 on Thursday taking the death toll in the State to four. The woman, who came by car along with three others, developed breathlessness when they reached Perinthalmanna on Wednesday. Her son took her to the Chavakkad Taluk Hospital in an ambulance. As her condition turned critical, the hospital authorities were preparing to shift her to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Thrissur. However, she died before being shifted to the MCH. The woman, who was suffering from diabetes, high blood pressure and breathlessness, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Her son and the driver of the ambulance were put under observation. Kerala’s COVID-19 case load spiralled on Thursday, with 24 more testing positive as more expatriates and Non-Resident Keralites from other parts of the country returned to the State. All 24 were imported cases, with 14 cases among those who had returned from abroad and 10 in persons who came from other States, particularly Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Malappuram accounted for five cases, Kannur four, Kottayam and Thrissur three cases each, Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, and Alappuzha two cases each, and Idukki, Palakkad, and Kasaragod one case each. The State also reported the recovery of eight patients.  45 fresh cases in A.P. Andhra Pradesh witnessed the death of a COVID-19 patient in Nellore district, and 45 fresh cases of infection. The toll rose to 54 and the tally of positive cases touched 2,605, including 153 migrant workers. Two cases each in Nellore and Chittoor were linked to the Koyambedu market in Chennai. Meanwhile, 41 patients recovered. In all, 1,705 patients, over 65% of the total, had recovered so far and 846 were undergoing treatment. The Telangana surge in deaths was one of the highest in the State. While four deaths were recorded on May 19, two were reported on May 20. A total of 45 patients had died. There were 38 more positive cases, including 26 from Greater Hyderabad, two from Rangareddy and 10 were migrants. So far, 99 migrants had tested positive. Of the total 1,699 cases till date, 618 were active, 1036 were discharged and 45 people died.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Vijayawada, and Hyderabad Bureaus)
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Congress launches Kisan Nyay Scheme||Launching the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana in Chhattisgarh through video conferencing to mark the 29th death anniversary, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Thursday said this was a true tribute to the late Prime Minister. The party also announced that instead of spending on advertisements to mark the occasion, it would spend the amount on helping migrants who have borne the brunt of the prolonged lockdown in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. “Such schemes should be implemented at the ground level to help bring a change in the lives of people. This is a revolutionary scheme and is a true tribute to Rajiv Gandhi. This is a big step taken in line with the values of Rajiv Gandhi,” Ms. Gandhi said. The online event, however, was marked with several audio and video glitches that somewhat curtailed the party’s top leaders’ speeches. Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said the assured monetary assistance scheme will benefit 19 lakh farmers and help bring more area under cultivation. Landless labour and agriculturists would be covered in the next phase, he said. Former party president Rahul Gandhi lauded Chhattisgarh for being the first State to transfer financial aid directly into the accounts of farmers. ‘A true patriot’ “The Chhattisgarh government has set the example for the country on how to help people in the time of crisis,” he said at the launch event. Mr. Gandhi also remembered his father as a “true patriot, liberal and who put the country on the path of progress and self-reliance with his farsightedness”. “In memory of my beloved father, Shri Rajiv Gandhi, who was martyred this day in 1991. He was a wonderful father; gentle, kind, compassionate and patient. I miss him. But he will always stay alive in my heart and in the wonderful memories I have of him,” he wrote on Twitter His sister and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra posted her last photo with her father and shared an emotional tweet. “To be kind to those who are unkind to you; to know that life is fair, no matter how unfair you imagine it to be; to keep walking, no matter how dark the skies or fearsome the storm; to nurture a strong heart, and fill it with love no matter how great its sorrows; these are the gifts of my father’s life,” she tweeted.
22 May 2020||New Delhi,||Jairam questions Centre on briefings||Former Union Minister Jairam Ramesh on Thursday questioned the Central government’s move to discontinue daily briefings on the COVID-19 pandemic, and suggested that Randeep Guleria, Director, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), give regular briefings as “citizens deserve to know the truth”. In a series of tweets, the Congress leader asked the government to allow the parliamentary panel on health to meet the Ministry officials as well as experts of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). “Why has the Government of India discontinued daily briefings on the health situation? All countries inform their citizens through the press in a time of crisis. At such times, credible and professionally competent faces should be telling us what is happening,” he said. “The Health Minister, a medical doctor himself, has so far stayed away from daily briefings. My suggestion to govt: Let Dr. Randeep Guleria, Director of AIIMS, brief the country every evening. Let experts speak relying on facts and science. Our citizens deserve the truth,” he stated. Transparent or not? Mr. Ramesh questioned the transparency and effectiveness of the earlier briefings by the Health Ministry officials. “The Health Ministry official when he was briefing last kept saying that MAYBE the peak will never come. What are we to make of this assertion? Is there a larger design to this statement made not once but thrice? Recovery rates are rising, says the government. Fine. But does this have any scientific meaning? Recovery rate is a function of the time of entry into hospital. What about cases where the COVID patient does not have access or is denied entry into hospitals.” He said, “The Standing Committee on Health, of which I was a member for 5 years, is chaired by the very sober and responsible Prof. Ram Gopal Yadav. The Committee should be allowed to meet and interact with the Health Ministry and ICMR.”
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Pidawa, an unheralded success||“We had to take the help of the local police and move them by ambulance on April 6 to Jhalawar for testing, which could only be done by the evening, further delaying matters,” recalled Dr. Raees. On April 7, three of the five samples taken proved positive, all symptomatic. Dr. Raees and his staff were also tested and put in quarantine, thus closing the CHC until doctors from neighbouring hospitals arrived. This set in motion a chain of events that were to prove decisive in the containment and eventual elimination of the virus from Pidawa. “In hindsight, we may have been a bit harsh in imposing curfew over the entire town,” reminisced Sidharth Sihag, Jhalawar District Collector. “We were all in a learning curve about the virus at that time, and didn’t have any other protocols to go by,” he added. He and his Rapid Response Team descended on Pidawa moments after the first positive reports came, and closed the town completely from the midnight of April 7-8. And then began an extensive testing programme beginning with the family, neighbours, street by street, and mohalla by mohalla. Collection centre Once another five positive cases appeared it was decided to set up a sample collection centre at Pidawa. Constantly moving people was proving to be a logistical nightmare. A local college was converted into a sample collection centre. Another seven tested positive, and in a matter of days from zero the case count had reached 15, raising stress levels and questions about the source. In the process of testing and enquiring about the roots of the contagion, a travel history cropped up. On March 18, some members of the family had gone to Indore for trousseau shopping, as well as to get supplies for a grocery store. And then, others had gone to nearby Kota too, for the upcoming “wedding of my niece Arshi,” said Riazullah, brother of the deceased Khalida Bi. The wedding was scheduled for March 23 but postponed when Rajasthan announced its lockdown on March 21. In the meantime, and unknown to all, the virus had entered the family and slowly begun to make its way around. Shravan Rajawat, Pidawa Sub-Divisional Magistrate, was the administrative local point man and recalled suggesting to the Collector that women should also be extensively tested. “Unlike other places, the women in Dalelpura, the area of Pidawa most affected, are not house bound and are actively moving around, socially or otherwise,” he said. While it is debatable if data can back that assertion, the spread was nevertheless quick, albeit within a close circle. Almost all the cases were either family, neighbours, or nearby associates. Sohan Lal, the family sharecropper also tested positive, as did his wife and child. A neighbour of Mr. Lal, suffering from paralysis, also tested positive. In all, Pidawa saw 20 positive cases, which for a town of about 14,000 is enough to cause a major scare scenario. And then the demographics of those who tested positive gave rise to yet more unwanted scares. “Don’t forget that the first positive cases in Pidawa appeared the day after the stoning incidents in Indore,” remarked an official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. “Coupled with the Tablighi allegations doing the digital rounds, we were sitting on another social disaster,” the official added. Pidawa has a delicate demographic balance, and hasn’t been immune from the longer term contagion. Those tensions were revived in early April and the administration was hard-pressed to watch the spread of both viruses, the digital as well as the novel coronavirus. The curfew certainly helped, in keeping people indoors and putting testing procedures in place, but it did create problems for families in terms of availability of milk and vegetables. And even in that an avenue was found to fan the flames of the older virus. As the whole town was under curfew, the supply to each locality came to be staggered, giving rise to allegations that the ‘other’ were getting access on a more regular basis than the ‘own’. Curfew rationalisation sorted out that insinuation from spreading further, but not before causing administrative stress. “It had us on the edge for sure, but luckily better sense prevailed,” said the same official. In fact, the local administration and medical authorities now recall with a great deal of satisfaction the cooperation they received from the public. The family that initially tested positive was singled out for praise in terms of its calmness and cooperative attitude once the contagion was explained to them. They were taken to Kota, the divisional headquarters, in the first days of quarantine and treatment, for that was the protocol established across Rajasthan. After a few days, and the Kota Medical College feeling the strain of increasing numbers, they were shifted to Jhalawar Medical College for the remainder of their treatment, quarantine and repeated testing. Even as all patients continued to provide negative samples subsequently, the drama didn’t cease around them. Spilt vial On May 7 a bunch of samples arrived at the laboratory of the Department of Microbiology at Jhalawar Medical College. When opened a vial was found to have spilled, causing a major scare among the laboratory technicians. They refused to touch the samples for fear of infecting themselves. “The HoD handled the situation brilliantly,” recounted Mr. Sihag, the Collector. Yogendra Tiwari, HoD Microbiology, laughed off the praise, but did admit to the fear hovering among the laboratory technicians. “The vials didn’t have screw-on caps, so one of them spilled its sample over the others, and one didn’t know whether it was an infected case. So I had to handle the whole bunch myself,” he said. He cleaned all the samples himself, and then decontaminated the entire laboratory. “We resumed work after fumigation, invalidated that sample, had it taken and tested again,” he added. About 292 samples were repeat tested, and only then was Pidawa declared free of the novel coronavirus. While most of the district administration and medical authorities were reticent about claiming a major success in containing and eliminating the novel coronavirus from a remote small town near the heart of India, Dr. Tiwari was unabashed. “The Pidawa model is something to be proud of,” he declared. Mofussil India scored a point, and left a marker, without any fanfare.  (The writer is a former   Member of Parliament)
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Over 2.37 lakh train tickets booked within a few hours||With the Railways opening online booking for some special trains on Thursday, over 2.37 lakh tickets were booked within a few hours. “At 16:00 hours, 101 trains were available in the system for booking. 2,37,751 tickets were booked for 5,51,724 passengers,” a spokesperson said. The Railways will begin running 200 time-tabled trains from June 1, and the booking started at 10 a.m. Thursday. These trains will have both AC and non-AC coaches. The Railways said it would also restart reservation counters and allow bookings through Common Service Centres and ticketing agents in a graded manner from Friday. The Railways asked its zones to adhere to standard physical distancing guidelines and observe hygiene protocols in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. “Zonal Railways have been instructed to decide and notify the opening of reservation counters in a phased manner from tomorrow [Friday], along with dissemination of information about their locations and timings as per the local needs and conditions.” it said. The Railways will cancel all tickets booked by passengers whose originating and terminating stations fall in Maharashtra because inter-district travel is not allowed in the State. The passengers will be given a full refund. “The Maharashtra government has informed the Railways that inter-district travel is prohibited within the State... It is, therefore, desired that tickets of all the passengers whose originating and terminating stations fall within Maharashtra be cancelled and full refund given without deduction of any cancellation/clerkage charges,” said an order issued by the Railway Board.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Pidawa, an unheralded success||The picturesque road to Pidawa crosses streams, lush farmlands, rolling hills, and the former ‘badlands’ which are the border areas between Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. Pidawa is a small town in the middle of the sliver of Rajasthan that thrusts into Madhya Pradesh. And like many of the habitations in this part of the country, Pidawa too benefitted over the last couple of centuries from a ‘black gold’ rush. Unlike the better known hydrocarbon of the same name, this ‘black gold’ is extracted from a plant, Papaver somniferum , and is then processed to make opium and its many derivatives. In fact these ‘badlands’ hosted a part of the production facilities that provided the fuel which ignited the Anglo-Chinese Opium Wars of 1839-42 and 1856-60. But those days are long gone, and what is now grown is largely legal, although a portion does slip through the system to reach consumers on the western side of Rajasthan. It was another kind of slip through the system that set off a scare in Pidawa during early April and resulted in the imposition of a curfew . The slip would have gone undetected but for an alert Dr. Raees at the Pidawa Community Health Centre, where Khalida Bi died on April 4. Those were the early days of the COVID-19 outbreak, and the contagion had yet to enter this isolated corner of Jhalawar district in Rajasthan. On an impulse, Dr. Raees decided to test the family members who had handled the body before burial. They were asked to go to Jhalawar on April 5 to be tested but proved elusive. “We had to move them by ambulance on April 6 to Jhalawar for testing, which could only be done by the evening,’ recalled Dr. Raees. On April 7, three of the five samples taken proved positive, all symptomatic. Dr. Raees and his staff were also put in quarantine, thus closing the CHC . Thus setting in motion a chain of events that were to prove decisive in the containment of the virus from Pidawa. “In hindsight we may have been a bit harsh in imposing curfew over the entire town,” reminisced Sidharth Sihag, Jhalawar District Collector. “We were all in a learning curve about the virus at that time, and didn’t have any other protocols to go by,” he added. He and his Rapid Response Team closed the town completely from the midnight of April 7-8. And then began an extensive testing programme . Once another five positive cases appeared from those sent to Jhalawar for testing it was decided to set up a sample collection centre at Pidawa. Constantly moving people was a logistical nightmare. A local college was converted into a sample collection centre. Another seven tested positive, and in a matter of days the case count had reached 15. In the process of enquiring about the roots of the contagion, a travel history cropped up. On March 18 some members of the family had gone to Indore for trousseau shopping. And then, others had gone to nearby Kota too, for the upcoming ‘wedding of my niece Arshi,’ said Riazullah, brother of deceased Khalida Bi. The wedding was scheduled for March 23 but postponed when Rajasthan announced lockdown on March 21. Arshi remains in wait. In the meantime, the virus had slowly begun to make its way around. Shravan Rajawat, Pidawa Sub-Divisional Magistrate, recalled suggesting to the Collector that women should also be extensively tested. “The women in Dalelpura, the area of Pidawa most affected, are actively moving around, socially or otherwise,” he said. While it is debatable if data can back that assertion, the spread was nevertheless quick, albeit within a close circle. Almost all the cases were either family, neighbours, or nearby associates. Sohan Lal, the family sharecropper also tested positive, as did his wife and child. A neighbour of Mr. Lal, suffering from paralysis, also tested positive. But died later after testing negative . In all, Pidawa saw 20 positive cases, which for a town of about 14,000 is enough to cause a scare . “The first positive cases in Pidawa appeared the day after the stoning incidents in Indore,” remarked an official. “Coupled with the Tablighi allegations doing the rounds, we were sitting on another social disaster,” he added. Pidawa has a delicate demographic balance, and hasn’t been immune from the longer term contagion. In fact a midnight fracas last year between two men resulted in a former drug dealer being shot dead, and he came to be portrayed locally as India’s first martyr to the abrogation of Article 370! That sectarian campaign proved short lived, luckily. But those tensions were revived in early April and the administration was hard pressed to watch the spread of both viruses, the digital as well as the novel coronavirus. The curfew certainly helped, in keeping people indoors and putting testing procedures in place, but it did create problems for families in terms of availability of milk and vegetables. And even in that an avenue was found to fan the flames of the older virus. As the whole town was under curfew, the supply to each locality came to be staggered, giving rise to allegations that the ‘other’ were getting access on a more regular basis than the ‘own’. Curfew rationalisation sorted out that insinuation from spreading further, but not before causing administrative stress. “It had us on the edge for sure, but luckily better sense prevailed,” said the same official. The local administration and medical authorities now recall with a great deal of satisfaction the cooperation they received from the public. The family that initially tested positive was singled out for praise in terms of its calmness and cooperative attitude . They were taken to Kota, in the first days of quarantine and treatment. After a few days, and the Kota Medical College feeling the strain of increasing numbers, they were shifted to Jhalawar Medical College . Even as all patients continued to provide negative samples subsequently, the drama didn’t cease around them. On May 7, a bunch of samples arrived at the laboratory of the Department of Microbiology at Jhalawar Medical College. When opened a vial was found to have spilled, causing a major scare among the technicians. They refused to touch the samples for fear of infecting themselves. “The Head of the Department handled the situation brilliantly,” recounted Mr. Sihag, the Collector. Yogendra Tiwari, HOD Microbiology, cleaned the samples himself, and decontaminated the laboratory. “We resumed work after fumigation, invalidated that sample, had it taken and tested again,” he added. While most of the district administration was reticent about claiming a success in containing the virus from a remote small town , Dr. Tiwari was unabashed. “The Pidawa model is something to be proud of,” he declared.
22 May 2020||BENGALURU,||Watch pujas live, get prasad delivered home||The devout, who have not been able to visit temples on account of the lockdown, can now opt for a live telecast of puja proceedings at chosen temples through the web and Facebook. The Muzrai Department, in-charge of religious and charitable endowments in Karnataka, has decided to provide such a facility by the end of this month, according to Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari. He told reporters in Bengaluru on Thursday that the government was also considering allowing online pujas, which the devotees can pre-book. He said the government was planning to introduce live telecast of pujas in nearly 15 districts on temple websites and Facebook. The prasad will be delivered home, he said. Provisions would be made to book 15 kinds of puja online, including mangalaarathi, archane, pushpaalankaara puja, and ashtothhara . The temples set to have online pujas and direct telecast include Banashankari temple in Bengaluru, Saundatti Yellamma temple, Mysuru Chamundeshwari temple, Nanjangud Srikanteshwara, Kateel Durga Parameshwari, and Kukke Subrahmanya. The Minister said the government has decided to release Rs. 33.66 crore to pay the salaries of priests of 29,700 temples for three months. Though the priests had appealed to the government to reopen temples, it was not possible in the current situation, he said.
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Finance panel flags recovery uncertainty||India’s nominal GDP growth rate in 2020-21 could range between -6% and 1%, according to members of the 15th Finance Commission’s committee on the fiscal consolidation road map, which had a videoconference on Thursday. “There are high levels of uncertainty, both with regard to the course of the pandemic and the fiscal pressures on the economy and the trend of economic recovery,” the Commission’s Chairman, N.K. Singh, told presspersons after the meeting. He said participants in the meeting had wide variations of opinion in terms of nominal GDP growth projections, ranging between -6% and 1%, as well as on whether the economy would experience a V-shaped or U-shaped recovery. Nominal GDP growth does not take inflation into account, and is thus higher than real GDP growth. “In the medium term, we would like to be in the range of 8% growth, or the debt trajectory becomes very problematic,” said Dr. Singh, who felt that the Centre’s reforms as part of the Aatmanirbhar stimulus package were meant to spur such growth in the medium term, even if they did not help immediately. “The question is what is the lag with which these reforms are going to reflect in the growth rate in the medium term,” he said. He also endorsed the Centre’s reform conditions to allow the States to exceed their current borrowing limits, though several States have objected to this. The Commission’s high-level group on health, headed by AIIMS Director Randeep Guleria, also met on Thursday, to review its earlier recommendations in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. It has now recommended an immediate beefing up of health infrastructure in areas with a cluster of positive patients, and discussed the growing needs of rural health infrastructure, especially with migrants returning from the cities, often carrying the virus. “There is a wide disparity between the per capita health personnel available in various States. The situation in rural Bihar and Jharkhand is dramatically different from the cities,” Dr. Singh said. The anaesthetists needed to operate ventilators are crucially missing in many rural areas, he noted, even while manufacture of the machines has increased. There were also discussions about allowing final year MBBS students to begin practising in some areas and the need for a national health service. In the medium term, the government’s financial outlay on the health sector must increase significantly from the current 0.9% of GDP, said Dr. Singh.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Centre’s approach is sensitive and holistic’||Bhupender Yadav , BJP general secretary and party in-charge for Bihar, says the government has taken a sensitive approach to dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact of the lockdown by strengthening infrastructure and reaching out to those in need. In an interview, the Rajya Sabha MP described the Rs. 20 lakh crore package announced by the Centre as a holistic one benefiting all sectors. Excerpts:  The issue of inter-State workers trying to get home has become a humanitarian crisis amid the medical one of the pandemic. Do you think the government underestimated this factor before calling for a lockdown? The crisis unleashed by the coronavirus is a humanitarian one. It is also an unprecedented one. The Modi government thus was very sensitive in its handling of the crisis at hand. Within two days of the first phase of the lockdown, the government announced a Rs. 1.74 lakh crore relief package aimed at providing a safety net for those hit the hardest — the poor and migrant workers. The package allowed about 800 million people to get free cereals and cooking gas apart from cash through direct transfers for three months. As many as 6.93 crore farmers were benefited through the PM-KISAN scheme that was meant to help them tide over the COVID-19 crisis. The movement of people was restricted because the government needed time to get the healthcare infrastructure ready to tackle COVID-19. It had to ensure the supply of Personal Protection Equipment (PPE), testing kits and the availability of quarantine centres. If movement was allowed without the basic preparations being made, it would have led to an unmitigated disaster. Now that the system is well in place and functional, Shramik trains have been moving since May 1. Over 1,500 trains have ensured the safe return of more than 20 lakh migrants back home. More such trains will continue to run. The NDA government in Bihar has been criticised by many for refusing entry to inter-State workers belonging to Bihar earlier. Do you think the criticism was justified? This is a pure political criticism. Ironically, the criticism is coming from a party whose top leader was not even in the State at a time it was facing one of its biggest crises in history. Over 900 trains of the 1,500 Shramik trains that have been running since May 1 brought Bihari migrants back home. Not only this, the Bihar administration was working for the welfare of people from the State stuck in other States even before the trains started getting them home. The NDA government in Bihar sent Rs. 1,000 straight to the accounts of more than 18 lakh people of Bihari origin who were stranded in other parts of the country. All those returning are being screened and put up in quarantine centres. Over 7,840 quarantine centres have been opened at block levels. About 2.33 crore people have benefited under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Dhan Yojana with money being transferred directly to their accounts. The Opposition may not be aware of it because its leader was missing from the State until May. The financial package announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman has been seen as being too structural and with very little immediate relief offered to the poor. Even the amount is being disputed as being not Rs. 20 lakh crore but around Rs. 1.80 lakh crore in actual cash. How do you justify the package? The Rs. 20 lakh crore package aims at making India self-reliant on the five pillars elucidated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his recent address to the nation. The pillars being economy, infrastructure, technology-driven systems, vibrant demography and demand. The package is holistic in its approach and offers stimulus to all sectors from agriculture to MSMEs, to big businesses. The package needs to be seen from a more holistic viewpoint. This view should include the relief offered by the RBI to banks. The banks will in turn pass on the relief to customers. Loan moratoriums and reduced interest on loans are among the schemes that have already been rolled out. These schemes ensure more cash in the hands of people. Remember the economy is now also being given some breathing space with sectors being allowed to open slowly.  (For the full interview, log on to bit.ly/BhupendarBJP)    The economy is now being given some breathing space with sectors being allowed to open slowly
22 May 2020||Kolkata,||Amphan makes quick work of grand trees and joie de vivre of City of Joy||Last October, Arabinda Ganguli passed away at the age of 91. Seven months later, on Wednesday, the radhachura tree he planted outside his south Kolkata home in 1977 was also dead. The trunk that had withstood many storms was felled by Cyclone Amphan. The radhachura isn’t alone. Countless other trees, including many that inspired poetry in those who lived under their gaze, are gone. Not just trees alone. Poles were uprooted, cars were damaged and metal roofs flew off. On Thursday morning, Kolkata woke up in a state of daze, the silence gripping the city far more pronounced than the one caused by the lockdown imposed to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. Roads blocked And just when residents thought they would pick up the pieces and move on, they realised the road ahead was blocked by the lockdown. To make matters worse, mobile networks collapsed, and as a result people couldn’t reach their loved ones to enquire whether they were safe. But thanks to broadband, pictures of battered neighbourhoods began to circulate on social media once power supply was restored and the extent of damage began unravelling itself. Shops vanish “There is devastation all around our house. So many [makeshift] shops are gone. Ours is one of the few houses that have power and neighbours are sending their fish and milk to be refrigerated. I even saw vans carrying bodies — no idea whether they were victims of COVID-19 or electrocution,” Ranjini Guha, daughter-in-law of the late Ganguli, told The Hindu . This is peak summer, when Kolkata should be melting in the heat, but the weather feels like February, and the citizens of the City of Joy would have loved to do what they do best: celebrate. But they are not only fettered by the lockdown but are also staring at uncertainty because of the increasing number of COVID-19 infections in the city and now the pounding from the super cyclone. While it is up to the government agencies to calculate the extent of damage, one thing is certain: Amphan has scarred Kolkata. “We are feeling miserable and alone, like a doomsday feel. We can’t even step out because trees have fallen on both sides of the road, but we can sense the trail of destruction,” said Anshu Monga Kapur, an entrepreneur who lives with her husband in Ballygunge. “The shaken security guard at the gate asked me innocently whether the cyclone had blown away coronavirus as well.” The Karachi-born Shamlu Dudeja, a long-time resident of Alipore, said: “Amphan has taught us that the biggest necessity for any human is a shelter whose roof wouldn’t blow away and whose floor won’t come under water.” She herself lives in a handsome house but spent a better part of Thursday getting water out of her ground-floor rooms. “Last night was very frightening. It was like a horror film. I have never been through such times,” said Ms. Dudeja, who, as a child, witnessed the horrors of Partition.
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Persons with disability badly affected due to lockdown||Limited access to doorstep delivery of essentials, government helplines and financial assistance from the government were among the key problems faced by persons with disability, according to a report on ‘status of persons with disabilities in India during the COVID-19 crisis’, released by the National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People (NCPEDP) on Thursday. The report included responses from 19 disability sector leaders across the States and recommended enforcing the government guidelines and securing financial support to all persons with disabilities. “Many of the challenges confronting persons with disabilities during the lockdown could have been addressed had the government duly enforced its own directives”, the report said. The report comprised data from a survey of 1,067 (approx. 73% male, 27% female) persons with disabilities, which showed that over 73% of those interviewed were facing severe challenges due to the lockdown. Interviews with a sub-sample of 201 persons with disabilities from across India showed that 67% had no access to doorstep delivery of essentials, and only 22% confirmed that they have access to essentials. 48% had no access to a government helpline, and 63% had not received the financial assistance for persons with disabilities announced by the Finance Ministry. The report stated that these and other similar issues could have been taken care of if the ‘Comprehensive Disability Inclusive Guidelines’ issued by the Central Government’s Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities (DEPwD) had been uniformly enforced across the country. The guidelines provided for such critical requirements as ensuring that “persons with disabilities are given access to essential food, water, medicine, and, to the extent possible, such items should be delivered at their residence or place where they have been quarantined.” As per the NCPEDP report, some States, including Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Nagaland and Assam did provide good support to those with disabilities. K. Srinath Reddy, president, Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) said that persons with disabilities were particularly vulnerable during periods of lockdown as their usual difficulties in securing services or procuring essential goods were greatly amplified. It was absolutely essential that the administration paid special attention to their needs. Usual caregivers too were immobile during a lockdown and even persons with low levels of dependency were hindered by the restraint. “The attention we pay to the pressing needs of persons with disability is the hallmark of a sensitive society and the symbol of caring administration.” Arman Ali, executive director, NCPEDP, said the government must secure inclusive response and mitigation not just in the present crisis, but also in any ‘subsequent wave that may well hit us sooner than we think’.
22 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana HC notice to MLA on ‘grand’ celebrations||Telangana High Court had issued notices to Narayankhed MLA M. Bhupal Reddy and officials of the State government in a PIL petition which sought action against the legislator for celebrating his birthday violating lockdown rules. A social worker M. Vittal, who filed the petition, said the MLA had celebrated his 61st birthday on May 7, when the lockdown rules announced by the Central and State governments were in force. The birthday event was organised breaching all rules of lockdown and nearly 500 persons attended it, the petitioner said. Hearing contentions of the petitioner, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy issued notice to the MLA and asked him to file a counter affidavit in a week. The large gathering was allowed in total violation of lockdown rules. For any such events not more than 20 persons were allowed. Majority of the participants of the event did not maintain physical distance and wear masks, which apparently would lead to spread coronavirus, the petitioner’s counsel D. Raghavender Rao said. Notices were also issued to Chief Secretary, Home Secretary, DGP, Sangareddy SP, Sangareddy Collector, Sangareddy Municipal Commissioner to explain on what grounds the birthday event was permitted. In another PIL petition, the bench directed the government to file a detailed report on the steps taken to check hike in prices of essential commodities and vegetables during the lockdown period. Expressing dissatisfaction over a report submitted earlier by the government on the matter, the bench said the lesser number of cases booked by the police over jacked up prices of essential commodities indicated that government was not acting tough.
22 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Over 3 lakh migrant workers registered: TS govt.||Over three lakh migrant labourers working at different places in the State have registered their details with the government to go back to their places during lockdown, the State government told Telangana High Court. In a counter affidavit filed in a PIL petition, the government said permissions were also granted to labourers who made personal transportation arrangements to travel back to their respective States. The PIL plea was filed by lawyer P.V. Krishnaiah seeking a direction to the government to provide all facilities to migrant workers intending to reach their homes in different States during lockdown. Additional Director General of Police (Legal) Rajiv Ratan, filing the counter affidavit on behalf of Home Secretary and DGP, said that already 54,202 people had been sent to different States by 43 special trains from Telangana State till May 14. The first such special train chugged out from Lingampally railway station on May 1 carrying 1,224 migrant workers to Jharkhand State. Till May 20, the police and other departments had issued 23,875 passes (online and physical) for nearly 1,24,929 persons to travel from Telangana to other States. Ensuring that no law and order problems arose due to crowds, the local police officials were arranging buses to shift workers to railway stations. “No charges were being collected from passengers,” the affidavit said. The permissions were being given, however, only after the recipient State gives consent to arrival of the migrant workers.
22 May 2020||Shivamogga,||Case registered against Sonia for tweets on PM CARES fund||The Sagar police in Shivamogga district have filed an FIR against Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi over some tweets posted on the official Twitter handle of the party criticising the utilisation of the PM CARES fund and the way Prime Minister Narendra Modi has handled the COVID-19 situation. In the complaint, Praveen K.V., an advocate, has alleged that the tweets from the handle @INCIndia on May 11 on the initiatives of the Modi-led government to tackle the COVID-19 situation were “highly misleading”. The complainant has stated that at a time when the nation was fighting against the pandemic, the Congress was spreading “false information” on the issue through the social media platform and trying to mislead and provoke people against the government. The Sagar police have booked a case under Section 153 (wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot) and 505(1)(b) (cause fear or alarm to the public or inducement to commit an offence against State or public tranquillity) of the Indian Penal Code against Ms. Gandhi. Meanwhile, the State Congress has urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to withdraw the FIR. In a letter to Mr. Yediyurappa, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president-designate D.K. Shivakumar said the complaint has been filed “with a political motive and false information on Ms. Gandhi’s tweet”. “This is blatant misuse of the process of law with the intention to snub the right to healthy criticism,” Mr. Shivakumar said. In the letter, the Congress leader demanded withdrawal of the FIR and suspension of the police officer concerned. “We urge the State government to register an FIR against said police officer for misusing the process of law in the interest of justice and equity,” the KPCC leader said. Mr. Shivakumar also claimed that Mr. Yediyurappa had agreed to his demand and said that within 24 hours, the complaint would be withdrawn and action taken against the officer.
22 May 2020||New Delhi,||Release J&K political detainees, says CCG||The Concerned Citizens’ Group (CCG), headed by former Union Finance Minister Yashwant Sinha, sought the release of all political detainees in Jammu and Kashmir on the festival of Eid-ul-Fitr. “Many senior political leaders, including a former Chief Minister [Mehbooba Mufti], continue to be in detention in several cases under the draconian Public Safety Act. Meanwhile, there are attempts to incubate artificial political processes – through the village and local body elections and facilitating the launch of a new political party. However, these processes have failed to fill the political vacuum,” the CCG said in a statement. It wanted the Central government to release all those detained since August last. The Union government had also used the lockdown to implement domicile laws for the Union Territory, that should have been debated by people’s representatives and affected citizens, said the group. “Do not use the lack of a legislative Assembly to push through policies with long term consequences,” it said. ‘Restore 4G Net’ The CCG demanded the restoration 4G Internet in J&K to alleviate the problems of businessmen, traders, healthcare professionals and, most importantly, students so that they do not lose an academic year. “The communication lockdown – permitting only 2G Internet, premised on the assumption that faster Internet speeds help terrorists — is causing havoc not only in banking, trade, business and healthcare but in the field of education as well,” it said.  “The 2G technology cannot sustain online learning, which is a ready option being used in the rest of the country. The problem is particularly acute for students who have returned home because of the pandemic from universities and colleges in the rest of India. They cannot attend online classes and webinars or submit assignments. They may not be able to appear for online end-semester examinations which universities and colleges plan to hold soon,” it added. The other members of the group are former National Chief Information Commissioner Wajahat Habibullah, Air Vice-Marshall (Retd.) Kapil Kak, senior journalist Bharat Bhushan and Sushobha Barve.  Don’t use the lack of a Legislative Assembly to pass policies with long term consequences Concerned Citizens’ Group
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘MVA govt. showed political intransigence’||Former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis said on Thursday that the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government had demonstrated political intransigence in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic. He also demanded that the State come up with a “protocol” for jump-starting economic activities while dealing with the novel coronavirus.  Speaking at a video press conference, Mr. Fadnavis said the State had erred in taking care of inter-State workers who would not be “easily replaceable” by local labour following their reverse migration. “The MVA government, and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray in particular, is overly dependent on a group of bureaucrats, whereas a crisis like this requires political will and decisiveness. The government’s efforts are being lost in groupism in the bureaucracy and the Chief Minister’s failure to handle the administration,” he said. Mr. Fadnavis said the high number of cases in Mumbai and Maharashtra was earlier attributed to a large number of tests, but it was no longer the case. The government’s recent decision not to test asymptomatic contacts of high-risk patients amounted to buying trouble. “The government also did not do enough off-take of free food grains offered by the Centre for the poor; up to 3 lakh ration card-holders got free grain only in May, and not in March or April,” he said. “A State like Maharashtra, which got over 40% of all foreign direct investment that came to India, needs a protocol for starting economic activity in green zones. I spoke to many industry people, who said rules had not been framed for this yet. If we don’t set a protocol soon, we may miss the bus on the economic front,” he said.
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Health Ministry plans to study viral behaviour in corpses||The lockdown period has been gainfully utilised to ramp up the health infrastructure in the country, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday, with senior health officials confirming that India is now planning to initiate a study on “behaviour of the COVID-19 virus in persons who died after contracting the disease”. Autopsy in confirmed COVID-19 cases is not recommended by the Health Ministry and this research, to be conducted at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, will be the first to be undertaken on a COVID-19 dead body. This is expected to give researchers an insight into how the virus behaves in a dead body, the manner in which it affects organs and so on. A senior health official said: “We are at planning stage for this very vital exercise and it will be a multi-department enterprise. India in its guidelines has said that forensic autopsy should not be done in COVID-19 death cases as mortuary staff are exposed to potentially dangerous health risks due to organ fluids and secretions even after taking the highest precautions. It adds that autopsy procedure if undertaken are to be strictly limited to what is necessary for the research work concerned.” The death toll due to COVID-19 rose to 3,435 on Thursday, with 132 fatalities. The total number of cases stands at 1,12,359 with 5,609 new cases in the last 24 hours, according to the Union Health Ministry. The number of active cases stood at 63,624, while 45,299 people have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 40.32% as per the Ministry. “So far, 26,15,920 samples have been tested and 1,03,532 samples have been tested in the last 24 hours through 555 testing labs [391 in the government sector and 164 private labs],” noted the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). According to data from State Health Departments, the tally stands at 1,17,580 case and death toll 3,561. Community survey The ICMR, in collaboration with the Health Ministry and the National Centre for Disease Control, with support from State Health departments and key stakeholders, including WHO, is conducting a community based sero-survey to estimate the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 infection in Indian population. ICMR has also recommended the TrueNat COVID-19 test stating that as the COVID-19 pandemic is expanding, there is a global shortfall of diagnostic supplies. “It is critical for countries to strengthen indigenous production of diagnostic material to ensure uninterrupted availability,” the ICMR said.
22 May 2020||KOCHI,||Patient data moved to C-DIT: Kerala to HC||The State government on Thursday informed the Kerala High Court that the entire data of COVID-19 patients and those under surveillance had been transferred to the government-owned cloud web space in Amazon Web Services, managed and controlled by the Centre for Development of Imaging Technology (C-DIT). In an affidavit filed in a case challenging the use of the data by the U.S.-based data analytical company Sprinklr, the government said the company was directed to immediately destroy all residual data, if any, with it. No access to system The data had been transferred by April 20 itself. In fact, no data had been shared with Sprinklr after it was transferred to the C-DIT cloud space. And Sprinklr had no access to the system. The government submitted that in case any data needed to be shared, which was not envisaged now, a detailed protocol, including anonymisation, should be followed. The government had also asked the Director of the Kerala State IT Mission (KSITM) and the Registrar of C-DIT to ensure that all data collected and collated were anonymised before it was shared with any third party service provider or used with any software for processing it. No reply yet from MeitY The affidavit said the State government had requested the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) to direct the National Informatics Centre (NIC) or an appropriate agency/institution to provide details of the information system application available with them to meet the functional requirements of the State in connection with the COVID-19-related activities. However, it had not received any positive reply so far from the MeitY. The State government directed all department heads and agencies involved in the collection of data on the COVID-19 containment activities to obtain specific consent in necessary forms from citizens from whom data were collected and inform them that it may be accessed by third party service providers. The effective management of the pandemic required availability of structured data in real time. The High Court had earlier directed the State government to anonymise all data and allow Sprinklr to access the data only after anonymising. The court had issued the directives on public interest litigations filed by Balu Gopalakrishnan of Thiruvananthapuram, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and BJP State president K. Surendran against the agreements signed with the Sprinklr.
22 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||RNA extraction kit launched commercially||Agappe Chitra Magna, a magnetic nanoparticle-based RNA extraction kit, the technology for which was developed by the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) and manufactured by Kochi-based Agappe Diagnostics Ltd., was commercially launched here on Thursday. The launch was formally announced by V.K. Saraswat, NITI Aayog member and president of the Institute Body of the SCTIMST, at a programme in New Delhi, through videoconferencing. Ashutosh Sharma, Secretary, Department of Science and Technology, was present. Asha Kishore, Director, SCTIMST, H.K. Varma, head, biomedical technology wing, and scientists of the institute participated in the function held here, an official release said. “The commercial launch of the kit is a major step to make India self-reliant in detecting COVID-19 and can help increase the rate of testing and bring down its costs, a crucial step for combating the pandemic,” said Dr. Saraswat while announcing the launch. “This is an example of scientists and industry working in tandem with a purpose to serve an urgent need,” said Prof. Sharma. Cost-effective “Promotion of indigenous medical technologies is the primary mandate of the institute and invitro diagnostics and development of point-of-care devices is a segment that we recently forayed into. The RNA isolation kit will reduce the dependence on imported kits and make COVID testing more cost-effective,” Dr. Asha Kishore said
22 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||CCMB testing twin modules to fight virus||CSIR-CCMB, in the forefront of the scientific community’s coordinated battle against COVID-19, is working on two twin modules these days. One is sequencing of the coronavirus strain in large numbers to check for the varied ones prevalent across the country. “We have about 250 samples right now and we hope to get up to five times more in the next couple of weeks to understand and isolate the virus strains that are spreading and those which are causing the asymptomatic cases among the infected,” said director Rakesh Mishra. The premier research institute at Habsiguda here has already got the virus isolates from Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Hyderabad, while sister CSIR labs have samples from New Delhi and Punjab/Haryana. It is now seeking COVID-19 strains from places like Indore and Ahmedabad, where the virus appears to be acting differently on the affected persons. The second project is to establish the cell culture platform to grow the virus within the confines of the labs. This and genome data study of all the virus variants prevalent across the country will give the complete genome data profile for scientists to work on antibodies, potential drugs or vaccines. Dr. Mishra is categorical in stating that unless “we may luckily chance upon a miracle drug of treating the virus that will be a pleasant surprise,” the possibility of a drug effective in treating a particular illness, doing the same for another is remote. What is quite probable is to try a combination of available anti-viral drugs. “For instance, we are treating HIV patients through a combination of various drugs but then it took years of research before we found the way,” he pointed out. Similarly, finding a vaccine is a distant possibility, considering the stringent testing norms required for use on humans. “Even for proven vaccines, there are at times issues of negative reactions. So, scientists are very careful before validating any potential vaccine claims,” he said. Meanwhile, research is also into understanding how our traditional medicine systems tackled such pandemics before. “Thanks to our available resources we can validate on the efficacy of the drugs in a few days,” the director added.
22 May 2020||Canning,||Life comes to a halt in South 24 Paraganas||Till late on Wednesday, Selima Akhter Sekh, a 55-year-old farmer, refused to leave her tin and bamboo thatched house. But after the extended backside collapsed, she had to shift to a nearby school at around 10 p.m., when Cyclone Amphan was at its worst. Slowly, the entire house and dozens of houses nearby collapsed. From the school, Ms. Sekh could hear the sound. “It took us 10 years to buy this land and build the house, and a three-hour storm flattened it,” she said. Locals did not let Ms. Sekh wait, said Ajizul Sekh, a construction worker and one of her three sons. “We shifted and survived, but the house disappeared,” Mr. Sekh said.  On Wednesday night, West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said South and North 24 Paraganas were two of south Bengal’s “ruined” districts.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Govt. sets price range based on flight duration||In order to benefit from the fares close to the minimum (or floor) price determined by the government, passengers would still have to book early. Airlines would have to sell 40% of the tickets below the midpoint of the price range to ensure that the benefit of this formula was passed on to the passengers. The price range for the shortest journey (Sector A: 40 minutes) is Rs. 2,000-Rs. 6,000 and for the longest journey (Sector G: 210 minutes) is Rs. 6,500-Rs. 18,600. “The minimum fare for Delhi to Mumbai is Rs. 3,500 and the maximum is Rs. 10,000. Airlines will have to sell at least 40% of flight tickets below the midpoint, which in this case is Rs. 6,750,” Minister of Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri illustrated at a press conference. Airlines divide airfares into different buckets and sell the lowest fare buckets to passengers who book the earliest. Airfares move upwards as seats get filled in an aircraft. “We have studied this [pricing mechanism] and looked at corresponding rail fares. Our motive is that air travel should become affordable, it should be within the means of all our citizens to be able to increasingly travel by air,” he said, adding that the government “was equally conscious of the fact that airlines operate on thin margins”. Travellers would be allowed to carry one piece each of cabin baggage and checked-in baggage, and if the latter exceeded 20 kg passengers would have to pay an excess baggage fee. Also, passengers would neither be able to avail themselves of meal service on board, nor would they be allowed to consume their own eatables, unless there was a specific medical need. On the question of whether passengers would need to undergo a mandatory quarantine on arriving at the destination airport, the guidelines merely state: “health protocols as prescribed by the destination States/UTs” would have to be followed. The Minister, however, opposed the idea of a 14-day quarantine at the end of each journey.
22 May 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Not paying train fare reflects badly on State’||Terming that migrants in State are in a precarious condition, the Karnataka High Court on Thursday directed the Chief Secretary and Labour Secretary to appear personally through video-conference on May 26. The top officials’ presence was necessitated as the government could not give clarity on its decision of not paying train fares of migrant workers who cannot afford the fares to return to their home States. “Today, because of the State government’s reluctance to pay the train fares, many are unable to travel, and will have to look to the State for their food... Many workers have left their families in their home States and are in a precarious position as they are unable to send money to them,” the court observed, pointing out that it was not merely an issue of their survival but also of their health and families. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna made the observations in its order while hearing through video-conference the PIL petitions on issues during COVID-19 lockdown. “Sorry to say that the State has forgotten that it is a human issue and there is Article 21 [Protection of life and personal liberty]. It reflects badly on the State. We are finding fault with the insensitive approach of the State... Why don’t the State take a bold stand that migrants are rich and they can pay for tickets...”, the Bench observed orally. The Bench also noted that the State government did not produce any copy of the “conscious decision” taken by the competent authority of the State on not bearing the train fares. The government also contended that migrants have no legal right for free travel. Pointing out that the migrants could not travel to their States due to lockdown and by the time travel norms were diluted they had lost their jobs and livelihood, the Bench said that it is for this reason many were unable to pay for their travel. The Bench directed the government to give details on how it would take care of migrant workers who have to remain in Karnataka if they can’t afford to pay for train fares. The Centre had said that sending States will have to pay train fares and reimburse the amount from the home States of the migrant workers. Stating that there was no clarity on the fares fixed for the Shramik special trains, the Bench directed the Union government to give details on how train fares are fixed. The Bench also directed the State government to deliberate on wage issue as the counsel for All India Central Council of Trade Union pointed out that no action was taken for non-payment of wages even after some members of CREDAI, in a recent meeting convened by the State authorities, admitted having have not paid wages for two months to migrant labourers. The Bench adjourned further hearing till May 26.  State to High Court 4.88 lakh migrant workers registered for travel in Shramik special trains 1,40,473 migrants left in 100 trains till May 20 18,156 migrants transported to different States in 670 buses
22 May 2020||TIRUPATI,||Sri City is among ‘great places for manufacturing’||The industrial hub of Sri City finds a place in the publication titled ‘Great places for manufacturing in India’ brought out by Invest India, the National Investment Promotion and Facilitation Agency. The agency brought out the publication in collaboration with JLL India, as part of its ‘Doing Business in India Guide’ series. The publication mentions the tri-city growth corridor covering Chennai-Tirupati-Nellore, of which Sri City is an integral part, as one of the 10 great places for manufacturing across nine States in the country, having the potential to attract investments from abroad. The other such corridors are Mumbai – Aurangabad – Pune, Gurugram – Bhiwandi – Neemrana, Noida – Greater Noida – Yamuna Expressway, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad and Vadodara – Bharuch – Ankleshwar cluster. Centrally located Sri City founding Managing Director Ravindra Sannareddy said the tri-city came under the influence zone of two major industrial corridors viz., Chennai-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor (CBIC) and Visakhapatnam – Chennai Industrial Corridor (VCIC). “Located at its centre, Sri City is the largest industrial park in South India, with the presence of more than 187 prestigious brands representing 27 countries,” Mr. Reddy said. The publication is a thematic collation of details of 10 mega clusters, highlighting their attractive features and tax incentives to promote India as an alternative business continuity plan.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||ICICI offers FD scheme for senior citizens||The scheme is available from May 20 to September 30, 2020. This offer from the ICICI Bank comes after the SBI introduced a similar deposit product for senior citizens earlier this month. The SBI’s product also offered additional 30 bps interest rate on deposits of 5 years and above.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||‘PLA blocking Indian patrols in Ladakh, Sikkim’||Mr. Srivastava’s remarks followed claims by the China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) on Tuesday that Indian troops were attempting to “unilaterally change” the status quo at the boundary between them and “blocking” patrolling by Chinese border guards. On Thursday, the MFA issued another statement repeating the claims. It said Chinese troops “firmly” dealt with what it called the Indian troops’ “crossover and infringement activities.” “We urge the Indian side to work together with us, abide by our leadership’s important consensus, comply with the agreements signed, refrain from unilateral actions complicating the situation,” said MFA spokesperson Zhao Lijian. Thus far, Indian Army officials had maintained that scuffles at two points, at “Finger areas” of Pangong Tso (lake) in eastern Ladakh and Naku La in north Sikkim, had been part of normal ground actions that emanate from a “difference in perception of the Line of Actual Control”. The sources said more troops were being moved into the next stage of a three-step acclimatisation process for high altitudes. “The Army units at Binnaguri, Hashimara and a few other places have been upstaged and are undergoing acclimatisation in Sikkim,” the sources added. The MEA statement is the first time the government has said Chinese troops are blocking Indian patrols during the current stand-off, though it didn’t accuse the PLA of crossing into Indian territory. While New Delhi and Beijing indicated that talks between military commanders are on to resolve the situation, neither said they had made progress yet. China reacted angrily to comments by senior American official Alice Wells, who had referred to the border dispute as proof of Chinese “provocative behaviour” and “threat to its neighbours”. “The Diplomat’s remarks are just nonsense,” said Mr. Zhao. “There are consultations and diplomatic channels between the two sides that has nothing to do with the USA,” he said.  (With inputs   from Ananth Krishnan   in Chennai)
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Amphan kills 72 in West Bengal, brings life to a halt||At the meeting, Ms. Banerjee said there was a scarcity of drinking water in South 24 Parganas and North 24 Parganas and asked them to ensure supply. Aerial survey Around 45 lakh people were affected in Odisha. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik made an aerial survey of the affected districts and expressed concern over the damage to standing crops. About 30 lakh power consumers have been affected. The cyclone has affected 44.80 lakh people in 89 blocks. Balasore, Bhadrak, Jagatsinghpur and Kendrapara districts have been badly affected. Expressing grief at the loss of lives and damage in West Bengal, Mr. Patnaik extended help to the neighbouring State and asked Chief Secretary Asit Tripathy to be in touch with his West Bengal counterpart. Earlier, Mr. Tripathy informed Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba of the extent of damage from the cyclone. According to preliminary reports received on Thursday morning, crops grown on over one lakh hectares have been lost. Around 86% of the mobile phone connectivity has been restored. The Chief Secretary said 2,00,400 people were evacuated and kept in 3,228 cyclone shelters and other buildings. All fishermen were brought back from the sea. ( With inputs from   Satyasundar Barik   in Bhubaneswar )
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Nayanmar Thirumoolar||Sundaranatha, who has the blessings of Nandi, leaves Kailasa, to visit his friend sage Agastya, who is in Podhigai hills. Sekkizhar, in his Peria Puranam, gives a list of the temples Sundaranatha visits on his way to meet Agastya, said R. Narayanan in a discourse. He worships Lord Siva at Kedar, Lord Pasupati in Nepal, and Viswanatha of Varanasi. Then he comes to Srisailam, where the hill is in the shape of Nandi, and from there he comes to Kalahasti, and to Thiruvalangadu. He then reaches Thiruvannamalai, and goes to Kanchi, the city surrounded by high walls. In this city, he takes the blessings of the many Saivites who live there, and then goes to Thiruvadigai, where Siva has the name of Veerattaneswarar, to mark eight miraculous deeds of His. Then he reaches Chidambaram, Kaveripoompattinam and Tiruvaduturai, where Goddess Uma did penance. Walking along the banks of the Cauvery river, through a jungle, he finds a herd of cows wailing. He discovers the reason for their sorrow. The cowherd, Moolan, is dead, and the cows are licking him and shedding tears. Taking pity on the cows, Sundaranatha decides to console them. The only thing that will stop the cows crying is the revival of Moolan. Sundaranatha is master of the ashtamasiddhis, one of which is the ability to quit one’s own body and enter another’s at will. So Sundaranatha leaves his body, and enters Moolan’s body. Seeing Moolan come back to life, the cows are overjoyed. Sundaranatha now hides his own body and after grazing the cows, he follows them to the village of Sathanur, which is where they are from. Later, Sundaranatha finds that his body, which he had hidden has gone missing. So, he continues to inhabit Moolan’s body. Sundaranatha who becomes Moolan, was to become famous as the Nayanmar Thirumoolar.
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Worst over as Amphan leaves India||Cyclone Amphan has crossed India and is now in Bangladesh. It will no longer have any “adverse impact” on West Bengal and Odisha, according to a update from the Ministry of Earth Sciences. “Super cyclonic storm ‘Amphan’ moved north-northeastwards with a speed of 27 kmph during past 06 hours, further weakened into a cyclonic storm and lay centered at 05.30 a.m. over Bangladesh,” the statement said. The storm is likely to “weaken further” into a depression by afternoon and will have no adverse impact on West Bengal and Odisha.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Push to safety||
22 May 2020||Srinagar,||Policeman killed in attack in Pulwama||One policeman was killed and another injured in a hit-and-run attack of militants in south Kashmir’s Pulwama on Thursday. A police officer said armed militants alighted at Pulwama’s Prichoo area and opened indiscriminate fire on a checkpoint, manned by the Jammu and Kashmir police and the CRPF, in the afternoon. “It was a stand-off fire. Two security personnel, including a policeman and a CRPF jawan, were injured in the attack,” said the police. Head constable Anoop Singh succumbed to his injuries. The militants managed to escape from the spot.
22 May 2020||AYODHYA,||Ram temple trust confirms idols recovery||The Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, which has been established to oversee the construction of a Ram temple in Ayodhya, has said several broken statues of Hindu gods and goddesses have been found at the site where levelling operations are under way. “During the excavation, a 5-ft Shivling, pillars and broken idols have also been discovered,” it wrote on Twitter. Trust general secretary Champat Rai said the recovery further established the fact that a temple had existed at the site.
22 May 2020||New Delhi,||CAPF awaits clarity on canteen order||The Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) are awaiting clear orders from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on what comprises swadeshi or indigenous products, a week after Union Home Minister Amit Shah announced that CAPF canteens will only sell swadeshi goods from June 1. A senior government official said that Ministry of Commerce was working on the guidelines as confusion prevailed on future procurements in the canteens, which sell many daily-use products at a subsidised rate to around 10 lakh personnel, their families and retired personnel. “We are collecting data on the production facilities of all the companies that sell items in the CAPF canteens. We do not know if the products manufactured here under multinational labels will also be counted as a foreign product,” said the official. “Since the June 1 deadline is approaching, the clarification is necessary, else the supply chain will be affected,” said the official.
22 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha adopts contract farming system||The Odisha government has promulgated an ordinance allowing investors and farmers to enter into agreement for contract farming in view of the continuing uncertainties due to the pandemic. The ordinance is aimed at facilitating both farmers and sponsors to develop mutually beneficial and efficient contract farming system. Since the Assembly is not in session, the ordinance has been promulgated, the State said. It argued the new system will improve production and marketing of agricultural produce and livestock while promoting farmers’ interest. The State has, however, made it clear that no title, rights, ownership or possession of land or other such property will be transferred or alienated or vest in the sponsor or its successor or agent.
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indian convicted in terror finance case deported||Ibrahim Zubair Mohammad, an Indian citizen jailed in the United States for concealing financing of terrorism, has been deported to India on board a repatriation flight, along with 166 others who were illegally staying there. “They were brought on board an Oman Air flight on May 19,” said an agency official. In April 2018, Mohammad and two others, Asif Ahmed Salim and Sultane Room Salim, had pleaded guilty on one count of concealment of financing of terrorism, for their roles in concealing the supply of funds to Anwar Al-Awlaki in 2009, according to a U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ) statement on April 12 that year. Al-Awlaki, a leader of the Al-Qaeda, advocated violence against the U.S., supported and was involved in attempted terrorist attacks, court documents said.
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Private airlines to join Vande Bharat mission||IndiGo on Thursday announced that it will join hands with the government in bringing back Indians stranded overseas and operate 97 flights between Kerala and destinations in West Asia like Saudi Arabia, Doha, Kuwait and Muscat. Earlier in the day, Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri said the Vande Bharat mission, will also have participation from private airlines. “Private carriers had expressed their desire to participate in the repatriation of Indians. They will also be joining in this exercise.”
22 May 2020||New Delhi,||Enforce night curfew, says Centre||The Union Home Ministry has asked the States to strictly implement night curfew for non-essential activities in all jurisdictions till the lockdown is in force. In a letter to the States, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said it had been noticed through “media reports and others sources” that there were violations at various places in the implementation of the Ministry’s guidelines for the lockdown extended till May 31. “The need to ensure night curfew or prohibition of all non-essential activities, between 7 p.m and 7 a.m. is an important element of the MHA guidelines. The night curfew has been mandated with a view to ensuring that people observe social distancing and to contain the risk of spread of infection. Accordingly, local authorities should be asked to issue orders in the entirety of their jurisdiction, under proper provisions of law for imposition of curfew. Strict compliance of these orders should be ensured by the authorities,” the letter said. ‘Proper delineation’ The Ministry asked the States for “proper delineation of containment zones and effective implementation of the containment measures within these zones” to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The guidelines issued on May 17 had given considerable flexibility to the States in deciding the zones and allowed buses, autorickshaws and taxis to ply in all the zones except in containment areas. Shops were allowed to open, except in malls.
22 May 2020||Kolkata,||15 dead in badly ravaged metropolis||Fifteen persons died in the havoc caused by the super cyclone in the city on Wednesday. Deaths were reported from almost all parts of the city, with some of the victims electrocuted and others crushed under trees or collapsed houses. For the next few days, the civic authorities have their task cut out with the main works being clearing thousands of fallen trees from the roads and restoring power supply. The destruction, unprecedented in recent public memory, was evident in every neighbourhood of the city. Residents of the metropolis woke up with almost all the roads blocked by fallen trees and electric poles. Some areas were submerged. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee shared photographs with presspersons, showing roofs in her neighbourhood having flung from one building to another. Trees have fallen almost every 50 metres, blocking key arteries and bringing traffic to a standstill. Waterlogging was reported in low-lying parts, including at the city airport. The Kolkata Municipal Corporation was trying to pump out water from the low-lying areas. Time required Firhad Hakim, Chairman of the Board of Administrators of the Corporation and State Urban Development Minister, sought time from people to make the city functional again. From Dum Dum in the north to Tollygunj and Jadavpur in the south, every area had suffered damage from fallen trees and broken lamp posts. The central business district was badly damaged with trees falling on boundary walls. Central Red Road witnessed massive uprooting of trees. Hospitals such as M.R. Bangur and SSKM, which were battling the COVID-19 pandemic, had to deal with the destruction caused by the cyclone. The cyclone raged for hours on Wednesday evening and night. The storm started making landfall at 2.30 p.m. on Wednesday and by 4 p.m., the impact was felt in Kolkata. For over six hours the storm raged with all its fury. Around 6 p.m., the Alipore Weather Office recorded a wind speed of about 112 kmph and at 7.20 p.m. the wind speed in Dum Dum peaked to 133 kmph.
22 May 2020||Hyderabad,||Donations to CMRF||Judicial officers in Telangana have donated their one-day salary to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) for measures to contain spread of COVID-19. A cheque for the one-day salary amount of Rs. 61 lakh was handed over by Registrar General Venkateswar Reddy to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Law Minister Indrakaran Reddy, Law Secretary Santosh Reddy and High Court Registrar were present.
22 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Govt. aiding health care mafia: BJP||The State government’s deal with the Sprinklr company was aimed at helping a health care mafia involving pharma companies at international level, BJP State president K. Surendran has said. Mr. Surendran told reporters here on Thursday that inflated reports were being circulated about the COVID-19 containment efforts of the State government and that smacks of a conspiracy.
22 May 2020||Hyderabad,||Buses with 100 people return from Deoband||Around 100 students who were stuck on account of lockdown in Deoband in Uttar Pradesh returned to the State early in the morning on Thursday. The move was facilitated by All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen and Jamiat-e-Ulama Hind (Mahmood Madani group). Speaking to the media, AIMIM legislator Ahmed Balala said, “I think that all students who are from Telangana and were in Deoband have returned.” According to Mufti Abdul Mughni from Jamiat-e-Ulama Hind, the students are from Hyderabad and other parts of Telangana. “The students are from Darul Uloom Deoband, which is an important Islamic seminary in Uttar Pradesh. They were stuck there due to the lockdown and wanted to return home. The buses in which they came back are private buses. We had requested Home Minister Mohammed Mahood Ali sahab to intervene. The buses arrived ,” Mufti Abdul Mughni said. Sources from AIMIM said there were nearly 200 from Telangana who study in Darul Uloom, Deoband. Further, another 30 or so study in other madrassas in the the same city. Apart from Hyderabad, the students are from Karimnagar, Nalgonda, Mahbubnagar and Adilabad.
22 May 2020||NELLORE,||TDP protests against hike in electricity charges||Wearing masks, activists of the TDP staged a protest here on Thursday against the increase in electricity charges. TDP leader Vemireddy Pattabirama Reddy and former Minister Somireddy Chandramohan Reddy demanded withdrawal of the power tariff system. “It is unfortunate that the government has imposed an unbearable burden on the people at a time when they are clueless on coping with the economic crisis in wake of the lockdown,” they said.
22 May 2020||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Agricultural Officer found dead||An Assistant Agricultural Officer, A. Mathirani, 29, was found dead in her house at Sivagnanapuram here on Thursday. The police said that domestic problem would have forced the woman to take the extreme step. The woman, mother of two children, was living with her in-laws while her husband, a civil engineer, was in Andhra Pradhesh. The police said that the woman, who took part in a birthday party with her relatives, was found dead hanging in her room. Aruppukottai town police are investigating. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cash-strapped State embarks on massive cost-cutting exercise||As part of austerity measures in the wake of a huge shortfall in revenue receipts caused by the COVID-19 outbreak and the consequent efforts to contain the pandemic, the Tamil Nadu government on Thursday decided to cut expenses across various accounts on a massive scale. Bans on foreign travel at the government’s expense; air travel within the State, unless the airfare is lower than or equal to the train fare for the journey; and air travel in executive class for officers of any pay grade were among the measures announced by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam in a G.O. issued on Thursday. Air travel outside the State was also restricted, and the Resident Commissioners of the Tamil Nadu House in Delhi would be deputed to attend Government of India meetings to the extent possible. As travel needed to be minimised and reduced in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the leave travel concession (LTC) had been “deferred for all categories of employees and teachers from the date of order, until further orders”. A senior official told The Hindu , “We can expect to save around Rs. 1,000 crore this year through the measures specified in the G.O.” The permissible rates of daily allowances will be reduced by 25%, and only 75% of the eligible amounts will be allowed to be drawn, subject to rounding off to next Rs. 10 for all categories of officials and non-officials. Even general transfers will be kept “on hold” for 2020-21 to minimise transfer travel expenses. “Only transfers on administrative grounds by an authority higher than the authority normally empowered to transfer [someone], and mutual request transfers will be allowed,” the G.O. said. “The government has carried out a detailed study of the current situation and is taking necessary action to minimise fiscal stress so that expenditure on welfare schemes and capital works are ensured to revive the economy,” the G.O. stated. Presentation of gifts, bouquets, shawls, mementos, garlands and similar articles in PSUs, local bodies, universities, autonomous boards and other public entities will also be banned. There will also be a ban on official functions and gatherings with the participation of more than 20 persons, barring official review meetings. All official lunches and dinners and entertainment activities are also banned. An informed source recalled that in 2003, similar steps were taken by the then Jayalalithaa-led government when the exchequer was short of funds. “Compared to 2003, the prevailing situation is not so bad, and we hope that it will improve after the lockdown,” the source said. Another G.O., issued by the Finance Department on Wednesday, imposed a ban on the creation of new posts in all departments.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AI-enabled thermal screening at major railway stations||The Ministry of Railways has asked the General Managers of Zonal Railways and Production Units to install thermal screening facility at the entry of all production units and workshops across the network where thousands of employees work. According sanction to a proposal of RailTel, which also calls for installing Artificial Intelligence-powered thermal screening facility at major railway stations to detect people walking in with infection, the Ministry said the solution would be an effective method to identify COVID-19 carriers. In a note to the Indian Railways, RailTel said unprecedented measures were being taken to protect people from COVID-19. It was becoming clear that the combat against the virus could become a “long-drawn battle” where screening and social distancing would have to be enforced over an extended period of time till the discovery of an effective vaccine. Pointing out that any employee entering/leaving the workplace could be a possible carrier of COVID-19, RailTel stressed the need for temperature screening solution to provide 100 per cent coverage of all workers in production units, workshops, loco sheds etc. “The system is intelligent and powered by Artificial Intelligence to neglect any high temperature reading caused by a person carrying hot objects like coffee, tea etc,” the note said. RailTel said scanning every individual entering railway premises for temperature had become a primary need in view of the pandemic. The system was highly efficient and took just one second of time to capture the temperature of a person walking into the premises. Hygiene would be ensured since it was a zero-contact facility. The door-frame thermal scanner would also serve as a metal detector. “RailTel has proposed installation of the thermal screening at coach making facilities like the Integral Coach Factory, Chennai, Modern Coach Factory, Rae Bareli, and Rail Coach Factory, Kapurthala and other factories, workshops, loco-sheds etc. since work has already commenced in these facilities. The facility will soon be extended to originating points of trains and major railway stations en route as it is imperative to identify and segregate passengers with fever and other conditions,” a senior railway official said.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Survey on to ascertain extent of COVID-19 infection in city||A community-based sero-survey, conducted by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), to estimate the prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 infection in the population, is under way in Chennai. Manoj Murhekar, Director, ICMR- National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, said the survey was ongoing in the city in randomly-selected wards. Coordinated by the National Institute of Epidemiology and the National Institute for Research in Tuberculosis, Chennai, the national community-based sero-survey will involve the collection of venous blood samples from 400 randomly-selected individuals (one per household) from 10 clusters in each selected district, according to a press release from ICMR. “It is a population-based survey. Samples will be collected from 24,000 individuals from 69 districts across the country that will include Coimbatore, Chennai and Tiruvannamalai in Tamil Nadu. In addition, the survey will be conducted from [COVID-19] containment zones of 10 cities, which are the high-burden cities having the highest number of cases. Another 5,000 samples will be collected from these 10 cities that include containment zones in Chennai,” he said. The plan, he said, was to collect 29,000 samples from the 10 cities and 69 districts, test for IgG antibodies against COVID-19 using the ELISA kit developed by the National Institute of Virology, Pune. “The survey in Coimbatore and Tiruvannamalai in Tamil Nadu is complete. The survey in Chennai is ongoing. We have completed the survey in nearly 70% of the districts till date. We are likely to start testing by the weekend. The survey will tell us the extent of infection in the community in different areas,” Dr. Murhekar said. “In addition to the 10 wards, we will also select five containment zones from Chennai,” he added. He said a similar survey will be repeated. The decision for the next round will be based on the results of the first. “Tamil Nadu is doing well in terms of testing. There are some wards where the infection is localised, and they need more focused activities, including testing symptomatics, contact tracing and isolation of positives,” he said.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel to examine inclusion of 2 communities in BC list||The Tamil Nadu government has constituted a committee to examine requests from the Ezhuva and Thiyya communities for issuance of Backward Classes (BC) community certificates. The decision comes 44 years after the entry of ‘Thiyya of Ponnani, Palghat, Walluvanad and Ernad Taluks of Malabar’ was omitted from the State government’s list of BCs in 1976. The four-member panel, led by Revenue Secretary Atulya Misra, would examine and render necessary recommendations to the government in this regard within 60 days, according to the Terms of Reference issued through a G.O. on April 21. In 1976, the communities were omitted from Tamil Nadu’s list of BCs after the then government decided that communities which were outside the State need not be on its list of BCs. At the time of the implementation of the States Reorganisation Act in 1956, Kanniyakumari district and Shencottah taluk of the erstwhile Tirunelveli district were added to Tamil Nadu from the erstwhile Travancore-Cochin State. The concessions and benefits enjoyed by the people of various communities identified as BCs in those areas were preserved and continued. The Ezhuva community, which had been among the BCs in the erstwhile Travancore-Cochin State, remained a BC in Kanniyakumari district and Shencottah taluk of the erstwhile Tirunelveli district even after the merger of these areas with the erstwhile Madras State. However, in the case of the Thiyya community, it was removed from the list in 1976. When its opinion was sought by the government, the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes Commission observed that in the light of the Indra Sawhney case, data on the socio-economic and educational status of the entire populace of the State on a caste or community basis was needed. The President of Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana Yogam of Nilagiri Union moved a writ in the High Court, seeking inclusion of the Ezhuva and Thiyya communities in the BC list. While the case is still pending in court, the government has decided to constitute the committee.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No exam centres in containment zones’||The Tamil Nadu government has said that no examination centre for Class X and XI students would be set up in COVID-19 containment zones. Alternate exam centres would be identified and allocated to the students. In general, arrangements will be made for students of Classes X and XI to take up the exams in their respective schools, so that they will not have to travel long distances to get to the centres. Citing a government order, the School Education Department said that for students from containment zones, special exam centres will be set up. They need not go to collect hall tickets, it will be sent to them before the exams. Besides, transportation facilities will be provided separately for teachers and students who need to travel to the centres. Students will be permitted to come out of containment zones by showing their ID cards and hall tickets. The students will be allotted a separate classroom as a precautionary measure since this will be during their quarantine period. Likewise, students currently stranded in other districts or States will be allowed to travel to their examination centre sans an e-pass. They will be permitted to travel with their ID cards and hall tickets, along with parents or guardians. In each examination hall, only 10 students will be seated instead of the previously decided 20 students per classroom, the G.O. said. Free masks will be distributed to students and teachers who will be required to use hand sanitisers while entering examination/evaluation centres, both of which will be disinfected in the morning and evening. In all, 9.7 lakh students from Class X will be accommodated in 12,690 examination centres and 8.41 lakh Class XI students will write exams in 7,400 centres. Around 2.21 lakh teachers will be involved in conducting the Class X exams and 1.65 lakh teachers will conduct the Class XI exams. For the 36,089 students who missed the last Plus Two exam, the test will be conducted on June 18, at the same centres where they had written their other exams. As many as 43,592 teachers will be involved in the evaluation of Class XII papers and 62,107 teachers will work on Class X paper evaluation. In every district, five helplines will be set up for students and parents, and hostels will function from June 11 for the candidates to stay. New hall tickets can be downloaded online or obtained from school headmasters.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. permits indoor shoots for small-screen shows||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday permitted indoor shooting for small screens shows, provided the total number of persons on the set does not exceed 20. The Film Employees’ Federation of South India and Small Screen Producers’ Association (STEPS) jointly made a representation to Mr. Palaniswami and sought permission to resume shooting, as the country was slowly easing the lockdown norms. According to an official release, shoots will be allowed as long as the film crew follows physical distancing norms, wears masks compulsorily, shoots indoors and keeps the total number of people on the set, including the actors, at 20. “Shooting cannot be held inside COVID-19 containment zones. The shooting spot or the house should be thoroughly disinfected before and after the shoot. Except for actors and actresses, all other persons on the set should wear masks. Physical distancing must be maintained. During the break, the actors should also wear masks,” said the statement. The State government has also strictly disallowed ‘viewers’ on sets and has directed the cast and crew to use hand sanitisers frequently and wash hands during the shoot. The rules also direct the film crew to immediately make anyone with COVID-19 symptoms, such as cough, cold, fever and breathlessness, to undergo a medical test.  A few days ago, the Tamil Nadu Film Producers Council ‘Protection Group’ had made a representation to the Minsiter of Information and Publicity, Kadambur Raju, to at least permit the film industry to complete shoots for around 50 films which are reportedly stuck in the final stages of production. Reacting to the latest development, producer J. Satish Kumar, one of the signatories of the representation by members of TPFC, said that this was like a ‘trial run’ to see how shooting could be done in practical terms. “The government has allowed shooting to see how it can be organised while adhering to phycial distancing norms and mask wearing. This is a trial run. When the government is convinced that conduct is possible, permission to shoot with 100 persons on sets will also be given,” Mr. Kumar added.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||On the journey home, migrants have to now fend off conmen||“ Arrey Bhaiya, cycle Rs. 3,000 keliye bech do. Aage Jaoge toh police seize kardega (Brother, sell the cycle for Rs. 3,000. The police will seize the vehicle if you go ahead).” This is a common advice that many migrant labourers heading towards the Andhra Pradesh border hear while pedalling on the Grand Northern Trunk (GNT) Road, that too in a threatening tone. Some people have been trying to purchase the new cycles for cheap prices from the migrant labourers, by making them believe that the police would seize their vehicles and send them away. One such group was trying to bargain with a group of migrant labourers from Jharkhand near Panjetty on the GNT Road. “We purchased the cycle for Rs. 5,000 on Wednesday, hoping to cycle to our hometown. One person stopped us and asked us to sell the cycle for Rs. 3,000. He told us that the Sholavaram Sub-Inspector was coming to seize our vehicles and wanted us to sell it before he comes,” said Sanjay Mahato, a migrant worker. Labourers rescued Meanwhile, the Tiruvallur district administration came to know about the incident and rescued the labourers. They were taken to a shelter in Padianallur. “They will be sent to their hometowns at the earliest,” said an official. Pawan Kumar Reddy, ASP, Ponneri, said that the workers would be allowed to take the cycles with them. “Our police team will patrol the highway to ensure that migrant labourers are not cheated,” Mr. Reddy said. S. Tilak Raj, from Sevai Karangal, an NGO, said that a few people were trying to take advantage of the situation. “A similar incident happened near Kavarapettai also. They try to exploit the workers as they are in need of money,” he said.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A tenth of class X students from Corpn. schools reside in hotspots||At least 10% of class X students in Chennai Corporation schools are residents of COVID-19 containment zones in various parts of the city. With exams scheduled next month, the civic body is planning to assign special examination centres for such students to prevent mixing with the others. According to data compiled by the Corporation, at least 580 students of class X have been found to be residents of containment zones where COVID-19 positive cases have been reported in the past few weeks. Royapuram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Kodambakkam and Tondiarpet have reported the largest number of Corporation school students in containment zones. No student of Corporation schools in Anna Nagar has been found to be from containment zones. Only one family of an SSLC student has tested positive for COVID-19 in the city, officials said. Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Education) Grace Pachuau said, “With the help of some NGOs we are conducting classes using Zoom app.Most of the parents have provided mobile numbers. We have recharged the phone number and students are actively taking part,” she said. The Corporation will provide masks and sanitisers at examination halls during examination. Teachers of Corporation schools said they were ready to come for the public examination but many of the teachers above the age of 50, who have high blood pressure and other conditions are scared of COVID-19 infection at schools. Former Chennai Corporation floor leader V. Sukumar Babu said the government should postpone the examination. “In addition to Corporation schools, private and aided schools have also many poor students on the rolls. These students who reside in congested neighbourhoods are at a higher risk of COVID-19 infection. It is not possible to prevent infection at examination centres during a pandemic,” he said.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gang uses emergency pass to smuggle drugs||A consignment of drugs procured from several States and moved close to the shoreline in Ramanathapuram district, for smuggling to Sri Lanka by boat, was intercepted by the police on Thursday. The suspects used the COVID-19 pass to cross police barricades and reach a common point near Tiruvadanai to deliver the sample contraband substances to an agent. They had applied for an emergency pass, stating that a close relative had passed away. The seizures include various quantities of methamphetamine, opium paste, heroin, MDMA (Ecstasy), amphetamine and methaqualone, worth about Rs. 10 crore in the international market. There is a huge demand for them due to the lockdown caused by the pandemic. About 1.5 tonnes of red sanders was also seized, police sources said. Acting on a tip-off that came two months ago, Ramanathapuram Superintendent of Police Varun Kumar formed a special team to keep tabs on the activities of some suspects. The information was that high-quality drugs were procured from agents in different States who had contacts with suppliers in Afghanistan. “The quantity of the drugs seized varies between three tablets and 6.8 kg. The kingpin of the racket is Aruldoss of Sivaganga district who engaged Ajmeer Khan of Thondi in Ramanathapuram, who owns a boat, for smuggling the drugs to Sri Lanka. These were basically samples for quality testing in Sri Lanka…a bigger consignment will follow,” Mr. Kumar told The Hindu . Heavy demand He said that the seized substances were psychoactive drugs used in parties or by celebrities for various purposes. After quality check, the samples were planned for transshipment to Australia, where there was a heavy demand owing to the lockdown. “The prices are more than double in the international market now. We have reasons to believe that a bigger consignment, either sourced for Australia or made to specifications in clandestine laboratories, are ready in secret godowns. The investigating team is tracking some clues,” he said. The police seized an autorickshaw, two motorcycles and a car used to commit the offence. Nine suspects, including Aruldoss and Ajmeer, were taken into custody. The boat, which the accused wanted to use for smuggling the drugs, will be attached under provisions of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. As many as 30 mobile phones were seized and sent for forensic analysis, the sources added.  These were basically samples for quality testing in Sri Lanka…a bigger consignment will follow Varun Kumar SP, Ramanathapuram
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Include politicians in support teams: Stalin||DMK leader M.K. Stalin on Thursday said that it was a matter of concern that the government had not included people’s representatives even though it had roped in senior IAS and IPS officers to work in COVID-19 field support teams (FSTs). In a statement, he said that senior officials were already working in the field and appointment of special officials would unnecessarily create envy and power struggle. Joint efforts needed “The pandemic is spreading and there is a need to create awareness. People will share their feelings and requirements freely with their elected representatives. A joint effort alone will save the lives of the people,” he said. Mr. Stalin said that at a time when the government had launched a campaign, saying “let us learn to live with the coronavirus”, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had not learnt to cooperate even with his Cabinet colleagues or people’s representatives. “The Finance Minister has not been included in the committee headed by former Reserve Bank Governor C. Rangarajan,” he pointed out.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metrowater faces a sharp dip in revenue due to lockdown||Faced with a sharp dip in revenue, Chennai Metrowater is exploring various means of financial support to cope with the impact of the COVID-19 lockdown. In the past three months, Metrowater earned a revenue of a mere Rs. 91 crore compared to Rs. 201 crore collected last year during the same period. In May so far, only about Rs. 11 crore has been collected against nearly Rs. 50 crore earned as revenue during May 2019. Apart from lower revenue from tax collection, there has been a sharp dip in industrial and commercial demand which has led to a dip in revenue. Besides, cost overruns due to delays in projects and additional expenditure incurred towards personal protective equipment (PPE) kits and safety gear to ensure health of workers has affected the Metrowater finances, officials said. Meanwhile, the water board is one of the stakeholders in a study initiated by the World Bank on COVID-19 impact on urban water utilities. According to sources in the Metrowater, the study is set to address the major issues affecting water utilities across the country during the pandemic, financial options and how the World Bank can support and provide COVID-19 liquidity to them. The study may help assess the needs of the water agency and translate to additional funds. Other collaborations It may be recalled that Metrowater already tied up with the World Bank for a few projects, including tertiary treatment ultra filtration projects and underground drainage projects in merged areas. In a bid to sustain resources, the water agency also sought financial support under the State Disaster Response Fund. “We have sought Rs. 25 crore, spent towards taking precautionary measures against the pandemic,” an official said. Besides disinfection measures during the lockdown, Metrowater procured PPE kits and undertook projects to provide piped water supply to 1,000 streets, which were earlier getting tanker supply. It recently increased water supply from 650 million litres a day to 700 mld.  In the past three months, the agency earned a revenue of a mere Rs. 91 crore compared to Rs. 201 crore collected last year during the same period
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNCC promises help to newspaper industry||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri has forwarded a set of demands made by a delegation of newspaper publishers, already placed before Prime Minister Narendra Modi, to the high command and assured all possible help to the industry. On Thursday, a delegation of newspaper publishers comprising N. Ram, chairman, THG Publishing Private Limited, L. Adimoolam, publisher, Dinamalar , and R.M.R. Ramesh, managing director, Kal Publications ( Dinakaran ), met Mr. Alagiri at the party headquarters and sought the party's support. “I have already forwarded the memorandum to our high command. This is not just a State-specific issue but a national issue for the newspaper industry. We will discuss this with the AICC president and extend whatever support is required,” Mr. Alagiri told The Hindu . Congress leaders H. Vasanthakumar, K. Jayakumar, A. Chellakumar and A. Gopanna were present.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NCLT: Establish power reconnection to Sivakasi company||Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco) has been directed by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to provide reconnection of electricity, for a limited period of three weeks, to help revival of Supreme Coated Board Mills Pvt. Ltd, which is under insolvency proceedings. The Sivakasi-based company manufactures white-coated boards used in the matchstick, fireworks, notebook and packaging industries.  Resolution value The committee of lenders of the company felt that its resolution value could be maximised only when it was operational and the resolution professional sought restoration of electricity connection. The company had arrears to the tune of Rs. 3.01 crore to Tangedco and the connection was cut off before the commencement of insolvency proceedings. The NCLT, Chennai, noted that the request of the committee of lenders seemed to be fair to the limited extent that the machinery had been kept idle for more than 8-9 months and it might be a detrimental factor to maximize the value of the company’s assets. It also said that the reconnection as well as consumption charges for the three weeks had to be paid and a representative of Tangedco should be permitted to be at the site during operation of the machinery.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Heatwave to continue for three days||For the third consecutive day, Chennai and its outskirts sizzled on Thursday as the mercury level peaked above 40 degree Celsius. The Meteorological Department warned that heatwave conditions would prevail over north Tamil Nadu for the next three days. On Thursday, the weather stations in Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam recorded a maximum temperature of 41.2 degree Celsius and 41.5 degree Celsius respectively. Similarly, several other weather stations, including the Poonamallee and Tiruttani ones in north Tamil Nadu recorded a temperature level above the 40-degree mark. Officials of the Meteorological Department said as cyclone Amphan took away moisture and changed the wind direction, dry land breeze from west and northwesterly direction prevailed over north Tamil Nadu. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said several places in north Tamil Nadu such as Vellore and Puducherry registered a maximum temperature between 41-42 degree Celsius on Wednesday. Some places like Vanamadevi and Parangipettai in Cuddalore district experienced summer showers. Such thundershowers may continue in one or two places in south Tamil Nadu and Western Ghat areas on Friday, he said. The Meteorological Department warned people not to expose themselves to direct sunlight between 11.30 a.m. and 3.30 p.m. owing to heatwave conditions. The day temperature over Chennai is likely to hover around 42 degree Celsius till Saturday. Fishermen were warned not to venture into the sea as strong winds with speeds reaching up to 40-50 km per hour may prevail over southeast Arabian sea and Gulf of Mannar on Friday.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MLA seeks advance bail in criminal intimidation case||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) MLA V. Senthil Balaji has moved the Madras High Court seeking anticipatory bail in a criminal intimidation case booked against him on the basis of a complaint lodged by Karur Collector T. Anbalagan on May 16. The petition, originally filed before the Madurai Bench, was transferred to the principal seat of the High Court in Chennai and Justice M. Nirmal Kumar on Thursday granted time till Tuesday for the Thanthonimalai police in Karur district to respond. In his complaint, the Collector had accused the MLA of barging into his office with around 25 people on May 12 despite being informed that only four people would be permitted inside in view of the physical distancing norms to be followed to fight COVID-19. The complainant also alleged that the MLA had picked up a quarrel with him for not inviting him to the surprise inspections conducted by the Ministers in the district. It was further claimed that the MLA had intimidated the Collector before the leaving the office. Mr. Anbalagan had also stated in his complaint that the MLA addressed the press after meeting him and told journalists that the Collector was an educated fool and that the latter would not be able to move around if he does not mend his ways. Referring to another altercation that had taken place between him and the MLA during the by-election to Aravakurichi Assembly constituency in April 2019, the Collector said, the MLA should be made responsible if any mishap occurs to him or his family. Denying the allegations, the MLA, in his advance bail petition, stated that a false complaint had been lodged against him due to petty differences and political spite solely because he had questioned the official regarding non-usage of his constituency development fund.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘All spheres of democracy decaying’||Justice Abdul Quddhose expressed concern over the “decay” in every sphere of democracy, including the media, for quite a number of years and impressed upon the need for media houses to introspect. After quashing many criminal defamation cases lodged by the State government against media houses, the judge, said, he, as an ordinary citizen of the country, would like to remind media of the great role it had to play in nation building by acting as a watchdog.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||V.P. Duraisamy removed from key party post||A few days after he met BJP State president L. Murugan, DMK leader V.P. Duraisamy was on Thursday removed from the post of deputy general secretary of the party. “It is not a shocking news to me. At this juncture I only wish Andhiyur Selvaraj, Rajya Sabha MP, who has been appointed in my place, well. Of course he is not my enemy,” Mr. Duraisamy, who was the Deputy Speaker of the Tamil Nadu Assembly between 2006 and 2011, told The Hindu . Both Mr. Duraisamy and Mr. Selvaraj belong to the Scheduled Castes. While Mr. Duraisamy had met Mr. Murugan on Monday last, the trigger for the action against him is believed to have been an interview he gave to The Hindu Tamil Thisai , in which he said that DMK president “M. K. Stalin is individually good but collectively bad”. Asked whether the party’s decision was shaped by his visit to the BJP office to meet its State president, Mr. Duraisamy said it had nothing to do with the incident. “Of late the leadership does not like me. A close associate of party president Mr Stalin is giving false information about me and he [Stalin] is also believing it. He is misguiding the leader and he cannot come out of the web. But personally he is a good leader,” Mr. Duraisamy told this correspondent. “Community politics is everywhere in Tamil Nadu politics. A DMK MLA met an AIADMK minister who belongs to his community. Can anyone deny it? Anyway it is their party and what can I do,” Mr Duraisamy asked.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Workers’ body demands aid||The Unorganised Workers’ Federation has demanded that workers registered with 30 welfare boards be provided cash aid of Rs. 5,000 and free rations.  In a press release, the Federation’s State secretary R. Leelavathi said that cash aid must be provided to workers who have not registered in any welfare board as well, through their Aadhaar cards.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||675 doctors appointed to beef up COVID-19 care||The State Government has issued orders for appointing 675 doctors to strengthen the front line workforce in government hospitals. Besides, 500 Health Inspectors, dozens of nurses and other paramedics are being appointed on an urgent basis, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Thursday. Acknowledging that some doctors in leading GHs in Chennai were affected by COVID-19 as they were coming in contact with patients who were not following the safety protocol, Mr. Vijayabaskar said that he had met them. “Their condition is perfectly fine and they will be discharged soon,” he said. Ten screening centres were established in Chennai to carry out COVID-19 tests for vulnerable people. The protocol for handling patients testing positive had also been made clear. He said that many passengers who arrived in Chennai by flights or trains were testing positive in the exit tests done after seven days of quarantine. “After testing negative in the first screening, many are testing positive in the exit test done after seven days. This has become a big challenge now, he said. Dr. Vijayabaskar said that the Union Cabinet Secretary had called for a presentation from Tamil Nadu on how the mortality rate was so low compared to other States in the country. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh will be giving the presentation on Friday, he said.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Goondas Act invoked against quack||The police on Thursday detained K. Thiruthanikachalam, 50, a fake medical practitioner who claimed to have a cure for COVID-19, under the Goondas Act to prevent him from coming out on bail. In the first week of May, Thiruthanikachalam, who was practising siddha medicine without a valid licence, was arrested by Cyber Crime Wing of CCB following a complaint lodged by Director of Indian Medicine and Homeopathy. A senior police officer told The Hindu , “Our investigation revealed that he had completed a B.Sc degree and practiced siddha based on a certificate. On verification of the certificate, we found it to be fake. We seized drugs manufactured by him and sent them for testing.” He claimed to have cured a patient in London with his medicine in a video, investigators added.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Duo held for breeching security of CM convoy||Traffic police arrested two youth Naveen, 19, who was driving bike, and his friend Sarathkumar, 20, for breaching through the security of the convoy of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. They were released on bail after a warning.
22 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile phone snatched from a doctor||The Kilpauk police on Thursday launched a manhunt to nab two suspects who snatched a mobile phone from C. Raja, a government doctor, while on his morning stroll along the road between New Avadi Road and Kipauk Garden Road junction. They have recovered CCTV footage and are investigating.
22 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Autorickshaws will run from June 1, says Coimbatore MP||Autorickshaws in the Coimbatore Corporation limits will ply from June 1, irrespective of whether the State government allows it or not, asserted Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan on Thursday. The MP, along with leaders from 13 autorickshaw unions led by president of Coimbatore District Association of All Auto Rickshaw Workers Union P. K. Sukumaran, submitted a petition to Collector K. Rajamani to discuss the situation of auto drivers, whose livelihoods were affected due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Mr. Natarajan told presspersons prior to the meeting that the drivers “expect, hope and request” that the State government would allow plying of autorickshaws by June 1. “The drivers will be a part of the fight against COVID-19,” he said, claiming that none of the auto drivers intended to violate the prohibitory orders. Mr. Natarajan and the union leaders staged a demonstration outside the District Collectorate prior to the meeting, which lasted for only a few minutes as the police requested them to cut short the demonstration to prevent crowding. According to R. Selvam, district president of CITU-affiliated Auto Drivers Union, nearly 12,000 autorickshaws plied in Coimbatore city and suburbs. The State government must provide cash assistance of Rs. 10,000 to all the auto drivers to compensate for the lack of earnings in the past two months due to the lockdown, he demanded. Mr. Sukumaran said that all the unions in Coimbatore district had declared that the autorickshaws would run from June 1. The union leaders also petitioned Commissioner of Police Sumit Sharan, requesting to withdraw the cases filed on auto drivers in the city, he said. “Only some autos are now plying for essential services. Those drivers should not be booked by the police,” Mr. Sukumaran said.
22 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Women drivers await relief||Among the autorickshaw drivers whose livelihoods were affected due to the COVID-19 lockdown, the women drivers were hit harder, particularly those who were the sole breadwinners of their families. S. Suganya, who has been an autorickshaw driver in Coimbatore Corporation limits for nearly four years, said that a group of 10 women drivers met District Collector K. Rajamani on May 18 requesting him to resume the autorickshaw services in the city. However, there had been no response from the district administration three days after the meeting, she said. A single mother living in Vadavalli with a nine-year-old daughter and an eight-year-old son, Ms. Suganya said that she had been facing multiple issues due to shortage of cash, from paying the house rent to repaying loans. “The government did not assure us any welfare assistance in the past two months. We can starve, but we cannot let our children go hungry,” Ms. Suganya said. Women autorickshaw drivers typically earn around Rs. 15,000 a month, according to B. Meenakshi, who has been a driver for the past five years. However, this had been cut in the past two months when autorickshaws were not allowed on the roads due to the lockdown. “Now they have allowed almost everything to function again, so why cannot they allow autorickshaws too?” she asked. According to her estimate, around 60 women autorickshaw drivers are present in Coimbatore city. Many women drivers were unaware of welfare boards and trade unions prior to the lockdown, which was why they could not avail some of the welfare assistance from the unions, she said. Also a single mother, Ms. Meenakshi said that she was living in Peelamedu with her two teenage daughters and that it was becoming increasingly difficult to meet her daily expenses for her family. “They have to allow us before June 1,” she said in response to the autorickshaw unions declaring that all autos will run in the city from June 1. The women drivers are planning to meet Mr. Rajamani again to request that the autorickshaws must be allowed at the earliest, Ms. Meenakshi said.
22 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Prison inmates stitch 2.5 lakh masks during lockdown||Though they remain behind the bars, inmates of the Coimbatore Central Prison were also part of the battle against COVID-19. They stitched 2.5 lakh three-layered masks during the lockdown period. The prison authorities are currently having a stock of 1.8 lakh masks while the remaining pieces were sold. As a precaution against COVID-19, all the prisoners and prison staff are now using mask. The prison ventured into mask making as there was a shortage for the essential commodity when the region had early cases of COVID-19. Mask making started in March and the production was stopped when inmates made 2.5 lakh pieces with the available raw materials. G. Shanmuga Sundaram, Deputy Inspector General of police, Prisons, (Coimbatore range), said that around 40 inmates, who were given training, were involved in the making of masks. After stitching, the masks were autoclaved to sterilise them. He said that further production of mask would resume only when the existing stock of 1.8 lakh gets sold. The masks, each priced at Rs. 10, were sold to various Government departments and other buyers.
22 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Ensuring personal distancing in taxis||In an effort to ensure personal distancing inside cars as a precautionary measure against COVID-19, a taxi driver and a car accessories dealer in Coimbatore have come up with temporary partitions that can be placed between drivers and passengers. R. Amar, a taxi owner in Kavundampalayam, said that the product will serve as a partition between the driver and passengers as well as between two passengers in the back seat of the car. “It is easily detachable and can be cleaned using a disinfectant spray,” he said. Mr. Amar, who runs four call taxis in the city, said that the partitions have been implemented in one of his taxis on a trial basis and they have nicknamed it ‘Corona-Free Cab’. With call taxis not running for nearly two months due to the nationwide lockdown, he said this method will instil confidence among both, the drivers and the customers, regarding the safety aspects once the taxis are allowed to operate again. According to N. Bilal, the car accessories dealer who designed the partitions using mica sheets, the product will cost around Rs. 1,800. “This will be a major boost for the drivers,” he asserted, as the partitions will also ensure the comfort of drivers and passengers in addition to their safety. Mr. Bilal said that he has been running his car accessories store on Variety Hall Road for the past 12 years. “I have already received orders for eight cars and many more are enquiring about this,” Mr. Bilal said.
22 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Demand for rentals add to the burden of micro units||The micro units in district, which resumed operations just a few days ago, are reportedly facing pressure from building owners to pay rents and this is adding to the financial strain of the industries, according to the unit owners. J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises, said more than 20,000 micro units are operating in Coimbatore Corporation limits. Most of these industries are functioning on rented buildings. They had remained shut for almost three months now and hence are unable to pay rent for the buildings. “The house owners are now demanding that the units pay the rent. Many of the building owners are dependent on the rentals for their livelihood and hence we are unable to say that we will not pay the rent. This is developing into a major problem,” he said. Mr. James said that since the lockdown is not lifted completely, the industries are facing several challenges - raw materials that are to come from other States are not supplied regularly and hence the price of the materials available locally has shot up. The prices are nearly 20 % higher that what they were in February. The migrant workers are leaving for their home States and so there is labour shortage, he said. According to Kovai Power Driven Pumps and Spares Manufacturers’ Association, the government should extend six moratorium for industries for interests taken on loans and should reduce the GST rates by 75 %. The registered MSMEs should get minimum Rs. 1 lakh long term loan at low interest rates.
22 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on COVID-19's impact on business today||The Hindu BusinessLine and S.P. Apparels will organise a webinar on "The Impact of COVID-19 on Businesses and Daily Lives" here on Friday. The panel members are K. Ilango, Managing Director of RSM Autokast, Sravan Kumar Jatavath, Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner, and P. Sundararajan, Chairman and Managing Director of S.P. Apparels. Venky Vembu, Associate Editor of The Hindu BusinessLine, will host the webinar. The hour-long webinar will begin at 5.30 p.m. on Friday. Readers who register to participate in the webinar can post questions to the panelists. Registration is free of cost. For details, visithttps://bit.ly/3cLvhkAor contact 98432 11991.
22 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman struck by tree branch dies||A 38-year-old woman died after she was struck by a weak tree branch that fell on the two-wheeler she was riding pillion in Coimbatore on Thursday. The police have identified the deceased as R. Gayathri, resident of Rangammal Kovil Street near Pappanaickenpalayam. According to the police, the accident took place around 2.30 p.m. on Pankaja Mill Road near Lakshmi Mills junction. They said that Gayathri, a home maker, and her husband Raja, employee of a private firm, were heading to a nearby private school to get books for their children when the accident took place. A huge branch of a tree on the side of the road broke and fell on the two-wheeler. While the woman injured severely, her husband escaped with minor injuries. The injured woman was rushed to a private hospital where she died without responding to treatment. Her body was shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. Fire and Rescue Services removed the tree branch from the road. A middle-aged woman was crushed to death after she was run over by a lorry near Annur on Thursday. The police said that they were yet to trace the identity of the deceased. The accident took place at Kurukiliyampalayam on Annur – Mettupalayam Road.
22 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Case registered against teenager||The All Women Police Station (AWPS), Coimbatore west, on Thursday booked a 17-year-old boy for alleged sexual assault on a minor girl. The police said that they had registered a case in connection with alleged missing of a 14-year-old girl from R.S. Puram area a few days ago. The girl was traced on Wednesday and she accused the 17-year-old boy from Ganapathy, with whom she had been, of having assaulted her sexually. The AWPS registered a case against the teenager under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. Man falls to death A 60-year-old man hailing from Karumathampatty fell from a lift of a building under construction at Rayarpalayam and died on Wednesday. The police said P. Selvaraj of Pathuvampalli near Karumathampatty and his son Jeeva Prakash (30) were working at the building owned by K. Suresh of Pathuvampalli. The police registered a case against Suresh and building supervisor N. Arumugam.
22 May 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Private school sealed in Dharmapuri||Revenue authorities sealed a private school for violating lockdown guidelines by conducting special classes clandestinely on its campus in Gobinathampatti village on Thursday. Indian Matriculation School was caught conducting special classes for Class 10 students, who are slated to appear for the board exams, by a revenue team led by Prathap, RDO, Harur. “We got a tip off from the locals-public yesterday that they were being compelled to send their wards to the school for coaching. There were over 200 students attending the special class today (Thursday), when we went to the school,” said Mr. Prathap. About 50 of them were from the border villages of Naripalli that fall in Tiruvannamalai district, and were brought into the district. Asked about how they were able to cross into the border through buses, Mr. Prathap said, there were other porous borders other than the checkpost, and that it was possible for them to have crossed through one of those routes. “I have also asked the local Sub Inspector to verify the CCTV cameras to check for any lapses at the checkpost.” “It was a violation to enter without e-passes, then to have students without masks or physical distancing. Further, 50 of the students were made to stay in the hostel, with three occupants in a room.” The authorities have invoked sections under the Public Safety Act, the Epidemic Diseases Act, and also registered cases under Sections 188 and 269 of the IPC, and sections 51 of the Disaster Management Act.
22 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. focus on conducting board exam’||With the reopening of schools expected to be delayed due to the COVID-19 lockdown, which will reduce the number of working days, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan said on Thursday that any decision regarding reduction in syllabus load would be taken by a high-level committee headed by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. The Minister told mediapersons that the government was currently focusing on conducting Class X board exams, rescheduled to be held from June 15 to 25. “After the results are declared, the committee will consider the issues and decide on the matter for the welfare of students,” he said. Asked about postponing the exams until normalcy returns, the Minister said that students in many States had appeared for their exams and were awaiting results. He said there was a three-fold increase in the number of exam centres — from 3,684 to 12,674 centres.
22 May 2020||Karaikudi,TAMIL NADU||Virtual meet||The role of nanotechnology to combat the spread of COVID-19 will be discussed at a three-day international virtual seminar that got under way at Alagappa University on Wednesday. The discussions held at the meet will be uploaded on YouTube for the benefit of researchers.
22 May 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||604 migrant workers leave for Bihar||A group of 604 migrant workers left for Bihar from Karur on Thursday. This is the third batch of migrants to go back home from Karur district since May 17. According to an estimate, there are 7,779 migrant workers in the district. Most of them were from Utter Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal. Of them, 2,802 workers had expressed their willingness to return to their respective States. The first group of 254 workers were sent to Uttar Pradesh by a special train from Tiruchi. Another group of 35 workers began their journey on Monday. Collector T. Anbalagan said that the third group of migrants consisting of 604 persons would reach Namakkal, from where they would travel to Bihar. Arrangements had been made to send the remaining workers to their native places by train, he said.
22 May 2020||KODAIKANAL,TAMIL NADU||Kodai residents want restrictions as people start arriving||After the State government announced certain relaxations in curfew norms introduced in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, many people managed to influence officials and obtained e-passes with which they travelled from far away destinations to Kodaikanal, residents here alleged. Many areas in Dindigul district – Kodaikanal not in the list – had been identified as containment zones. The cooperation from the local people came in for appreciation as they mostly stayed indoors, officials said. As a result, the environment changed for good that many landmark spots, including Kodai Lake and Coakers Walk, look clean and green. “There is absolutely no pollution now,” said Veera, a resident of Kodaikanal. A few residents in Naidupuram said the State government could consider declaring a lockout in the hill station for a fortnight every year so that tourist spot could restore its sheen. When contacted, RDO (in-charge) Sivakumar said 62 persons with e-pass, a mandatory document required to travel from one district to another, had arrived in Kodaikanal. After due verification at check posts, they were permitted to proceed, he added. After screening the persons, the health officials had advised them home-quarantine for a fortnight. While some of them had their own bungalows here, others had come to carry out works in private buildings, the officials added.
22 May 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 triggered factors hit mango growers||Even as the COVID-19 lockdown eases, the continuing curbs on inter-State transport, labour shortage and shutting down of markets in North India have hit trading in mangoes and the chances of better prices for mango growers, here in the mango growing district in the State. While the prices have remained largely unchanged from last year, COVID-19 trumped the market dictates of supply and demand in pricing for the king of fruits. Mango production this year was hit by poor rainfall and disease at the flowering stage. The yield is reported to have fallen to below 30%, according to farmers and traders. This fall in yield did not translate into better prices for farmers. “The biggest markets in Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Delhi are shut. Earlier, I would send 20 tonnes to 30 tonnes a day to North India, but now, it is only 10 tonnes depending on the availability of transport and labour,” says Basha, a mango trader. This year, the three mango varieties grown in Krishnagiri are fetching the same prices as last year, when there was over production. “Alphonsa variety is going at Rs. 40/kg, Thotapuri at Rs. 13/kg, and Senthura ranges between Rs. 10 to Rs. 22 per kg. The mango supply is low compared to last year and ideally, this would have fetched bumper prices for farmers in a non-COVID time,” says Mr. Basha. Many villages have placed restrictions on inter-village movement of labour. This has also forced traders to scale down their procurement from farmers based on the local availability of the labour on one hand, and on gauging of the transport curbs on inter-State movement of trucks carrying the loads for North Indian markets. “We usually use trained labour. With the local restrictions on labour movement, we have to make do with available workers,” he says. However, farmers are unenthused by the prices offered by both traders and pulp factories. “We spend Rs. 28,000/tonne which excludes the harvest cost. Pulp factories and traders are giving us the same price as last year, despite the fall in production,” says Soundar, a mango farmer, even as he is aware of COVID-19 triggered factors. Totapuri variety is cultivated across the district. This year, of the 40,000 ha under mango production, only 15,000 ha have yielded slashing down the production, says Mr. Soundar. “Despite this, farmers are being Rs. 12 per kg. Pulp factories increase Rs. 1 per kg each day, and usually by the end of the season, the prices are increased to Rs. 22 per kg.” Alleging cartelisation of pulp factories, farmers have been demanding a tripartite meeting of pulp industry, growers and the administration to fix a price. “It is the government’s responsibility to provide a minimum support price for us, at least in times like these,” he says.
22 May 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||First train from Hosur with 1,600 migrant workers leaves for UP||Seven-year old Arthi struggled to keep up with her sprinting parents as she balanced a cage with her two pet parrots Mittu and Puppy in one hand and some snack packets in the other. Her father Ram Parvesh, along with their family of five, was boarding the first special train carrying migrant workers to Uttar Pradesh from Hosur. Co-ordinated effort On Thursday, at 1.50 p.m, the train left Hosur station with 1,600 migrant workers. Hid behind the smiles of the migrant workers was the co-ordinated effort by the Hosur Corporation, the local revenue administration, jointly with a group of Muslim youth of various jamaaths of Hosur, and the cadre of the Democratic Youth Federation of India. On Tuesday, when the local administration received information about a train to UP coming into Hosur, the officials faced the mammoth task of contacting the migrant workers, who had registered via thenonresidenttamil.orgwebsite for trains to their home States. The Hosur Corporation faced the challenge of providing food packets, housing the workers, and their medical screening - all in a night’s time. On Tuesday evening, a group of Muslim youth, mostly IT professionals and some doctors formed a team to assist Hosur Tahsildar G. Venkatesan, along with DYFI volunteers. They co-ordinated between the revenue officials and the Hindi speaking workers dispersed across the district. Commissioner of Hosur Corporation K. Balasubramaniam told The Hindu that the doctors, who came at 9 p.m. on Wednesday, screened over 1,400 workers till 3 a.m. on Thursday, for symptoms. The Hosur Corporation arranged for 4,500 packets of rice through the Amma canteens’s central kitchen and chappatis through an industrial unit. Besides, the Jamaaths volunteers, led by Abdul Bari, organised 1,800 chappatis, tamarind rice and lemon rice packets, besides biscuits, fruit drinks and water bottles. “The State government had paid Rs. 920 per ticket for each worker,” said a Collectorate official. As Arthi’s father Parvesh, who was employed in a branded footwear manufacturing unit, prepared to board the train, he hoped to stay in his home town Gorakhpur till the COVID clouds clear up. “I will come back once the company opens and the trains start running,” Parvesh said. But, not all workers were hopeful of returning. Bala, along with his three children and wife, was working at the nurseries at Jawalagiri in Hosur. “I will find some farm work in my district Chandauli,” he said.
22 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Vaigai dam waters to be released for river wetting||A total of 216 million cubic feet (mcft) of water from Vaigai dam will be released for wetting of the river, say Public Works Department (PWD) officials. This move will help in recharging the infiltration wells sunk on the riverbed and help in addressing the issue of shortage of drinking water, they say. Executive Engineer of PWD (Periyar-Vaigai Basin) T. Subramanian said that water would be released for three days from May 25. Every year, around 216 mcft of water used to be released for the grand event of Lord Kallazhagar entering the Vaigai river as part of Chithirai festival. This used to indirectly recharge infiltration wells that cater to the drinking water needs of several areas of Madurai and neighbouring districts. However, this year, water was not released as the event was cancelled due to lockdown imposed to contain COVID-19 pandemic. “Following the requests of various administrative bodies and a government order, water reserved for the festival will be released for river wetting,” he said. A Corporation official said that the civic body supplies 122.66 mld of drinking water through two drinking water pipelines, Cauvery Drinking Water Integrated Scheme and from riverbed sources. “Since the middle of February, there has been around 32.2 mld reduction in water sourced from these sources, making it difficult to supply sufficient water to tail-end areas,” he said. The wetting of Vaigai river will help in recharging infiltration wells sunk at Manalur, Thachampathu, Kochadai and Melakkal, and provide additional eight million litres a day (mld) for the Corporation, said City Engineer S. Arasu. “This will help in addressing water shortage for the next two months to an extent," he said. Other than the Corporation, this move will also recharge the infiltration wells sunk by Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage (TWAD) Board, said a PWD official. The official added that even after the release of water from the dam, there would be sufficient water to provide drinking water for the next two months. "Currently, we are providing 60 cusecs of water to Madurai Corporation and 12 cusecs of water to Theni Allinagaram, Andipatti and Vadugapatti. We can continue this for the next two months. By early June we are anticipating the onset of south-west monsoon and good increase of water at Mullaperiyar dam,” he said.
22 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Child protection committees dysfunctional in Madurai||The block and village-level child protection committees, which were formed under Integrated Child Protection Scheme (ICPS) in 2009 to prevent crimes against children, like the recent case of female infanticide in Sholavandan, are dysfunctional in Madurai district. The committees are supposed to monitor, report and respond to issues of child protection. They must meet once every quarter to discuss problems children face and create awareness of child welfare schemes. Village Administrative Officers and Block Development Officers (BDO) acknowledge that the committees barely meet once a year. According to the ICPS guidelines, village-level committees must be headed by the panchayat president. They could also include two child representatives, a member of District Child Protection Unit (DCPU), anganwadi workers, school teachers, auxiliary nurse midwives and residents with good standing. Block-level committees must be led by block or ward-level elected representative. BDOs must play the role of member-secretary. There must be representatives from education and health sectors. The committees must prevent child marriages, eliminate trafficking, eradicate begging and labour and prevent students from dropping out of schools. Sources say the meetings have not taken place in years at all 420 village panchayats and 13 blocks. The meetings are to be held in tandem with special gram sabha meetings every year. Child rights issues never figure in the agenda. Exclusive meetings to discuss child protection were never conducted. Tamil Nadu Village Administrative Officers’ Welfare Association president G. Suresh says, “Though the committee members never meet, when we hear of child abuse or child marriage, we are the first persons to report the issue to ChildLine.” Child Welfare Committee member B. Pandiaraja says the village-level committees require funding so that they could create innovative awareness campaigns. Child rights activist C. Jim Jesudoss says that to ensure that the committees met, a sense of ownership must be transferred to the committee members and villagers. Social Welfare and Nutritious Meal Programme Department Secretary, S. Madhumathi says that block-level officers are usually active. “Awareness activities have been deterred across Tamil Nadu due to COVID-19 but we are trying to encourage officials to continue playing an active role. Committees will be functional post-pandemic,” she says.
22 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Teachers on evaluation duty seek transport facility||As evaluation of answer sheets of Plus Two State board students is scheduled to begin on May 27, teachers want better public transport facility to reach evaluation centres since some of them have to travel from other districts or far off places. A government school teacher in Usilampatti said she had gone to her hometown of Tiruvannamalai before the lockdown but could not get an e-pass to return to Madurai. ‘The e-pass portal doesn’t have a separate option for teachers. Private cab drivers demand Rs. 12,000 to go to Madurai but I cannot pay such a heavy amount. Besides, house owners do not allow us to return to our rented homes as they fear that we may be infected with COVID-19,’ she added. A Madurai Corporation school teacher said that those who come from far off places would find it difficult to reach the evaluation centres in the absence of public transport. School Education Department officials say the evaluation will take place at two centres - St. Mary’s Higher Secondary School at Balarengapuram and M.N.U. Jayaraj Nadar Higher Secondary School at Nagamalai Pudukottai. While only a few teachers can reach the centres through two-wheelers, most of us depend on public transport. So, how can we reach these schools from remote locations,” he asked. There is a need to operate an adequate number of buses for teachers to transport them to evaluation centres, said S. Murugan, district secretary, Tamil Nadu Graduates and Post Graduates Teachers Association. “Buses should be operated from multiple places and frequently,” he said. Chief Educational Officer R. Swaminathan said that each hall would accommodate only one group consisting of a chief examiner, a scrutiny officer and six assistant examiners as against four groups in order to maintain personal distancing. He said that they had spoken to higher authorities regarding transport arrangements for teachers to reach evaluation centres. “We are collecting names of teachers who have to travel from other districts. We will take steps to help them get e-passes,” he said.
22 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Bail plea of three Lankan nationals dismissed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed the bail petition of three Sri Lankan nationals, currently remanded in judicial custody for trying to smuggle gold. Justice G. Jayachandran dismissed the bail petition filed by Antony Suganth, Vinisto and Luis Alocious. The accused were booked under the Customs Act, Foreigners Act and the Passport (Entry into India) Rules by Ramanathapuram police. The Indian Coast Guard personnel had intercepted their vessel which had entered Indian waters. During the interrogation of the trio, it was found that the men were carrying gold and global positioning system equipment. It was said that they tried to smuggle gold in connivance with four Indians. The court observed that the nature of offence indicated cross-border smuggling of contraband and the investigation in the case was yet to be completed. Since the matter involved foreigners, grant of bail at this stage would not be appropriate, the court said, and dismissed the petition.
22 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Advance bail plea dismissed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed the anticipatory bail petition filed by 24 men accused of pelting stones at police and damaging a police van in Kanniyakumari district for asking them to maintain physical distancing. The petitioners had gathered to receive rice and other essential commodities that were being distributed by volunteers at Pudukkadai. When the police requested the men to maintain physical distancing in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, they were pelted with stones. The court observed that considering their act - breaching physical distancing norms and attacking the police who were frontline warriors, they did not deserve anticipatory bail.
22 May 2020||Mayiladuthurai,TAMIL NADU||Complaint against Google Maps||A complaint against Google Maps has been filed by a resident of Lal Bahadur Nagar in Mayiladuthurai limits stating that the app's ‘faulty depiction’ of his whereabouts in ‘Your Timeline’ section had caused ripples in his family. Chandrasekaran had said in his complaint lodged on Wednesday that the particular section in the app had depicted spots he had never been to. Acknowledging that a complaint of such a nature had been lodged, sources in the police station said that first information report has not been registered as yet.
22 May 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||1,464 workers from Karur, Namakkal leave for Bihar||Migrant workers from Bihar, who got held up in Namakkal due to lockdown, were sent to their native state in a Sharmik train. District Collector K.Megraj, Superintendent of Police Ara.Arularasu and other senior officials reviewed the arrangements at the Namakkal railway station. Mr.Megraj also distributed food packets to the workers assembled at the station. Mr.Megraj said, “This is the first train operated from Namakkal to send migrant workers to Bihar. As many as 1,464 passengers are travelling by this train - 860 persons from Namakkal and 604 from Karur. About 137 students are also travelling in this group.” The Collector added that the State government was bearing the costs and the passengers were screened. “The passengers were made to stay at five marriage halls and medical screening was conducted to them. They have been provided with certificates that they are fit to travel. Arrangements have been made for food and water all along the journey. Passengers have also been provided with hand sanitisers,” he said. Mr. Megraj said that till date, through government efforts and personal arrangements, 600 persons had travelled from Namakkal to places like Rajasthan, Odisha, Bihar and Kolkata. He added that arrangements were being made to send another 1,300 persons to their native places. He said that about 1,000 persons had been brought back to Namakkal from other districts and arrangements were being made for the return about another 600 persons.
22 May 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Namakkal GH lab gets sanction to test COVID-19 samples||The microbiology lab set up the Namakkal Government Medical College Hospital has been granted permission to conduct COVID-19 tests and trial runs are being conducted at the lab. According to Hospital authorities, the Indian Council of Medical Research recently granted permission for the lab set up at the hospital for conducting COVID-19 tests. Shanthi Arulmozhi, Dean of the Hospital, said, “we received RT-PCR equipment and test kits, and based on the test run conducted, ICMR has granted approval to conduct COVID-19 tests.” She added that a team of doctors and microbiologists were sent for training at the labs in Salem, Erode and Karur and at least seven members would be working at the lab at any point of time to test samples. As on Thursday, 16 persons had been quarantined in the Hospital, she said.
22 May 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Female foetus found||A female foetus wrapped in a polythene cover was found in a lane at Arumbavur on Thursday. Information about the foetus, believed to be over five-month, was received by the VAO of Arumbavur, Saravanan. The foetus has been sent to the Government Hospital mortuary in Perambalur. The Arumbavur police have registered a case.
22 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Three tax rates proposed for sale of IMFL in U.T.||The Cabinet has come out with a fresh proposal recommending a three-tier tax structure for Indian Made Foreign Liquor in the Union Territory. The Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Wednesday night decided to revise its earlier decision to impose a 50% tax across all regions of U.T. The meeting decided to levy 50% extra tax as “special corona fee” for IMFL bottles sold in Puducherry and Karaikal regions while fixing an additional tax of 60% and 70% respectively in Mahe and Yanam regions. The Cabinet decided to rework the fee structure after government’s initial proposal of levying 50% additional tax in all the four regions did not find favour with the Lt. Governor, a Minister told The Hindu . The Minister said the Lt. Governor had recommended a hike in tax structure that would be equal to or more than the price of liquor sold in Tamil Nadu.
22 May 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||FCI begins paddy procurement in Puducherry||The Food Corporation of India (FCI) on Thursday commenced procurement of paddy from farmers in Puducherry and Karaikal regions. As part of its plan to lift 33,000 tonnes of paddy (20,000 tonnes rice) from farmers during Navarai and Sornavariharvest seasons from the Union Territory, the FCI started getting paddy from farmers that fall under Madagadipet Regulated Marketing Committee. Farmers were given a price of Rs. 18.35 a kg for fine variety (Grade A) and Rs. 18.15 a kg for bold variety.
22 May 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar district gets its first DPC during summer||For the first time in the history of Virudhunagar district, a direct purchase centre (DPC) for paddy has been set up at Seithur during peak summer. “This is the first time, that a DPC is established during summer. This has been a practice only in the delta region,” Collector R. Kannan said. Standing paddy crop on around 2,400 hectares was under harvest in Rajapapalayam taluk now, the Collector said. Following a request from farmers, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami gave the nod for setting up the direct purchase centre in Rajapalayam taluk during summer. The DPC started functioning from Wednesday. “Usually, harvest during peak summer does not happen in our district. Besides, this year farmers also got a bumper crop and wanted the government to purchase paddy to enable them to get better price for their produce,” Mr. Kannan said. The farmers complained that private traders were ready to give only Rs. 900 to Rs. 950 per quintal. Since the government gave around Rs. 1,150 a quintal, they stood to gain around Rs. 200 to Rs. 250 a quintal. Stating that the harvest was likely to go on for 15 to 20 days, Joint Director (Agriculture) Sankar S. Narayanan, said around 11,000 metric tonnes of paddy was likely to be procured.
22 May 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Truck with workers stopped||Eluding around six check-posts in Kerala, a truck stealthily transporting 72 migrant labourers from the neighbouring State to West Bengal was caught at Tenkasi-Virudhunagar check post on Thursday. During routine vehicle check, police found a West Bengal-registered lorry carrying labourers from Pathinamthitta in Kerala. “Along with three crew members, all labourers were detained and kept in quarantine facility,” said Rajapalayam Tahsildar M. Anandaraj. Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan was pursuing the case with the State government. Efforts were being made to obtain e-pass for them so that they could be sent to West Bengal through proper channel, he added.
22 May 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||15 Delhi meet attendees arrive in Ramnad, as 458 migrant workers leave for home||Fifteen people, who attended the Tablighi Jamaat  conference in New Delhi, returned home on Thursday, said Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao. Speaking to reporters, he said they reached Tiruchi by train and drove down to Ramanathapuram district. All were screened and advised home quarantine for a fortnight. Sixty-three people, belonging to Manalur and Melakanniseri villages near Mudukalathur, hired two buses from Kolkata and reached home with a valid e-pass. They were quarantined in an isolation centre at a government college here. Also, a woman, her son and daughter arrived from Maharashtra by car and were kept in an isolation centre at Parthibanoor. The district had 3,174 migrant labourers working in various units and madrasas for several years. When officials took stock of those willing to return to their native places, 1,823 registered their names. In the first phase, 458 persons, including two children, native of Bihar, were seen off in a special train. They would reach Madurai and board another train carrying 1,134 migrant labourers. The district administration had sent in requests to other State governments seeking their approval to transport the migrant labourers. As and when, they gave the nod, the labourers would be sent home safely. At the railway station, along with the Collector, DIG of Police (Ramanathapuram Range) Roopesh Kumar Meena and railway officials were present. They supervised the boarding arrangements of all passengers. Ensuring that social distancing was followed, all migrant labourers were given a kit containing food and water. Some of the workers were seen cheerfully waving their hands towards the officials thanking them for the gesture.
22 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Sale of masks picks up in Erode||With the State government relaxing lockdown restrictions, and people venturing out of their house for work and offices, sale of masks has picked up here. Roadside shops selling masks, particularly cotton mask that can be washed and reused, has come up in large numbers across the city. A seller on Yercaud Road said that the demand for masks had gone up after industries and offices started functioning. He said that masks are available in different colours and each mask is sold at Rs. 10. “It is affordable even for daily wagers”, he added. Also, the number of traders selling masks had also gone up across the city in the past weeks as the public wanted quality masks to be sold. “Since masks protects one from virus infection, the government should ensure quality masks are available to the people at affordable price”, said M. Padmakumar of Ammapettai. He said that awareness level among people on the need to wear mask had gone up and wanted quality check on mask to be conducted.  Transparent masks distributed  Salem District Collector S.A. Raman distributed masks with a transparent window to facilitate communication of hearing and speech impaired individuals. Mr. Raman launched the programme by distributing the masks to six six differently-abled persons at the district Collectorate. According to officials, six transparent masks would be distributed to 800 persons with hearing and speech impairment here.
22 May 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Maintenance works being carried out in Mettur Dam||With the State government announcing that water will be released from Mettur Dam for irrigation in delta region on June 12, the annual maintenance works are on at the Stanley Reservoir. According to PWD officials, the works started in January and painting the shutter gates of low and high-level sluices and greasing the chains for smooth opening and closure of shutters are on. Besides, similar works will be done at the 16 vents in Ellis Saddle surplus gates through which surplus water is released. Officials said the works were stopped until recently due to the lockdown and resumed only after relaxations were announced. Only less than 100 workers have been employed for the job and necessary safety measures are being taken. The works are expected to be completed before May-end, they said. As on Thursday, the water level at the dam stood at 100.15 ft and stored capacity of water at the dam was 65,035 mcft, the inflow of water to the dam was 3,593 cusecs of water and outflow was 1,000 cusecs of water.
22 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK woman functionary murdered||A functionary of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam was found murdered near Panamarathupatti here on Wednesday night. According to police, the victim Shantha. M, was the president of AIADMK women wing in Panamarathupatti Union. Police said that unidentified persons attacked her while she was on her way to pick her daughter-in-law working at a petrol pump at Panamarathupatti. Public alerted Mallur police. Shantha was rushed to hospital. However, she died of injuries before reaching the hospital, police said. The motive behind the attack is under investigation.
22 May 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Gutkha worth Rs. 10 lakh seized||Police seized gutkha worth Rs. 10 lakh during the early hours of Thursday. Based on a tip-off, a special team formed by Deputy Commissioner (Crime and Traffic) S. Senthil intercepted a vegetable truck near Kondalampatti roundabout and seized the banned items from the truck. Police arrested the driver of the truck Jambu, a resident of Kadayampatti here. Mr. Senthil said, “vegetables were used to camouflage the banned goods and gutkha, stocked in 32 sacks were seized by police. During inquiry, the accused said that the item was being taken to Madurai from Bengaluru. Kondalampatti police have registered a case and further investigations are under way.”
22 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Garment traders’ plea||Garment traders owing large showrooms in major towns of Thanjavur district feel that they have been deprived of the festive season business opportunity due to the ‘stand-alone non-air-conditioned’ clause that had found a place in the revised lockdown norms announced by the State government imposed to prevent the spread of COVID-19 virus. In the revised conditions, it was indicated that stand-alone shops without air-conditioning facility could function complying with social distancing and other conditions aimed to avoid contracting of COVID-19 virus, if any, by the customers or from the customers to the workers. Further, the curtailment of business at shopping malls and large showrooms was extended till May 31. Talking to The Hindu requesting anonymity, a proprietor of a major textile business house in Thanjavur claimed that nearly half the business at his establishment during Ramzan would come from retailers having their shops in small towns. Accepting the government’s contention that it would not be advisable to allow people to congregate even in small numbers in the spaces covered with centralized or split air-condition facilities, he said the govt. should come forward to allow them to cater at least to the needs of the retailers during this period.
22 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Auto drivers held for staging demo||Office-bearers of Autorickshaw Workers Unions in Thanjavur district were arrested by the Tamil University Police on Thursday when they attempted to stage a demonstration near the District Collectorate highlighting their demands, despite denial of police permission. The auto owners and drivers who turned up for the protest meeting organised by the Centre of Indian Trade Unions demanded relief of Rs. 15,000 cash relief per family, waiver of loans issued for purchase of autorickshaws and grant of permission for operation of autorickshaws during the current phase of nation-wide lockdown. About 50 autorickshaw drivers were arrested as they refused to disperse. Their demand for a meeting with Collector M. Govinda Rao was rejected by the police. They were arrested while attempting to gain entry into the Collectorate premises. In Tiruvarur district on Wednesday, Muthupettai police booked 17 autorickshaw drivers for violating COVID-19 lockdown conditions.
22 May 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Perumbidugu Mutharayar statue installed, removed||At a time when residents have been advised to stay indoors, hundreds of villagers from Yerathimakkalpatti near Andipatti installed the statue of Mutharayar. Hailing ‘Perumbidugu Mutharayar’ as their leader, the villagers installed the statue and squatted on the road. As news spread, a police team, led by DSP Srinivasan, rushed to the spot. Uneasy calm prevailed for sometime. After the police held talks with them, the villagers agreed to hand over the statue to authorities and demanded that it be installed at the earliest. When police cited the curfew in force, they were initially reluctant to leave, but later dispersed. A senior officer said they would register a case. Police pickets had been posted in the area.
22 May 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Man in isolation centre dead||A 45-year-old man, who was kept in an isolation centre after his return from Maharashtra, died here on Thursday. Police said Veluchami of Bala Kombai, who had been to Maharashtra, returned home last week. He was kept in an isolation centre as mandated by health officials. Early on Thursday, Veluchami complained of chest pain and was rushed to government hospital in an ambulance. Doctors declared him ‘brought dead’. Further investigation was on. It may be recalled that a youth allegedly committed suicide, for reasons not known, at an isolation centre a few days ago.
22 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘3 more trains from Thoothukudi’||Collector Sandeep Nanduri on Thursday said migrant labourers from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana would be sent back to their home States within a week in three special trains. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Sandeep said the district received around 150 people everyday from other States. So far, 1,494 people from Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Telengana and other States had arrived and all of them were in quarantine. Those who tested positive in the district were only those who were in contact with Tablighi Jamaat participants, returnees from Koyambedu and other States. Hence, there was no community transmission in Thoothukudi district. So far, 1,919 of the 8,700 migrant workers in the district had been sent back to Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. Soon, labourers from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana would also be sent to their native States in three special trains. The Collector distributed kabasura kudineer and a homeopathic formulation to staff at the Collectorate to strengthen immunity.
22 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI/MADURAI/DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi reports 22 new cases for second day||For the second straight day, Thoothukudi district recorded 22 new COVID–19 positive cases, including 17 from Maharashtra, on Thursday. The district’s tally is 135. A few streets of Innaciarpuram in the city were announced as ‘containment zone’ after a 70-year-old man living in a home for aged priests tested positive. When he was admitted to a private hospital for a surgery, medical examinations showed that he had contracted the viral infection. Subsequently, he was shifted to Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital on Thursday. Sources in the Department of Public Health said the man had visited a super market, government hospital and a private hospital over the past few days. In Tirunelveli district, 11 persons – all returned from Maharashtra – tested positive to take the district’s toll to 253 and the number of active cases to 174. Tenkasi district reported eight more positive patients, including three from Maharashtra, who took the total number of infected persons to 83 and the active cases to 33. The number of positive cases in Kanniyakumari district remained 49 as no new cases were reported there on Thursday. Nineteen persons tested positive in Madurai district, bringing its tally to 191. Sixteen of the new cases had travelled to Madurai from Mumbai by bus. They were from Usilampatti, Melur, Alanganallur and Kallikudi blocks. An official from district administration said they reached Madurai on May 18 and 19. A 20-year-old woman who had travelled to Madurai from Delhi by train also tested positive. Her residence is in Melur block. One of the two local positive cases was an 80-year-old man from Thathaneri Main Road. He had contact with a positive person. He as well as the other local positive case – a 50-year-old man from Jaihindpuram – displayed symptoms like cold and cough. Both had no travel history. All the eight fresh positive cases that were reported in the district were admitted to Government Virudhunagar Medical College Hospital – the first time that positive cases, who were so far admitted at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai, were admitted to the Virudhunagar hospital. “With the number of patients admitted to the GRH increasing, patients from Virudhungar district are being retained in the district,” Collector R. Kannan said. All the fresh cases were from Maharastra. The Collector said the Government Virudhunagar Medical College Hospital, with 130 beds, would be adequate to handle positive cases. “If need arises, we can use the facilities at the 150-bedded Sivakasi GH,” he added. The total number of positive cases in Virudhunagar district is 69. Four persons from Dindigul district who had returned from Maharashtra four days ago, tested positive along with a local person. They were moved to Karur Government Medical College Hospital. In Theni, one among the four fresh cases was a person who had returned from Maharashtra. The other three contracted the infection after coming into contact with a positive person. In Sivaganga, one person who had returned from Kolkata tested positive. The other two fresh cases had travel history.
22 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Teachers weigh up feasibility of Aarogya Setu app for students||Teachers of government and aided colleges are at a loss as to how they could prevail upon students to download Aarogya Setu app, a measure advocated by University Grants Commission to prevent spread of COVID-19 virus. Teachers of government colleges, in particular, say there was no logic in expecting students belonging to socio-economic backward sections to have android phones. The app developed with bluetooth technology, algorithms and artificial intelligence is being promoted by the Central Government as an important tool in the fight against COVID-19, primarily for contact tracing. A letter issued by the UGC to Vice-Chancellors instructed them to urge principals, teachers, non-teaching staff, students and society at large to download the App developed by the Ministry of Electronics and IT for enabling government to take necessary timely steps for assessing risk of the spread of COVID - 19 infection. All higher educational institutions are requested to upload the action taken in this regard on the University Activity Monitoring Portal of the UGC at www.ugc.ac.in/uamp. In Tamil Nadu, the Higher Education department has instructed universities and regional heads in the department to appoint nodal officers to ensure compliance and send status reports daily. The State government has set its sight on taking the number of users of this application in Tamil Nadu to at least 50 lakh. “Leave alone students from poor families, it is unfair to expect guest lecturers who are paid measly amount as salaries to have android phones. It would be proper if the government realises the importance of android phones and takes steps to provide the devices to the guest lecturers and the students, similar to the free laptop scheme,” a senior teacher of a government arts college said. Also, the higher education department seems to have forgotten the ban it has enforced on students possessing mobile phones on the campuses. During August 2018, the Directorate of Collegiate Education issued a circular instructing all regional joint directors to inform all government, aided and self-financing colleges about its order that students will not be allowed to carry cellphones and that their use has been banned on campuses, purportedly to curb malpractice.
22 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Inspection of Tiruvarur - Karaikal electrified stretch tomorrow||Commissioner of Railway Safety, Bengaluru, will carry out statutory inspection on the newly-electrified Tiruvarur – Karaikal broad gauge section on May 23. The mandatory inspection by the top officer which was scheduled to be held on March 28 on the 42-kilometre energised stretch following completion of overhead electrification works was postponed until further orders due to COVID-19 lockdown. An official communication from the office of the Commissioner of Railway Safety regarding the statutory inspection on the Tiruvarur – Karaikal electrified stretch on May 23 has been sent to the Southern Railway headquarters and Tiruchi railway divisional authorities. The Central Organisation for Railway Electrification (CORE) had executed the overhead electrification works on the single line Tiruvarur – Karaikal broad gauge section via Nagapattinam and Nagore. A senior railway officer told The Hindu on Thursday that the Commissioner of Railway Safety would commence the mandatory inspection from Tiruvarur Junction on May 23 morning accompanied by senior officials of the CORE, Southern Railway headquarters, and Tiruchi Railway Division. Following completion of inspection up to Karaikal, the Commissioner of Railway Safety would thereafter conduct speed trial travelling on board a special train from Karaikal to Tiruvarur the same day. The officer said all safety precautions would be taken during the mandatory inspection such as wearing of mask, using hand sanitiser and maintaining personal distancing in view of COVID-19 pandemic. Only after obtaining the statutory clearance from the Commissioner of Railway Safety could passenger train services hauled by electric locomotive be operated on the Karaikal – Tiruvarur electrified section, said the officer. Prior to the lockdown, express and passenger trains were in operation up to Karaikal and from that station hauled by diesel locomotive. Freight trains currently in operation on that stretch during the lockdown are also being hauled by diesel locomotive. The Tiruvarur – Karaikal electrification work was the last leg of the overhead electrification project that was executed by the CORE on the Tiruchi – Thanjavur – Tiruvarur –Nagapattinam – Nagore- Karaikal broad gauge section. The double line broad gauge stretch from Tiruchi to Thanjavur and the single line section from Thanjavur to Tiruvarur had already been energised. The officer said once clearance comes through passenger train services hauled by electric locomotive from Karaikal to different destinations could be operated using power from the newly commissioned traction sub-station at Thanjavur Junction.
22 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||No-touch washbasin will conserve water, protect user||The Society for Community Organisation and People's Education (SCOPE) and ONS Electrical Appliances have devised a no-touch pedal-operated handwash facility, with a built-in washbasin. The initiative was to focus on conserving water, now that handwashing and maintaining personal hygiene is the need of the hour. M. Subburaman, Director, SCOPE, said that the need to wash hands at least 15 to 20 times a day requires at least 15 litres of water. With water shortage due to change in rainfall pattern there is a need to conserve water, but also maintain hygiene with minimal use, he said. Engineers at ONS Electrical Enterprises developed a pedal operated unit with the twin objective of saving water while washing hands but at the same time, washing the hands without touching the top of the tap. Two pedals are present on either side of the apparatus. One dispenses soap and the other water. A user must first step on the first pedal to take soap, rub their hands with if for at least 20 seconds, and then step on the other water for water to flow from the tap. The water from the washbasin is led to a drain. The water can be let out into a kitchen garden, Mr. Subburaman said. The unit ensures that smaller quantum of water is used. With schools and colleges planning to open, and various government and private organisations already working, the basin could be installed to ensure no-touch handwashing, and also conserving water. Two units have been installed, one outside the District Collectorate and the other, outside the District Rural Development Agency office.
22 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Eight, including infant, test positive in central region||Eight patients, including a year-old baby, tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Thursday. Of the rest, four hailed from Thanjavur district, three from Pudukottai and one from Karur district. Two of the four men who had tested positive in Thanjavur district had returned from Maharashtra and one from Maldives and another from Chennai. The patients who returned from Maharashtra belonged to Pattukottai, the patient from the Maldives belonged to Orathanadu and the one who returned from Chennai hails from Kulimathur village near Thiruvaiyaru, official sources said. The patients have been admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital for treatment. Of the 80 patients who had tested positive in the district so far, 14 cases are active, while 60 have been discharged. The three patients who tested positive for COVID-19 in Pudukottai had returned to their home town from Maharashtra, where they had been working. The one-year-old baby boy, and two men aged 39 and 48 were tested on arrival to the district. While the two adults were shifted to the Muthulakshmi Reddy Memorial Government Headquarters Hospital, the baby was shifted to the Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital for treatment. The 39-year-old man and the baby hailed from Karambakudi while the other man hailed from Gandarvakottai in Pudukottai district. The sole patient who tested positive in Karur on Thursday is a 58-year-old man. The man had returned to his home town from Maharashtra and tests were taken soon after. When test results indicated that he had tested positive, the man was rushed to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital. The total number of positive cases in the district is now 80. No discharge There were no discharges of patients at the designated COVID-19 hospitals in the region. At the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital, five patients were being treated while 350, of the total 355 cases have recovered and returned home. As on Thursday, 20 villages in the district have been cordoned off as containment zones. Throat swab samples have been lifted from a total of 35 people, including 28 who visited their nearest Primary Healthcare Centre with cold and fever symptoms.
22 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Hairdressers shorn of income||As the State government is yet to take a decision on reopening salons in urban areas, in the wake of easing of COVID-19 restrictions, hairdressers who are unable even to meet out their household expenses have their fingers crossed. According to an estimate, there are about 1,500 salons in Tiruchi city alone employing up to 3,000 hairdressers. Within the district, about 5,000 salons are functioning, providing job opportunity to about 10,000 persons. After the State government’s nod a few days ago, the salons located in rural areas have resumed their activities. However, there is no relaxation in sight for salons located with the limits of the City Corporation, Municipalities and Town Panchayats. Almost two months have passed since they opened shop. On an average, each hairdresser earns Rs. 700 to Rs. 1,000 a day. Most of the salons function out of rental shops and houses. The expenditure for each hairdresser exceeds Rs. 20,000 per month to meet the costs towards rent for house and shop, milk, grocery and education of their children. Having exhausted their little savings, the salon owners as well as the employees face untold sufferings. Though many of them did not have to pay rent for the month of April, it is learnt that they now face enormous pressure to pay rent for the current month. “We face pressure from various quarters. How long will we manage the situation with zero income?,” wondered R. Arunachalam. About 500 members belonging to Tamil Nadu Maruthuvar Samooga Nala Sangam thronged the Collector’s Office here a few days ago and aired their grievances to Collector S. Sivarasu, who in turn promised to take up their demand with the State government. R. Selvaraj, president of the association, said that the lockdown had dealt a severe blow on the livelihood of hairdressers. “If the lockdown had lasted for two to three weeks, we could have managed. There was absolutely no income for the last two months. We are undergoing tough time and unable to meet day-to-day expenditure. It is unfortunate that the Government is yet to consider our demand,” he said. Hairdressers, Mr. Selvaraj pointed out, were aware of safety precautions to be followed while attending to customers. They were ready to adhere to the conditions on personal hygiene and social distancing norms. Hence, the State Government should immediately allow salons in the urban areas to re-open, he emphasised.
22 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown today||In view of maintenance works, there will be power shutdown from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Friday at the following areas served by Srirangam Sub-station: Srirangam, Moolathoppu, Raghavendrapuram, Cauvery Nagar, Mangammal Nagar, Sankar Nagar, Geethapuram Amma Mandapam Road, Subramaniapuram, Chandra Nagar, Royarthoppu, Veereshwaram, Pudhutheru, Gandhi Road, Police Quarters, Devi Theru, Government Hospital, Sathyamoorthy Road, Renga Nagar, and Railway Station Road and surroundings, a press release issued by TANGEDCO said.
22 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||DIG to redress public grievances through Google Meet app||The Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, V. Balakrishnan, will hear the grievances of public residing in the Tiruchi Range comprising Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Ariyalur, Karur and Pudukottai districts through Google Meet app on Monday and Friday. The move has been initiated realising the difficulty faced by public of the five districts in reaching the office of the DIG, Tiruchi Range, here to prefer their complaint and air their grievances in the absence of movement of buses due to the prohibitory orders which has been extended up to May 31 and to spare the petitioners of the trouble of coming in person. A press release said the DIG would contact the petitioner concerned and ascertain their grievances through Google Meet app on Monday and Friday from 12 noon to 1 p.m. Public desiring to interact online must first contact the office of the DIG, Tiruchi Range, by phone: 0431-2333909 and furnish their name, address and telephone number. The information conveyed to the DIG office would in turn be shared with personnel nominated for this purpose in the sub division concerned. Through them, the petitioner concerned would be called over phone and all necessary assistance would be provided for them to take part in the interaction. The DIG would hear the grievances on Monday of those public who had conveyed the information on Saturday and Sunday. The grievances would be heard on Friday of those public who call up the DIG’s office from Tuesday to Thursday. Necessary steps would be taken to redress their grievances, the release added.
22 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Prime accused in BJP member murder case detained under Goondas Act||Commissioner of Police V. Varadharaju on Wednesday issued an order detaining Babu alias ‘Mittai’ Babu - the prime accused in the killing of BJP functionary F. Vijayaraghu here in January - under the Goondas Act. Babu and his associates were arrested a few days after the murder and remanded in judicial custody and lodged in the Central Prison here. A police press release said during investigation it came to light that there were 12 cases booked against Babu in Gandhi Market police station alone, including attempt to murder and two other cases registered in Ariyamangalam police station. The order detaining him under the Goondas Act was issued to prevent Babu from committing further crimes, the release added.
22 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 100.19 feet on Thursday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 3,141 cusecs and the discharge was 1,000 cusecs.
22 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Private units pick up employees in special buses||Some private companies in and around Chennai have started picking up their employees stranded in their hometowns in southern districts by operating special buses. A leading two-wheeler manufacturing company carried its employees from this region in six buses and left for Chennai on Thursday as a good number of manufacturing units are about to resume production following relaxation of lockdown norms. Some firms are keen on getting their stranded workforce back to work. Since most of the workers, who had left the State capital following the lockdown, are stranded in their native places, a company, which has planned to resume production of two-wheelers, sent six buses to Tirunelveli to pick up workers after getting proper permission from the authorities concerned. Some workers, who left for Chennai in the company-operated special buses, said that their employer is likely to accommodate them on the premises of the manufacturing unit instead of allowing them to stay outside in a bid to safeguard them from infection. “Since Chennai and nearby districts are struggling to contain the pandemic but getting more and more fresh cases than any other district everyday, we are likely to be accommodated on the company premises at least for now,” a few of them said.
22 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers stage demonstration near Palladam||Nearly 150 migrant workers, mostly from Bihar, staged a demonstration near Palladam in Tiruppur district on Thursday demanding that they should be sent to their home towns. The police said that the workers gathered at Kunnangalpalayam Pirivu after rumours that tokens for the Shramik special trains were being provided by the Village Administrative Officer. However, with that not being the case, the workers sat at the spot where they gathered, demanding that they be sent to their home towns. Police officials led by Palladam Deputy Superintendent of Police S. Murugavel visited the spot and held talks with the workers. It was promised that they would be accommodated in the upcoming Shramik special train to Bihar, the police said. The migrant workers dispersed following the talks and no case was registered. Most of these migrant workers were living in rented houses in and around Karaipudur and were employed in garment units and construction works, the police said. In Coimbatore, the Coimbatore city and rural police deployed personnel in major places across the district on Thursday following reports that guest workers may assemble in large numbers or stage protests seeking travel arrangements to their States. The police checked vehicles at several places and conducted patrols in mufti in private vehicles.  Special trains A total of nine Shramik special trains have been operated from Tiruppur as of Thursday. The trains have been operated for four States – six trains for Bihar and one train for Jharkhand, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh each. No special trains were operated from Tiruppur on Thursday. A Shramik special train for migrant workers was operated from Coimbatore to Bihar Sharif in Bihar on Thursday. The train, carrying 1,600 passengers, left Coimbatore Junction at 8 p.m., railway officials said. So far, the Shramik special trains from Coimbatore have been operated to seven States namely Bihar (9), Uttar Pradesh (4), Odisha (3), Jharkhand (2) and one each for Assam, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh.
22 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Kudimaramathu works to be taken up in Tiruppur||A total of 132 Kudimaramathu works will be undertaken in Tiruppur district at a cost of Rs. 13.93 crore, Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan said on Thursday. He was inaugurating the works at Sikkanuthu Pirivu in Gudimangalam Panchayat Union in Udumalpet Block in the presence of District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, a release said. Nearly 1.3 lakh hectares of ayacut across Udumalpet, Madathukulam, Dharapuram, Palladam and Kangeyam will benefit through the Kudimaramathu works, according to the release. The works are carried out by PWD.
22 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Action sought||President of Kavandachipudur Village Panchayat R. Selvi petitioned Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Thursday seeking action against ward member who allegedly used casteist slurs against her. She told mediapersons that no action had been taken against S. Kuppusamy, member of Ward No. 6, even after he was booked by the police on May 7. She said that she also sought police protection from the Collector.
22 May 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Irrigation ensured for 76,497 acres||Surface irrigation facility has been ensured for 76,497 acres in Tiruvarur following completion of 89 out of 95 works taken up under the kudimaramathu scheme during 2019-20. District Collector T. Anand said in a press release that Water Users Associations were formed during 2019-20 to take up desilting, renovation of sluices/regulators, strengthening of bunds and other works in the waterbodies at 95 places in the district at a total cost of Rs. 1,604 crore. Out of the 95 works 89 have been completed resulting in assured availability of surface water to irrigate 76,497 acres of agriculture fields. This year (2020-21) 88 works have been proposed under the kudimaramathu scheme through 75 WUAs at an outlay of Rs. 2023.41 crore. So far, 19 WUAs have been formed, the release said.
22 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Over 300 workers head for home states from the Nilgiris||The Nilgiris district administration has facilitated the transport of 347 migrant workers to their home states over the last week. Officials said that till two weeks ago, a total of 1,941 migrant workers, primarily employed in tea estates, factories and in the construction industry had applied to go back to their home states. However, officials clarified that means of transport would only be arranged for the migrants once they received concurrence from the states to which they would be travelling to. Buses arranged In the days since, special buses were arranged for 347 migrants headed primarily to Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Meghalaya, Sikkim and Rajasthan. A couple of states such as West Bengal had not yet given their consent, the officials said. “In West Bengal, the government has asked residents living in other states to stay where they are due to Cyclone Amphan,” said an official, adding that people from West Bengal and Odisha would be sent back once the situation there improved. Many of the migrants, who had expressed willingness to go home during the first few weeks of the lockdown, have subsequently changed their minds and want to stay back so that they can find work once again, as lockdown restrictions are being eased. Collector J. Innocent Divya said the district administration was rechecking with the migrant workers about their willingness to go back home so that suitable arrangements could be made.
22 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘State, Centre must ensure MGNREGS jobs for all registered workers’||Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore on Tuesday appealed to the State and Central governments to expedite the process of allowing all workers registered under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) to have assured work to make up for the loss of job opportunities in industrial sector. Inspecting the functioning of the MGNREGS work at Valliyoor panchayat near here, Mr. Tagore said though 800 people had registered seeking job under the Central scheme, only 70 were given work on Tuesday. “The officials said the government order regarding allowing all registered workers to be given job was yet to be issued. The Centre that issued G.O. for resumption of highway toll collection within two hours after announcement should show the same concern for the common man’s issue too,” he said. The Congress MP said the MGNREGS was a best source of income generation for the poor as many industrial units were not running with their full work force. He also wanted the government to simplify rules so that the poor workers get the maximum wages under the scheme. He thanked the Centre for allocating an additional Rs. 40,000 crore for the MGNREGS.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC: Public servants can’t misuse defamation law||Listing out the basic qualities expected of a public prosecutor, the judge said that prosecutors must consider themselves as agents of justice, not exhibit blind eagerness to grasp a conviction, conduct a case with utmost fairness and "remember that prosecution does not mean persecution". Justice Quddhose said that trial courts should also apply their judicial mind to materials available on record and issue summons to the accused only if they were satisfied that the ingredients required for taking cognisance of a criminal defamation complaint against the State had been made out. In so far as two proceedings initiated against The Hindu were concerned , the judge held that both of them fell under the category in which, on the face of it, a conclusive inference could be reached that no criminal defamation whatsoever had been made out. The first case was filed with regard to a report titled ‘AIADMK activists attack Nakkheeran office,’ published on January 8, 2012. The judge said and agreed with senior counsel P.S. Raman that it was nothing but a factual news report regarding the attack. "The role of a newspaper is only to publish news as it had happened. As a political personality/constitutional functionary, the then Chief Minister could have very well refuted those allegations by a counter press statement," the judge pointed out. Similarly, the second case against the newspaper was with regard to publication of a statement issued in July 2012 by the then Leader of the Opposition Vijayakant accusing the CM of taking a long break from office and running the government through [media] statements. In this case too, "there is no criminal defamation at all," as the newspaper had only published the statement of the then Leader of the Opposition and had not made any personal imputation against the then CM, the judge held. He also pointed out that the incumbent government had recently withdrawn the defamation proceedings initiated against Mr. Vijayakant, for having issued that statement, though he happened to be the "actual perpetrator" of the alleged crime. On proceedings against other media houses, the judge said that some of them could be prosecuted by the aggrieved, in their individual capacity, before a Judicial Magistrate under Section 199(6) of the CrPC but not before a Sessions Court since no defamation against the State had been made out. In his 152-page judgement, Justice Quddhose said that the State must act like a parent of all its citizens when it comes invocation of the law of defamation.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||776 new patients take T.N. total to 13,967 cases||The Minister said that the State has been consistently maintaining a mortality rate of 0.7%, one of the lowest in the country. “We have formed 12 committees for each co-morbid condition such as renal disease, cancer, diabetes and hypertension, with doctors from the government and private sector,” he said. This was for cocooning the vulnerable groups. "We will inform them on what they should do and urge them to follow doctors’ advice. Doctors should provide protocol-based care for them. This is to prevent deaths despite the co-morbidities,” he added. With 567 new cases, Chennai’s COVID-19 cases climbed to 8,795. Tiruvallur added another 42 new cases, taking its total to 636. There were 34 cases in Chengalpattu, 13 in Kancheepuram, five each in Tenkasi and Thoothukudi, four each in Ranipet and Villupuram, three each in Theni and Tiruvannamalai, two in Madurai, and one each in Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Karur, Sivaganga, Thanjavur, Tirupattur and Vellore. Six persons, who returned from Chicago, and one person, who returned from Muscat, tested positive during the exit test. One person, who returned from the Maldives, has also tested positive for COVID-19. Besides, 76 persons, who returned from Maharashtra, tested positive in various districts. One person, who returned from Kerala, tested positive in Cuddalore, while another person tested positive in Sivaganga on returning from West Bengal. Another person, who returned from Delhi, tested positive in Madurai. A total of 12,464 samples were tested on Thursday, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 3,72,532. Dr. Vijayabaskar said that Tamil Nadu accounted for 15% of the tests conducted in the country.   (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||As on May 21     Persons tested +ve so far: 146 (No fresh case on Thursday) Persons recovered: 145 Death: 1 Active cases: 0    Home quarantined: 1,482 Positive: 114 (No fresh case on Thursday) Discharged: 114 (No active cases)
22 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Power cut tomorrow||Some areas in Belagavi district will suffer power cut on Saturday, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. They include Ugar, and Kagwad in rural Belagavi.
22 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Nine test positive for COVID-19 n Belagavi||Nine persons, including a seven month old baby tested positive for COVID 19 in Belagavi district on Thursday. Patient number 1,497 is a girl child from Ramdurg taluk. She got it from her parents who had returned from Kolhapur in Maharashtra. She is admitted to the district designated hospital and is responding to treatment. Three persons, who had returned from a tour of Shikharji, a Jain pilgrimage centre in Jharkhand, have tested positive. They were part of a group of 15 which had returned after the relaxation of May 4 lockdown norms. The group remains under institutional quarantine. Two persons with travel history to Maharashtra and two with travel history to Ajmer in Rajasthan have tested positive. A woman from Hukkeri, a primary contact of a positive person, has also tested positive. Thursday’s cases push up the tally to 125 in the district. Of them, 64 have been discharged and there are only 60 active cases in the district designated hospital. One of the patients, a 81-year-old woman, died early in April as she was suffering from co-morbidity conditions.
22 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||211 flood-prone spots identified||It takes a short spell of rain to expose the chinks in the monsoon preparedness of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), and this year appears to be no different. With every spate of pre-monsoon showers received this month, low-lying areas were inundated and the condition of roads deteriorated. The Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) has identified 211 vulnerable spots in the city that are prone to flooding. BBMP’s chief engineer Prahallad B.N. said that of the 211 vulnerable spots, 58 have been categorised as sensitive and the remaining 153 as moderately sensitive. KSNDMC, he said, had identified flood-prone areas based on a model that they had created. Digital elevation model According to a senior official at Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, a digital elevation model had been created based on historical data on frequently flooded areas, satellite terrain mapping, and data on black spots (junctions that get water logged) identified by traffic police. “All this was overlaid on the GIS platform to identify the vulnerable spots. The amount of rainfall that could trigger flooding or inundation ranged between 1.5 cm to 4 cm. The variation is dependant on terrain and was location specific,” said the official, adding that they have identified nearly 10 locations that could get inundated with just 1.5 cm of rainfall.  Desilting of drains To ensure free flow of water, the civic body had taken up desilting of stormwater drains, Mr. Prahallad said. Under the comprehensive annual maintenance, desilting of 440 km of drains had been taken up. The silt that is being cleared from these drains is being dumped in the Anjanapura quarry pit, he added. Meanwhile, the KSNDMC had installed 28 water level sensors in the stormwater drains to get real-time data. The data is colour coded – green or blue (normal water level), red (danger level) and black (flooded). Fund crunch KSNDMC official said the plan was to initially install 50 sensors at vulnerable points. “However, due to fund crunch, we have only installed 28. The remaining 22 may be installed with funds from the State government,” the official added.
22 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Maharashtra returnees with COVID-19 now outnumber Tablighi Jamaat attendees in State||Till the first week of April, Tablighi Jamaat attendees made up a major chunk of the COVID-19 positive cases in Karnataka. However, from April 12 onwards, the trend changed and those returning from Maharashtra have been contributing to the spike in numbers. While 118 Tablighi Jamaat attendees and their primary contacts have tested positive so far, over 500 of the 1,040 persons who tested positive fromMay 1 are those who returned from Maharashtra. The first case of a person who returned from Maharashtra testing positive was on April 12 in Vijayapura. The 60-year-old woman spread the infection to 29 others. Mandya, which is witnessing an influx of Mumbai returnees, recorded the first such positive case on April 27. Then on, the number of positive cases in the district has increased to 201, with Mumbai returnees making up 90% of this number. On Thursday, the number of active cases in Mandya was 176, which is higher than that in Bengaluru (122). While inter-State travellers contributing to the spike was expected, the State health authorities are now worried about the increasing number of Maharashtra returnees testing positive. Districts such as Haveri, Yadgir, Koppal and Raichur, which had not reported any cases till April-end, are now doing so with migrants returning from Maharashtra testing positive. On Thursday, 96 of the total 143 positive cases were linked to travel from Maharashtra. Terming the contribution of Maharashtra returnees to the spike in numbers a “worrisome” trend, C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, said, “Maharashtra returnees’ contributing in such big numbers was not expected. All our early interventions have now been washed away because of the influx of people from Maharashtra.” Dr. Manjunath is the nodal officer for lab testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force. 143 new cases On Thursday, 143 new cases were reported in the State, and 121 of them were inter-State travellers. As many as 43 of the 143 patients were minors. While 96 were travellers from Maharashtra, six were from Tamil Nadu, three from Jharkhand, five from Telangana, two from Rajasthan, one each from Chhattisgarh and Kerala, and seven from the United Arab Emirates. With this, the total number of positive cases in the State is 1,605. This includes 41 COVID-19 deaths, one non-COVID-91 death, and 571 people discharged. Mandya reported the highest number of cases on Thursday. As many as 29 of the 33 new cases there had a travel history to Maharashtra. Udupi followed with 28 cases. However, two of these had been quarantined at Sirsi in Uttara Kannada and have been shifted to a COVID-19 hospital in Karwar.
22 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Be prepared to shell out more for haircuts and other services||Restrictions on timings and reduced workforce, combined with investments in sanitisers, disinfectants and disposable items like masks and gloves, have forced many salons and barbershops across the city to increase the rates for services offered. Owners point out that they have no option as they can only take in a limited number of customers at a time to main social distancing and other precautions. Ravish S., who co-owns around seven parlours in the city, said they were charging Rs. 20 extra to meet expenses incurred for paper towels, napkins and sanitisers. “We have to abide by the standard operating procedure issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. Hence, we have been compelled to charge more. As people know, it is for their safety, they are willing to pay,” he said. A manager of a salon in J.P. Nagar said they were charging between Rs. 20 and Rs. 50 based on the service availed. “If it is only a haircut, then we charge Rs. 20 extra and if it is a haircut plus shave then it’s more,” the manager said. Barbers, on an average, are charging Rs. 10-20 extra. “Even we need some money to run the shops. With no working capital, we are struggling and our expenses have increased. Hence a price rise is inevitable,” a barber in K.R. Puram said. Venkatesh.K., who recently got a haircut, said the barber used a paper towel instead of the usual cloth towel and was wearing masks and gloves. “Since it is for our safety, I don’t mind paying more. I used to pay Rs. 80-90 for a haircut, but today, I was charged Rs. 100,” he said. Most customers, though willing to pay the extra amount, said they will have to factor this in their household budget as many had to take pay cuts. “I may have to reduce the number of times I visit the salon,” said Preethi, who had to pay Rs. 100.  Meanwhile, to help maintain social distance, many parlours are taking clients only by appointment or through tokens. Waiting areas have been closed and thermal screening has been made compulsory. A manager at a popular chain of parlours said the system seems to be working, for now. “All our branches have opened but we are working with a reduced workforce. As there is no waiting area facility any more, people come on time and we are managing it systematically. Even the lift services are stopped,” the manager said adding, “We have been getting calls incessantly, and many of our clients want to know about the precautions we are taking.”
22 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 1.9 lakh requests to travel to State made through Seva Sindhu||As many as 70,739 requests for e-passes, mainly by those stranded in other States and Union Territories, have been made to travel to Bengaluru Urban district through the Seva Sindhu portal, according to the COVID-19 war room data. Out of these, 34,665 requests have been approved so far. Overall, 1,90,609 requests for e-pases to travel to Karnataka, mainly by people of the State stranded in all other States and Union Territories, have been made. Out of them, 1,26,816 (66.53%) requests have been approved. However, not all those who have got approvals have come to the State. Maharashtra highest State-wise, as many as 67,518 return requests were made by those stranded in Maharashtra alone, followed by Andhra Pradesh with 29,308 requests and Tamil Nadu with 27,743 requests. In terms of districts, after Bengaluru Urban, it was Kalaburagi that received the second highest requests at 12,809, of which 12,138 were approved, followed by Udupi district — 11,919 requests of which 5,039 were approved. A senior official said the approvals were given on first-come, first-served basis and also by taking into account the capacity of each district to institutionally quarantine the returnees which is mandatory, under the supervision of Deputy Commissioners of each district.  Approvals to those who want to return to the State from Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Tamil Nadu have been “temporarily stalled” since May 18. According to sources, so far about 1.1 lakh people who have travelled to Karnataka from other States are put under institutional quarantine in their respective districts.
22 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Now, more people say ‘Kannada gothu’||Kavitha S. has been staying in the city for five years now, but could not learn to speak Kannada. “As there was hardly anyone who knew the language in my circle, I learnt to understand it, but not speak it. However, since the lockdown, I have started to pick up words and sentences,” she said. Knowing Kannada, she says, makes her feel at home. “To understand the city better, one needs to know its language, to understand and interact with the culture,” she said. The COVID-19 lockdown has seen people take up unique hobbies, lost interests, or learn something new. For an increasing section who have made Bengaluru their home in the last decade, this period is seeing them transition from “Kannada gottilla” to “Kannada gothu” through online classes. Various individuals and groups are already teaching basic spoken Kannada, but have seen a steady rise in those enrolling for their courses since the lockdown. One such is the Kannada Gothide WhatsApp group created and administered by Deepak N. and Vidyashree B.L., MNC employees. “We started the first batch in November last year with around 70 participants. Since there was good response, we started the second batch in the second week of March. Soon the WhatsApp group was full and many more wanted to join. Hence, we created the third group, which was also full within a few days,” said Mr. Deepak, who is overwhelmed with the response to the free classes. According to him, the lockdown and work-from-home are the reasons for the overwhelming response. “People want to be productive. We just provided them a platform at the right time,” he said. Anup Maiya of KannadaGottilla, another popular learning platform, said they started online reading and writing class as a lockdown special, adding that many people who had enrolled for spoken Kannada classes had showed interest in reading and writing. Charulatha Varadarajan, who has been staying in the city since 2006, said she has been part of many such classes. “They have helped me. Through the new class now, I am learning about verbs and tenses. As many people are working from home, they want to spend their time judiciously and productively,” she said. Ms. Vidyashree said that apart from teaching, what is more important is continuous practice. “Once people start relentlessly trying, they will easily pick up words and sentence formation structure,” she said. Interested people can contact Deepak via WhatsApp on 8892177465 for free classes.
22 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Couple left shaken after ceiling of quarantine hotel collapses||When Meenakshi Venkatraman, 57, stepped out of the bathroom, she heard a loud crack. The next thing she saw was the false ceiling had collapsed in the bathroom. Ms. Venkatraman and her husband, a senior citizen, are under the mandatory 14-day quarantine at a hotel in Majestic area, but their stay has been less than satisfactory. The incident, according to Ms. Venkatraman’s son Aditya Prakash, has left the couple shaken. Mr. Prakash took to Twitter to complain about the poor facilities at the paid quarantine centre. He alleged that his parents, who came to the city from Delhi by train on May 14, have been complaining about poor facilities at the hotel. Senior officials from BBMP visited the hotel. The elderly couple have now been shifted to another room in the same hotel. With several complaints about poor facilities in the quarantine centres, including hotels and hostels, the civic body has now constituted three teams, each headed by a KAS official, to check on the different centres. While one team is dedicated to checking the hotels, two are inspecting the hostels, sources said. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Health) Ravikumar Surpur told The Hindu that the teams had begun inspecting the various quarantine centres. The preliminary report highlighted issues that needed to be rectified. The final report, he said, will be submitted in a few days.
22 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Honda to restart Narasapura plant on May 25||With India gearing up to expand its economic activities as per fresh guidelines issued by MHA under Lockdown 4.0, Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India Pvt. Ltd. on Thursday said it would restart production at its Narasapura plant in Karnataka. The operations will resume at all its four plants in two phases. With a 360-degree outlook of balancing the forward and backend linkages across its ecosystem and the evolving market demand, Honda has aligned its production plans. Production will resume in a phased manner, starting May 25, from its biggest plant in Narasapurafollowed by other three plants from the first week of June. To keep the business continuity in accordance with the guidelines issued by the government, nearly 99% of Honda’s 300+ supplier plants too have received the necessary approvals to resume their operations. Honda suppliers are now in their advanced stages of resuming production. “Honda is taking a calibrated approach across its ecosystem, ensuring synergy for stable and efficient operations. On the market demand side, over 60% of Honda dealers have resumed their sales and service operations. Initial enquiries, though still subdued compared to the pre-lockdown period, are picking up momentum every day,” Honda said in a statement.
22 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||CM directs weekly review of investment task force activities||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday directed Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar to conduct weekly review of the activities of the Special Investment Promotion Task Force that has been formed to attract investments, especially from those who want to move away from China. This was decided at a meeting held in Bengaluru to review the progress of various departments, including Industries, Sugar and Labour. The task force, which was formed recently, comprises 15 members and is led by the chief secretary. The officials informed the Chief Minister that special schemes, including the incentive schemes, are being planned to encourage and attract investments to the State, according to an official release. As many as 70% of the industries that had halted work during lockdown due to COVID-19 have resumed activities. This has also provided stimulus to the State government to accelerate discussions with industry experts and industrialists from abroad regarding wooing more investments. It was opined that implementation of the amended Land Reforms Act had eased the process of land purchase for industrialists and, they maintained that, this will help attract more investors to Karnataka. Several measures have been taken up to simplify the process of setting up industries at the district level.
22 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister Madhuswamy tenders apology||Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy on Thursday tendered an apology to the woman member of a farmers’ group whom he had allegedly verbally abused during an inspection visit to Kolar. A video clip of the Minister using abusive language, when she insisted that action should be taken against those who had encroached lake area in Kolar, was widely shared on social media and drew sharp criticism. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah had demanded that Mr. Madhuswamy be dropped from the Ministry. On Thursday, however, the Minister tendered an apology while talking to a private TV channel which arranged a telephonic conversation with him and the aggrieved person. “I apologise if I have hurt the feelings of a woman,” the Minister said, while maintaining that his outbursts were not intentional. “I lost my cool as the woman repeatedly referred to the episode of encroachments despite me assuring of taking stringent measures,” he said. “We will conduct a survey regarding encroachments. From next week, I will also conduct an inquiry to know how the encroached land was transferred to others,” he said. Earlier in the day, KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar had condemned the conduct of Mr. Madhuswamy and said the senior Minister should have patience to listen to the grievances expressed by the woman. In a press release, Karnataka Kisan Congress president Sachin Miga threatened to launch a protest in front of the office of the DG&IGP Praveen Sood in Bengaluru if a complaint is not registered against Mr. Madhuswamy. Mr. Miga demanded that the Minister tender an apology to the woman for abusing her in the public. He urged the police to register an FIR against the Minister and demanded his resignation from the State Cabinet. In a tweet, Congress MLA Anajali Nimbalkar condemned the Minister’s conduct and said, “Voice of a woman is suppressed by Verbal abuse by Hon Minister & Physical Abuse by Police Inspector by outraging the modesty of woman. She was plainly talking to Minister. Request@DgpKarnatakato book criminal case & suspend the inspector.”
22 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) opposes proposal on GP administrators||Opposing a proposal to appoint administrators to gram panchayats whose term has come to end or is coming to an end, the Janata Dal (S) on Thursday petitioned the State Election Commission not to accept the government proposal. Instead of appointing administrators, extend the terms of members by six months as per the provision of the Karnataka Panchayat Raj Act, 1993, a delegation led by JD(S) State president H.K. Kumaraswamy and former Minister H.D. Revanna urged the commission. The delegation asked the commission to send back the government proposal on administrators. Incidentally, between May 15 and September 30, the terms of over 6,000 gram panchayats with over 95,000 members will come to an end. A memorandum from the JD(S) delegation said that the term of zilla panchayats and taluk panchayats also comes to an end in May 2021. “Though elections are to be conducted six months before the term ends, because of COVID-9 it may not be possible. But appointment of administrators is like providing a backdoor entry,” it said. The memorandum also stated that it was against the aspirations of the Constitution to allow managing committees to replace elected members in gram panchayats. “Recently in Kerala, during the COVID-19 fight, gram panchayats were designated as units and given bigger responsibilities,” it said, adding that appointing administrators could spark tension locally and harm anti-COVID-19 activities.
22 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Awaiting clarity on relief||Barbers in the city are still waiting for a clarification on how to avail of the Rs. 5,000 compensation that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had announced as part of a relief package for people from various sectors. “We still don’t know how to apply for it, and who is eligible,” said a barber.Kiran Kumar, working president, Karnataka Rajya Savitha Samaja, said, “Had we got it before we were allowed to open our shops, there would be working capital in our hands. Restarting without any business for the past two months is very difficult,” he said.
22 May 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Will change transfer rules’||Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan, who holds the Higher Education portfolio, said on Thursday that the government would bring in new rules on the transfer of lecturers in degree colleges. Speaking to reporters after holding consultations with MLCs from teachers and graduates constituencies on syllabus, online teaching and transfer of lecturers, among other things, he said a draft on the new rules would be circulated among lecturers’ association and their suggestions taken well before the commencement of the new academic year.
22 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Marriages allowed on Sundays||The State government has allowed marriages to be held even on Sundays, when ‘complete lockdown’ will be in force till May 31. In a clarification issued on Thursday, the State government said marriages will be considered special cases.
22 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Labourer held for murder||A 30-year-old construction labourer was stabbed to death by his friend at their makeshift home in Jnanabharathi on Tuesday. The accused, Keshava, 33, also attacked neighbour Peerappana with a knife when he tried to stop him. “Though Peerappana sustained stab wounds, he managed to pin down Keshava,” said the police. Keshava allegedly confessed that he killed his friend, Anil, after two of them got into a row while inebriated.
22 May 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Home quarantine for secondary contacts of medical officer||Finding it difficult to quarantine all contacts of the COVID-19 patient in Mudigere taluk, the Chikkamagaluru district administration has decided to home quarantine secondary contacts in the taluk. The Chief Secretary is said to have exempted institutional quarantine for people in the taluk. The issue came up for discussion during a meeting chaired by Lok Sabha member Shobha Karandlaje in Mudigere on Thursday. There were more than 800 primary and secondary contacts of the medical officer, who has tested positive. Ms. Karandlaje and officers felt that due to lack of institutions in the taluk, it would be better to home quarantine people. “In manladu districts, houses are scattered. People hardly come in contact with other people. As we have no sufficient institutions to quarantine all 800 people, it would be better to opt for home quarantine. We will discuss the issue with the Chief Minister. The Chief Secretary has consented to the proposal,” she said. The health staff would be in touch with people under home quarantine. They would be asked to follow the instructions without fail. 431 quarantined According to the district administration, 431 people have been quarantined and the secondary contacts had been home quarantined.
22 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Move to open up coal mines opposed||The Union government’s move to throw open coal mines to the private sector has elicited severe condemnation from progressive and environmental organisations. In a release here, Citizens for Democracy national president S.R. Hiremath has opposed the Centre’s decision. Mr. Hiremath, who had fought illegal mining in Ballari and other parts of the State, said that the nation has witnessed how reckless, irresponsible and illegal mining activities have led to environmental destruction and put people to hardships. This may be replicated across the nation if private participation in coal mining was allowed, he added.
22 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Construction worker, wife test positive||A construction worker, who had travelled to Tamil Nadu by truck recently, and his wife, who had no travel history, have tested positive for COVID-19. The worker left Hassan city to find a job in Tamil Nadu about three months ago. He left his family here in a temporary shed meant for workers. He travelled back by truck and escaped the check-post, to reach his family. The neighbours saw him and informed the Health Department staff about his arrival from Tamil Nadu. The administration quarantined the worker along with his wife and a few others who had come in contact with him. When the samples collected from the couple were sent for laboratory tests, they tested positive. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish, on Thursday, told media that those who had come in contact with the patient had been quarantined. “There is nothing to worry. We are constantly monitoring the workers,” he said. So far, the district administration has collected samples from 5,284 people and among them, 67 have tested positive. As many as 1,241 people are under home isolation and 113 people are in hospital isolation. Results of 552 samples are awaited.
22 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||13 more cases in Hassan district||Thirteen people, who had returned from Maharashtra, have tested positive for COVID-19, increasing the total number of cases in the district to 67. Among those infected, 65 people have a history of travelling to Maharashtra. The district had no cases until the inter-State movement of people was allowed. Deputy Commissioner R. Girish, in a press conference here on Thursday, said among the 13 people who tested positive on Thursday, seven were natives of Channarayapatna taluk and six from Holenarsipur taluk. So far, the highest number of cases (42) has been reported in Channarayapatna taluk, which has a special connection with Mumbai. Hundreds of people from this taluk have moved to Mumbai over the years taking up various works. Holenarsipur stands second in the taluk with 16 cases, three cases each were reported in Alur and Hassan taluks, two in Arkalgud and one case in Arsikere.
22 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Exception to sudden move by HDMC to hike property tax||Various organisations, including Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), have taken exception to the Hubballi-Dharwad Municipal Corporation’s move to hike property tax suddenly. Much to the shock of the residents, HDMC has increased property tax by 20 % to 30 % with retrospective effect from April 1. While tax for residential buildings has been increased by 20 %, that of commercial buildings has been hiked by 30 %. Property tax for all types of open land too has seen a 30 % hike. Not only that, the municipal corporation has asked those who have already paid property tax to pay the difference amount. Expressing shock over the move that too at a time when people were facing hardships due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown which has hit economic activities hard, the organisations have appealed to the government to immediately withdraw the hike. The Congress has already submitted a memorandum to the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad condemning the move and seeking its immediate withdrawal. Criticising the move, Hubballi-Dharwad East MLA Prasad Abbayya has termed the move as unconstitutional, in the absence of an elected body. The tenure of the municipal council has ended and the elections have been delayed as reservation for the top posts has been questioned in a court of law. Mr. Abbayya has, in fact, sought discounts in property tax apart from withdrawing the hike. On Wednesday, Karnatak Chamber of Commerce and Industry, led by its president Mahendra Ladhad, submitted a memorandum to district-in-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar seeking the immediate withdrawal of the tax hike. In the memorandum, KCCI has termed the hike as unprecedented and unwanted. At a time when people were going through difficulties and were being forced to shut down businesses, increase in tax was like rubbing salt into their wounds, it has said in the memorandum. KCCI has also demanded continuation of the previous tax rates and a 5 % rebate for those who pay taxes before July 31. Meanwhile, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has strongly condemned the tax hike. AAP district president Santosh Naragund said that at a time when people from all walks of life were experiencing loss in one way or the other due to the lockdown, such a hike was unwarranted.
22 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Mumbai-returnees test positive for COVID-19 in Ballari district||As many as 11 people from Ballari who had worked in a fish market in Mumbai before coming to their native district recently tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday taking the total number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district to 30 which included a death and 13 discharged upon recovery. The new cases included seven women, three men and a person belonging to sexual minority group from three families. The infected woman included a pregnant woman and a lactating mother with a nine-month-old baby. Addressing a media conference at his office in Ballari, Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul said that the nine-month-old baby was with its grandparents and its throat swab sample was collected for the test. “Six people from Ballari city, three from Rupana Gudi and two from Chaganur in Ballari taluk, have tested positive for COVID-19. They were among 65 people who had arrived from Mumbai. After we were informed by Anantapur District Collector in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh about their arrival, we picked them up from Guntakal Railway Station on May 6 and kept them in quarantine centres in Ballari district,” Mr. Nakul said. On the efforts to trace their contacts, the Deputy Commissioner said that 187 people who were in contact with the infected people, including 49 primary contacts, had already been identified and isolated in the quarantine centres. “We have four high-risk quarantine centres, 14 medium-risk quarantine centres and four low-risk quarantine centres in the district apart from five hotels that are also serving as isolation centres on a pay-and-use basis. As many as 2,817 people have thus far been kept in these centres. As many as 747 people have been released from the quarantine centres after they showed no signs or have tested negative for COVID-19,” he said. Pointing to a few incidents in which some of the quarantined-people escaped from the designated centres, Superintendent of Police C.K. Baba said that security measures were tightened at quarantine centres to ensure that such incidents would not recur. District Health and Family Welfare Officer Janardhan was present.
22 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Shramik Special leaves Kalaburagi carrying 1,436 workers||As many as 1,436 migrant workers left Kalaburagi on a Shramik Special Express for their home-State Bihar on Wednesday evening. Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat, who was at the railway station to see off the migrant workers, said that the workers from Bihar, who were engaged in manual work in Kalaburagi and neighbouring districts, underwent medical examination at the district headquarters and taluk places before boarding the train. All the migrant workers willing to travel to their native places had registered their names by paying Rs. 853 at the centres established at the Government Polytechnic College in the city and in their respective tahsil offices. The district administration provided sufficient food packets and water bottles for each passenger. The train would reach Bihar on Friday. A Shramik Special Express carrying around 1,500 migrant workers left Kalaburagi on Tuesday for Uttar Pradesh , he added. Kalaburagi City Corporation commissioner Rahul Pandve and Kalaburagi Railway Station Master Prasad Rao and others were present.  A Shramik Special Express carrying around 1,500 migrant workers left Kalaburagi on Tuesday for Uttar Pradesh
22 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Fruit merchant, unable to pay debt, found dead||A 32-year-old fruit merchant was found dead in his house in Mominpura locality of Kalaburagi city on Thursday. The man identified as Abdul Khadeer Malkansab Bhagwan is said to have borrowed a loan of Rs. 3 lakh for business purposes but was unable to pay the debt due to loss of daily business during nation-wide lockdown. A case has been registered at the Chowk Police Station. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 .)
22 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two recovered patients greeted with claps in Boloor||A 62-year-old man (P 579) and his granddaughter were greeted with claps by residents in Boloor as the two returned after recovering from COVID-19 on Wednesday. It was on April 29 that P-579 was tested positive, which was a few days after his wife (P 536, 58-year-old), who suffered from brain infection, tested positive. P-536 died on May 13. This was followed by his 11-year-old granddaughter (P 674), son-in-law and daughter testing positive for COVID-19. After two nasal and throat swabs tested negative, P 579 and P 674 were discharged from the Government Wenlock Hospital on Wednesday. His daughter and son-in-law are still under treatment. As the two came to the area, which is a containment zone, the area councillor Jagadish Shetty received them at the entrance of the area that has been barricaded. “The family has suffered a lot in this nearly one month period. I tired to console him and boost his confidence,” Mr. Shetty told The Hindu . A 16-year-old girl (P 676) from Bantwal, who is the primary contact of 50-year-old woman (P 390) undergoing treatment, was also discharged. One tests positive A 40-year-old woman from Kuttikala in Neermarga tested positive on Wednesday. She had returned to the city from Bengaluru on May 10. Following severe acute respiratory illness, she was admitted to Wenlock Hospital on May 17. Kuttikala has been declared containment zone.
22 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Six passengers from Dubai infected||Six people tested positive for COVID-19 in Dakshina Kannada on Thursday. They were among the 110 people quarantined in Dakshina Kannada after 178 persons arrived in the second flight from Dubai to Mangaluru under Vande Bharat Mission on May 18. All the six who tested positive are men aged between 29 and 60 and all of them are natives of Dakshina Kannada, according to a bulletin from Sindhu B. Rupesh, Deputy Commissioner. A 45-year-old patient (P-506) from Kulashekara in the city was discharged from the hospital on Thursday. He is the son of an 80-year-old woman who died due to the disease earlier. The district had 35 active cases. Reports of 408 samples are awaited. She said that of 64 passengers who arrived from Muscat to Mangaluru on Wednesday, 40 persons have been quarantined in Dakshina Kannada. Among others, 21 persons have travelled to Udupi and three passengers have gone to Uttara Kannada.
22 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cyclone makes Bengal, Odisha labourers wait||The damage caused by Amphan cyclone in West Bengal and Odisha has delayed the departure of migrant labourers hailing from these two States from Dakshina Kannada. While over 20,000 labourers have gone to their native places in Shramik Special trains from the district, those from West Bengal and Odisha are yet to get a train. There are about 6,000 and 2,000 labourers respectively from these two States. “Prevailing cyclone condition is delaying running trains to these States,” said an officer from the district administration looking into issues of migrant labourers. As many as 23,329 labourers have left in the special trains to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Rajasthan since May 9 from Mangaluru Junction and Kabaka Puttur railway stations. A train carrying more than 1,400 labourers left for Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh from Mangaluru Junction on Wednesday (May 21). “We have sent a major portion of migrant labourers,” the officer said. The district administration is expecting a special train to Uttar Pradesh. There is need of a train for labourers from Jharkhand who are in Puttur. While 40,510 migrant labourers have registered in the Seva Sindhu portal, the officer said there are many duplicate registrations on the portal.
22 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bantwal residents demand relaxation||Some residents of Bantwal town, including former Minister B. Ramanath Rai, staged a protest on Thursday demanding relaxation in the containment zone notification as an area in the town has been sealed down since April 19 after series of positive cases were reported. The residents led by a local BJP activist Govinda Prabhu carried out the protest. The residents alleged that the district administration has sealed down more areas than required. As against the houses in which the positive cases were found, the district administration has sealed down the area comprising of 450 houses and 90 shops. As many as nine positive cases, including death of three women, has been reported from the area. Mr. Rai also took part in the protest in support of the residents. Bantwal MLA Rajesh Naik U. told The Hindu from Bengaluru that he has taken up the issue with Chief Minister B.S. Yeddiyurappa and sought restricting seal down to houses related to COVID-19 positive persons. “There was a meeting of officials on Thursday and a decision has been taken to relax restrictions in Bantwal,” he said. As per norms Dismissing allegation that the containment zone was far wide than required, Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh said it was decided as per the norms laid down by the Union government. “We are waiting for orders of the State government giving clarity on containment zone,” she said.
22 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||11 trains to run through Karnataka from June 1||Close on the heels of the Railways deciding to operate first of its intra-State trains in Karnataka, since the lockdown was imposed, from May 22, the Ministry on Wednesday announced a list of 200 inter-State special trains (100 pairs) to be operated from June 1, including 11 through Karnataka. Trains operating as regular ones before the lockdown are proposed to be run as special trains on normal fares. However, they are fully reserved trains, bookings for which have to done through IRCTC website only, the Railways said.  Advance booking Advance bookings for the special trains on the IRCTC site was opened on Thursday and it can be made up to 30 days. Only passengers with confirmed tickets are allowed to enter the departure station. Only asymptotic passengers will be allowed to board the train while they have to adhere to health protocols at the destination State/Union Territory, the Railways said. Passengers have to compulsorily use hand sanitisers and masks, and adhere to social distancing. Bookings for Bengaluru–Belagavi–Bengaluru and Bengaluru–Mysuru–Bengaluru services are open. While Bengaluru–Belagavi second sitting fare is Rs. 220, that of Bengaluru–Mysuru is Rs. 80; both the trains offer 1,484 seats, each with 14 chair car coaches. Trains operating through Karnataka are: (01139/40) Mumbai CSMT–Gadag express daily; (01301/02) Mumbai CSMT–Bengaluru Udyan express daily; (002296/95) Danapur–Bengaluru Sanghmitra express daily; (02629/30) New Delhi–Yeshwantpur Karnataka Sampark Kranthi express biweekly; (06345/46) Mumbai LTT–Thiruvananthapuram Netravathi express daily via Mangaluru; (02618/17) Hazrath Nizamuddin–Ernakulam Mangala Lakshadweep Express daily via Mangaluru; (02779/80) Vasco-da-Gama–Hubballi–Hazrath Nizamuddin daily special express; (02245/46)Howrah–Yeshwantpur Duranto express five days a week; 02284/83 Hazrath Nizamuddin–Ernakulam Junction Weekly Duranto Special via Mangaluru; (02079/80) Bengaluru–Hubballi Jan Shatabdi express daily and (02089/90) Yeshwantpur–Shivamogga Jan Shatabdi express daily.
22 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||GTD opposes govt. move on GPs||The former Minister G.T. Deve Gowda, who is hobnobbing with BJP leaders in Mysuru, has thrown in his lot with the Congress over the State government’s decision to appoint administrative councils at gram panchayat level by putting off polls to the local bodies by six months. Speaking to reporters in Mysuru on Thursday, Mr. Gowda, JD(S) MLA representing Chamundeshwari constituency, said there was widespread opposition in rural areas to the government’s move to appoint administrative councils without holding polls to gram panchayats after their term ends in June–July. He admitted that he met the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah in this regard in Bengaluru recently. Contending that the government’s decision to appoint administrative councils was against Mahatma Gandhi’s concept of ‘Swarajya’ that envisaged power in the hands of people’s representatives, Mr. Gowda favoured continuation of administration by existing gram panchayats till the elections are held. Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa, who was in Mysuru on Thursday, defended the government’s decision.
22 May 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Five patients shifted to hospital in Raichur||Five, including two women, tested positive in Raichur district on Thursday. They are all from a single family from Korvihal village in Raichur taluk. They had travelled from Mumbai to Raichur on May 16. They are P-1,579, a 35-year-old male, P-1,580, a 12-year-old boy, P- 1,581 a 14-year-old boy, P-1,582, a 32-year-old female, and P-1,583 a 13-year-old girl. They have been shifted to the designated hospital in Raichur.
22 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Udupi district records 26 cases in one day||Udupi district saw the highest spike in the number of COVID-19 cases with 26 people testing positive in a single day since March here on Thursday. Of the 26 cases, 15 are children while seven are men and four women. Of the 15 children in the age group of 1-10, 10 are boys while five are girls. While 21 persons have travel history to Maharashtra, three persons have travel history to Telanganga, and person each to Kerala and United Arab Emirates. G. Jagadeesha, Deputy Commissioner said that 25 people had been shifted to the designated COVID-19 hospital here for treatment. Only one person from Kerala had come to Kasturba Hospital and has been kept under isolation, he said. Two cases Two persons from Udupi district, who had travelled to Maharashtra and were lodged at a quarantine centre in Sirsi, had tested positive for COVID-19. Both these persons had been shifted to the designated COVID-19 hospital at Karwar in Uttara Kannada district, Mr. Jagadeesha said. The district had recorded six COVID-19 cases on May 20 and five cases on May 19. Designated hospitals Mr. Jagadeesha said that a 120-bed hospital in Kundapur and a 100-bed hospital in Karkala have been set up for treating asymptomatic patients with COVID-19. Both these hospitals will start functioning soon, he said. Speaking to presspersons at Kundapur in Udupi district, he said that the patients who would be treated in these hospitals were those not requiring intensive care treatment, ventilator or oxygen. If any patient in these hospitals developed any symptoms of COVID-19 or required ventilator support, they would be immediately shifted to the Dr. T.M.A. Pai Hospital in Udupi, the hospital designated for treatment of COVID-19 patients. The administration would provide the staff required for the COVID-19 hospitals in Kundapur and Karkala, he said. The district administration had also held talks with Indian Medical Association (IMA) to enlist the services of private doctors to treat in these hospitals. A large number of persons were now coming to the district from other States and foreign countries. Some of them were testing positive for COVID-19. “COVID-19 is here in our district and now we have to deal with it. We will take every case as a challenge. Our aim is to save every person,” he said. The administration had already set up an Expert Doctors Committee and it will deal with the treatment of critical cases of COVID-19, Mr. Jagadeesha said. Meanwhile, a Quarantine Help Centre has been set up at the Kundapur town municipality building to give information with regard to quarantine centres in Kundapur Assembly Constituency.
22 May 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||KSRTC suffers Rs. 46.75 cr. loss in Vijayapura||The suspension of KSRTC bus services for nearly two months in Vijayapura district has caused heavy monetary loss to the transport corporation. According to officials, they have assessed a total loss of Rs. 46.75 crore in the last nearly two months when lockdown was imposed to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The officials said that over 700 buses operated from the Central Bus Stand here. The transport corporation’s daily earnings used to be Rs. 85 lakh. But after the imposition of lockdown, this has completely stopped. The district has 3,300 KSRTC staff, including drivers and conductors. After the government resuming bus services, nearly 1,000 employees are back to work. However, in view of health precautions, all those employees who are aged 55 and above have been asked to stay home and not come to work till further order. However, those who wish to volunteer and join service will be allowed to do so. As the government has ordered buses to be operated only between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m., all buses covering a distance of 200 km will return the same day. However, those travelling 250 km and beyond will stay overnight at the destination and return only the next day. The corporation though has incurred heavy loss owing to lockdown, the officials believe that lockdown was essential to save the lives of people and break the chain of infection.
22 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Ensure basic needs at quarantine centres’||Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao has instructed officials of the departments concerned to provide facilities to institutional quarantine centres where migrant workers who have returned to the State were kept under observation for 14 days, as per protocol. Addressing a meeting in Yadgir on Thursday, Mr. Rao said that raising the number of inter-State migrant workers who were returning back to various parts in the district, the district administration has been using government and even private schools and other buildings as institutional quarantine centres to shelter them for 14 days. Therefore, officials should ensure that basic needs, including potable drinking water, toilets, food, and milk for children, are provided on time, he added. “Hostel wardens, teachers and principals of schools and panchayat development officers (PDOs) of gram panchayats have been appointed as nodal officers and BEOs, among others, have been appointed as supervisors for such centres,” he said. Supervisors should collect personal information of migrant workers and send them to the district headquarters everyday before 5 p.m. Superintendent of Police Rishikesh Sonawane spoke. Chief Executive Officer Shilpa Sharma, Assistant Commissioner of Yadgir sub-division Shankargowda Somanal and other district-level officers were present.
22 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Foodgrains for workers||As many as 11,420 migrant workers in Yadgir district will get foodgrains under the latest package announced by the Centre, according to the district administration. In a release here on Thursday, Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao said that foodgrains for two months, five kilograms of rice and bengal gram each, would be distributed through the Public Distribution System immediately.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Lack of accommodation, jobs and hunger force migrants onto pavements||An increasing number of migrants are taking to sleeping on pavements or in makeshift camps driven by the lack of jobs, hunger and homelessness. Government measures, such as housing them in temporary shelters and in BIEC for a few days before shutting it down, has failed to solve the problem. Contrary to popular perception, a large section of migrant labourers continue to be jobless. Thousands of them are employed in several non-construction sectors – in hotels, malls, as street vendors – none of which are open yet. With no money to pay rent, they have been evicted by landlords. “The landlord evicted 20 of us from a room for non-payment of rent. He had given us a deadline of May 5. After that, he cut water and power supply,” said Satyam Kumar, a mason from Bihar who was residing in Sudhamanagar. The police commissioner's order to file FIRs against landlords evicting tenants during lockdown has had little impact on the ground. While the construction sector is slowly rebooting, people engaged in non-civil work, such as carpentry, painting, plumbing, find themselves jobless. “We mostly stay on site and move to a new project once work is completed. Our engagement with projects is for a short duration. While we continued to work during the lockdown on the project we were engaged in, once our work was completed, we had to move out of that site. But we are not getting new projects, which has rendered us homeless,” explained Karim Laskar, a carpenter from West Bengal. Many allege that their contractors have warned them that they won’t be assigned to new projects unless they commit to remaining in Bengaluru till Dasara. “The contractor we were working for threw us out of the accommodation he had provided when we refused to promise not to go home. He did not even pay us our dues,” said Sanjay Yadav, a mason from Bihar, who set up camp outside Varthur Police Station a week ago waiting for a train. With lockdown easing and government trying to restart economic activity, relief that was being provided to the poor seems to have mostly stopped. The civic body distributed ration kits that would last a family for a fortnight twice. But last kit provided by the civic body got over two weeks ago, and there has been no third round. Relief from even civil society seems to have reduced. “Our rations ran out two weeks ago and help is not coming by. We got some money transferred from our village. But now even they have run out of money,” said Mohammed Asgar, 45, from Sarangpur district in Uttar Pradesh. "Most of those camping near police stations are not there just to be put on trains. They are also there for three meals a day that are being provided at police stations,” said a senior official. Putta Obala Reddy, inspector, Varthur Police, said, “They have an amazing communication network among themselves. Once BIEC was closed, within hours of us starting to register people at our police station, thousands descended here and started camping at a nearby market,” he said. Police are turning marriage halls across the city into temporary shelters to house those rendered homeless. However, labourers are growing restless by the day and demanding that they be allowed to walk home as seats on trains are hard to come by.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Volunteers step in to help homeless labourers||Over the last few days, citizen-led volunteer groups and non government organisations have been helping homeless labourers by registering them on the Seva Sindhu portal so that they can return to their hometowns, and also finding temporary shelter. Volunteers from the All India Central Council of Trade Unions, on Thursday, launched a campaign to highlight the plight of people stranded in the city and urged the State government to provide Rs. 5,000 by way of monetary relief to all migrant workers returning home. They asked citizen volunteers to visit police stations and labour camps to talk to some of the migrant workers, make short videos and tag the authorities. Members of another NGO Swaraj Abhiyan, said that since the government lifted lockdown restrictions, they have come across over 400 labourers without jobs or access to ration kits. “On Wednesday (May 20), we had gone to Whitefield to distribute food to labourers. On our way back, we came across 10 labourers who were sleeping on the pavement. They were planning to walk back to Jharkhand,” said Kaleemullah who volunteers with Swaraj Abhiya. Kaleem and Zia Nomani took them to Toobaragalli labour colony where another labourer from Odisha, Lakshmi, agreed to provide them food and shelter. “She works as a domestic help and lives in the colony with her children. As a migrant labourer, she is well aware of how bad things are and agreed to help them,” said Zia, adding that they will provide rations to the family. But amidst the chaos and uncertainty, residents at Veeranapalya labour colony had reason to celebrate after a woman from West Bengal gave birth to a baby girl at a hospital on Thursday. Yasmeen and her husband Akash Ali, who hail from West Bengal, have been living in the colony with their three-and-a-half-year-old daughter. On Thursday morning, she went into labour and gave birth to a girl at a local hospital. The newborn was named Fathima Sheikh, after the educator and feminist who taught in a school run by social reformers Savitribai and Jyotiba Phule.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Pileup||
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||ATM theft||Thieves broke into an ATM of a private bank at Jambusavari Dinne on Tuesday. The incident came to light when an executive of a cash management company found the safety door breached. The cash box was missing. The police are yet to ascertain how much money was stolen. Based on a complaint, the Konanakunte police have taken up a case.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Whither go norms...||
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Back on track||
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ticket counters||Following Railway Ministry’s decision to open advance ticket reservation counters in a phased manner, South Western Railway has decided to make several such counters functional across the State from Friday. To begin with, counters will be functional at Hubballi, Bengaluru, and Mysuru divisions, SWR said in a communiqué. The Ministry has also allowed booking of tickets through authorised agents and service centres from Friday.
22 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Central plan a boost to coir sector||The decision of the Union government to use coir geotextiles in the construction of rural roads is expected to give new impetus to the coir industry in the State. A communication from the National Rural Infrastructure Development Agency under the Union Ministry of Rural Development says that coir geotextiles, a permeable fabric, natural, strong, highly durable, resistant to rots, moulds and moisture, and free from microbial attack, has been accepted as a good material for rural road construction. Accordingly, 1,674 km of rural roads under the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana III (PMGSY III) will be constructed using coir geotextiles in seven States, including 71 km in Kerala. One crore square metres of geotextiles is expected to be used.  Greater potential The State is pinning its hopes on coir geotextiles to revive the crisis-ridden coir sector and the Centre’s decision is likely to increase the market potential for the product. “It is a welcome move. Using it as a material for building roads will increase the demand for geotextiles and it will be a boon to the coir industry. The State government has already identified the importance of geotextiles in reviving the coir sector and initiated measures to increase its production. Apart from road construction, geotextiles can be used for soil conservation, as erosion control blankets and so on,” says a State government official. Production figures According to officials, the production of geotextiles in the State is expected to touch around 30,000 tonnes in 2020-21 and 45,000 tonnes by 2021-22. N. Saikumar, president, Kerala State Cooperative Coir Marketing Federation (Coirfed) says, “Kerala is already using coir geotextiles in various fields. Our focus is on geotextiles as the coir industry’s future depends a lot on it. We do not know yet how they are going to purchase geotextiles — the quality, rate among other things — for PMGSY III. But, the decision to use geotextiles in the construction of roads itself is a positive thing. Rising demand for geotextiles will result in an increase in coir production, which will benefit the coir sector,” Mr. Saikumar says.
22 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||2 more cases in Alappuzha||The district is witnessing a spike in COVID-19 cases with two more persons testing positive for the disease on Thursday. With this, the number of COVID-19 cases in the district has reached 13, of which eight remain active. Of the fresh cases, one of the patients, a 60-year-old person hailing from Mavelikara taluk, reached the district from Kuwait on May 9. On arrival at the Cochin airport, he was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Ernakulam, with symptoms of the disease. He was then shifted to a COVID care centre in Alappuzha on May 11. The second patient, a youth from Chengannur, came from Chennai in a private vehicle on May 13. He had been in home quarantine since then. Both of them have been shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, said an official. Of the eight active cases, seven are undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital and one at the Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, in Malappuram. Meanwhile, five persons were hospitalised with symptoms on Thursday, taking the number of people in isolation wards in the district to 24.  200 by train A total of 3,399 people are in quarantine/isolation in the district. The district administration has made arrangements for people arriving by a train from Delhi on Friday. Officials said 200 people from Alappuzha and neighbouring districts would alight at the Alappuzha station at 11.30 a.m.
22 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||10 lakh veggie seedlings for Kanjikuzhy panchayat||The State government will initiate steps to expand vegetable production in the State under the Subhiksha Keralam project, Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar has said. He was inaugurating the distribution of 10 lakh vegetable seedlings at Kanjikuzhy grama panchayat on Thursday. “To promote decentralised vegetable production, nurseries will be set up in all panchayats,” Mr. Sunil Kumar said. Farmers who suffered losses in rain would be compensated.
22 May 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Tribeswomen stage stir against decision to open liquor outlets||A group of tribeswomen in Wayanad district staged a token ‘Nilpu Samaram’ (protest on feet) at Payyampally tribal hamlet on Thursday against the decision to open liquor outlets in the State. Speaking after inaugurating the stir, Vella Soman, a tribal leader of the Payyampally Adiya tribal hamlet, said that the closure of liquor outlets as part of the nationwide lockdown had brought back happiness and joy to hundreds of tribal hamlets in the district and that the move of the government to reopen outlets would ruin it. “The closure of liquor outlets has also helped contain the spread of COVID-19 among tribespeople as it made physical-distancing possible” Ms. Vella, who led a 1,515-day agitation demanding the closure of the government-run liquor shop at Mananthavady, said. “There are 10 settlements of Adiya and Paniya tribespeople in the vicinity of the liquor outlet of the Kerala State Beverages Corporation at Mananthavady alone and nearly 95% of the tribesmen in the hamlets are addicted to liquor,” K. Santha of Vengaramkunnu Paniya hamlet near Anjukunnu said. The situation in other hamlets in the district was not different, Ms. Santha said. They threatened to go on a district-level indefinite stir if the government did not roll back its decision.
22 May 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Five more recover in Wayanad||Five more persons, including two civil police officers who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and were undergoing treatment at the District Hospital at Mananthavady in Wayanad district, recovered from the disease on Thursday. They were discharged from the hospital and advised to remain in room quarantine for 14 days. There are now 3,046 persons under observation in the district.
22 May 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Four more test positive||Four more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur district on Thursday. All of them, including a woman, had returned to the district from other States. The district now has 9,384 persons under observation. Among them, 9,288 are in home quarantine and the rest are in hospitals. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, a 41-year-old man, a native of Chengala who returned from Dubai, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. He was under observation at the hospital attached to the Government Medical College. There are now 2,460 persons under observation.
22 May 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Nod for road renovation work||A sum of Rs. 5.2 crore was sanctioned on Thursday under the Chief Minister’s scheme for the renovation of 11 roads in Kannur constituency. The application for the funds was made through Ports Minister Kadannappally Ramachandran. Administration sanction has been given for work on 11 roads in Kannur Corporation. A sum of Rs. 1.5 crore has been sanctioned for Karuvan Vaidyar Pedika-Elayavoor South and Elayavoor South-Kappad Road.
22 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Nearly 50 private buses conduct services in Ernakulam||Around 50 private buses conducted services in Ernakulam on Thursday following relaxation of lockdown norms. They included both city and mofussil services. Around 40 buses, under the Ernakulam District Private Bus Operators’ Association, were run within the city and the immediate suburbs, while 10 services were operated to towns located away from the city, it is learnt. A few operators allegedly flouted norms and carried more passengers than allowed, sources said. “The crew of one such bus plying from the city to Poothotta on Thursday evening permitted passengers to stand and travel, which is against physical distancing norms. The vehicle got even more crowded as it reached Thripunithura and Poothotta,” said a passenger. The crew members told passengers who protested that they were helpless, he added. Most private bus operators were initially hesitant to conduct services, although the KSRTC resumed operations in busy corridors in the city from Monday. They said they would resume services only from June, a stand which drew flak. For the record, the government had ordered that buses could be run provided physical distancing norms were adhered to, which meant they could carry up to 40% of their permitted capacity. Moreover, fare was temporarily hiked by 50% to offset the loss in revenue. More services will begin from Friday after urgent repairs on vehicles. Operators in distress are keen on availing the benefits of the two-month insurance tenure extension, which will enable them to save up to Rs. 12,000 a month. The operators would have resumed services had insurance firms calculated their idling date from March-end. But the firms are calculating the date on which bus operators submitted the G-form, to avail benefits like tax deduction and extension of insurance tenure. The Insurance Regulatory Development Authority (IRDA) or the government must prevail upon the firms against this, said K.B. Suneer, general secretary, Bus Operators Association. Navas K.M., the designated partner of the bus operators conclave, Kochi Wheelz United, said it would take a week or so for commuters to gain confidence to use public transport.
22 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Walkway project: AAP for action against Mayor||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has appealed to the High Court to initiate suo motu proceedings against Mayor Soumini Jain for allegedly attempting to carry out construction projects on the Chilavannoor lake in violation of CRZ norms. “Plans are being readied for the construction of a cycle track on the waterbody, instead of demolishing the bund that was illegally constructed for the purpose. People are having a harrowing time due to COVID-19. It has been accentuated by fear of heavy rain and floods, and the government is keen to lessen its impact. Still, the Mayor reportedly wants to go ahead with the project in violation of the Disaster Management Act and environmental norms, especially CRZ rules. This is a challenge to the rule of law and threat to the safety of people,” alleged AAP leader Foji John.. On its part, the district administration has not taken steps to remove the bund as part of the Operation Breakthrough initiative, Mr. John said. Meanwhile, Ms. Jain termed the charges as baseless. The project involves the construction of a four-metre-wide walkway-cum-cycle track of over 5,500 metres, linking Subhash Bose Road with the Elamkulam metro station and SA Road. It was part of the corporation’s non-motorised transport (NMT) initiative. The corporation council and the State-level technical committee had approved it. Besides, the AMRUT authorities had approved the DPR, the Mayor said. The agreement included the demolition of the bund once the walkway-cum-track was built over it. It will be built 1.50 metres above the high-tide level. The structure will in no way affect tidal inflow and outflow. Moreover, there is no link between the 2019 floods and the bund, Ms. Jain added. “We hope the government helps us realise the project,” she said.
22 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Doctors’ bodies suggest 2-m distance among students||The State units of the Indian Academy of Pediatrics (IAP) and the Indian Medical Association (IMA) have recommended a minimum distance of two metres at 360 degrees among students appearing for the SSLC, higher secondary and other exams to be held during the pandemic period. “This means there should be empty benches in front of and behind each student,” says M. Narayanan, president of IAP’s Kerala unit. The guidelines prescribed by an expert committee comprising representatives of the State chapters of the IAP and IMA suggest that essential public exams could be held by ensuring strict norms of physical distancing. Dr. Narayanan says it should be ensured that the precautions are 100%. “Isolation class rooms should be available. Masks should be worn at all times,” he says. Maintain data A map of all rooms, dates and timing, and names and order of seating of children should be maintained by schools. This would be necessary to properly track contacts in case of a future outbreak. The reasons behind student absenteeism should be found out without delay. Desks and benches should be sanitised after each examination. Transportation Dr. Narayanan says it would be better if parents could transport children in their own or hired vehicles. “Care should be taken to avoid interactions among parents and students at the exam centres. Authorities have to ensure adequate water supply for handwashing and cleaning,” he says.
22 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Dental clinics undergo a sea change||For your next appointment, do not be surprised to see your dentist in ‘corona gear,’ complete with a surgical gown, face shield, goggles, N95 mask, and gloves. COVID-19 has changed the way dental clinics function. Earlier, one could just walk into a clinic and seek treatment. Now, one needs to fill up a ‘COVID-19 informed consent’ form first. Information on COVID-19 diagnosis, quarantine details, and health aspects such as fever, body pain, cough, difficulty in breathing, and sore throat have to be provided. Details of all domestic and international travel by the patient and their cohabitants during the last 45 days are also to be given. Questions on visits to hotspots and participation in mass gatherings with unacquainted persons are sought. The patients are warned that denial of information and providing false information are punishable offences. Once ushered into the dental chair, the patient will be given a mouthwash to reduce the viral load inside the oral cavity. “Patients should honestly provide the details for their safety as well as that of society,” says Deebu J. Mathew, State secretary of the Indian Dental Association, Kerala branch. Heavy expense The dentists and their staff are exposed to high risk and hence are forced to spend heavily on Personnel Protection Equipment. They are likely to increase the consultation fee considering the heavy expense involved in ensuring personal protection of the doctors and patients, he adds. There are around 4,500 registered dental clinics in the State, says Shibu Rajagopal, former State secretary of the association, and dental care is mostly done in the private sector. The COVID-19 situation has raised serious challenges to dental health care and the functioning of the clinics. Prices of masks, gloves, and other accessories have been steeply increased, which will reflect on the cost of dental care, Dr. Rajagopal says. Currently, only emergency dental care is provided and other procedures are being postponed considering the health risks. The clinics are closely following the guidelines issued by authorities. A large number of clinics are struggling to survive and they will require government support to offer better dental care, says Dr. Mathew.
22 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Desperate migrants keen to return home||A group of migrant workers living at Pukattupady here have been trying to hire a private bus that can take them home to Murshidabad, West Bengal, over 2,000 km away. Bapirul Islam, one of the 30 workers looking to hire the bus, says he is unsure of being able to get on a train. “This is not a question of just a few hundred people. There are so many of us. Even if there are trains, when will we be able to take them?” he asks. Before the lockdown was announced, Bapirul did plastering work at construction sites at a daily wage of Rs. 500. While he had heard that construction work would resume, he had not been able to find work yet. The landlord had been asking workers to pay rent—Rs. 800 per person—and electricity bill. But they have been trying to save all they could to pay the exorbitant fare for a journey home on a private bus. It could cost them over Rs. 7,000 per person, he says. He has been trying to borrow from multiple people back home to gather money for the purpose. Riyadul Islam, a mason, who also hopes to take a bus, says the workers are unsure of the protocol to be followed or the passes they need to make the journey. He adds that they have been trying to obtain medical certificates without which they cannot enter their district. The National Health Mission issues certificates after thermal scanning to migrant workers travelling home. “People are desperate to go home. The lockdown has been extended, and the monsoon is ahead, so there might not be much work for footloose workers. They are emotionally and financially drained,” says Benoy Peter, executive director, Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development. “We have heard of people looking to hire buses, but we are discouraging them. The fuel cost will be enormous. They will have to shell out critical money that they will have to use for the next few months. Instead, they will have to spend that on travel,” he adds. The West Bengal government has decided to pay train fare for migrant workers returning to the State. Community kitchens have also been slowly winding up. The kitchens run by the Perumbavoor Municipality and the Vazhakkulam Panchayat, mostly for migrant workers, had been closed down earlier this month, according to officials. Meanwhile, the next train to Murshidabad from Aluva is tentatively scheduled for May 24. Nearly 10,600 migrant workers had returned to various States from Ernakulam, according to Sub Collector Snehil Kumar Singh.  We have heard of people looking to hire buses, but we are discouraging them. The fuel cost will be enormous. They will have to shell out critical money that they will have to use for the next few months Benoy Peter Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development
22 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Contract carriages their last resort||If the sudden declaration of the nationwide lockdown that left him high and dry without a job was not bad enough, the situation of Naseebul, a migrant worker at Angamaly, got further worsened as repeated lockdown extensions made the reunion with his six-month-old son in West Bengal looked increasingly bleak. So, he did not have to think twice before boarding a contract carriage along with 24 others for a trip back home in the remote village of Faridpur in Jalangi block of Murshidabad district, even though he had to cough up Rs. 7,500, a small fortune for a jobless migrant. Desperate to return home, migrant workers from the State are increasingly turning towards similar rides costing between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 8,000. Such services are being operated from migrant-intense regions like Perumbavoor, Muvattupuzha, and Angamaly. “The sporadic deployment of Shramik special trains for transportation of migrants and the uncertainty surrounding the schedule of those limited operations are driving hapless migrants to the costly alternative. “These contract carriage services seem to be arranged by unscrupulous agents and with no fare regulatory mechanism, exploiting an already exploited lot in the process,” said George Mathew, coordinator, Progressive Workers Organisation. “We have so far operated 10 services, predominately to West Bengal, transporting around 250 people, and on the return journey, we bring Keralites stranded there,” said C.K. Shamon, a contract carriage operator from Muvattupuzha. Stripped of all potential business for the foreseeable future, operators look at these services as their only option to earn what little is possible. Many operators are due for renewal of insurance, which costs over Rs. 75,000, and they hope to cover it through these services.
22 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC asks corporation to clean all drains||The Kerala High Court has directed the Kochi Corporation to clean all drains under its jurisdiction to ensure that there is no water blockage during monsoon. Justice Devan Ramachandran also directed the civic body to take special care while undertaking cleaning work to ensure that pedestrian handrails and installations on footpaths over drains were not removed. He ordered their immediate repair if they are damaged during the cleaning process. The court also directed the corporation to immediately clean the stretch of the Perandoor canal from Perandoor bridge to the Chittoor lake as well as the stretch from the GCDA at Kadavanthra to Kammattipadam. It asked Kochi Metro Rail Limited to offer assistance to the corporation to clean drains near the Edappally station, including removal of slabs and restoration of pavement tiles in case they get damaged in the process.
22 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||230 persons return from Gulf||As many as 234 persons from Gulf countries returned to the State on Thursday in two flights that landed at the Cochin International Airport. The returnees included 49 expatriates, who had received pardon from the government of Oman, and 185 persons from Doha. Those from Oman arrived in a Muscat-Kochi flight by around 6 p.m. . The Air India flight from Doha landed here around 8.45 p.m. Meanwhile, actor Prithviraj and director Blessy, who were stranded in Jordan, will return to Kochi on Friday morning.
22 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Over 7,000 rooms in district for COVID-19 emergencies||In case of an emergency caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the district has over 7,000 rooms at the ready to accommodate people, an emergency meeting chaired by Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar has assessed. Over 13,000 beds are available in hospitals in the private-government sectors, and 5,000 of them are already in use. In all, 5,594 beds and 2,400 private rooms are vacant. The district has 373 ventilators and 1,269 ICUs. Observation The Minister issued instructions to home-quarantine people returning from other States if their homes had bath-attached rooms. In the case of others, local bodies must arrange quarantine centres. If neither of these is possible, such people should be accommodated at COVID care centres. The district has 88 hospitals. If those under surveillance or their family members report with symptoms, they must be admitted to the isolation facilities and their samples collected for testing. Those turning positive must be treated in isolation facilities. The COVID-19 hospital in the district, the Government Medical College Hospital at Kalamassery, has capacity to treat 300 patients. When the number of patients reaches 100, the services of the taluk hospital at Karuvelipady and Adlux Hospital at Angamaly will be used. In case more patients turn serious, PVS Hospital at Kaloor will be activated. With more people returning and the lockdown norms getting relaxed, more quarantine centres would be readied locally, said Mr. Sunil Kumar.
22 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||K. Haripal appointed HC judge||Kerala High Court Registrar General K. Haripal has been elevated as a judge of the Kerala High Court. The notification appointing him as judge was issued by the Union Ministry of Law and Justice on Thursday. Joining the judicial service as magistrate in 1987, he became district judge in 2005. He worked as district judges of Ernakulam, Thrissur and Alappuzha. He was chairman of the administrative committee of Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple. He was appointed Registrar (Subordinate Judiciary) in January 10, 2018 and was working as Registrar General since November 5, 2018.
22 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||3 Gulf returnees test positive in Kottayam||Three more persons who had returned to Kottayam from Gulf countries tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the number of patients in the district to six. Two persons had come from Dubai while the third person had landed from Kuwait. All three had been undergoing institutional quarantine at a centre near Kothanallur and had not developed any symptoms of the viral infection. “The first patient is a 31-year-old woman from Neendoor who was a fellow passenger of a 29-year-old woman patient from Uzhavoor on a Kochi flight from Kuwait on May 9. The other two are an 83-year-old woman from Manganam who had gone to Dubai to visit her family and a 42-year-old man from Thrikkodithanam. A Pathanamthitta native who had travelled by the same flight from Dubai on May 11 had earlier tested positive,” said an official. Quarantine ends These latest cases came even as the first batch of returnees from the Gulf completed their mandatory quarantine of 14 days. Twenty persons reached Kottayam from Abu Dhabi and Dubai on May 7. Of the 18 persons who had arrived from Abu Dhabi, one person tested positive. Besides the six patients from the district, a 40-year-old man from Parassala in Thiruvananthapuram who had returned from Mumbai by road is being treated at the General Hospital in Kottayam. Meanwhile, a two-year-old boy who was undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College here for COVID-19 tested negative. The child has now tested negative two consecutive times. The child and his mother — the Uzhavoor native who landed from Kuwait — were in home quarantine when both tested positive.  Even as the the region witnessed a spurt in cases, Kottayam continued its return towards normalcy on Thursday with private buses too resuming operations, albeit partially. Around 150 of the over 1,000 private buses in the district carried out operations during the day even as the passenger response remained lukewarm.
22 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Online video contest||The Marian International Institute of Management, Kuttikkanam, in association with the United Nations Association for Development And Peace, is organising an online one-minute video contest: My Fight against COVID-19. The videos, sharing ideas on the fight against COVID-19, can be submitted through https://miim.ac.in/video-contest/ on or before May 31. Those receiving maximum likes and shares will be awarded prizes. The first prize is of $500 and five consolation prizes of $100 each will be given.
22 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||78-year-old recovers from COVID-19 in Kozhikode||A 78-year-old native of Parakkadavu in Kozhikode recovered from COVID-19 on Thursday. According to a release, he had been undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital since May 16. He had returned from Dubai on May 7 and had been quarantined at the NIT-C hostel earlier. Right now, 11 persons from Kozhikode and one each from Malappuram, Kannur, and Kasaragod are undergoing treatment at the medical college hospital. The number of expatriates under surveillance went up to 806, including 135 persons who arrived on Thursday. The total number of people under observation is 5,659. Forty-seven persons, including 15 expatriates, are at the hospital. As many as 439 persons, including 99 pregnant women, are home-quarantined and 352 people are at COVID care centres. Meanwhile, 24 expatriates who are now at COVID care centres are expected to go home on Friday after completing their 14-day quarantine. Twenty-two of them are at the NIT-C hostel, and the rest in paid quarantine. A total of 26 persons had arrived from the Gulf on May 7 and two were admitted to hospital.
22 May 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Two private buses vandalised||Private bus operators in Kozhikode who have responded positively to the State government’s call to operate local services in compliance with physical distancing norms are going through a challenging situation, with some buses being vandalised. The windscreens and side windows of two buses which had resumed services on the Kozhikode-Mukkom route were found smashed by unidentified miscreants on Thursday. Bus workers said they had received threatening calls on Wednesday from some bus operators’ association members who had openly communicated their displeasure over the move to resume service. Owners of the damaged buses said they had filed a complaint with the Rural police seeking action against the suspected attackers. They also made it clear that they would not go back on their decision to continue with the service. According to some bus owners, the State government is yet to consider the demand raised by some private bus operators for a special relief package in addition to the revision of ticket rates. Meanwhile, the police said the attack on buses was an isolated incident caused by political differences.
22 May 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||A birthday that cheered up Kerala||He was everywhere. On television channels, newspapers, social media, all over the Internet, in fact. You could not have missed Mohanlal on Thursday. It is difficult to think of another birthday that was celebrated by the Malayali the way Mohanlal's 60th one was. But, then, it is difficult to think of another man who has been adored as much and whose talent has been revered as much. If there is another actor who is admired as ardently, it is the other big M of Malayalam cinema. And Mammootty’s birthday greeting to Mohanlal proved a big hit. His three-minute video posted on Facebook attracted more than 1.5 lakh views within a matter of hours. “We first met on the set of Padayottam 33 years ago,” Mammootty said. “Our friendship still continues. My best wishes to great actor of Malayalam cinema.” Another post that created a buzz on social media was a blog by Mohanlal himself. He recalled his remarkable journey as an actor. “I am often asked about acting,” he said. “I have no idea how I do it. I, however, agree with Japanese actor Yoshi Oida who said acting is a process of disappearing.” That is what Mohanlal has been doing actually, these past four decades. Paying a tribute to the great actor, Jayaram, his long-time colleague in cinema, told The Hindu : “I did not see Mohanlal in Iruvar ; I only saw MGR, or Anandan.” Mohanlal also said something to cheer up his fans on his birthday. He announced a sequel to Drishyam , his most popular film in recent years.  The fans, in return, also did something to make him happy. Members of the All-Kerala Mohanlal Fans and Cultural Welfare Association pledged their organs to the Mrithasanjeevani programme of the State government. ‘Commendable act’ “It is commendable that Mohanlal’s fans have done something like this on his birthday,” said Health Minister K.K. Shylaja. As for Mohanlal, the birthday celebrations were of low key. He had for company at his Chennai home by the sea, his wife Suchithra; son and actor Pranav, and his close friend and filmmaker Priyadarshan.  We first met on the set of Padayottam 33 years ago. Our friendship still continues. My best wishes to great actor of Malayalam cinema.Mammootty
22 May 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Vigilante group attacks journalist||A group of villagers allegedly roughed up a journalist in Kozhikode who was returning home after work on Wednesday night. C.P. Bineesh, senior correspondent with the Madhyamam daily, was allegedly assaulted when he was attending a phone call along the road at Kavumpoyil near Narikkuni around 10 p.m. The villagers, who were reportedly part of a night vigil group against the increasing number of theft attempts in the region, targeted Mr. Bineesh for unknown reasons. The Kerala Union of Working Journalists has condemned the incident and called for better vigil on the part of the police to ensure security for journalists working during the pandemic.
22 May 2020||MALAPPURAM/PALAKKAD,KERALA||5 cases in Malappuram, one in Palakkad||Five more persons have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram on Thursday. Among them was a 24-year-old woman who returned from Abu Dhabi. The others were a 21-year-old man who returned from Kuala Lumpur, a 59-year-old man who returned from Kuwait, and two middle-aged men who returned from Mumbai. All of them were shifted to Government Medical College, Manjeri. In Palakkad district, a 64-year-old man who returned from Chennai tested positive for the virus on Thursday. A native of Pattambi, the man returned from Chennai on May 17, and entered into institutional quarantine at Muthalamada. 186 return from Muscat As many as 186 expatriates from Muscat returned to Karipur on Thursday afternoon on Air India Express flight IX-350. The passengers included 184 Keralites and one person each from Tamil Nadu and Mahe. Eight of them were senior citizens above the age of 65. There were 36 children and 31 pregnant women among the passengers. A team of officials led by SP (Crime Branch) K.V. Santhosh Kumar, District Medical Officer K. Sakeena, Deputy Collector J.O. Arun, COVID-19 Liaison Officer M.P. Shahul Hameed and Airport Director K. Srinivasa Rao received the passengers. Among the passengers, 64 were from Malappuram, 62 from Kozhikode, 24 from Palakkad, 14 from Kannur, three each from Ernakulam, Kollam, Thrissur and Wayanad, two each from Kasaragod, Kottayam and Thiruvananthapuram, and one each from Alappuzha and Idukki. Eight of them had health issues and were admitted to different hospitals. Four people from Malappuram had COVID-19 symptoms and were admitted to Government Medical College, Manjeri. As many as 68 of the passengers were sent to different COVID care centres. Officials said 110 were asked to go into home quarantine.
22 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Standing tall for a sumptuous feast||Forest watcher Bijo Baby never thought that a 30-second video he shot on his mobile phone would bring him immeasurable joy and recognition. His video of a wild tusker on its hind legs leaning against a tree and plucking a jackfruit has gone viral on social media. Hundreds of people shared the clip and thousands wowed incredulously at the elephant’s action. Mr. Baby was relaxing along with four other workmates after their day’s duty at the Kannampally camp shed near Kalkundu in the Silent Valley National Park’s buffer zone on Tuesday evening. It was around 6 p.m., and Mr. Baby and team could not believe their eyes when they saw a tusker plucking a jackfruit which was at a height of 25 feet near their shed. “We have seen elephants plucking and eating jackfruits. But it was a rare sight. Actually, this is a first in my life,” said Mr. Baby, who has been a watcher in the Silent Valley National Park for the past 12 years.  His friends Thomas John, Manikandan, Kurumban, and Suresh too shot videos. But Mr. Baby got it neat and close. Twice “After eating the first jackfruit, the tusker plucked the second one too in the same way by raising its front legs stretching full length and grabbing the fruit with its trunk. It was an amazing sight to witness an elephant rising two times its height,” he said. Elephants are so fond of jackfruits that they often come out of the wild to eat the fruit. They often get the fruit from the height by shaking the tree violently. Gets praise Silent Valley National Park Wildlife Warden Samuel Vanlalngheta Pachuau, showering the watcher with praise, said the Kannampally area was a regular elephant route. He said he was amazed at the video. “We know that elephants are intelligent animals. I have seen elephants crossing very high fences. But plucking the jackfruit by almost climbing the tree and reaching the animal’s double height is amazing. It is first time here,” said Mr. Pachuau.
22 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Debris clearing work begins at Pampa||The government has roped in Kerala Clays and Ceramic Products Limited (KCCPL), Kannur, to clear the huge quantity of debris, including construction-grade sand, accumulated in the Pampa during the deluge of 2018. The decision has been taken by the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) to avert chances of further floods in the Pampa and surrounding areas downstream of Sabarimala. A committee chaired by Thiruvalla Subcollector Vinay Goyal has been constituted to monitor the progress of the work on a day-to-day basis. Dr. Goyal formally inaugurated the debris removal work at Pampa on Wednesday. District Collector P.B. Noohu, accompanied by Dr. Goyal, visited Pampa on Thursday to take stock of the situation. Mr Noohu said nearly 150 trucks would be pressed into service round the clock for transporting the entire river sand from Pampa to Nilackal before the onset of monsoon. Dr. Goyal told The Hindu that the Revenue Department had assessed the quantum of sand deposited at 75,000 cubic metres. Huge quantities of plastic bags, used for temporarily strengthening the riverbanks in the wake of the floods, and cloths thrown into the river by pilgrims have been posing environment problems. To avoid flood The DDMA decision came against the backdrop of the India Meteorological Department predicting good rainfall in the State during the ensuing monsoon. Dr. Goyal said the deadline fixed for removing the debris was June 30. Clearing of the debris would help in controlling floods in the Pampa.
22 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||171 NoRKs reach Pathanamthitta||A total of 171 Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) have reached the district from different parts of the country and abroad in the past 24 hours. Among them, 92 persons have come by a Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram special train while 79 others have come from abroad on seven flights, as per an official statement on Thursday. As many as 48 persons who came on flights from Kuwait, London, Dubai, Moscow, Manila, Riyadh, and Salalah have been placed in quarantine at corona care centres in the district and the remaining 31 persons at their homes. Of the 92 persons who have come by train from Delhi, 82 have been placed in quarantine at corona care centres and 10 others are home-quarantined. No new COVID-19 case was reported in the district on Thursday. 32 in isolation wards The number of quarantined persons admitted to various hospitals in the district went up to 32 on Thursday. They include seven COVID-19 patients too. As many as 13 persons, including seven patients, have been admitted to the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, four persons at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, two at the General Hospital in Adoor, and 12 others at various private hospitals in the district. 164 test negative The nasal and throat swabs of 164 quarantined persons in district tested negative for COVID-19 on Thursday. So far, 24 throat swabs collected from various persons in the district tested positive while 5,569 samples were tested negative for SARS-CoV-2. Clinical examination results of 397 throat swabs are awaited from the virology laboratory in Alappuzha. So far, 2,961 people have been quarantined in the district and 636 of them are at various corona care centres.
22 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2 test positive in capital||The State capital continued to witness a steady increase in the number of active COVID-19 cases with two more persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. One is a 50-year-old Kochuveli native who had arrived on a flight from Kuwait late on Wednesday. He was admitted to the General Hospital after displaying symptoms of the infection. Following the diagnosis, he was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital here. In the second case, a 40-year Parassala native fell ill while he was on his way to his native place from Maharashtra via the Walayar check-post on May 19. He was rushed to the Kottayam Government Medical College Hospital after his condition worsened. With his test returning positive, he will undergo treatment there itself. At present, eight persons from Thiruvananthapuram are being treated for COVID-19. Nine are being treated in the Government Medical College Hospital here, and two of them hail from Kollam, sources said. The number of symptomatic people being hospitalised continues to rise with the influx of people from other States and abroad. Besides the Kochuveli native, three others who arrived in the Kuwait flight were hospitalised. One person who arrived in the Rajdhani Express from New Delhi on Thursday was shifted to the General Hospital with symptoms. In all, 18 people were admitted to hospitals in the district, while four were discharged on Thursday. Sixty-one symptomatic persons are being monitored in hospitals. The district administration quarantined 209 people on Thursday, taking the total number under quarantine to 5,441. Via Inchivila As many as 201 people entered the State through the Inchivila border, of whom 179 were from Tamil Nadu. The rest came from Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Six people have been sent to institutional quarantine. The City police booked one person who violated home quarantine under the Cantonment police station limits. He had come from Marthandam in Tamil Nadu on May 15.
22 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Varsity exams in June first week||The State government has asked universities to plan final-year examinations in the first week of June, following the completion of the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) and higher secondary education (HSE) examinations in the State. A consensus was arrived at a meeting of Vice Chancellors convened by Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel on Thursday. The decision comes amid several universities going back and forth over the examination schedule, with many being compelled to defer them subsequently. While deciding to prioritise the final-year examinations, the meeting deemed it wise to commence the exams only after the completion of school-level exams to prevent a sudden spurt in vehicular traffic and crowding in public places. From home districts The Vice Chancellors were asked to plan the schedule in accordance with the scenario that existed within their jurisdiction. In the case of students residing outside the jurisdiction of their respective universities, they will be provided facilities to appear for the examinations at centres that have been specially arranged in their home districts. Dr. Jaleel directed the universities to commence the classes of next academic year in June online. College Principals must be tasked with maintaining the attendance of students attending online classes and the class schedule of the faculty. The universities must ensure constant supervision in this regard. Besides, video and audio clippings must be separately prepared for each topic and uploaded on the college website. Radio service Universities have also been directed to explore the possibility of launching community radio channels to facilitate mass transmission of learning materials. It was also decided to conduct the open defence of research scholars through videoconferencing platforms. From June 2 in KU Meanwhile, Kerala University (KU) decided to conduct its sixth-semester CBCSS (choice-based credit semester system) undergraduate exams from June 2 onwards. The exams of private registration candidates (final year) will get under way on June 3. The fifth and sixth semester examinations of distance education courses will also begin the same day. The academic year will resume on June 1 with online classes being scheduled for the undergraduate CBCSS third and fifth semesters and postgraduate third and forth semesters to complete the pending portions.
22 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. gears up for holding exams||Data on the number of students from each school who have applied for examination centre change and the number of students from other districts who have applied to each school has to be collected to make arrangements for them to appear for the remaining Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC), higher secondary, and vocational higher secondary examinations from May 26. The government on Thursday issued a circular detailing the arrangements to be made for the smooth conduct of the examinations. All health protocols will be followed. As schools have been closed for the past two months, examination halls, furniture, and school premises have to be cleaned up and disinfected before May 25 with the support of the Health Department, parent-teacher associations (PTAs), voluntary organisations, Fire and Rescue Services, and local self-government institutions. On the day of the exam, furniture will be disinfected in the morning and afternoon. Students will enter the premises only through the main entrance where employees will be posted to hand out sanitisers. Physical distancing has to be strictly followed on the campus. No crowding should be allowed before or after examinations. 20 in a class A maximum of 20 students can be seated in one classroom. Higher secondary classrooms can also be used for conducting the exams. All students must be provided with masks. It should also be ensured that they use it properly. Head teachers should ensure that each student has access to travel facilities to reach the exam centres. Private vehicles, public transport, school buses, and vehicles arranged through PTA can be used. In the case of schools functioning as COVID-19 care centres or housing the destitute, they should be made ready for the exams after approaching District Collectors. If schools are not available, an alternative should be found and students, parents, and officials posted for exam duty should be informed about the centre change. If more invigilators are needed owing to the change in exam centres or increase in exam halls, primary teachers can be roped in. The requisite number of questions papers for both SSLC and higher secondary exams should be ensured in schools. The safety of question papers stored in schools should also be ensured. A district-level monitoring team will visit schools and ensure that they are ready for the exams in keeping with the COVID-19 guidelines.
22 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Crowd is out, queue is in at vet centre||Finding a silver lining in the COVID-19 cloud is not easy. But as the crisis unfolded, the District Veterinary Centre at PMG here saw the chance to make changes in visitor management. The centre recently installed an intelligent queue management system with a well-arranged waiting area to ensure physical distancing of visitors. Earlier, visitors would crowd in packed queues to take outpatient (OP) tickets. The plight would be similar outside doctors’ consultations rooms as visitors had no way of ascertaining when they would be called in. A day ahead of the lockdown declaration, the centre convened a meeting to discuss implementation of the COVID-19 management protocol. Suggestions at the meeting led to the setting up of the intelligent management system. Though equipment purchase was delayed till the restrictions were eased, the system came into effect this Monday. How it works As part of it, tokens are dispensed to visitors and they can wait in a spacious waiting area with 30 chairs in compliance with physical distancing norms. A token display system in the waiting area with an alarm and announcement prepares the visitors for the upcoming consultation with any of the three doctors on duty. After the visitor is issued an OP ticket from the counter, the doctors receive an intimation. When the doctor presses a calling unit made available to them, the new token number flashes on the display system in the waiting area along with the number of the doctor whom they have to see. The visitor can then consult the doctor. The calling unit also helps doctors manage time better as it displays the total number of OP tickets issued that day and how many visitors are awaiting consultation. No one jumps the queue, there is no pushing or jostling, and no disputes, says E.G. Prem Jain, chief veterinary officer, Thiruvananthapuram. The doctors too are no longer hassled by the sight of long queues outside their door. Both the parties are happy, he says.
22 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stray dog sterilisation to be stepped up in capital||The two-month lockdown period has been a tough time for stray dogs in the city that were deprived of all sources of food from streets. But with the kindness of dog lovers and civic authorities, many of them have been getting just enough food to survive for the past few weeks. For the city Corporation’s Animal Birth Control (ABC) programme too, this has been a period of lull. Compared to the usual rate of around 400 sterilisations per month, the ABC team has been doing only around 30 to 40 sterilisations per month, as there has been a shortage of staff and dog-catchers.  ‘More violent’ A few cases of dog bites have been reported too during this period, as the starving strays have been reported to be more violent than usual. “Since things are slowly returning to normal, we will be trying to get the ABC programme back on the rails, to get back to the previous rate of sterilisations. Many were not able to reach for work during the lockdown period, hence the pace had slowed down. Even though sterilisations were less, we have been providing food to the stray dogs in several areas during this lockdown period. In the initial period, there certainly was the issue of them not getting food and turning violent. But, a lot of NGOs and volunteers have helped in addressing this issues. Now, with the shops opening up, no dog would be starving,” said the Corporation’s veterinarian Sreerag. According to the veterinarian, this is a period during which dogs reproduce more and hence are prone to attack strangers approaching the pups. Parallel to the city Corporation’s ABC initiative, Kudumbashree is also running mobile sterilisation unit. Over a period of one-and-a-half years from 2018, more than 3,000 dogs were sterilised under both of these initiatives.
22 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KSRTC runs 1,428 services despite losses||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) operated 1,428 intra-district ordinary services on Thursday despite suffering operational losses on Wednesday, the maiden day of resuming services after a 54-day break due to the lockdown, due to poor patronage. Over 300 private buses also operated services on Thursday in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Ernakulam and other districts giving relief to passengers. More passengers were seen at bus stops and stations. Lack of vacant seats Passengers have raised complaints of lack of vacant seats when the buses reach stops in between the originating and destination stations. Rain and the attack on Wednesday night on five private buses that ventured into the road in Kozhikode played spoilsport. In the Thiruvananthapuram zone comprising the capital district, Kollam and Pathanamthitta, 23 more services were operated, following demands from various quarters. The total number of services in the zone was 658. The State-owned fleet, official sources said, operated the 1,428 services though it suffered Rs. 9.01 running loss per km on Wednesday when it operated 1,388 services. The number of passengers ferried was 1,74, 299. KSRTC officials said the bus services on Wednesday fetched only Rs. 35,32,465 with the Thiruvananthapuram zone netting Rs. 16 lakh, Ernakulam zone Rs. 12.75 lakh and Kozhikode zone Rs. 6 lakh. The earning per km was Rs. 16.64, the earning per bus Rs. 2,678 and the earning per litre Rs. 68.21. The KSRTC suffered a running loss, excluding salary of crew and other expenses, of Rs. 20 lakh and a total loss of Rs. 60 lakh. “The services are suffering heavy losses. We are expecting more buses after the weekend holidays and Ramzan,” Lawrence Babu, general secretary, Kerala State Private Bus Operators Federation, said.
22 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree to bring out diverse designer masks||After manufacturing 32 lakh masks as part of COVID-19 containment measures, Kudumbashree is diversifying into production of designer masks. The first phase of designer masks will come from Kudumbashree’s Kollam district mission. Major plans Fifty women will soon get training in designer mask manufacture in association with the Kerala State Institute of Design, the Chanthanthope-based State government institution. After the training, they will be equipped to function as a microenterprise. The project will be extended across the State after studying the acceptance for the masks in the market. With masks becoming mandatory in public, Kudumbashree hopes to manufacture quality masks in diverse designs that are long-lasting too. Branding too is on the cards. Masks made from unprocessed materials will be targeted at the corporate sector. Training will be given in making masks in small, medium, and large sizes from cotton, linen, and synthetic materials.  Designer apparel Training will also be given to entrepreneurs in the Nedumpana and Punalur apparel parks to manufacture designer apparel.
22 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||VACB opens probe against Kunju||The legal troubles of Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leader and former Public Works Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju, MLA, appeared to intensify on Thursday. The Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) has opened a preliminary inquiry against him on the charge of attempting to influence a witness in a money laundering charge under the consideration of the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Mr. Kunju is already facing an investigation in the Palarivattom flyover construction scam case. Girish Babu, complainant in the ED case, alleged that Mr. Kunju had offered him Rs. 5 lakh to withdraw the petition. Mr. Kunju had also allegedly attempted to induce Mr. Babu to give a written statement that his rivals in his party had instigated the complaint. The High Court, based on a petition filed by Mr. Babu, had ordered the VACB to investigate the charge. Consequently, H. Venkatesh, Inspector General of Police, VACB, summoned Mr. Kunju and recorded his statement. Allegations denied Mr. Kunju has denied the allegations. The VACB had merely sought a confidential statement from him. He was not the subject of any criminal investigation, he said. The latest controversy surrounding Mr. Kunju is central to the allegation that he had laundered ill-gotten wealth, an estimated Rs. 10 crore, by using the bank accounts of his party’s 80-year-old newspaper. Mr. Babu had alleged that the cash was part of the bribe Mr. Kunju had allegedly received from the builder of the now-defunct arterial six-lane flyover at Palarivattom in Kochi. Subsequently, the VACB had raided the office of the newspaper in Kozhikode and seized documents and computer hard discs containing financial information. Mr. Kunju had maintained that the cash in the accounts of the paper was advertisement and circulation revenue and contribution from patrons. The IT Department had audited the finances of the newspaper earlier and found them to be above board.
22 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Infrared thermal scanners at airports||Artificial Intelligence(AI)-powered infrared walk-through thermal scanners with face detection technology will be installed at four airports in the State and at the Kozhikode railway station. The eight scanners to screen passengers will be installed at the Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, Kozhikode and Kannur international airports and the Kozhikode railway station. The scanners have been procured by the Kerala Medical Services Corporation, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said here on Thursday. The scanners will help in screening persons walking through the corridor after the aerobridge. The body temperature will be checked automatically. Ten at a time Ten persons can be screened at a time and the body temperature will be recorded once they reach within 3.2 metres of the camera. The gadget will give a warning beep if the temperature of the approaching person is high. This will help the health authorities isolate those having high temperature and subject them to further tests in the airport/railway station itself and shift them to hospitals, if need be.
22 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Death of novice: Crime Branch report rejected||Additional Director General of Police, Crime Branch, Tomin J. Thachankary on Thursday rejected his agency’s report that there was no foul play in the death of Divya P. John, a 21-year-old novice, at a convent in Thiruvalla. The novice was found dead in a well at the Basilian convent of the Syro-Malankara Church at Paliyekkara. Her death evoked the memory of the hitherto unresolved demise of Sister Abhaya in comparable circumstances in a convent at the Pius X convent in Kottayam in 1992. The Inspector General of Police, Crime Branch, Kochi, said Divya had committed suicide. He said investigators had found no truth in the allegations raised by Jomon Puthenpurackal, social activist and complainant in the Sister Abhaya case. The IG said the probe was on the right track and it would shed light on whether anybody had abetted the suicide. Mr Thachankary, who vetted the report, has ordered a further inquiry.
22 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Veggie harvest at Central Prison||The Integrated Farming Systems Research Station (IFSRS), a Kerala Agricultural University centre at Karamana, and the Central Prison, Poojappura, have set an example by bringing unused prison land under farming. Vegetables such as cucumber and snake gourd and other crops including paddy, maize, groundnut, and mustard were grown on one acre of land. The first harvest was held last week and it has encouraged the IFSRS and the prison to bring more area under cultivation in future, IFSRS Professor and Head Jacob John and Central Prison Superintendent Sunil Kumar B. said. The programme was launched with the help of Assistant Prison Officer Liju M. V. and 11 prison inmates.
22 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A mellifluous prop for COVID-19 fight||Kerala’s grim battle against the dreaded COVID-19 has found expression in music with playback singer K.J. Yesudas lending his lilting voice to the campaign.  CM releases video Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday released a video of the campaign song rendered by Mr. Yesudas. He said the video would deliver a positive message to the masses. In his introduction, Mr. Yesudas exhorts the people of the State to sink their differences and join hands to fight the pandemic. The song was penned by Prabha Varma with music scored by M. Jayachandran and visualisation by filmmaker T.K. Rajeevkumar. The video was prepared by the Kerala Media Academy in association with Swaralaya. It was recorded in the U.S. where Mr. Yesudas is currently based. Former Minister and CPI(M) Politburo member M.A. Baby and academy chairman R.S. Babu were present on the occasion.
22 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Change in exam centre||The government has issued an order sanctioning examination centre change for the remaining SSLC, higher secondary, and vocational higher secondary examinations. Nod has been given to students who are stuck in districts other than where their examination centre is located to appear for the examination in their own district. Those from the Gulf region or Lakshadweep who are in the State or those from the State who are in the Gulf region or Lakshadweep can sit for the exams in these regions. Students living in hostels of model residential schools, pre- and post-matric and sports schools, and homes of the Social Justice Department for whom hostels are not open can also apply for examination centre change.
22 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||FICCI offers support to State’s initiatives||The Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce Industry (FICCI) has extended support and cooperation to the efforts of the State government in making Kerala an industry- and investor-friendly destination in the post COVID-19 era. FICCI president Sangita Reddy and secretary general Dilip Chenoy, in a videoconference with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday, lauded the efforts of the State in containing COVID-19 and revitalising the economy through stimulus package. The initiatives had become model to the whole world. They praised the efforts taken to protect migrant labourers who got stranded during the lockdown. The FICCI leaders said the State had immense opportunities in the field of tourism, health, Ayurveda, IT, higher education, agriculture and aerospace. Kerala should exploit the opportunities. They suggested that more foreign languages should be taught to students and nurses. The Chief Minister told them that Kerala had become one of the safest places in the world and steps were on to make it an investor-friendly destination. Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan and Principal Secretary of Industries K. Elangovan were present.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||The luck factor||
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Art of the matter||
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||After a lockdown||
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Across the borders||
22 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||App to check subsidised seeds’ usage||The Andhra Pradesh Seeds Corporation, which began supplying 8.4 lakh quintals of various seeds at subsidised prices to farmers all over the State from May 18, proposes to validate the proper utility of these seeds by specific farmers through e-Crop Booking. Grama Sachivalayam, Ward Sachivalayam app now has entire data of specific farmers who had availed themselves of subsidy benefit, which would be cross-checked with e-crop booking and discrepancies would be probed, said Vice-Chairman and Managing Director G. Sekhar Babu. “Those found misusing the seeds taken on subsidy for other purposes, or hoarding, would stop getting the benefits of subsidised seeds,” Mr. Babu said. The A.P. Seeds Corporation would be another retailer of seeds and fertilizers in villages ensuring quality at competitive prices.
22 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||JC backs govt. stand on Krishna water||Former MP and TDP leader J.C. Diwakar Reddy has lauded Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for proposing to increase the capacity of the Pothireddypadu aimed at drawing more water from the Krishna for the benefit of the arid Rayalaseema region. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Diwakar Reddy criticised Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for trying to dent AP efforts to utilise its due share in the water. In the same vein, he took objection to TDP leaders being silent on the issue.
22 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Speech-impaired claims bid to sacrifice her||A 58-year-old woman, Sarojamma, of Vaddikandriga village of S.R. Puram mandal, 40 km from here, along with her son approached the police claiming that she had escaped from the clutches of her relatives when she was about to be allegedly sacrificed at a ritual meant for “augmenting luck in treasure-hunting”. The speech-impaired woman was reportedly taken to an isolated corner of a dried up village tank on the night of May 15 by two of her close relatives. They lured her by promising new clothes for the ongoing Jatara season. She was allegedly made to stand close to a freshly dug pit, and was reportedly given a bath with turmeric water by a couple of strangers, as her relatives stood close. Finding a machete in the hand of a relative, the woman suspected foul play and reportedly took to her heels in the darkness. Due to the ongoing lockdown and as the village was far away from the local police station, the incident had allegedly been hushed up by some elders. Reveals it to son Seeing his mother in commotion and fear, her son Narasimhulu (40) made her reveal to him about the incident. She took her son to the spot from where she had reportedly fled from her “killers”. The mother-son duo approached the S.R. Puram police on Wednesday night and lodged a complaint. They claimed that some of their relatives had joined hands with suspected treasure hunters and conspired to kill the woman to appease the “spirits guarding the hidden treasures”. Deputy SP (Puttur) D. Murali Dhar told The Hindu that the woman and her son had filed a complaint alleging bid to sacrifice the woman. He said that the Karveti Nagaram circle inspector and his team had been asked to visit the village and nearby tank to ascertain facts. “ We had visited the alleged spot meant for human sacrifice and will question their relatives,” CI Surendra Reddy said.
22 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Train leaves for Bihar with 1,440 migrant workers||A Shramik Rail on Thursday afternoon left for Bapudhan Matihari in Bihar carrying 1,440 migrant workers from the Chittoor railway station. The migrant workers were mustered from various parts of the district in coordination with revenue officials. Deputy Chief Minister Kalattur Narayanaswamy flagged off the Shramik Rail. Mohit (39), who boarded the train along with his family, said that he worked as a painter in Chittoor. “After the lockdown, I had a difficult time feeding my family. Luckily, we survived with the food distributed by the police and various donors in the town. I will never return to Chittoor again,” he said. Badrinath Chotu (48) said that he had come to Chittoor from a slum in Patna. “I have been coming to this place for the past one decade, working for mango pulp factories. If all goes well, I will turn up again next year,” he said. As the train rolled away, they waved, clapped and shouted in joy. Collector Bharat Narayana Gupta and Deputy SP (Chittoor) K. Eeshwar Reddy bid adieu to the migrants.
22 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two killed as bikes collide||Two persons were killed on the spot and two others seriously injured when two motorbikes collided head-on at high speed near Gundrajupalle village, 50 km from here, on Thursday. Police said while both the riders were killed on the spot, the two injured pillion riders were rushed to hospital. The deceased were identified as Chandramouli (35) of Gudipala in Chittoor district and Chenchu Reddy (30) of Kanigiri in Prakasam district.
22 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Steps afoot to send migrant workers to native places||The Andhra Pradesh government has set up 402 relief centers across the State and is providing food and shelter to 20,873 migrant workers of various States. While 8,079 migrant workers belong to Andhra Pradesh, the remaining 12,794 are from various other States. Over 78,900 migrant workers have been stuck in the State since the lockdown was announced on March 25. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has agreed to meet the expenditure relating to travel from the relief centres to railway stations. According to a release, food arrangements have been made by the State government and NGOs for around 1.19 lakh people across the State at various identified relief centers on a regular basis during the entire lockdown period. Around, 78,900 migrant workers in the industry have been helped to get dry ration/food by the management duly involving officials of the Labour Department.  Special trains After phased relaxation of lockdown restrictions, 1.31 lakh migrant workers belonging to Andhra Pradesh have been shifted to their native places by providing transportation in APSRTC buses free of cost. The State government intends to send 57,527 stranded migrant labourers of other States to their native places. Efforts are on to run 23 additional shramik special trains to facilitate free transportation for around 40,000 migrant workers from relief centers to their native places.
22 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Welfare calendar unveiled ahead of govt. completing 1 year in office||The ruling Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP) is completing one year in office on May 30. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had single-handedly brought the party into power in Andhra Pradesh by undertaking a marathon padayatra spanning 3,648 km starting from Idupulapaya in Kadapa district in November 2017 and ending at Itchapuram in Srikakulam district in January 2019. The party which won a massive mandate by garnering more than 50% of vote share and winning 151 Assembly seats out of 175 in the elections, began implementing its poll promises at a fast pace. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy gave a clear message of widening his social base by forming a Cabinet with five Deputy Chief Ministers, all from BC, SC and ST communities and appointing a Dalit woman leader as the Home Minister. Along with his welfare schemes, Mr. Reddy also put in place a ward/village secretariat system aimed at bringing governance closer to the people. More than 5 lakh ward and village volunteers were appointed besides village/ward secretaries. Post COVID lockdown, as the YSRCP government approaches a milestone, Mr. Reddy announced a calendar of welfare schemes from last week of May.
22 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Apex Council meeting soon to discuss A.P. and Telangana water dispute||With the two Telugu States at loggerheads over the issue of utilising the Krishna and Godavari waters, and each shooting letters against another and lodging complaints with the respective river boards, the Centre has decided to convene the Apex Council meeting soon. A communication to this effect was sent to the Secretaries of the Water Resources / Irrigation Departments of the two States by the Ministry of Jal Shakti on Thursday. The meeting became a certainty after the two States complained against each other in the respective river boards and Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat asking the Water Resources Department to convene a meeting of the Apex Council at the earliest. In a letter addressed to BJP Karimnagar MP Bandi Sanjay last week, in response to his letter seeking the Centre’s intervention in the matter of A.P.’s plans to divert 8 tmc ft of Krishna water every day from Srisailam, Mr. Shekhawat not only assured to convene the Apex Council meeting but also asked the KRMB to convene a meeting “immediately.” Technical panel meet Ahead of the meeting, a three-member technical committee is expected to meet here on Friday to discuss water utilisation by the two States during the current water year concluding by the month-end. In a separate communication to Special Chief Secretary of Water Resources, Government of Andhra Pradesh, and Principal Secretary of Irrigation in Telangana, Under Secretary in the Water Resources Department of the Jal Shakti Ministry A.C. Mallick said: “As directed to convey, the next meeting of Apex Council constituted under the A.P. Reorganisation Act is likely to be convened shortly under the Chairmanship of Minister for Jal Shakti and Chief Ministers of A.P. and Telangana.” The communication also pointed that the two States were yet to submit agenda points to discuss various issues of Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) and Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) at the Apex Council meeting, as agreed upon at a meeting held by the Union Water Resources Secretary on January 21 this year. In the wake of the Ministry’s decision to convene the Apex Council meeting soon, the two States have been asked, once again, to send agenda points for the meeting on priority basis. “Due for long, the issue of working manual for the two river boards, which is yet to be finalised, is also expected to figure at the Apex Council meet to give more role clarity to the governing bodies, including taking swift decisions on installing water drawal quantity measuring equipment (telemetry) at all points of drawal in major projects, particularly the two common reservoirs – Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar – of the two States in the basin,” a senior Telangana official said. After its constitution, the Apex Council meeting was held only once so far on September 21, 2016, without arriving at any consensus on the projects being taken up by the two States.
22 May 2020||KRUTHIVENNU (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||ID liquor makers pledge to turn over a new leaf||In a heartening development, more than 100 families involved in brewing arrack on Thursday took a pledge to give up the illegal activity and support the government’s proposal to ban liquor in the State. They handed over vessels, drums, stoves, plastic cans and the raw material used to prepare ID liquor to the officials concerned. Police, revenue and excise personnel destroyed the ‘battis’ in the presence of village heads. Pedana MLA Jogi Ramesh (YSRCP) and Razole MLA Rapaka Vara Prasad, Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu, Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) ASP Vakul Jindal, Machilipatnam Dy. SP Mehaboob Basha and Special Branch DSP Dharmendra met the families and complimented each and every person for bringing about a change in the panchayat. Huge network “Nearly 100 families are in the ID liquor business for the last 50 years, and many villagers involved in cases are moving rounds of courts and police stations. Some students also underwent imprisonment for brewing arrack,” said Mr. Ravindranath Babu. “Unemployment, easy money and heavy demand are the main reasons for the ID liquor business thriving in Nidamarru gram panchayat in Kruthivennu mandal. About two generations in Gowdapalem, Podu, Dandu Daari and Pedda Gollapalem villagers are in the business,” Mr. Jindal, who interacted with the women, told The Hindu . Mr. Jogi Ramesh thanked the villagers for giving up the arrack business and extending support to the Chief Minister’s decision to ban liquor in a phased manner. “I will speak to DGP Gautam Sawang, Collector A.Md. Imtiaz and BC Welfare officials and ask them to provide jobs and loans to the villagers,” the MLA said. Mr. Vara Prasad praised the locals on women literacy and called upon youth to take up jobs and support their families. “Villagers used to supply arrack to more than 25 island villages and hamlets in Kalidindi, Bantumilli and Machilipatnam mandals in Krishna district and Narsapuram and Bhimavaram in West Godavari district. The villagers’ decision has come as a big relief for us,” said Kruthivennu SI Ravi Chandrakumar. “Several of our family members spoiled their lives. Now, we want to live with dignity,” said Pedddi Nagamani, and urged the government to provide some job to feed the family. Villagers elders Borra Narasimha Swamy, Elikatla Naga Babu and Vemula Srinu thanked the MLAs and the officers for undertaking the initiative.
22 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||More empty seats than passengers||There were more vacant seats than passengers on board APSRTC buses that started plying in Kurnool and Anantapur districts on Thursday, as services resumed after a gap of almost two months. Commuters who boarded the buses ensured that they followed all COVID-19 protocols to the letter, officials said. While digital payments were not activated by the APSRTC, its staff ensured that every person washed their hands with sanitiser and sat only in the demarcated seats in the Express and Ultra Luxury category of buses that ran on some routes. Out of 126 services operated by Kurnool Region, only 104 services could be operated with an overall 1,900 passengers making use of the bus services during the whole day. “There was, however, great demand for bus services from Kurnool to Vijayawada as there was no other mode of transport available between both cities. As soon as APSRTC opened online reservation, all seats on five buses were fully booked. The buses left at short intervals from 5 p.m. on Thursday. No AC buses were operated. The two Express buses carried 30 passengers each while the three Ultra Deluxe services carried 29 passengers each,” said Regional Manager T. Venkataramam. Anantapur Region ran only 88 buses out of the 111 planned, as there was no demand with people deciding not to take the risk of travelling. To conform to the COVID-19 protocols, only 60% of the bus occupancy was being allowed, and out of these, not even half the number of passengers arrived at the bus stations anywhere in 12 depots. Regional Manager Sumanth R. Adoni said that in addition to 12 starting points, 15 intermediate stops were fixed for all the services.
22 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power generation stopped at Srisailam||Power generation at Srisailam dam has been stopped and the current reservoir water level as on Thursday evening was 812 feet and the total water available was 32.8 tmcft. Srisailam Dam Superintending Engineer S. Chandrasekhar Rao said no water was being drawn from the Right Canal except only on two occasions when 600 cusecs was drawn to generate power for stabilising the Power Grid in the State for a few hours each time. Reservoir level was 812 feet for the past 15 days and water drawal was as per the KRMB guidelines, said Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao. ‘Standard practice’ “Telangana had reported to the KRMB on both the occasions and when the higher officials sought explanation, we told them about this standard practice of stabilising through hydro power, whenever there were severe fluctuations in the evening or morning when power is switched on by people at once,” he said.
22 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore sees one death, 18 new cases in a day||A 77-year-old woman succumbed to coronavirus while 18 persons tested positive in SPSR Nellore district in the last 24 hours. With the death of the elderly woman from Rajendranagar in the city, the toll rose to four in the district. The total number of confirmed cases crossed the 200-mark, health officials said. The COVID-19 hotspot of Sullurpeta accounted for 12 positive cases followed by Nellore with two and Atmakur, Sangam, Kaluvaya and Kodavaluru one case each. Koyambedu link Officials blamed the spurt in cases to a few traders from the district visiting the Koyambedu market in neighbouring Tamil Nadu to buy perishable goods. There are indications that the virus is now spreading to newer areas at the community-level, officials said. The new cases were attributed to traders visit to the Koyambedu market for perishable goods and indicated that the disease was spreading to newer areas at the community-level. As many as 90 persons are undergoing treatment, including 48 patients at the COVID-19 isolation ward in the Government General Hospital. The rest of the 42 patients are being treated at Narayana Hospital. A majority of the new cases had contracted the disease after visiting Chennai. Following detection of the fresh cases, police enforced the lockdown stringently in the clusters identified as red zones in the district. The new set of cases came after the first set of patients, who had returned from Delhi, were cured of the disease.  State-owned buses with a handful of passengers began plying to various destinations from the bus station, which was given a facelift. E-commerce firms were allowed to extend their services outside the containment zones in the district, Joint Collector V. Vinod Kumar toldThe Hindu.  Prakasam tally rises A person hailing from Ammanabrolu village in Prakasam district tested positive for coronavirus in Ongole on his return from Mumbai, taking the number of active cases in the district to five, COVID-19 nodal officer John Richardson said. As many as 63 patients were cured of the disease. In Ongole, Collector P. Bhaskar announced a fine of Rs. 50 on those coming out without wearing masks, and a fine of Rs. 100 on those not maintaining social distancing. Shopkeepers violating social distancing norms will be imposed a Rs. 500 fine for the first instance and in case of repeated violations, their shops will be closed.
22 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 victim denied burial||The people of Vaikuntapuram locality here staged a noisy protest when the body of an old woman was brought for the funeral in the local burial ground on Thursday. There were heated exchanges between the people and the police who brought the body of the woman for last rites to Bodigadithota by the 'Mahaprasthanam' ambulance. The authorities had a tough time in convincing the people, who feared that the dreaded virus would spread if the body of the woman was buried in their locality. Meanwhile, relatives of the woman expressed anguish following the protests. Additional police force was rushed to the place following tension in the area. After prolonged parleys, the body of the woman was cremated in a remote corner of the burial ground after digging a very big pit with an earth-mover.
22 May 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven special trains to travel through State from June 1||The railways are all set to resume passenger special trains from June 1, after a gap of two months. The trains which have halts at major stations will travel in the State. Train No.12703/02704 Howrah-Secunderabad (Falaknuma Daily Express) will stop at Vijayawda, Eluru, Tadepallugudem, Rajahmundry and Samalkot. Train No.07201/07202 Guntur-Secunderabad Golconda Daily Expres will halt at Vijayawada, Rayanapadu and Kondapalli stations. Visakhapatnam-Hyderabad Godavari Express Daily Express train No.02727/02728 from Hyderabad will halt at Vijayawada, Eluru, Tadepalligudem, Nidadavole, Anaparthi, Samalkot, Pithapuram, Annavaram, Tuni, Narsipatnam Road, Elamanchili and Anakapalle. Mumbai CST-Bhubaneswar (Konark Daily Express) Train No.01019/01020 from Mumbai CST will travel in AP. The train will halt at Vijayawada, Eluru, Tadepalligudem, Nidadavole, Rajahmundry, Samalkot, Pithapuram, Tuni and Anakapalle. Train No.02296/02295 Danapur-KSR Bengaluru (Sangamitra Daily Express) will halt at Gudur, Nellore, Ongole and Vijayawada. Train No.02805/02806 Visakhapatnam-New Delhi A.P. Express Daily will halt in Vijayawada, Eluru, Tadepalligudem Rajahmundry, Samalkot and Anakapalle stations. Train No.02245/02246 Duronto Express from Howrah-Yesvantapur Junction will halt at Vijayawada. The train will run for five days in a week, the South Central Railway (SCR) officials said. Booking begins With the railway officials announcing that tickets booked through Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC website) and IRCTC Mobile App will be allowed, thousands of passengers booked their tickets online from 10 a.m. on Thursday. The special trains are fully reserved and will have both AC and Non AC coaches. All passengers will be provided seats and no Tatkal tickets will be permitted in these trains. Arogya Sethu app Passengers are requested to follow COVID-19 protocol and bring their blankets along with them. All the passengers are requested to download Arogya Sethu App, the railway officials said.  Passengers are advised to follow COVID-19 protocol and bring their blankets along with them Railway officials
22 May 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||A stitch in time saves women in villages||At a time when jobs were lost due to closure of industries and other establishments due to the lockdown, many women got an opportunity to generate income by stitching masks in a big way. Many women tailors are able to earn more than Rs. 1,500 per day as orders poured in from the government and private agencies. About 30 tailors of Akkulapeta, Uppilivalasa, Peddipeta and other remote places have benefited in the time of adversity. Each tailor gets Rs. 1,500 for stitching 1,000 masks at Rs. 1.50 per piece. Association The Srikakulam District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) and other organisations have been giving them orders regularly and distributing those masks in remote tribal areas. The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) and ARTS, a non-governmental organisation, provided training in tailoring as part of skill development for rural women which is now helping them generate a decent income. The women tailors have become the members of the Chikkolu Weaver Producers’ Company which is able to get bulk orders. Training “The special training in stitching of masks as per the specifications of the government has helped us a lot. We are able to stitch more than 1,000 masks a day. We hope the demand will continue in the near future too with no respite from coronavirus,” says Metta Govindamma of Akkulapaeta. ARTS director N. Sanyasi Rao and Manya Sahaja Farmers’ Association CEO B. Sankara Rao say they were concentrating on distribution of masks for tribal people also. “The tribal people also understand the importance of masks to protect themselves from COVID-19. With the suggestion from the government, we are distributing masks in various tribal villages of Palakonda, Sitampet and other areas. We are planning to train tribal women to stitch masks to meet the local demand. It will certainly help them to earn some income,” says Mr. Sanyasi Rao.
22 May 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Government introduced 40 new schemes in a year’||Roads and Buildings Minister Dharmana Krishnadas on Thursday said that the State Government had introduced more than 40 new schemes and implemented 90% of assurances within one year of coming to power. Mr. Krishnadas urged party leaders and workers to hoist the YSRCP flag in all villages on May 23 to mark the completion of one year of the government’s rule. “The leaders should make arrangements for celebrating the occasion after ensuring that social distancing norms. The government will implement all other assurances including English medium education in government schools,” said Mr. Krishnadas. The Minister interacted with Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas over the kharif plan and optimum utilisation of water sources. He urged bankers to extend their cooperation to farmers to meet their credit needs.
22 May 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter-district travel off limits for private vehicles||The Srikakulam and Vizianagaram administrations are strictly clamping down on inter-district travel, allowing only APSRTC buses in and out of the districts. With APSRTC resuming operations, many people thought restrictions on inter-district travel were lifted. However, private vehicles were stopped at Pydibhimavaram - the entry point to Srikakulam district from neighbouring Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam district. Police stopped hundreds of vehicles at Pydibhimavaram, explaining that the relaxation was only for APSRTC buses and not for private vehicles. Motorists waited for hours in the hope that they would be allowed to enter Srikakulam district, but in vain. “It is unfair to stop vehicles coming from Vizinagaram district at Pydibhimavaram while APSRTC buses are being allowed. All cannot get tickets on APSRTC buses as there are limited seats and services. The government should allow movement of vehicles between neighbouring districts,” said M. Rammohan, a resident of Vizianagaram. “Free movement of people would not be allowed until the State Government announces its guidelines regarding inter-district movement of vehicles. We are also collecting details of bus passengers also as part of implementing COVID-19 protocol,” Srikakulam Superintendent of Police R.N. Ammi Reddy told The Hindu . The Vizinaagaram district administration has also indicated that it would not take any decision on its own unless the State Government directs them to allow vehicles and people from other districts. Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police B. Raja Kumari visited the Vizianagaram APSRTC complex and directed the passengers to abide by safety norms such as wearing masks and following social distancing while travelling. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Traffic Manager of APSRTC G. Varalakshmi said that 73 buses from Srikakulam and 65 buses from Vizianagaram were being operated to different places including Palasa, Tekkali, Itchapuram, Rajam and Visakhapatnam. “We have kept machines for sanitisation at bus depots. COVID-19 safety rules are being explained to each and every passenger before allowing them to board buses. The Corporation will operate more buses if the government allows us to do so,” she said.
22 May 2020||T. Appala NaiduKAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power plant’s dredging activity poses threat to mudflat||The Kumbabhishekam mudflat, the country’s prime feeding and resting ground for the endangered great knot (Calidris tenuirostris) and vulnerable Indian skimmer (Rynchops albicollis), may disappear from the Kakinada map due to its dredging. Great knot migrates from North East Russia and China. GMR Energy Limited is engaged in dredging the mudflat and preparing the ground to relocate its 220 MW barge-mounted power plant from the Kumbabhishekam site, geographically located opposite to the Department of Ports office on the Kakinada coast. The GMR authorities on Thursday confirmed that the plant temporarily suspended the dismantling activity and dredging work due to lockdown in April. However, the dredging work was resumed reportedly a week ago. The power plant was commissioned in Kakinada in 2010 and its operations were halted in 2013. The 30-acre power plant site was leased out to it by the Department of Ports. East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy told The Hindu that the GMR group took up dredging the site near their barge-mounted power project site for the navigational purpose to shift the existing installations through sea route. “A mound has recently been built surrounding the mangrove cover adjacent to the power project site, pumping the dredged sand and water into it. Such activity has started taking a toll on the mangrove cover, apart from destructing the mudflat, which is the country’s exceptional feeding and resting ground for Indian skimmer and great knot which were sighted in hundreds in recent years,” said K. Mrutyunjaya Rao, an authority on birds and mudflat ecosystem in Andhra Pradesh. Plea to govt. In a written complaint to the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, former Secretary to Government of India E.A.S. Sarma said: “I request both State Environment Department and MoEFCC to order an independent investigation to fix responsibility for this act of destruction of the mangroves and mudflats.”
22 May 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Python triggers panic in temple town||Shopkeepers at Papavinasanam Theertham, located five km from the temple town amid the thick Tirumala forests, got the scare of their lives after finding a reticulated python resting comfortably in a shop. A handful of shopkeepers had come down to the area to check on their shops, which were closed for close to two months since the beginning of the lockdown. One of the shopkeepers who was cleaning his shop let out a cry after finding the reptile tucked beneath a wooden plank. Other shopkeepers rushed to the spot after the man raised an alarm, and alerted by the commotion, the python slithered off into the bushes behind the shop. Instances of thefts and wild boars sneaking into the market have also been on the rise atop the temple town during the lockdown.
22 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||On a mission to save butterflies||Thummala Thulasaiah, a forest worker employed by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), is going above and beyond his call of duty by embarking on a massive afforestation drive. Ahead of ‘World Biodiversity Day’ that falls on May 22, he resolved to do more in order to increase the population of butterflies in the region. Possessing expert knowledge on the rare flora and fauna of Seshachalam forest, Mr. Thulasaiah went about capturing images of different native butterflies, their selective habitats and the plant varieties on which these insects breed, especially in malvaceae, fabaceae, lamiaceae and asteraceae families. Mr. Thulasaiah has not only carefully procured the seeds of such plants which are known in local parlance as Nagadanthi, Jadakuchula mokka, Potti voli, Chinna kalupumokka, Jilledu Mandaram, Adavi janumu and so on, but has also planted them in large quantities near water bodies to ensure procreation of butterflies. In an interview to The Hindu , he explained how nature was undergoing damage control on its own in the absence of human activity during the lockdown. He cited deforestation, urbanisation, depletion of water sources and man-made calamities as having had a telling impact on environment. “If it were not for butterflies, nature would be deprived of prosperity and this would have led to a shortage of food grains and natural vegetation long back,” he said. Mr. Thulasaiah has so far planted over one lakh seeds on the roadside, water canals and bus stops across Chittoor district, especially of bigger trees like banyan, peepal and tamarind that offer a wider canopy and nurture better biodiversity. “His message on butterflies assumes significance in these COVID-19 times, as it reminds us of the need for man to live in peaceful coexistence with fellow living organisms,” a senior official of the TTD said.
22 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||First flight from Kuwait to bring 149 passengers||The first flight from Kuwait to Tirupati, under the ‘Vande Bharat Mission’ that aims at bringing back Indians stranded abroad because of COVID-19 lockdown, will be transporting 149 passengers. Non-resident Andhras belonging to the Rayalaseema region will be escorted by the special officers to their respective districts in the early hours of Friday, where they will be quarantined for 14 days. “There are only seven passengers belonging to Chittoor district,” Collector N. Bharat Gupta said after reviewing the arrangements at the airport on Thursday. They were identified as Maheswari of Bollinenivaripalli, Athar Nikhat and Afzal Khan of Kalicherla, Lalitha of Balaiahgaripalle, Naresh Reddy from Piler, Mastan from Mudivedu and Rajendra Prasad of Tirupati. Similarly, the number of passengers hailing from other places are as follows: Kadapa (116), Anantapur (2), Chennai (1), East Godavari (6), Krishna (1), Kurnool (1), Nellore (6), Visakhapatnam (4), and West Godavari (5). One passenger will disembark in Hyderabad, where the flight would have stopover before continuing its journey to Tirupati. Masks to be distributed Mr. Gupta directed the officials to provide sanitisers and masks to the arriving passengers and download the ‘Arogya Setu’ app on their mobile phones immediately after landing. The Collector also inspected the baggage disinfection, fever test, data entry desk, SIM card supply and other facilities arranged at the airport.
22 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD gets first woman JEO||S. Bhargavi on Thursday took over as Joint Executive Officer (Medical and Education) of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), thus becoming the first woman to hold the post. She took charge at the TTD administrative building here. Later, Ms. Bhargavi formally called on TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, Executive Officer Anil Kumar Singhal, Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy, JEO P. Basant Kumar and Chief Vigilance and Security Officer Gopinath Jatti.
22 May 2020||TIRUPATI/KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Limited services in Chittoor, Kadapa districts||APSRTC buses were back on the road on Thursday after the government announced a relaxation in the lockdown. The corporation decided to operate limited services as a trial run in order to test the fleet’s preparedness. In Chittoor district, the corporation plied 165 buses on 49 routes. To ensure social distancing, APSRTC opened 101 ground booking points and seven reservation points, besides facilitating cashless ticket purchase across the district. Commuters are also being encouraged to book tickets online at www.apsrtconline.in. In Kadapa, 100 buses plied on 38 routes, though the plan was to operate 140 buses on 45 routes.
22 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vijayawada sizzles at 46° C as heatwave sweeps State||The State witnessed normal to severe heatwave conditions at various places on Thursday as the mercury soared suddenly. The increase in temperature has gained significance as more people began to venture out of their house following relaxation of lockdown norms across the State. Hot and humid weather was experienced right from the morning and as the temperature shot up post noon, people went into the ‘lockdown’ mode to avoid the extreme weather condition. Vijayawada registered the highest maximum temperature of 46°Celsius compared with the previous day’s maximum of 43.5 degrees Celsius, according to the India Meteorological Department. Bapatla of Guntur district experienced severe heatwave conditions as the maximum temperature touched 45.6 ° Celsius with a departure of 6.5 ° Celsius from normal. Also, Jangamaheswara Puram in Guntur registered 45.4° Celsius. Ongole 44.5° Celsius, Machilipatnam 44° Celsius, Kurnool 43.1 ° Celsius, Nellore 42.5° Celsius, Kakinda 42.3 ° Celsius, Anantapur 40.9 ° Celsius, Kadapa 38 ° Celsius and Visakhapatnam registered 35.6 °Celsius. IMD’s Meteorological Centre, Amaravati, in its five-day forecast, warned that heatwave conditions are very likely to prevail at isolated locations across coastal Andhra and Rayalaseema for at least three days from May 22. Also, most of the State is likely to experience dry weather for the next five days. All urban areas, including Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Kakinada, Ongole, Nellore, Tirupati, Kurnool and Anantapur, are mostly likely to witness heatwave conditions up to May 27, according to the IMD. The AP State Disaster Management Authority (APSDMA) has also issued an advisory in view of increasing temperatures based on the inputs from the IMD-NWP model. In a release, APSDMA said on May 22, a few places in the districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari are very likely to witness maximum temperatures of 45 to 47° Celsius and a few places in the districts of West Godavari, Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam, Nellore and Chittoor are likely to witness maximum temperatures between 43 and 44° Celsius.  SDMA sounds alert On May 23, places in Visakhapatnam, Krishna, Guntur and Prakasam are likely to record temperatures between 46 and 48° Celsius. Further, Vizianagaram, East Godavari, West Godavari, Nellore, Chittoor and Kurnool are going to witness temperatures of 43-45° Celsius. The situation is likely to be the same on May 24 and May 25. The APSDMA has alerted the district administrations to take necessary steps by setting temporary shelters, water kiosks, health camps and emergency medicines to mitigate the heatwave effect on vulnerable sections of society.
22 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CID team quizzes Ranganayaki||The Crime Investigation Department (CID) personnel probing the case against self-proclaimed social media activist Poonuthota Ranganayaki of Guntur, said she could not give any valid reason for posting comments against the government and allegedly misleading the public on government schemes. A team of CID officials, who served notices to her a few days ago for posting comments against the government over the Viaskhapatnam gas tragedy, grilled her at their office on Thursday. “Ranganayaki’s intention is not for justice to the gas leak victims, but to create disaffection towards the democratically elected government by misleading the public through various social media groups,” the CID officials said. The CID Amaravati police registered a case and the CID police, Guntur, registered a case against Rangayanaki, and took up investigation. Her comments on issues such as three Capitals, Amma Vodi, financial aid to autorickshaw drivers, Rythu Bharosa, absorption of APSRTC into the government and the CM’s promise to scrap the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) had kicked up a row.
22 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Day One sees 1,380 RTC buses in action||After a gap of nearly two months, the Pandit Nehru Bus Station (PNBS) witnessed the buzz of passengers on Thursday. As part of partial relaxation of the lockdown, the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) officials resumed bus services in a phased manner. Of the total 1,683 buses kept ready, only 1,380 were operated in 436 routes across the State and the remaining were held back due to district-level restrictions. Strictly following the COVID-19 protocol, the passengers were made to sit at a distance in the waiting lounge. Everybody had their masks on and people were offered sanitisers to wash their hands before boarding. The seating arrangement in a few buses has been refashioned to maintain distance between the seats while in the old ones, passengers are made to sit in alternate seats. According to the Vice-Chairman and Managing Director of the Corporation Madireddy Pratap, the cash-strapped public carrier, on an average, has lost revenue to the tune of Rs. 1, 200 crore on account of the lockdown. The RTC also introduced a ‘no on-board conductor’ policy in the buses it is operating and this is to avoid the spread of the virus.  ‘City services very soon’ To start inter-State services to Telangana, Tamil Nadu and Bengaluru, the government is awaiting the approval of the Chief Secretaries of the respective States. “There is high demand for travel from the State to these three neighbouring States. The government will take a call after hearing from its counterparts,” he said, adding that city bus services would also be resumed very soon.
22 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM orders early grounding of lift irrigation scheme in Kadapa district||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has ordered that the Galeru Nagari Sujala Sravanthi (GNSS)-Chakrayapeta lift irrigation scheme in Kadapa district should be grounded at the earliest after completing judicial preview of tenders by this month-end. He also instructed the Finance Department to issue necessary clearances for the drinking water schemes intended to benefit seven villages affected by the mining project of the Uranium Corporation of India, and the Chitravathi balancing reservoir. Addressing a review meeting on the activities of the Pulivendula Area Development Authority (PADA) along with Kadapa MP Y.S. Avinash Reddy and District Collector C. Hari Kiran at his camp office here on Thursday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy emphasised on the need to begin the construction of the government medical college at Pulivendula at the earliest and wanted administrative clearance to be given to the GNSS-PBC canal lift scheme costing about Rs. 47 crore. He enquired about the status of the underground drainage scheme, establishment of a mini secretariat, widening of roads and construction of an area hospital and community health centres in the purview of PADA.
22 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||30 wards are in green zones in Vijayawada||Vijayawada Municipal Corporation Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh has announced the list of municipal wards falling under various COVID containment zones in the city. As of Thursday, the wards 2, 8, 16, 17, 18, 20, 21, 22, 28, 29, 36, 43, 44, 48, 49, 50, 55, 58 and 59 are under core areas of the containment zones or red zones. The wards 6, 7, 19, 23, 24, 26, 31, 33, 35, 37, 39 47, 51, 54, 56 are under buffer zones or orange zones. The remaining 30 wards are under green zones. The zones will be updated following the detection of new cases and denotification of dormant zones on a daily basis and updates can be seen at vmc.ap.gov.in.
22 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One more death, 45 new cases reported in State||The State has witnessed yet another death due to COVID-19 and 45 fresh cases of infection during the past 24 hours after 8,092 samples were tested. The new death of a patient took place in Nellore district. The death toll has gone up to 54 and the tally of positive cases reached 2,605, including 153 migrant workers’ cases. Two cases each in Nellore and Chittoor are linked to KoyAmbedu market in Tamil Nadu. Meanwhile, 41 patients have recovered. As many as 1,705 patients, over 65% of the total, have recovered so far and 846, over 32%, are still undergoing treatment. The mortality rate is at 2.07% while the positivity rate is at 0.94%. So far, the State tested 2.75 lakh samples achieving the tests per million population ratio of over 5, 500.
22 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Stranded people breathe sigh of relief as RTC resumes services||People from other districts in the State who were stranded in the city owing to the lockdown imposed to check the spread of coronavirus breathed a sigh of relief as Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) resumed its inter-district bus services on Thursday. The RTC buses were off the roads for two months due to the lockdown. The passengers started thronging the the Dwaraka Bus Station (RTC Complex) by 7 a.m., much before the scheduled departure of buses. “We are happy that the RTC bus services resumed operations. We are using masks, sanitisers and observing social distance as they are for our own safety,” said Rajyalakshmi, a middle-aged woman before boarding a bus to Rajamahendravaram. A young man of Gummalakshmipuram in Vizianagaram district, was all smiles as finally he was going home. “I am doing B. Tech at the GITAM Deemed to be University. I went home before the lockdown. I came here last week to attend to some urgent work. I managed to come by a bike to Vizianagaram and from there I reached the city somehow. I have been stuck here for the past one week as there was no transport,” he said. However, there was some confusion initially when some passengers came without prior booking of their tickets online. The police did not allow them to board the buses as those who had reserved their tickets were waiting in queues. There was also some confusion as passengers who had to go to Ichhapuram in Srikakulam district had no proper information on the platform number. Ticket counters “The unreserved passengers were not allowed initially as thermal screening was being done for the reserved passengers. However, the problem was sorted out in 10 minutes. Passengers were advised to book tickets online and those who did not have access to Internet were allowed to buy tickets at the five manual counters set up at the bus station. We have also introduced a swiping machine for digital transactions,” Deputy Chief Traffic Manager (Urban) M. Sudhabindu told The Hindu . The RTC authorities have advised children below 10 years and senior citizens above 65 years not to travel in view of their low immunity. “However, we cannot prevent them from boarding the buses,” said an official.
22 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Citizens remain indoors to escape sweltering heat||A sudden rise in temperature has been sapping the energy of citizens during the last two days in the city. The effect could be felt by those going to rythu bazaars and provisions stores much before 8 a.m. on Thursday. The crowds were missing at the rythu bazaars as many people chose to finish their shopping much before 7 a.m. in view of the hot sun. Those who remained at home, in view of the lockdown, also complained of hot winds. Many were seen moving or driving down in two-wheelers with their faces covered with scarf or stoles to beat the heat. A marked difference in maximum temperatures in the city areas closer to the coast and at the city airport was seen during the last two days. Visakhapatnam city recorded a maximum temperature of 36.7° Celsius during the 24 hours, ending 8.30 a.m. on Thursday as against 34 ° C on Wednesday morning. Visakhapatnam Airport recorded maximum temperature of 39°C at 8.30 a.m. as against 34.4° C the previous morning. The departure from the normal maximum temperature at Vizag airport was 2.3 °C and at Visakhapatnam, it was 3.4 ° C. The departure from normal at Visakhapatnam airport was 2.3° C. However, Visakhapatnam city (areas closer to the coast) recorded 36.7° C, which was a departure of 3.7°C from the normal. “In association with the transportation of dry and warmer air due to prevailing westerly to northwesterly winds compounded by clear skies has resulted in higher insolation. Heatwave conditions are likely to prevail at one or two places over coastal AP during the next two days,” according to V. V. Bhaskar, Director of the Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC).
22 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Smoke from HPCL refinery triggers panic among people||There was tension and panic among people residing near HPCL Visakh Refinery for about 30 minutes when thick, hot smoke billowed out of the Fluedised Catalytic Cracking Unit-1 of the refinery on Thursday evening. “The smoke that originated from one of the pipelines due to temperature fluctuations has been brought under control immediately,” HPCL spokesman said. “It has neither caused any damage nor casualty, and it is harmless,” he stated. The sudden development caused tension among residents of the nearby areas such as Sriharipuram, Malkapuram and Gajuwaka. They ran helter-skelter fearing another gas leak as memories of the May 7 styrene vapour leak in LG Polymers, which killed 12 persons and hospitalised over 350, were still fresh in their minds. “Though the incident is minor, it has created a lot of fear among people,” HPCL Visakh Refinery Contract Workers’ Union president N. Ramachandra Rao said. “With the recent gas leak incident still fresh in our memory, the billowing smoke has created a panic-like situation,” said G.A. Naidu, a resident of Malkapuram. Many even dialled ‘100’, and a team from the Malkapuram Police Station rushed to the spot to remove fear among the panic-stricken residents. Accident in 1997 People residing in these areas had a bad experience. Sixty people died and thousands were evacuated in 1997 due to vapour cloud explosion in the refinery. Later, the refinery also released a note stating that smoke was observed for a brief period at one of the stacks in the plant. It said that the smoke was caused due to momentary imbalance in combustion, leading to excess emission of smoke, along with steam, from the stack and it was controlled in 3 to 4 minutes following a normal operating procedure. As per the release, the emission was normal flue gas with steam.
22 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Paid quarantine facilities find few takers||Not many people who landed in Visakhapatnam from various countries in ‘Vande Bharat’ flights are opting for paid quarantine facilities set up in hotels. Flights which arrived from Abu Dhabi and Manila to Visakhapatnam, carried 314 stranded Indian nationals. Of them, 88 belong to Visakhapatnam district, while others left for their respective places in buses arranged by the State government. Among the 88 persons, only 11 have opted for paid quarantine in star hotels arranged by the district administration. Around 150 people including 48 from Visakhapatnam district landed in the city in flights from Doha. Of them, only 17 opted for paid quarantine in hotels. Similar is the case with the persons who arrived in the city via flights bound to Vijayawada as most of them have opted to spend the 14-day quarantine period at quarantine centres set up by the government at various educational institutions. “Not many foreign returnees have opted for paid quarantine facilities. For budget hotels, the charge for 14-day quarantine is around Rs. 15,000, nearly Rs. 1,100 per day. Though the charges are not viable when it comes to profit, the hotels agreed to offer their rooms after an appeal by the government,” said T. Satyanarana, honourary president of A.P. Hoteliers’ Association. Visakha Hotel Merchants’ Association secretary Shiva Reddy said that many foreign returnees were financially hit due to the lockdown, which could be the reason for them opting for government-run quarantine facilities. Tariff chart Meanwhile, Joint Collector G. Venugopal Reddy said that three types of quarantine facilities had been set, apart from those run by the government—budget hotels, three star hotels and four or five star hotels. “The charge for budget hotels is be around Rs. 15,000 for 14 days, while the same for three star facilities is around Rs. 28,000. Similarly, four and five star hotels are charging about Rs. 35,000. At present, there are 450 rooms available in the district for people who come from abroad,” Mr Venugopal Reddy said. COVID-19 protocol Dasapalla group of hotels general manager S. Prasanth said that they were following all safety measures when it came to hygiene. “Around 20 persons are staying in Daspalla executive court at present. As per the COVID-19 protocol, the hotel staff are not allowed inside the rooms. Cleaning material are being be kept near the rooms and the guests are supposed to clean the rooms themselves. Packed food items are being provided to them” he said.
22 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Government trying to make amends with Dr. Sudhakar’||Telugu Mahila president V. Anita has alleged that the YSRCP government was trying for a settlement with Dr. Sudhakar who was put under suspension over his remarks alleging lapses in the supply of N95 mask. “Dr. Sudhakar was suspended after he had made public statements on the non-availability of PPEs and masks for doctors at Narsipatnam hospital. He was manhandled by the police at Thatichetlapalem on charge of creating nuisance on the road,” Ms. Anita told the media here on Thursday. She further alleged that a case was booked against son of Dr. Sudhakar on charges of traffic violation and his family members were subjected to mental harassment.  The High Court, which took a suo motu cognisance of the matter has directed a sitting Judge to record the statement of the doctor. “Worried over this development, some Ministers have approached the doctor for a settlement. Even after recording his statement, the doctor is being coerced to give a confessional statement admitting his guilt in the case,” she alleged. Ms. Anita said that medical associations, which failed to come to the rescue of the suspended doctor, were now trying to negotiate a settlement.
22 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doctor tests positive, dist. tally goes up to 83||A doctor was tested positive for COVID-19 in the city on Thursday. It is learnt that he had treated a patient who was tested positive latter. Going by the contact tracing protocol, the doctor was put under quarantine and his samples was tested positive on Thursday. The doctor was undergoing treatment at a private hospital and he would now be shifted to a COVID-19 special hospital, said sources in the Health Department. With this, the number of positive cases in the district has gone up up to 83. Meanwhile, four patients have been discharged after treatment.
22 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Miscreants make vain bid to rob ATM in V. Madugula||Unidentified miscreants reportedly made a vain bid to rob money from an ATM kiosk in Jagannadhapuram area under V. Madugula police station limits on Wednesday late night. The miscreants reportedly tried to burn a portion of kiosk in their bid to open it. They avoided detection by the CCTV by spraying white paints on the camera. CLUES team gathered evidence. A case has been registered.
22 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prompt response by police saves the day||Timely response by the police averted a mishap as live electric wires fell on the road near Sri Surya Junction at Dondaparthy on Thursday. Policemen noticed the live wires falling on the road around 10 a.m. IV Town police station traffic inspector Simhadri Naidu and SI T.V Raghavulu cordoned off the area , preventing the entry of citizens. They alerted the power officials who fixed the wires.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nod for opening of shops in non-containment zones||All business and commercial establishments will be opened from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. in non-containment zones, according to District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar. Mr. Samuel Ananda Kumar told reporters at the end of a meeting with wholesale traders that all shops outside the cluster and containment buffer zones would be opened as per the guidelines of the State and Central governments. Guntur, Narasaraopet, and Tadepalli would be continuing in containment zones and the relaxation would be extended till 10 a.m. Containment zones exist in Macherla, Mangalagiri, Tenali, Piduguralla, Ponnur, Karlapalem, Pedakakani, Macherla Rural, and Tadepalli. Repalle, Bapatla, and Vinukonda municipalities are in non-containment zones. Every shop should display 'no mask, no entry' board and shop-keepers should sanitise all door handles and doors. Movie halls, gyms, restaurants, hotels and swimming pools would remain closed. Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar, SPs Ch. Vijaya Rao (Guntur Rural), PHD Ramakrishna (Guntur Urban) were present.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Some relief to passengers||
22 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||RIMS doctors, medicos and staff stage protest||Doctors, medicos, nurses and staff at the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS), Adilabad, on Thursday staged a protest demanding removal of Director Balram Banoth. The protesters gathered in front of the Director's office alleging that he was not issuing them protective gear required during discharge of duties in the hospital during COVID-19 times. The protesters submitted a memorandum listing their demands, mainly for supply of N95 masks and PPE kits.
22 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Nirmal gets containment zones again||Nirmal and Khanapur towns in Nirmal dist. will have one containment zone demarcated each owing to two migrant workers testing positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. Mancherial district also had four of such workers testing positive.
22 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Constable working in city succumbs to COVID-19||A 37-year-old constable with the Hyderabad police died on Wednesday night, six days after he tested positive for COVID-19. The constable, belonging to the 2007 batch and hailing from Nalgonda district, is the first Telangana policeman to have died of the virus. So far, six police personnel have tested positive for the virus. Joint Commissioner of Police (West) A.R. Srinivas confirmed that the constable died at Gandhi Hospital, the largest COVID-19 isolation centre in the State, around 10.30 p.m. on Wednesday. On May 13, he was taken to the Nature Cure Hospital in Begumpet after he complained of severe fever, body pain and fatigue. He was later shifted to Government Hospital at King Koti. Two days later, on May 15, his test report came positive and then he was shifted to Gandhi Hospital. Mr. Srinivas said that for the past several weeks, the victim had been manning the Puranapul check post and was also deployed at containment zones, apart from other routine police duties. Apart from his family members, samples of 28 police officials who were working in close contact with him were sent for tests and they all tested negative. Four of them were sent to home quarantine, the Joint CP said. He visited the bereaved family and promised them government support. The constable was a resident of Vanasthalipuram and is survived by wife and two children. Though he had fever for the past 15 days, he attended duty and was on medication. But, on May 13, when his body temperature increased, he came to the police station, seeking help. “We thought it was a common fever or sunstroke and allowed him to attend duty,” another official said. The city police had been constantly informed by the doctors that the constable’s health condition was becoming serious and he was not responding to treatment, it was said. His last rites were performed on Thursday morning, in keeping with the COVID-19 protocol. Director-General of Police Mahender Reddy expressed condolences to the bereaved family and assured them of all support. “My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family members. The Govt & TS Police will standby & support the family in the hour of distress by all means,” Mr. Reddy tweeted.
22 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Regulated cultivation from ensuing vaanakalam: CM||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has announced that all the farmers in the State should cultivate the crops in a regulated manner and avail Rythu Bandhu assistance as well as get remunerative price for their produce. Farmers would get good price by cultivating quality crops which enjoy a demand in the market. Agriculture Department and agriculture university would give due suggestions to the farming community and if farmers abide by their guidance, they would not face any problems, he said. The Chief Minister held an extensive meeting at Pragathi Bhavan here on Thursday with Ministers, senior officers, various corporation chairmen, Collectors and district agriculture officers, district Rythu Bandhu Samithi presidents, agriculture university officers and scientists to discuss the proposed policy of regulated cropping pattern.  Crop enumeration “Agriculture is major part of Telangana people’s lives. Future of agriculture should be bright and the farmers should give quality produce to the world and earn profits. From this vaanakalam itself crop enumeration should be taken up on what crop is being raised where. Rythu Sadassulu should be organised cluster-wise in the next four to five days to create an awareness about the new policy of regulated cultivation by inviting Ministers, MLAs, ZP Chairmen and other people’s representatives,” he said. Majority of farmers in the State welcomed the regulated cultivation of crops according a survey and it is a good development, he said, and added that he would construct Rythu Vedika at his Yerravelli agriculture cluster with his own funds. Each of the Ministers and some others too came forward to construct one Rythu Vedika. Rythu Vedikas should be constructed in all 2,602 clusters in four to five months, Mr. Rao instructed. Farmers were incurring losses due to excess supply than the demand as all of them were raising the same crop. The government thought of various solutions to prevent this situation and came out with the suggestion of regulated crop cultivation, he said. Food processing The government has also decided to start food processing units in a big way through out the State by setting up food processing SEZs which include rice, pulse and oil mills and othe units. District officials should identify land for the SEZs at the earliest. Next to food processing SEZs, godowns should be constructed. No permission should be given for residential layouts close to SEZs and godowns. Every godown should necessarily have cold storage facility, he said. Agro business Mr. Rao said that agricultural scientists will decide what crop to be raised in which season and what variety. The agro business department decides which crop has demand in the market. The government accordingly is giving its guidance to the farmers. As a result, there would be no question of farmers suffering any losses, he explained. Last year paddy crop was cultivated on 40 lakh acres in the rainy season and this season too paddy should be cultivated in the same extent. Last year, cotton was cultivated in 53 lakh acres and this year it should be raised to 70 lakh acres. Last year, red gram was cultivated on seven lakh acres and this year it should be increased to 15 lakh acres. Soyabean, turmeric, chilly, vegetables and other crops could be cultivated like last year. Farmers raising various seed could cultivate the same crops. But maize crop was not suitable for rainy season and it should be cultivated in Yasangi season, he said. Those farmers who would traditionally cultivate maize in rainy season should cultivate cotton, red gram this season, he said. Care should be taken in selecting paddy varieties. Telangana Sona has good demand and paddy seed with 6.5 mm size has demand and only those paddy varieties should be cultivated, he added. Long gestation paddy crops should be raised in ayacut under Godavari projects and short gestation paddy crop under Krishna river projects, the Chief Minister said.  Future of agriculture should be bright and farmers should give quality produce to the world and earn profits. K. Chandrasekhar Rao, Chief Minister.
22 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Health officials expect surge in COVID cases||With the spurt in movement of people after partial relaxation of lockdown, health officials expect a further surge in COVID cases in the coming few weeks. People commuting to offices and other places, and migrant workers heading back to their home states, are two of the factors cited during discussions between health officials and district administrations. Besides, the announcement to resume domestic flights in a calibrated manner from May 25 is weighing heavily on health officials. Sources in the department said that this possible increase in cases was discussed at a higher level before the partial relaxation of lockdown was implemented. After two weeks of single digit or around 20 cases per day from April 25 to May 8, cases started to increase in the State from May 9. “We are expecting further rise in cases. It is disturbing that our efforts might get washed away if cases increase in the coming weeks,” said a senior health official on conditions of anonymity. There has been a gradual increase in the number of migrants testing positive. Till May 21, a total of 99 migrants were found COVID positive.
22 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flyover opened as part of SRDP||The first-level flyover at Biodiversity junction, Gachibowli, constructed part of the SRDP project for signal free-traffic flow in capital, was inaugurated by Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) K. T. Rama Rao here on Thursday. The flyover is one of the six structures, and the last of them, launched in the Serilingampally zone as part of Package-IV of SRDP, and expected to address the traffic chaos in the zone, home to the IT industry, and the Financial District. Estimated cost for the total package was Rs. 379 crore, of which Rs. 30.26 crore had been spent on the flyover. The structure is part of the 12-km corridor between JNTU and Biodiversity junction, a statement by the GHMC said. Among the earlier structures of the package is a flyover more than a kilometre in length near Rajiv Gandhi junction constructed with at a cost of Rs. 98 crore. It connects the Hitec City with the Malaysian Township, thereby diverting part of the traffic on the JNTU stretch. An underpass was created near Ayyappa Society junction with an expenditure of Rs. 44.3 crore to resolve traffic problems up to Kondapur. A flyover and an underpass too were built at Mindspace Junction with an expenditure of Rs. 80.23 crore, and Rs. 51.41 crore respectively. The second level flyover at the Biodiversity junction, close to a kilometre in length, was launched in November 2019, with an expenditure of Rs. 69.12 crore, to resolve traffic issues from Mehdipatnam to Mindspace Junction. The flyover ran into controversies with three persons dying in two accidents within one week of the launch. Several measures were put in place, later, to ensure a safe ride on the structure. The launch of flyover on Thursday was also attended by Minister of Education Sabitha Indra Reddy, Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, government whip A. Gandhi, MP Ranjit Reddy, GHMC commissioner D. S. Lokesh Kumar, and officials of the Engineering department of GHMC.
22 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mobile COVID ICU flagged off||A mobile COVID ICU, conceptualised by Grace Cancer Foundation, was flagged off by Health Minister Eatala Rajender at Koti on Thursday. The ICU facility inside a bus has ventilators, tele radiology, e-ICU, ultrasound, and AI-based risk stratification. Swab samples too can be collected. The International Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) in Hyderabad is the data and technology partner of the facility.
22 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Apex Council meet soon to discuss AP-TS water row||With the two Telugu States at loggerheads over the issue of utilising the Krishna and Godavari river waters by shooting letters against one another and lodging complaints with the two river boards in the recent weeks, the Centre has decided to convene the Apex Council meeting soon. A communication was sent to the secretaries of Water Resources/Irrigation departments of the two States by the Ministry of Jal Shakti on Thursday indicating that the Apex Council meeting is on the cards. The meeting became a certainty after the two States complaining against each other in the river boards and Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat asking the Water Resources Department in his Ministry to convene a meeting of the Council at the earliest. In response to a letter by BJP Member of Parliament from Karimnagar Bandi Sanjay last week seeking the Centre’s intervention in the matter of AP’s plans to divert 8 tmc ft of Krishna water every day from Srisailam, Mr. Shekhawat not only assured to convene the Apex Council meeting but also asked KRMB to convene a meeting “immediately”. Although the board meeting with the two States is yet to be held, a three-member technical committee is expected to meet here on Friday to discuss water utilisation by the two States during the current water year concluding at the month-end. In a communication sent to Special Chief Secretary of Water Resources in Andhra Pradesh government and Principal Secretary of Irrigation in Telangana government, Under Secretary in the Water Resources Department of the Jal Shakti Ministry A.C. Mallick said: “As directed to convey, the next meeting of Apex Council constituted under the AP Reorganisation Act is likely to be convened shortly under the Chairmanship of Minister for Jal Shakti and Chief Ministers of AP and Telangana”. The communication also pointed that the two States were yet to submit the details of the agenda to discuss various issues of Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) and Godavari River Management Board (GRMB) at the Apex Council meeting, thought of earlier, as agreed upon at a meeting held by Union Water Resources Secretary on January 21 this year. In the wake of the Ministry’s decision to convene the Apex Council meeting soon, the two States have been asked, once again, to send agenda points for the meeting on priority basis. “Due for long, the issue of working manual for the two river boards, which is yet to be finalised, is also expected to figure at the Apex Council meet to give more role-clarity to the governing bodies, including taking swift decisions on installing water drawl quantity measuring equipment (telemetry) at all points of drawl in major projects, particularly the two common reservoirs — Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar — of the two States in the basin,” a senior Telangana official said. After its constitution, the Apex Council Meeting was held only once so far on September 21, 2016 without arriving at any consensus on the projects being taken up by the two States. Chaired by the then Union Water Resources Minister Uma Bharati, the meeting was attended by then Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao.
22 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Al-Qaeda terrorist deported from US||A 40-year-old Al-Qaeda terrorist from Hyderabad, who had been convicted of terror financing in the United States, was deported to India on Wednesday after completing his prison term. Ibrahim Zubair Mohammed was arrested by the security forces in the US in 2011 for providing material and financial support to Al-Qaeda’s key leader Anwar-al-Awlaki. He was awarded jail term of five years, while his brother Yahya Farooq Mohammad, who also pleaded guilty was sentenced to 27 years as he had hired a hitman to kill a judge presiding over a terror case. Sources in the government of India told The Hindu that Zubair, along with other Indian nationals deported from the US, landed in Amritsar on Wednesday. He was sent to a quarantine centre there. “After the 14-day mandatory quarantine period ends, the Al-Qaeda operative will be taken to New Delhi for questioning,” a senior officer said. Zubair, who was born in Sharjah, studied engineering at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign from 2001 to 2005. He moved to Toledo, Ohio in 2006 and married a US citizen, becoming a lawful resident of the US. One of his parents are the residents of Alwal here and before completing his studies at University of Illinois, he pursued his Master’s for three years at a city-based college in Banjara Hills and later went to the US. According to the US court document in possession with The Hindu, Zubair facilitated the transfer $ 22,000 to Awlaki in Yemen to carry out terror attacks. Between 2004 and 2009, he made more than 60 transactions in his brother’s bank account. Zubair attempted to conceal the source of the funds provided by Awlaki by deleting emails and lying to the investigators. Awlaki is known for advocating violence against the US and was involved in attempted terrorist attacks against civilians there, the document stated. Telangana police confirmed that he is not involved in cases here.
22 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR hails IT dept. for growth in exports||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has congratulated the IT department for the impressive growth in IT exports from the State. Telangana’s exports grew at 17.93% compared to the national average of 8.09% and rest of the nation’s average of 6.92%. The share of Telangana’s exports in India went up from 10.6% to 11.6% and its share in this year’s growth in national exports was a remarkable 23.5%. “This clearly indicates that Telangana is poised to be the preferred destination for IT investments in the future,” he said. The Chief Minister directed the IT department to ensure that all precautions were taken for the smooth functioning of the industry in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao and principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan met Mr. KCR and shared with him the IT export and employment data for the financial year 2019-20. Telangana’s employment grew at 7.2% compared to the national average of 4.93%, and the growth rate in employment is about 50% more than the rest of India. Mr. Rama Rao said that despite the onset of COVID during the last quarter of the financial year 2019-20, the export growth from Telangana managed to record 17.93% growth for the full financial year. He said that the Hyderabad IT ecosystem has the agility and resilience to overcome the effects of COVID. Several investors are actively engaged in discussions with the department and soon there would be some announcements. The department will release the progress report on June 1, highlighting the achievements during 2019-20, for the sixth consecutive year. Mr. Jayesh Ranjan said that under the IT4TS campaign, several employees of the IT industry in Hyderabad contributed their salaries and with companies matching equally, the proceeds were used for procuring high-end medical infrastructure for testing COVID and other viruses subsequently in government hospitals. Several companies also contributed towards PPEs, ventilators and other relief measures. The IT sector in Hyderabad was able to raise Rs. 70 crore collectively towards the fight against COVID-19. During the financial year 2019-20, several marquee investments have taken place in Hyderabad, including the inauguration of Amazon’s world’s largest facility and Micron’s largest R&D centre globally. Tech Mahindra and Cyient opened their centres in the Tier-2 location of Warangal. Several MNCs were showing interest in the eastern part of the city too. Mr. Rama Rao also informed the Chief Minister that the commercial space absorption in the city during the first two quarters of 2019-20 topped all metros in India in growth as well as in absolute terms.
22 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||What is the motive, asks Congress||AICC secretary and former Congress MLA Challa Vamshi Chand Reddy has questioned the motive behind permitting five private universities when State varsities were in a dismal condition with hundreds of vacancies and an uncertain situation due to COVID-19. At a press conference here, he said three of the five universities permitted were of TRS leaders while one was of a relative of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Labour Minister M. Malla Reddy and Rythu Bandhu Samiti chairman Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, who enjoy Cabinet status, owned two of the universities while SR University owner was a TRS leader, he said. Woxsen College was established in 2015 and it had been given university status as its owner was a relative of the CM, he said. “Is this the KG-to-PG free education promised by the Chief Minister,” he asked, adding that it also showed the discourteous attitude of the CM towards the pitiful plight of government colleges and universities. Mr. Reddy charged that Mr. KCR did not have time to fill Vice-Chancellor vacancies in 11 universities pending for several months but had the time to grant permission to private universities. Mr. Reddy alleged that Mr. Malla Reddy had been paying part salaries to his employees and also showed a screen short, which he claimed to have been sent to the employees to return half of their salary once it was credited to their accounts.
22 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Telangana police a worried lot||The death on Wednesday of a 37-year-old police constable in Hyderabad, after testing positive for coronavirus on May 15, has the police force across the State worried. Police personnel on the ground are now worried about their health and lives. While the stress has been there since the pandemic and lockdown duties began, the situation is now only exacerbated. Part of the problem, several field-level officials told The Hindu , is that communication between higher officials and ground staff is one-way, with instructions being issued from above frequently and feedback from the policemen not reaching top officials. “Senior officials are holding conferences regularly to give instructions, but are least bothered about taking feedback from us,” a sub-inspector said. He said they were asked to conduct vehicle check and verify documents of motorists on road to enforce lockdown daily, which exposed them more to coronavirus. “What is not coming to light is the stress that policemen are going through, thanks to unruly people who took their free movement for granted during previous lockdowns which had a very few relaxations,” the officer said, adding that the force was having to bear the brunt in the form of continuous work. While officials insist that masks and other necessary prerequisites have been provided to all field staff on duty, sub-inspectors and other lower-cadre officers are afraid that the extreme levels of exposure to the public increase the chances of their contracting the virus. “Yes, they have provided us with masks, hand sanitisers, hand gloves and bottles of juice to boost our immunity, despite that he (constable) died. The field staff are at high risk when compared to senior officials,” another sub-inspector with Cyberabad Police Commissionerate said. Senior officials should come up with a strategy to prevent more cases and deaths among the police force, he said.
22 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Tributes paid to Rajiv Gandhi||Telangana Congress leaders paid rich tributes to former Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi on his 29th death anniversary recalling his contribution to the country and how he sacrificed his life to keep the country united. TPCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and former MP V. Hanumantha Rao first paid floral tributes at the Rajiv Gandhi statue in Somajiguda while Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy paid floral tributes later. A separate programme was held at the Gandhi Bhavan where all senior Congress leaders including Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy, Hanumantha Rao, J. Kusum Kumar, Marri Shashidhar Reddy, A. Sampath Kumar, G. Chinna Reddy, Anjan Kumar Yadav, Gudur Narayan Reddy were among others who participated. Meanwhile in Khammam, former Prime Minister late Rajiv Gandhi’s vision and contribution to India’s technological revolution and development continues to inspire millions across the country to dedicate themselves to serve the cause of motherland, said Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka. In Nizamabad, the party cadres garlanded Rajiv Gandhi statues and portraits in the integrated undivided district. DCC presidents Manala Mohan Reddy in Nizamabad and Kailash Srinivas in Kamareddy led the cadres. Among those who were present were PCC general secretaries B. Mahesh Kumar Goud and Gadugu Gangadhar, leaders Sekhar Goud and others.
22 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Science Diplomacy Fund for UoH professor||Faculty from the Centre for Neural and Cognitive Sciences (CNCS), University of Hyderabad (UoH), Ramesh Mishra, and Neils Schiller from Leiden University, Netherlands, have been awarded the Science Diplomacy Fund by NWO, which is the National Research Council of the Netherlands. The objective of the fund is to develop diplomatic relations between the two countries pertaining to scientific research and policy-making. The focus will be on multilingualism and its consequences on education and economy. Several activities such as conferences and visits will be initiated as part of the fund after assessing the international travel situation in the world. Earlier, professors Mishra and Schiller were awarded the ASEM-DUO India award.
22 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fake video of shopping at Madina goes viral||On Wednesday evening, a social media user by the name Manohar Pv shared a video from Faisalabad in Pakistan and tried to pass it for a scene from Madina shopping centre in Hyderabad. Alerted about the video, independent video checkers flagged the video as fake news and the video had a warning about it being false news. The video soon had a label: “False: A video from Pakistan falsely shared as ‘Crowd with no social distancing at a shopping centre in Old city (Hyderabad)’”. But that didn’t stop others from sharing the video with the politically loaded commentary. In reality, the Madina shopping area was nearly deserted on Wednesday as the shops were being marked with 1 and 2 to effectively implement the odd-even rule by the government. The shopping hours too have been limited in Hyderabad as a curfew comes into force at 7 p.m. “Fake news has reached pandemic proportions due to the COVID-19. That video was shared by nearly 250 people. Earlier, we had booked 25 persons for spreading fake news about Covid-19,” said Dileep Konatham, Director, Digital Media, government of Telangana. He said the State government was planning to augment its resources in its fight against fake news. “Beside the fact- checking portal we are planning a service that will reduce the down time and we will have near-real-time response to fake news,” said Mr. Konatham. According to social media users, Facebook has tweaked its algorithm so that the visibility is reduced when a person repeatedly shares fake news. Telangana’s ITE & C department has teamed up with Factly to create a fake-news busting site.
22 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Rythu Bandhu Samitis should play a key role’||Agriculture Minister S. Niranjan Reddy has exhorted Rythu Bandhu Samitis to play key role in the implementation of the new agriculture policy that is being launched in the State. The Minister wanted the Samitis to effectively take the government's resolve to make farming profitable through the new policy. Representatives of the samitis should educate farmers about the need for cultivating crops that are in demand in the market, he said. The samitis should become the voice of the farmers by taking up their issues as well as creating awareness among them on various developments, he said. At the same time, they should be vigilant about the spurious seed, the Minister said. The government took serious view against circulation of spurious seed. Cases under the Preventive Detention (PD) Act would be registered against those found guilty of the offence, he said. The Minister interacted with district representatives of the Samitis on Thursday.
22 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Micron Foundation grants Rs. 3.75 crore to Akshaya Patra||Akshaya Patra Foundation received a Rs. 3.75 crore grant from Micron Foundation for COVID-19 relief. Funding will go towards preparing and distributing over 15,00,000 meals (including essential food relief kits) to the affected people in Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka as per the directions of local administrative bodies, said managing director of Micron India, Anand Ramamoorthy. Akshaya Patra has served more than 5 crore meals across India. In Telangana, it is working with the GHMC and local municipalities to serve cooked meals to migrant workers.
22 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC order will be reviewed, says Eatala||A day after Telangana High Court said that private laboratories and hospitals can test samples and attend to patients, Health Minister Eatala Rajender said that the court’s orders to take further course of action would be reviewed. Mr. Rajender said that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has been reiterating that tests for coronavirus and treatment have to be provided by government hospitals and that the State government has the capacity to offer these services. “When a person tests positive, we trace his or her family members and all the people the patient met, and conduct tests on them. If need be, we quarantine them,” he said, asking if private establishments could do the same.
22 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Water board prepares for monsoon||Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board Managing Director M. Dana Kishore, during a review meeting on Thursday, directed officials to make preparations for the coming monsoon. Already, safety grilles were installed for manholes more than 1.5 metres deep within the city, he said, and instructed officials to do the same for manholes in peripheral municipalities, before the first week of June. Safety grilles were fitted for manholes in 185 locations which get flooded during rains. Sewerage supervisors should be appointed during rains, and caution boards should be displayed near deeper manholes. Mr. Dana Kishore appealed to people not to open manhole covers in any circumstances. Open manholes and damaged covers should be reported to water board customer care number at 155313.
22 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Test all scribes: Raja Singh to CM||BJP MLA T. Raja Singh urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to test all media personnel for coronavirus. In a letter to the CM, he said, “To protect our mediapersons in the State, I request you to test all of them for the virus.”
22 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||City sweats at 42 degree C; 2 die in Karimnagar||Two persons died of heat in Karimnagar as the summer sun scorched Telangana with most of the places across the State recording the highest temperatures of the season on Thursday. Khammam sizzled with temperatures touching 45.6 degree C. More ominously, the India Meteorological Department has warned that extreme hot conditions will continue to prevail or increase in the next two/three days without any respite as Cyclone Amphan had sucked away the moisture in the atmosphere. The twin cities too witnessed the highest day temperature of 42 degree C, easily above the normal temperatures usually recorded during this time and it is expected to go up to 43 degree C too while the night temperatues will hover around 28 degree C. Rest of the key towns saw the maximum temperatures shooting up.
22 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Applications||The receipt of hard copies of the online application along with all testimonials for the post of degree college principal in the Telangana Social Welfare Residential Education Institutions Society (TSWREIS), which was earlier discontinued, in view of the lockdown in the State, has now been resumed. Candidates can submit hard copies between 10.30 a.m. and 5 p.m. on all working days at the office of TREI-RB, D.S.S Bhavan, IV Floor, Masab Tank, up to June 5, a press release said.
22 May 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Karimnagar to emerge as seed bowl of TS||Minister for Health Eatala Rajender said that Karimnagar district would emerge as the ‘Seed bowl of Telangana’ and also ‘Rice bowl of Telangana’ thanks to the availability of Kaleshwaram lift irrigation project and SRSP waters. Mr. Rajender, along with Minister for BC Welfare and Civil Supplies Gangula Kamalakar, elected representatives and the district officials conducted a review meeting on the khariff action plan and the utilisation of SRSP and KLIP waters, here on Wednesday. In a brief chat with presspersons, Mr Rajender said that 63 per cent of the agricultural lands in the district would cultivate paddy because of its location in the command area and another major portion would be allocated for cotton cultivation. Cultivation of maize would not be encouraged during the rainy season because of fewer yields during the period. Instead, the farmers would be advised to go for the redgram and other pulses, he said and added that they would take a final decision on the cropping pattern in the district after Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao holds a review meeting in Hyderabad on Thursday. All the irrigation tanks in the district would be filled with SRSP and KLIP waters, Mr. Rajender said. Besides, water would be stored in the SRSP flood flow canal throughout the year. He also said that pending works of Thotapalli and Gouravelli reservoirs would be completed, which will provide irrigation to 77,000 acres by the next crop season.
22 May 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Man dies as electricity pole falls on him||A farmer Venkanna, 45, was killed in a freak mishap when an electricity pole collapsed on him on the premises of the paddy procurement centre in Chegomma village in Kusumanchi mandal on Thursday. The incident occurred when the driver of a truck loaded with paddy suddenly rammed the vehicle into an electricity pole while reversing the truck on Thursday afternoon.The pole crashed on Venkanna, who suffered serious head injuries and died while being shifted to a hospital in Khammam.
22 May 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Man’s head cut off in freak mishap||In a ghastly accident, a man’s head was cut of from his body at Rampur in Alladurg mandal of Medak district on Thursday. Manne Durgaiah (43) was working in a rice mill. In the afternoon as he was going to the mill a tractor fitted with cutting blades hit him killing him on the spot. His head was cut off from the body.
22 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Two more corporators join TRS||Yet two other municipal corporators -- Sirigada Dharmapuri of BJP (Division-25) and Nyamatabad Sivacharan of Congress (Division-40) -- joined the TRS in the presence of Minister V. Prashanth Reddy and MLAs B. Ganesh Gupta and B. Govardhan in Hyderabad on Thursday. He said that MPTC member from Savel in Balkonda constituency, Puppala Raju, left Congress and joined the party on Thursday. With this, five corporators belonging to BJP and Congress in the municipal corporation defected to the TRS.
22 May 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Mentally challenged minor raped||: In a shocking incident, a mentally challenged minor girl working in the house of one Dayanand for the past one year at Kishtayipally village was allegedly raped by him . As the girl complained of abdominal pain her parents referred her to doctors who informed she was pregnant. When questioned, the girl informed her parents that she was sexually assaulted by Dayanad for the past six months. Based on a complaint police registered a case and are investigating. Dayanad is absconding.
22 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,TELANGANA||AP constitutes task force to attract investments||The government has constituted a task force for attracting investments with Minister for Industries and Commerce Mekapati Goutham Reddy as its chairman, according to a G.O. issued by Special Chief Secretary R. Karikal Valaven. It was stated in the G.O. (RT No. 107) that economic issues and supply chain constraints caused by COVID-19 promoted many countries to do a rethink on their investments in China. Reports indicate that the US, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, Vietnam, and Singapore are likely to diversify their supply chains from China, and India could emerge as an alternative investment destination. The task force is intended to take advantage of this situation.
22 May 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DIST.,TELANGANA||Honour for State scientists||Shyam Perugu, assistant professor in the Department of Biotechnology, NIT Warangal, in collaboration with the National Institute of Animal Biotechnology (NIAB), Hyderabad, and Translational Health Science and Technology Institute (THSTI), Haryana, were awarded DBT-BIRAC COVID-19 project (Hunt for PanCovid19 antiviral for coronaviruses of present and future) with a proposed grant of Rs. 2 crore. Mr. Shyam is the co-principal investigator to the project, while Girish of the NIAB is the principal investigator to the project.
22 May 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DIST.,TELANGANA||Two killed in accident on NH 163||Two persons were killed after the car they were travelling in went out of control on Warangal-Hyderabad NH 163 and hit the divider near Lothuvagu in Raghunathapally mandal of Jangaon district on Thursday. The deceased were identified as Chinthala Ramesh, 48, and his driver, Banoth Suresh, 25. Ramesh, was a businessman hailing from Bheemaram in Warangal Urban district while his driver, Suresh, is a native of Pedda tanda under Bommera village of Palakurthy mandal in Jangaon district.
22 May 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DIST.,TELANGANA||Three of a family found dead in Mahabubabad||Three members of Mannegudem village of Dornakal mandal in Mahabubabad district were found dead. The victims have been identified as a 28-year-old man, his wife aged 25, and their 14-month-old son. The couple ended their lives at their house on Wednesday over suspected financial problems and family issues, the police said.  (Roshni - suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)
22 May 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DISTRICT,TELANGANA||Four of a migrant worker family found dead in a well||Four of a family of migrant workers from West Bengal were found dead in a agricultural well in Gorrekunta village under Geesugonda mandal in Warangal Rural district on Thursday. The migrant workers were working in a gunny bags manufacturing unit. The deceased were identified that Musa, his wife Nisha and their two-year-old child and a relative Bushra Khatun. The entire family were living in a rented house in Kareemabad in the city. According to the information, all the members of the family were working in a nearby mill since 20 years. Geesugonda police Inspector G. Shiva Ramaiah said that they suspect that the family members might have taken the extreme step due to financial issues as a result of the lockdown. The police retrieved the bodies from the well and shifted them to MGM hospital for post mortem. CLUES teams, dog squad inspected the spot. A case has been registered under Section 174 of CrPC of suspicious death and case is under investigation, the Inspector said.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 in case of any emotional breakdown at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre — Roshni.)
22 May 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT.,TELANGANA||CGI, Bala Vikasa donate medical equipment to Gandhi Hospital||The CGI, an Information Technology and business consulting service firm, has partnered with Bala Vikasa, a community development organisation in Telangana to donate medical equipment to Gandhi Hospital, Hyderabad, in their battle against COVID-19 pandemic. “To help the hospital combat the pandemic, CGI has donated critical equipment such as continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT), Video Laryngoscopes, and -80 degree deep freezer for plasma storage,” said Executive Director, Bala Vikasa, Singareddy Shoury Reddy here on Thursday addressing a press meet.
22 May 2020||Bhopal,||Pranayama can boost immunity, says Ramdev||Yoga guru Baba Ramdev on Wednesday informed Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh, which is one of the worst hit by the COVID-19 pandemic, that pranayama (breathing exercises) and ayurvedic medicines could help boost immunity and keep the disease at bay. During a videoconference to give advice to the Chief Medical and Health Officers of all the 52 districts, in the presence of Mr. Chouhan, Baba Ramdev said, “If an individual’s immunity is strong, corona can do no harm to them. The usage of ayurvedic medicines and pranayama improves the body’s immunity.” Health Minister Narottam Mishra, Chief Secretary Iqbal Singh Bains, Director General of Police Vivek Johri and Additional Chief Secretary for Health Mohammed Suleman were present during the meeting where Baba Ramdev guided health officials on the use of ayurvedic medicines and pranayama to combat COVID-19. Baba Ramdev claimed herbs ashwagandha (withania somnifera) and giloy (tinospora cordifolia) were effective to break the chain of infection due to the illness. “Their usage in the treatment of corona patients has shown good results,” he claimed. As for breathing exercises, he listed six kinds of pranayama which could help keep the disease at bay. “Corona patients can also do pranayama. It gives quick relief,” he claimed Extolling the initiate of Mr. Chouhan to give away ayurvedic medicines to people to improve their immunity to stop the disease’s spread, Baba Ramdev claimed the use of the medicines had been successful on patients of the illness too.  ‘Medicines distributed’ Explaining the distribution of ayurvedic medicines, Mr. Chouhan said around 2 crore people had been given packets of decoction syrups in the State. Even health workers and police officers were also being given the syrups. He hoped the use of ayurvedic medicines and pranayama would go a long way in winning the war against the disease.
22 May 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. records 248 new cases||Madhya Pradesh on Thursday registered 248 new COVID-19 cases, taking the overall count to 5,981, said the Directorate of Health Services. Most cases, at 61, were registered in Ujjain, where 481 cases and 51 deaths have been recorded so far. The case fatality rate in the city stands at 10.6%, according to a bulletin issued by the Directorate. Whereas, four deaths owing to the illness were reported in the State during the day, taking the death toll to 270. Two patients died in Indore, and one death was reported in Ujjain and Neemuch each. As for recoveries, 110 patients were discharged from hospitals across the State after recovering from the illness. So far, 2,843 patients have recovered, with most, at 1,213, being in Indore.
22 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Police remand for Cong. leader Pankaj Punia||Congress leader from Haryana Pankaj Punia, arrested by police in Haryana's Karnal for allegedly hurting religious feelings through a social media post was on Thursday sent on police remand for a day by a local court. “We produced Pankaj Punia in a local court at Karnal on May 21, and the court has granted one day police remand. He was arrested from Madhuban area late Wednesday night,” Bharti Arora, Inspector General of Police, Karnal Range said. A police case was registered against Mr. Punia, a former secretary of Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee, on basis of a complaint by a Karnal resident, who alleged that Mr. Punia had posted provocative falsehood to promote enmity between sections of society on ground of religion. The case against Mr. Punia was registered under sections related to promoting enmity between different groups, outraging religious feelings of the Indian Penal Code and under the Information Technology (Amendment) Act 2008. Another FIR was registered against Mr. Punia in Lucknow as well for his alleged objectionable tweet.
22 May 2020||Ghaziabad,||Two girls found murdered in Shamli||After a lull, reports of heinous crimes have once again started emerging from western Uttar Pradesh. After the gruesome murder of two workers of a political party in Sambhal on May 19, two unidentified bodies of girls were found in a sugarcane field in a village in Shamli district on Wednesday, police said. ‘No evidence of rape’ Superintendent of Police Vineet Jaiswal told The Hindu that a farmer of Jaganpura village discovered the bodies when he went to irrigate the sugarcane field on Wednesday evening. “He called the police. The post-mortem report says the girls were murdered between the night of May 18 and May 19. There are head injuries that suggest they were killed with a heavy, blunt object. There is no evidence of rape,” he said. Mr. Jaiswal said four teams had been formed to trace the antecedents of the deceased. “We have questioned the locals but no one has come forward to identify them. We are in touch with neighbouring districts such as Baghpat, Muzaffarnagar, and Panipat in Haryana to check if a missing person report has been lodged there. In another incident an alleged cow smuggler was killed and a constable was seriously injured during an encounter in Saharanpur on Wednesday night. According to an official release, the police responded to an informer’s tip off that four persons were indulging in cow slaughter in village Ghanamandi. According to the release, a team of five policemen surrounded the area. The smugglers fired at the police but constable Vatan Pawar caught hold of one of the smugglers. The constable was attacked with a knife three times. The police fired in self-defence, injuring one of the smugglers. The four managed to escape. Later, during the combing operation, one of the smugglers named Virasat was found lying in a sugarcane field around 2.30 a.m. on Thursday. He was taken to the district hospital where he was declared brought dead. The injured constable was referred to Dehradun where his situation is critical, according to Dinesh Kumar P, Senior Superintendent of Police, Saharanpur. A case has been registered.
22 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam to go for ‘ruthless quarantine’ policy||The Assam government has decided to go for “ruthless quarantine” of passengers coming from outside the state by all modes of transport, including air for keeping the novel coronavirus in check. The decision came hours after Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri advocated a pragmatic approach to quarantining air passengers and insisted such measures were not required for short-haul domestic flights. “Assam has had a sudden spike in COVID-19 positive cases since May 4 when the Ministry of Home Affairs allowed inter-State travel. In view of the grim situation because of cases, mostly imported from western and southern India, we have decided to go for ruthless quarantine with a humane heart,” Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Friday evening. The elites and influential will not be spared the ruthlessness that entails a denial of phone and social media access, the Minister said. “Assam now has 191 (increased to 199 later) positive cases, mostly after 37,000 people returned by road and train. This is just the tip of the iceberg with another 12 lakh are waiting to come and we are not firm about quarantining,” Mr Sarma said. “All passengers will be quarantined, and we will get air passengers from three airports when domestic air travel starts on May 25,” he added. Cash incentives The Minister, however, said the ruthless quarantine policy will come with cash incentives. “We have decided to stop payment-based quarantine with immediate effect. The government will bear the expenditure of up to Rs. 20,000 per quarantined person and all district heads have been asked to facilitate the payment,” he said. A person at institutional quarantine will be entitled to a one-time payment of Rs. 500 for toiletries and up to Rs. 500 per day on food. The local authorities have been authorised to pay up to Rs. 2,000 per day for each person put up in hotels. “Any person who does not test positive will be allowed to go after seven nights in institutional quarantine but will have to be in home quarantine for the next seven days. For that, he or she would be given Rs. 2,000 once,” Mr Sarma said. Zoning formula The Health Minister also said the State government has decided to modify the standard operating procedures to not mark any district red or orange unless the number of positive cases touches 200.
22 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Migrants trigger spike in U.P. cases||The huge number of migrant workers returning to Uttar Pradesh during the lockdown has caused the positive cases of COVID-19 in the State to surge, an official said on Thursday. Amit Mohan Prasad, Principal Secretary in the Health Department, said so far 1,230 migrant workers who had returned to U.P. had tested positive. Over 46,000 samples of migrant workers have also been collected, he said. Mr. Prasad said the number of pool tests showing positive results in the State had also considerably gone up because of the entry of migrant workers. Over 5.42 lakh migrant workers are under the surveillance of ASHA workers, he added. So far, over 20 lakh migrant workers have returned to U.P.
22 May 2020||New Delhi,||With 571 COVID-19 cases, Delhi records biggest 24-hour surge||As many as 571 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 11,659, according to the Delhi government health bulletin released on Thursday. This is the biggest single-day jump in the number of cases in the city so far. Tuesday and Wednesday had also recorded the biggest single-day increase till then. Also, 18 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 194, though the bulletin said that all the deaths did not happen in the past 24 hours. Of the 11,659 cases, 5,567 people have recovered, whittling down the active cases to 5,898. The recovery rate pleased Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. “Am so proud of our team of doctors and nurses who have provided the best possible treatment to our COVID patients. Delhi will soon have more recovered patients than the number of active cases [sic],” he tweeted. Meanwhile, Lok Nayak Hospital, which had asked healthcare workers who are on quarantine to vacate the accommodation the hospital had provided, handed them a week’s extension. In an order issued on Wednesday, Dr. Suresh Kumar, Medical Director of Lok Nayak Hospital, asked workers to vacate by Thursday noon. ‘Quarantine not needed’ Mr. Kumar issued the order following a Delhi government order, dated May 18, which said that “regular quarantine of healthcare workers after performing duty in COVID-19 areas is not warranted”. The Delhi government issued the order following a Central government order on the same on May 15. Before the order, all the healthcare workers in Delhi who were on COVID-19 duty were quarantined for 14 days after working for the same tenure. Under the new guidelines, only high-risk workers will be quarantined for 14 days. “We have given them a week’s time to vacate the accommodation,” Dr. Kumar stated. However, it entails considerable risk. “Under the current guidelines, almost no one would be eligible for quarantine after 14 days of work. This would risk healthcare workers infecting family members and society,” Parv Mittal, president of the Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) of the hospital said. New amendments The RDA has urged the Union Health Minister to amend the new guidelines, but the Minister is yet to respond. The Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association India (FORDA) too had written to Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain, urging him to make amendments to the new guidelines for the quarantine of healthcare workers. “Many patients do not show any symptoms and by not quarantining healthcare workers, we expose their family and friends to the virus. We will be holding a black ribbon protest tomorrow [Friday] and doctors will be wearing a black ribbon to work,” FORDA president Shivaji Dev Barman said.
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Deputy superintendent of Mandoli jail tests positive||Mandoli jail reported its first case of COVID-19 as its deputy superintendent tested positive, prison officials said on Thursday. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel confirmed the development. ‘Was on leave’ “The officer is posted at Mandoli jail. He was on leave since May 11 as he had fever. Later, he got tested for COVID-19 at Ganga Ram Hospital and the report came positive on Wednesday,” a senior jail official said. Officials said that the deputy superintendent lives in Sarai Rohilla and is currently under home quarantine. Contact tracing exercise is being conducted, they said. An assistant superintendent of Rohini jail had tested positive for COVID-19 earlier this week. At Rohini jail, 15 inmates were tested positive when they underwent examination after an inmate they had come into contact with was tested positive about 10 days ago. Police officers infected Meanwhile, seven Delhi Police officers, including an ASI and six HCs posted in the control room of West District, tested positive on Thursday after which a rigorous sanitisation drive is underway and senior officers are planning on how to “work things out”. DCP West office in Rajouri Garden will also undergo a sanitisation drive from Saturday to Monday during the long weekend. Seven affected officials have been quarantined, a senior officer said.
22 May 2020||New Delhi,||Too early to direct DMRC to resume services, remarks HC||The Delhi High Court has remarked that it is too early to urge through petition that the Delhi Metro must be directed to resume operation immediately since there is “adequate public transport” in the Capital as of now. A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad said on Wednesday that, “it has been just two days since the new rules and regulations [for lockdown] have come into force”. “It is too early in the day to urge that there is an inadequate supply of public transport for insisting that DMRC [Delhi Metro Rail Corporation] must be directed to operate immediately,” the Bench said. The court said, “As of now, there is an adequate public transport that has been permitted to be operated by the Government of NCT to meet the requirement of the public at large”. Social distancing “As and when the lockdown is further relaxed, the DMRC shall also be permitted to operate the Metro Rail in terms of the directions that may be issued by the respondents [government] subsequently,” it added. The court, further, said that it shall be the duty of the DMRC to ensure that adequate steps are taken to maintain social distancing once it is permitted to function, particularly, since DMRC has become the lifeline for the residents of Delhi and the NCR region and invariably, the compartments are packed to the gills, which can be dangerous in the current COVID-19 pandemic situation. The court disposed of a petition seeking directions to operate all the public transport, including Delhi Metro in all districts of the Capital.
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||L-G for automatic renewal of licences||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Thursday wrote to the Delhi Development Authority, the Delhi Police, municipal corporations and the Delhi government asking them to ameliorate sufferings of people and businesses through proactive measures by using technology. Some of the steps suggested include automatic renewal of various licences, moratorium on payments, simplified online processes and minimising requirement of visit to government offices. ‘Constitute panel’ To help people of Delhi get through the troubled financial times, the L-G suggested that the Chief Minister constitute a committee to comprehensively analyse and suggest measures to help people and businesses with special focus on protection of interests of labours. He also directed the Home Department to take steps to explore the possibility of automatic extension of term/ renewal of licences of various categories which stand expired after March 1 after taking into account safety concerns. As most sections of society are facing challenge of cash flow management, which makes it difficult to pay instalment, allotment money, lease rent, licence fee, etc, the L-G advised the DDA to explore measures for moratorium on payments. He advised the DDA to stimulate the business environment by attracting investments and focusing on sectoral revival. He advised local bodies that ongoing pending processes related to property tax, conversion charges for allowing commercial activities on mixed land use, parking, etc. should be expeditiously completed.
22 May 2020||New Delhi,||Economics dept. teachers express concern over DU open book exams||About 170 teachers of the economics department from across Delhi University wrote to the head of that department raising issue with the university’s decision to conduct open book examinations, on Wednesday. “Based on strong student feedback and our own experience of the unsatisfactory and limited scope and coverage of online classes, we feel that there are very serious hindrances to time-bound online open book examinations in the pattern suggested by the university,” the teachers wrote. Among issues they highlighted, they said that many students may not have regular access to Internet, adding that the issue may be worse for those staying in containment zones who wouldn’t be able to access internet outside their homes, apart from facing issues with scanning and uploading answer sheets. It raised concerns about the ability of students who even have smartphones to be able to read question papers or upload high quality answer sheets.
22 May 2020||New Delhi,||HC rejects plea seeking removal of DCW chief||The Delhi High Court rejected a public interest petition (PIL) seeking removal of Swati Maliwal as the chairperson of the Delhi Commission for Women (DCW), saying it appeared to be “nothing but a vested interest litigation”. A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad, while allowing the petition to be withdrawn, cautioned the petitioner Archana Sharma, an advocate, “to be more careful in future while filing petitions as PILs.” The petition had sought directions to the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights to initiate an inquiry against Ms. Maliwal and to remove her from the post on the ground that she is disqualified to be a member of the statutory authority. Vested interest The plea also sought direction to the Delhi Police to register a case of abetment of suicide against her. “At the outset, we have indicated to learned counsel for the petitioner that the present petition appears to be nothing but a vested interest litigation rather than a public interest litigation,” the court remarked. The counsel for the Delhi government informed that this is the second attempt to target Ms. Maliwal.
22 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘End DMC chief’s removal process within 2 weeks’||The Delhi High Court on Thursday directed the city government to conclude the process of removal of Zafarul Islam Khan, chairperson of Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) in accordance with law within two weeks. A Bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula said, “Respondents No.1 [Delhi government] and 2 [L-G] to conclude the process under Section 4(4)(f) of the Delhi Minorities Commission Act against respondent No.3- Mr. Zafarul Islam Khan in accordance with law within two weeks”. The sections provide for removal of the DMC chairperson after giving him a proper hearing. The High Court’s order came on a plea by a social worker, Vikram Gahlot, challenging the constitutionality of the DMC Act and seeking removal of Mr. Khan from the post of the chairperson. Advocate Dhananjai Jain, who represented Mr. Gahlot, argued that despite the previous order of the High Court, no show-cause notice has been issued to Mr. Khan till date. The L-G had in April written to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal highlighting a social media post by Mr. Khan, the content of which prima facie appears to have the potential of disturbing communal harmony in the city.
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jaideep- brief Eid||The Deputy Shahi Imam of Jama Masjid, Syed Shaban Bukhari, on Thursday issued an advisory for celebration of Id and Ramzan in the light of the COVID-19 lockdown. He has asked people to refrain from any mass gathering, religious or celebratory, at any time during the holy month of Ramzan.
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jaideep- brief||The Delhi unit of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) on Thursday said that the government’s efforts to provide food to the migrant and stranded labourers were not enough and this was the primary reason that the labourers were reverse-migrating to their homes. The CITU Delhi-NCR committee said that it would highlight the situation on May 22 with protests at several places in Ghaziabad, Gautam Buddha Nagar and Delhi and a joint protest at Rajghat.
22 May 2020||Patna/Bhubaneswar,||Soren seeks permission to fly back workers||Days after a spat with Railway Minister Piyush Goyal over ferrying migrants on special trains, Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren has written to Union Home Minister Amit Shah expressing willingness to bring back the “distressed workers” of his State from Leh and the north-eastern States on chartered flights with “dignity”. “So far we have been able to get back 1.5 lakh stranded workers, students and other persons by trains and buses and while executing this evacuation exercise, we came to know that nearly 200 labourers of Jharkhand are stuck in the difficult terrain of Ladakh. Similarly, around 450 such workers are stranded in the north-eastern States. Distress calls from there are being received every day in my office... due to the difficult terrain of these places, a viable solution would be to lift them by air,” said Mr. Soren in his one-page letter dated May 20 to the Home Minister. Noting that MHA lockdown rules prohibit chartered flights, he urged Mr. Shah to grant permission while reminding him about an earlier request dated May 12 for a similar chartered flight from the Andaman & Nicobar Islands to bring back over 300 workers of the State. Nearly 4 lakh migrant workers from Jharkhand are stuck in different parts of the country after the nationwide lockdown was imposed to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Many of them have returned home but lakhs of migrants are still stranded. Mr. Soren, who has been vocal about the official insensitivity towards the plight of migrant workers, also announced the opening of community kitchens along highways to provide free food.  Spots identified The community kitchens will be set up at a gap of 20 km along bordering national highways and migrant workers found walking towards their homes will be provided food and water free of cost. The Jharkhand CMO has identified 94 spots so far for the purpose along national highways. Besides, Jharkhand has been providing two meals to about 45,000 people every day through 6,432 ‘Didi Kitchens’ Migrant workers from other States who are either stranded in Jharkhand or using the State as transit route will also avail free food in the community kitchens. They will be taken to a nearby centre from where vehicles will be arranged to ferry them to their respective State borders. “People should not lose humanity at the time of pandemic. We should set an example. About 7 lakh workers from Jharkhand are stranded outside. Food and accommodation arrangements for more than 6 lakh of those migrant workers have been made in coordination with different State governments,” said Mr. Soren. The government was also making efforts to bring back migrant workers stuck outside by special trains and buses, he said. On May 15, Mr. Soren had directed all district administrations as well as Jharkhand police to ensure that no person belonging to Jharkhand or any other State walks towards their destinations.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Wait’s over||
22 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||In Gurugram village, gram sabha meeting goes online||In a first-of-its-kind venture, residents of Gurugram’s Nayagaon held a gram sabha meeting through a videoconferencing app to discuss their issues of cremation ground, post office and women security, among others. Helming the conference was Sunil Jaglan, a two-time Rashtriya Gaurav Gram Sabha Puraskar winner who had adopted the village, which is in the Sohna Block. Mr. Jaglan, who struck fame with his “Selfie With Daughter” campaign three years ago, said he had been getting calls and messages from the villagers on the issues they have been facing for the last few weeks. They wanted to hold an urgent meeting, but couldn’t as gatherings were prohibited due to the lockdown. A pioneer However, a pioneer in several technological initiatives in his Bibipur village in Haryana’s Jind district, Mr. Jaglan, himself a former Sarpanch, decided to host the meeting through a videoconference app. He is no stranger to such novelties, having live-streamed a gram sabha sometime ago as well. Procuring the contacts of the villagers from various WhatsApp groups, run by Sarpanch Surgyan Singh, was the first step. Another group was then created and a link for downloading the videoconferencing app was posted, along with the meeting ID and a password. Thereafter, he called them and explained the procedure. To avoid last-minute hiccups, a mock meeting was conducted before the actual one on May 20. “Since participation of 10% of people is necessary for the quorum, three separate meetings were conducted, which included the families of the participants. A proceedings book was prepared noting down the views of the villagers,” said Mr. Jaglan, also an advisor in Pranab Mukherjee Foundation. The proceedings book along with the recordings would be sent to the higher-ups. Gram sabha, a village assembly comprising all adult members of a village, approves the plans, programmes and projects for social and economic development of a village before the Panchayat takes it up for implementation. Unique experience One of the villagers, Vinay Kumar Dubey, who is stranded in Lucknow, described his experience as “unique”. He raised the issues of drinking water supply and ration cards. Mr. Singh said the gram sabha meeting, required to be held every four months, was due in May, but the Panchayat could not think of a way to conduct it because of the restrictions in place. He added that the online meetings would also put an end to the practice of fake gram sabha meetings and bring greater transparency in the working of the Panchayats.  Since participation of 10% of people is necessary for the quorum, three separate meetings were conducted, which included the families of the participants Sunil Jaglan Two-time Rashtriya Gaurav Gram Sabha Puraskar winner
22 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Restrictions on entry of house helps, visitors relaxed||The district administration on Thursday issued guidelines to the Residents Welfare Associations for the fourth phase of the lockdown, allowing the entry of domestic workers and all visitors, both family and non-family. The administration left it to the discretion of the residents to allow the domestic staff within the premises of the society with certain restrictions. Issuing detailed guidelines on various subjects, it said that domestic workers were allowed subject to the condition that they do not come from the containment zone. It is strongly advised that they undergo thermal screening at the gate and are provided masks and gloves. The guidelines, however, said it was preferable that full-time maids were employed, with one maid-one house system in place to avoid unnecessary movement. The entry to the complex for all visitors is permitted other than for containment zones. However, they should be subject to adequate social-distancing protocols. Similarly, delivery of utilities such as milk packets, newspapers can be made subject to due caution, social distancing and other norms. However, the guidelines insisted on keeping the non-essential activities, such as renovation, to a minimum. “All deliveries from courier, Amazon, FlipKart, and any other e-commerce website permitted to operate shall be delivered at building lobbies from where residents have to collect the said package,” said the guidelines.
22 May 2020||BEIJING,||China plans security law for Hong Kong||China’s Parliament will consider a Bill that could limit opposition activity in Hong Kong, a spokesperson said on Thursday, appearing to confirm speculation that China will sidestep the territory’s own lawmaking body in enacting legislation to crack down on activity Beijing considers subversive. Zhang Yesui said the National People’s Congress will deliberate a Bill on “establishing and improving the legal system and enforcement mechanisms for the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region to safeguard national security.” Anti-govt. protests Such a move has long been under consideration but was hastened by months of anti-government protests last year in the former British colony that was handed over to Chinese rule in 1997. Such legislation was last proposed in 2003 under Article 23 of the Basic Law, Hong Kong’s mini-Constitution, bringing hundreds of thousands of the territory’s citizens out in protest. The proposal was withdrawn by the government but Beijing has increasingly pushed for measures such as punishment for disrespecting the Chinese national flag and anthem and increased pro-China patriotic-themed education in schools. Opposition in Hong Kong’s Legislative Council, however, made it unlikely such a Bill could pass at the local level. The new measures are required by the “new situation and demands” and action at the national level is “entirely necessary,” Mr. Zhang said. A vote at the NPC will add to concerns in Hong Kong’s pro-democracy camp that Beijing is chipping away at the semi-autonomous territory’s rights to assembly and free speech that greatly exceed those permitted by the ruling Communist Party in mainland China. Mr. Zhang’s comments at a news conference came on the eve of the opening of the congress’s annual session after a two-month delay because of the coronavirus pandemic. Thursday saw the opening session of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, an advisory body. That will be followed Friday by the start of the 3,000-member NPC at which Premier Li Keqiang will deliver a keynote speech outlining economic and social goals for the year. The holding of the “two sessions,” as the annual meetings are known, is a further sign of what the party says is its success in bringing the outbreak under control, although clusters of cases are still popping up in some parts of the country. Members of the Consultative Conference will “tell the world about how China, as a responsible major country, has taken firm action and contributed to international cooperation in the fight against the COVID-19 epidemic,” Wang Yang, the chairman of the body, said in a report to the opening session. Mr. Wang’s comments were in the prepared text distributed to journalists, although he skipped over them in his delivery, apparently to save time. Rank-and-file members wore masks in the vast auditorium inside the Great Hall of the People in the heart of Beijing.
22 May 2020||WASHINGTON,||Biden warns of ‘abuse of power’||Joe Biden is warning that those “tasked with enforcing the law are abusing their powers,” offering a measured critique of the Mr. Trump’s administration a day after he declined to respond to President Donald Trump’s attacks directly. Speaking on Wednesday to Columbia University Law School graduates via video, Mr. Biden urged them to “protect the very foundations of democracy.” “Trust in self-governance. Because right now, it’s under attack,” the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee said. “The very people tasked with enforcing the rule of law are abusing their powers, protecting their friends, weakening the very principles that make our country work.” Asked on Tuesday night how he’d respond to the allegations, Mr. Biden said, “I don’t want to get down in the mud with these guys.” Speaking at a Yahoo News virtual town hall on Tuesday, Mr. Biden said Mr. Trump was trying to distract voters from his inadequate response to the coronavirus pandemic. Mr. Trump has said the virus will disappear “like a miracle.” Broadly dubbing his allegations “Obamagate,” Mr. Trump has pointed to the legal case of his former National Security Adviser Michael Flynn, suggesting that the “unmasking” of Mr. Flynn’s name as part of legal U.S. surveillance of foreign targets was criminal and motivated by partisan politics. There is no evidence of that, and Mr. Trump’s accusations misrepresent the facts of the case. The “unmasking” of people in surveillance reports is a routine, legal activity in government — the Trump administration made 10,012 such requests in 2019. But they don’t often become public, and in the Flynn case, Mr. Trump’s supporters point to it as evidence that Mr. Obama’s loyalists were out to undermine Mr. Trump from the start. The President himself has called it the “biggest political crime and scandal in the history of the USA.” “This is his pattern. Diversion, diversion, diversion, diversion,” Mr. Biden said on Tuesday. “The greatest crime? I mean, my Lord.” Mr. Trump’s cries of scandal come as the President and many top Republicans have used increasingly harsh rhetoric against Mr. Biden - hoping to foment doubt in voters’ minds as election season beings to heat up.
22 May 2020||BAGHDAD,||With an eye on U.S. election, Iran tries a new tack||After years of increasing tensions that nearly led to war, Iran has moderated its approach to the West, shifting from a policy of provocation to one of limited cooperation. The change reflects an effort to avoid direct confrontation with the U.S. that the Iranians say could benefit President Donald Trump in the November election. Nowhere is the shift more evident than in Iraq, where Iran has backed a pro-American Prime Minister and ordered its proxy militias to cease their rocket attacks on U.S. forces. The Americans, while publicly dismissive of any change in Iranian posture, have quietly reciprocated in modest and indirect ways. Taken together, the openings represent an incipient détente that, even if it does not last or lead to the end of hostilities between Iran and the U.S., has already lowered the temperature of the relationship, reducing the risk of open conflict. “A war is less likely to happen, but there is still the risk of a confrontation,” said Randa Slim, a senior fellow at the Middle East Institute. “But it’s less likely because the intent of the primary actors has shifted. Both Iran and the U.S. definitely do not want a war six months before the U.S. elections.” Iran’s shift, which it has not announced or explained publicly, appears to be tactical, analysts said, noting that the country still vehemently opposes the Trump administration’s demand that it renegotiate its nuclear agreement with the West and that it has not backed off its goal of ousting the U.S. military from West Asia. Publicly, both countries remain engaged in verbal warfare. But the recent signs of de-escalation have been significant: Attacks ceased After months of hit-and-run attacks on U.S. forces in Iraq that pushed the U.S. and Iran to the brink of war in January, Iran has called off its proxy militias, and the attacks have largely ceased. When Iraq’s Parliament chose a U.S.-backed Prime Minister this month, Iran, which has been instrumental in choosing previous Iraqi governments, ultimately acceded to the choice and helped put him in office. In April, Iran reached out to the U.S. to open negotiations for a prisoner swap, offering to release a U.S. Navy veteran held by Iran in exchange for an Iranian American doctor detained by the Americans. Attacks on merchant ships and tankers in the Persian Gulf that threatened one of the world’s busiest shipping lanes for much of last year have been ratcheted down, although not entirely ended. Diplomats, Iraqi and Iranian officials and analysts cite a combination of reasons for the change, including a fear of war with the U.S. They also note that Iran is overextended — fighting a coronavirus epidemic, a tanking economy and public unrest at home — and needs to retrench. Caught by surprise Tehran was caught by surprise when the Americans retaliated for the killing of a U.S. contractor in Iraq in December by killing the leader of Iran’s elite Quds Force, Gen. Qassem Soleimani. The U.S. threatened a disproportionate response if another American was killed, something Iran could ill afford. “Iran is redefining its regional policies after Gen. Soleimani’s assassination,” Mohamad Hossein Malaek, a seasoned Iranian diplomat and former Ambassador to China, wrote in Iranian Diplomacy magazine in April. “It’s reshuffling its cards, it’s reassessing its capabilities, and it has entered the arena with a new perspective and plan.” Iran has also concluded that escalating tensions with the U.S. could provoke armed conflict that, aside from being painful for Iran, could benefit Mr. Trump politically, improving his re-election chances, according to people familiar with the policy. Since taking office, Mr. Trump has withdrawn from the nuclear agreement with Iran and imposed crippling economic sanctions that have devastated Iran’s economy.NY Times
22 May 2020||Geneva,||WHO records highest daily number of COVID-19 cases||The World Health Organization said on Wednesday it had registered a new daily record number of COVID-19 cases as it quickly neared the “tragic milestone” of five million total infections. The UN agency’s chief Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that on Tuesday, there were “1,06,000 cases reported to WHO — the most in a single day since the outbreak began” in December. The WHO was also getting to grips with US President Donald Trump’s reform ultimatum, giving the organisation 30 days to overhaul its operations otherwise its biggest contributor would freeze its funding and consider pulling out altogether. The Geneva-based WHO’s coronavirus disease dashboard said that on Tuesday, 106,662 confirmed cases had been reported to the agency from around the world.More than 325,000 people have lost their lives, according to the AFP tally. “We still have a long way to go in this pandemic,” Mr. Tedros told a virtual press conference as his agency warned of rising infection figures in poorer countries. More than 4.9 million cases of the novel coronavirus have been registered in total since the outbreak first emerged in China last December, according to a tally from official sources compiled by AFP. WHO emergencies director Michael Ryan said the five million cases mark would be a “tragic milestone”. Mr. Tedros added: “We’re very concerned about the rising numbers of cases in low- and middle-income countries.”  Meanwhile, Mr. Ryan said neither ‘Hydroxychloroquine nor chloroquine have been, as yet, found to be effective in the treatment of COVID-19.
22 May 2020||WASHINGTON,||White House report blasts Chinese ‘malign activities’||Beyond its hard-hitting rhetoric against China over its handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, the White House has issued a broad-scale attack on Beijing’s predatory economic policies, military buildup, disinformation campaigns and human rights violations. The 20-page report does not signal a shift in U.S. policy, according to a senior administration official, who was not authorised to publicly discuss the report and spoke only on the condition of anonymity, but it expands on President Donald Trump’s get-tough rhetoric that he hopes will resonate with voters angry about China’s handling of thepandemic, which has left millions of Americans out of work. “The media’s focus on the current pandemic risks missing the bigger picture of the challenge that’s presented by the Chinese Communist Party,” Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said. “China’s been ruled by a brutal, authoritarian regime, a communist regime since 1949. For several decades, we thought the regime would become more like us — through trade, scientific exchanges, diplomatic outreach, letting them in the World Trade Organization as a developing nation. That didn’t happen,” he said. “We greatly underestimated the degree to which Beijing is ideologically and politically hostile to free nations. The whole world is waking up to that fact.” Later, the State Department announced that it had approved the sale of advanced torpedoes to the Taiwanese military. China regards the island as a renegade province. The department said it had informed Congress of the $180 million sale of heavy-weight torpedoes, which “will help improve the security of (Taiwan) and assist in maintaining political stability, military balance, and economic progress in the region.”
22 May 2020||Washington,||Trump suggests holding in-person G7 summit||U.S. President Donald Trump said on Wednesday he is considering hosting world leaders for the annual G7 summit at his Camp David retreat despite the ongoing coronavirus crisis, as the global death toll soared past 3,25,000. There was encouraging news, meanwhile, on the scientific front as two studies on monkeys published on Wednesday offered hope that humans can develop protective immunity to the novel coronavirus. Beginning to comeback Mr. Trump said in a tweet that the U.S. was “Transitioning back to Greatness” and he may hold the G7 in June in person, instead of remotely by videoconference as proposed previously. “I am considering rescheduling the G-7, on the same or similar date, in Washington, D.C., at the legendary Camp David,” he said. “The other members are also beginning their COMEBACK. It would be a great sign to all — normalisation!” G7 countries — Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States — take turns organizing the annual gathering. French President Emmanuel Macron said he would attend the Camp David summit if “health conditions allow,” his office said. German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she would “wait and see what happens.”
22 May 2020||Caracas,||Iranian tankers will get military escort: Venezuela||Venezuela on Wednesday said its Navy and Air Force would escort Iranian tankers arriving with much needed fuel, after Tehran warned of “consequences” if the U.S. stopped the ships from reaching their destination. “We’re ready for whatever, whenever,” President Nicolas Maduro told state-run media, thanking “all the support” from its West Asian ally in its confrontation with the U.S. Venezuela has the world’s largest proven oil reserves, but its capacity to refine crude into gasoline is limited. US President Donald Trump’s administration has imposed unilateral sanctions aimed at ending oil exports from Iran and Venezuela. Defence Minister Vladimir Padrino Lopez said that when the Iranian ships enter the oceanic economic zone “they will be welcomed” by Venezuelan naval ships and warplanes. According to reports, five ships have sailed from Iran but it is not known when they will arrive.
22 May 2020||Peshawar,||Man held for ‘honour killings’ of cousins in Pak.||The Pakistan police have arrested a man over alleged “honour killings” of his two cousins, who appeared in a viral video being kissed by someone, police said on Thursday. The two women were shot dead last week in a northwestern district near the Afghan border, where women are subjected to strict tribal codes that limit their movement outside of the home. Muhammad Aslam, the 26-year-old first cousin of the victims, is accused of carrying out the murders. “We have arrested the main suspect and are trying to recover the pistol he used,” said Mohammad Nawaz Khan, who is investigating the case. Police said the victims, both in their 20s, were later gunned down in North Waziristan’s remote Garyum village and buried by family members. A third woman seen in the video, recorded last year, is the wife of the suspected killer but has been safely located, police added. Two other relatives of the women have also been arrested over the killings, while the man in the video and the man who filmed it have both been arrested for indecency. Around a thousand Pakistani women are murdered in honour killings each year.
22 May 2020||COLOMBO,||3 die in Lanka stampede over virus aid||Three women died in a stampede on Thursday, police said, when residents of the crowded Maligawatte area in Colombo rushed to receive aid distributed to those who had lost their livelihoods due to the COVID-19 pandemic. At least eight persons were injured — some of them had to be hospitalised — the local newspaper Daily Mirror reported. The aid was distributed by a private group. As of Thursday, Sri Lanka reported 1,045 COVID-19 cases and nine deaths. The incident of residents scrambling for aid comes amid growing fear of joblessness, especially among Sri Lanka’s informal sector workers.
22 May 2020||Sanford,||Sanford, United States, May 21, 2020 (AFP) -||More than 10,000 residents evacuated their homes in Michigan on Wednesday after two dams failed following heavy rain and triggered what officials warned will be historic flooding. Governor Gretchen Whitmer declared a state of emergency in Midland County, site of the breached dams, in the towns of Edenville and Sanford. The National Weather Service warned of life-threatening flash flooding and urged people in the area to seek higher ground immediately. The downtown area of Midland could soon be under approximately water, said Mr. Whitmer, warning of “historic” flood levels.AFP
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Will sport be the same in empty stadia?||Last weekend’s return of Bundesliga — German football’s premier division — marked the revival of top flight international sporting action after a two-month long hiatus. But physical distancing measures necessitated by COVID-19 ensured that matches were played without fans. India is a long way from starting tournaments, with the government having just given the nod for individual training to resume under spectator-less conditions. In a discussion moderated by N. Sudarshan , Sunil Chhetri and Sunil Yajaman discuss if sport behind closed doors will be the new normal and what lies ahead for the sports industry. Edited excerpts:  Did it feel strange watching top-notch football being played in an empty stadium? Sunil Chhetri (SC):It did feel strange. As a player I’d always prefer to play in front of fans. But as a spectator, I was happy. It looks like once the lockdown ends and slowly competitions start, we will have to play in empty stadia. But I might still happily play because what I understood as a fan last weekend was that you get a lot of joy watching live action. It is still the second best thing; the ultimate joy is still to go to the venue. But under the present circumstances, it made us all happy. Sunil Yajaman (SY):It will be the new normal, definitely till the end of the year. But it is safer. Australian Open, the season’s first Grand Slam tournament in January, is already talking about having no spectators. The fear [of the virus] will stay for quite some time and we need to figure out new ways to get around it. What is the change in mindset that players will require? SC:In team sports, home advantage is a very important aspect. There are multiple reasons why a game is termed a home game — climate, ground and fans. Among these, fans are the most important and act as a motivating factor. But a home game played now will not feel like a home game. It is not ideal; but [these are] the kind of times we are in now. SY:Spectators are a very important part of players’ performance on court, both in positive and negative ways. It has a psychological effect on players. So it is not going to be easy to play in an empty stadium, especially the bigger events. Smaller competitions like ATP Challengers and many ATP 250s (the lowest rung of ATP tennis tournaments) do not attract much of a crowd except for the last two days. But players will still have to tune their minds. All the motivation and energy have to come from within. It will take a few months of playing to get used to it. So if fans cannot attend, is it worth going ahead, if you are told that there is a TV audience? SC:To me, it is the best possible solution. To cancel events because fans cannot attend may be worse. Of course, the best thing would be for everyone to get a vaccine and for life to be normal. But that doesn’t look like it will happen anytime soon. But the German and South Korean leagues have shown the way. Let’s be clear here, it is not easy; even for a closed door game, there are a lot of things to be taken care of. There are ball boys, the kit managers, the coaches, the physios and we have to monitor all of them. In the unfortunate scenario of even one person getting infected, the whole league has to stop. At least that particular team cannot play and has to be quarantined. So you need to be really really careful. But I hope we are able to manage it until a vaccine arrives. SY:If a sport is able to go on without fans, it is a great thing under the present circumstances. Professional players’ livelihood is tied to them playing. There is a whole bunch of people that depend on tournaments for survival, like the supporting staff, officials, groundsmen etc. In the eyes of many, sport is better off waiting until things return to normal. Should it? SC:We need to calculate and balance the risks. We need to look at various aspects — what’s the kind of money involved, how many livelihoods are at stake, etc. Ask a sportsperson, he or she will say sport is the best thing in the world. But it is an individual opinion. If studies show sport should be the last thing to reopen, so be it. In India, we first started with essential services, which was key. Next we tried to see to it that no one went to sleep hungry. These two were prime concerns, no doubt. People who need to be treated and those who need intensive care will always take priority. So in my view, decision making should be informed and shouldn’t be a matter of bickering and acrimonious debate. Does it make economic sense to organise competitions behind closed doors? SY:Except for the really top championships, money from ticket sales is negligible. And considering that only top-level tournaments like ATP Masters and Grand Slams are telecast, broadcast revenue also isn’t much. So that’s when sponsorships become important, especially for events in India, and it is going to be incredibly tough to find sponsors. Even at big meets a sponsor wouldn’t like to see his or her name in an empty stadium. Every sponsor will look at the return on investment (ROI) and one of the major conditions for good ROI is the footfalls at the sporting site. In the absence of footfalls, it won’t be inviting for companies. The ATP Bengaluru Open (South Asia’s biggest ATP Challenger) has a budget of Rs. 6.5 crores. The Karnataka government has been funding close to 50% of it. Now I don’t know if the government will even be looking to support a sports event in the next one or two years. And many of our sponsors are under financial strain and are a long way [from] recouping things. Already a company which had to settle the final instalment for the last edition has expressed an inability to pay. So you can already see the effect. For the next edition we will have to broaden the base by looking for more sponsors and also look to cover the government’s share because it may come down. Thus far, the focus has been on fan safety. What about player safety even in a closed door environment? SC:It is an individual thing. Troy Deenay (captain of the English club side Watford) has said he wouldn’t return to training because he has a five-month old son with breathing difficulties and he wouldn’t want to put the child in more danger. Why would he go out knowing that there are chances of him getting infected and passing it on? It is a legitimate concern that we should be sensitive to. There are, at least, 45 people at any given time on the pitch, even during a training session. So there is a risk. Personally speaking, when football starts, I will probably train. That’s a decision I am taking based on the information available currently and in the belief that my club will take utmost care and ensure full safety. But I don’t know what’s in store in the future. So, I can fully understand Deeney’s conundrum. There is a lot at stake, and in many cases it’s a matter of life and death. SY:In tennis, players move across continents and countries on a week-to-week basis. If you see, the major spread of infection is through travelling. So they are always at the risk of getting infected. So we may see localised events, but at the ATP Challenger level, players may risk travelling because that’s where players earn substantial points and make a little bit of money. There is talk of using augmented reality to create virtual fans so that match-watching experience on television gets better. Is this the way forward? SC:There is huge money involved, so if broadcasters take that decision, I am not the one to comment. But technological intervention in football has thus far been minimal and that’s the beauty of it. There is the Video Assistant Referee system now, but it is still a mostly free-flowing game that’s raw and natural with real fans in the stadium showing their aggression and passion. It’s preferable if it stays like that. SY:I am sure there will be innovative things done. But a tennis fan is mostly looking at the players. A television camera may miss zooming in on a celebrity sitting in the crowd. But for a fan watching tennis on the television, the presence of a crowd is immaterial. At the end of the day, they will continue to watch because of a Roger Federer, a Rafael Nadal or a Novak Djokovic. What is the way forward for sports in India? SC:If everything goes well, it will be around October or November before competitions behind closed doors can start. I am 35 and I don’t want to lose a single day of my career. But lives are more important. For us sportspersons, sport is life, but until we feel completely safe we should not start. Overall, sport is not going to be the same as before. A lot will change, particularly on-field hygiene. For example, spitting on the pitch will reduce. Just because footballers are fit, their hygiene is taken for granted. But that’s not always true. SY:The sports industry as a whole is going to take a big beating. Fewer people are going to get into sport in the next one or two years. Fans will mostly depend on live broadcast but even for television companies revenues are going to reduce because all of them are under financial stress. We have no idea whether advertising will continue as before. But sports is about positivity and it will come back, albeit in a changed scenario. In fact, you can see that the whole education system is undergoing a change. There is more online learning and I don’t see children getting back into the classrooms in the near future, with distancing rules set to be strictly enforced. More children are going to be locked up inside and parents are sure to ask their children to go out and play, at least individual sports, for their physical and mental well-being. So I am hoping that participation at the grass roots will not tank.  In team sports, home advantage is an important aspect. There are multiple reasons why a game is termed a home game, the most important being fans Sunil Chhetri Indian football captain
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The lockdown has highlighted stark inequalities||The novel coronavirus is a global threat, but the pandemic has had an uneven impact across countries and within countries. Historically, social inequality has always been extreme in India. However, the lockdown has sharpened the edges of inequality even further, especially because of the way it has been implemented. Many countries have imposed lockdowns but not as stringent and severe as the Indian one. What is more, the largest lockdown in the world with hardly any safety net was imposed at a four-hour notice. The sudden decision deprived countless people of jobs and livelihoods. This has strained the fragile social and economic fabric far more than it needed to. A disastrous decision Nobody is safe from the virus, but some classes are more protected than others. Class and wealth inequality means COVID-19 may pose greater risks to some as it poses a double threat to them. In India, the lockdown favours the “balcony classes”, with no regard of its consequences for others. The pandemic has exposed the precarious existence of millions of migrants who operate the levers of the informal economy. It required no rocket science to anticipate that India’s huge army of informal labour would be the most badly hit by the lockdown. Repeated extension of the lockdown has caused economic devastation to workers in the informal economy as it has left them with no income, no food and no shelter. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy estimates that about 140 million people have lost jobs since the lockdown. In brief, pervasive unemployment or underemployment, a feature of the Indian economy before the lockdown, worsened after it, and will remain so for the foreseeable future. Worldwide, the defining images of India’s lockdown are the caravans of migrant workers walking hundreds of kilometres to reach their homes. Bereft of substantive support from the government or their employers, they want to escape the city and get back to their villages and families. Several hundreds of them lost their lives in their desperate attempt to reach home during the lockdown. The SaveLife Foundation, a non-profit organisation working to prevent road accidents, has recorded nearly 2,000 road crashes and 368 deaths from March 25, when the lockdown began, to May 16. The Union Home Ministry had asked shops, industry and commercial establishments to pay wages to workers during the lockdown but it offered no financial support should this not happen. Social activist Harsh Mander asked the Supreme Court to order the government to pay wages. As expected, the apex court refused to intervene. However, the Court intervened and asked the government not to resort to any coercive action against private companies that have not paid their workers full wages during the lockdown in accordance with a government order in March. Since then, the government has dropped the crucial order. Clearly, the Court has readily accepted the government’s assurance that it was looking after migrant labourers. But all that the government had done was take small steps such as providing dry rations and a paltry sum of Rs. 500, the first of the three instalments of a sum of Rs. 1,500 relief, to Jan Dhan accounts of women. Putting the onus on citizens The Sangh Parivar believes that society has to take care of itself through self-regulation. Given this world view, it is no surprise that the BJP government is offering little by way of a safety net. Rather, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in one of his national addresses, asked each citizen to help nine poor families during the lockdown. This puts the responsibility for containing the consequences of the pandemic/lockdown squarely on the citizens, instead of instituting a government-backed social support system. While the call to compassion is unremarkable, it has two implications — it minimises the urgency of state intervention required to deal with the economic crisis and it passes on the responsibility to citizens with an emphasis on citizens’ duties as against citizens’ rights. Quite the reverse is happening in many other countries which have introduced huge relief packages involving large amounts of government expenditure to provide money for workers’ wages for up to three months, giving money or rebates to companies, unemployment allowance or direct benefit transfers. The Spanish government unveiled sweeping reforms that led to nationalisation of all private hospitals. The U.K. extended a worker furlough programme that pays people idled by the pandemic till the end of October. This is similar to the Paycheck Protection Programme in the U.S. Both seek to preserve jobs rather than resorting to mass lay-offs. In India, transfer of cash in the past two months of lockdown could have mitigated the most heart-breaking migrant crisis since the Partition in 1947. This was the basic requirement of justice. But the government failed to transfer money to the distressed people or to small businesses and commercial establishments. Failure to do so has exposed the heartlessness of the BJP government. It refuses to embrace the welfare state path adopted by most governments which believe radical change is essential for restoring a social balance underlying the welfare state of earlier years. Even governments ideologically committed to conservatism are loosening their purse strings. But the BJP government has done nothing of the sort. In the event, acute distress and disempowerment of the most vulnerable has further deepened existing social inequalities of Indian society. The government’s lack of sympathy and concern for the stranded migrant workers clearly shows that the system doesn’t work for everyone. No wonder, migrant labourers across India have told reporters they won’t return to see such humiliation again. Greater privatisation Seen against the scale of distress, the government’s economic stimulus package is niggardly based on minimal fiscal cost and minimum social spending. Just about everything is included in the fiscal stimulus ranging from repaying tax refunds to loans. At this rate, even a good monsoon can be considered fiscal stimuli. The immediate relief to the people is not more than 1% of the GDP. The stimulus package has been rightly dismissed by almost everyone outside the government as too little, too late. Most shocking is the slew of controversial reforms announced by the Finance Minister in the last episode of her five-part serial on the government’s stimulus package. Instead of addressing the migrant worker crisis, the government has embarked on greater privatisation and further opening the economy to foreign capital. It has thrown open coal, defence production, space travel, among other areas, to the private sector. These contentious pieces of economic reforms wouldn’t be counted as rescue package anywhere; moreover, it is wrong and unethical to push them under lockdown without parliamentary oversight. The much-derided Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) and National Food Security Act (NFSA) have come to the rescue of the people. Ironically, both schemes are legacies of the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance government and both were hugely criticised by the BJP. MGNREGA was described as a “living monument” of Congress failure in addressing poverty. Now the government has decided to allocate an additional Rs. 40,000 crore to MGNREGA. This is welcome as it will provide a semblance of relief during distress in rural India. But in cities migrant workers do not have even this modicum of social security. The one important lesson that this pandemic has underlined is the urgent need for an urban employment guarantee scheme. In the meantime, generous cash transfers can provide economic security. However, for this to happen, we need a more humane government responsive to the basic needs of its people. Zoya Hasan is Professor Emerita, Centre for Political Studies, JNU
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||A violation of right found, but no remedy given||The maxim Ubi Jus Ibi Remedium (where there is a right, there is a remedy) has anchored the common law for centuries. In India, the Constituent Assembly regarded the principle as so foundational that, through Article 32, it granted the Supreme Court the authority to issue a set of prerogative writs to enforce the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution. Over the last four decades, though, the idea of remedies moving in parallel with rights has come to wither. In this period, the Supreme Court has enunciated a number of rights which it found ought to be manifest on a proper reading of the Constitution. These have included the rights to clean air, health, shelter, human dignity, and privacy. But this articulation, stentorian as it might have been, hasn’t always led to just results. The court’s history is littered with cases where a violation of a right is found, but a remedy hasn’t been forthcoming. The ruling delivered on May 11, in Foundation for Media Professionals v. Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir [FMP] , is, in many ways, symptomatic of this trend. It ought to enjoin us to think more deeply about what the Court’s institutional role really should be. The judgment begins thus: “Again, this Court is called upon to address a very important but a sensitive issue… we have to ensure that national security and human rights can be reasonably and defensibly balanced, a responsibility, that this Court takes with utmost seriousness.” But while the Court found that a prohibition of 4G Internet in J&K was potentially disproportionate, it could not extend itself to remedying the wrong by issuing a writ to the state. What it did instead was to relegate the decision-making to a newly formed committee comprising officials from the executive. In doing so, it effectively reversed the age-old principle that no person shall act as a judge in his own cause. Vagueness of purpose What was the reason for the Court’s dithering? The answers are hard to find in the judgment. The Constitution, and the debates that went into its making, are clear on what the judiciary’s role ought to be. It is meant to act as an independent check on parliamentary and executive actions. But the Court remains mired in a vagueness of purpose. When must it strike down legislation? When must it show deference to Parliament? Do social welfare measures demand greater deference than ordinary criminal laws? Should the level of scrutiny of executive actions be higher than that employed in testing statutes? Under what circumstances do executive acts call for special respect? These questions should have been settled by now. But the Court still wavers in its answers every time a new case comes before it. In January, when, in Anuradha Bhasin , the Court recognised something akin to a fundamental right to access the Internet, the judgment was widely acclaimed. But of what use is the fashioning of a new right to the people of J&K if a decision on whether that right has been violated is consigned to the very authority that made the original call? Indeed, the petitioner in FMP relied on the Court’s judgment in Anuradha Bhasin to argue that a blanket restriction on 4G Internet across the region had had a deleterious impact on a slew of rights, including the rights to free speech and expression, education, freedom of trade, and health. The Court’s own past decisions, including that of the very bench which heard FMP, prescribes a standard of proportionality to judge cases where a fundamental right is limited by state action. The test would have required the Court to engage in a rigorous analysis of the facts, to examine whether the state’s rationale for limiting access to the Internet was, one, predicated on legitimate grounds; two, was the least intrusive measure available to the government; and three, whether on a balance of the competing interests the restriction was justified. Given this doctrine and given that the Supreme Court often functions as a court of first resort, it cannot absolve itself from the job of fact-finding. In a system of justice that is adversarial, it is incumbent on the Court to appreciate the rival versions of the facts submitted before it and arrive at what it deems to be the truth. And once it does so, should it find the state’s actions illegitimate, it must issue a writ to remedy the wrong, unless it finds compelling reasons not to do so. And if such reasons do exist, they require voicing. There is no doubt that there might be instances in which appreciating evidence can prove to be a confounding exercise. But judicial review is not meant to be easy. What we need today is a reversion to first principles — where the Court seeks to treat the art of delivering a judgment as an exercise in persuasion, where there is a clear link drawn between rights and remedies. In far too many cases the Court has inverted the basic logic of judicial review: it has either enunciated a violation of rights only to deny a remedy or it has granted remedies without articulating what right has been violated.  In her 2002 Reith Lectures, the philosopher Onora O’Neill began by quoting Confucius, who held weapons, food and trust as necessary for the government. O’Neill retold this theorem not to stress on any need for arms, but to emphasise on what she believed was a crisis of trust. It was telling, she thought, that ancient philosophies held trust to be the dearest of qualities. If a ruler, said Confucius to his disciple Tsze-kung, could not hold on to all three necessities for government, he should give up the weapons first and the food next. Trust, he said, had to be guarded to the end. Unlike governments, trust is all the judiciary has. When that belief begins to dissipate, courts lose their moral sway. They are rendered meaningless. Building trust Courts build trust not through ambiguous snippets of wisdom, but through an adherence to basic norms. Principle over policy and consistency over randomness are the lodestar tenets of moral courage. The separation of powers cannot, as American writer Gore Vidal wrote, be allowed to work simply as a useful device under which “any sin of omission and commission can be shifted from one branch of government to another.” We need it to do more. We need it to uphold the rule of law. Suhrith Parthasarathy is an advocate practising at the Madras High Court
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Cinema after COVID-19||The ongoing COVID-19 crisis has led to large-scale anxieties about the future of the arts. Many livelihoods rely upon the performing and visual arts. It is just not the fraternity of artistes but their support staff, co-workers and an entire ecosystem that is sustained through their practice. We are the largest film-making nation in the world. The film industry offers jobs to several thousands. The lockdown will be eventually relaxed at some point as can be seen in different parts of the world but many are of the opinion that this pandemic will significantly impact our film-viewing behavior and other economic decisions around it. We might stay away from film theatres to avoid large gatherings. This could also indicate a shift towards viewing films on online platforms which have already made a dent during the lockdown. Netflix, Amazon Prime, etc., have witnessed a record surge in subscriptions during the lockdown. This doesn’t mean that everybody has suddenly turned a film lover, but that these platforms offer a plethora of entertainment options for people locked inside their homes. The content and range of programmes on these portals is also far superior to what is available on regular television. There are films and TV series which are especially commissioned by and released exclusively on these platforms. Direct to home releases Their numbers might further increase. As I write this, news has just trickled in that two big Hindi films, one Tamil and Telugu film, amongst others, are being released on a digital platform next month owing to the uncertainty about theatrical release in near future. Also, the choice and diversity of content on these platforms is much greater. A film theatre has to cater to mainstream audience expectations for business reasons. In the process, many deserving films often miss out on decent screening slots or have to make do with whatever is available. The online platforms do not have to deal with these concerns and offer a good mix of both mainstream and art-house cinema. No denying the fact that watching a film on the big screen has its own merits and an inherent sense of community but safety concerns might outweigh everything else. During the lockdown, some films available on these online platforms have gained a new lease of life. Otherwise, public memory is essentially short lived. Our celebrity-based film culture largely pivots around the star. The film is forgotten while we find ways to memorialise the star. Malayalam film Virus is the talk of the town again owing to its availability on these platforms. Dealing with the Nipah crisis in Kerala, this film is a great reminder of the actions taken by the State government to tackle the crisis. Kerala has also been widely praised for its successful handling of the COVID-19 pandemic. Perhaps there’s another film in waiting. Steven Soderbergh’s Contagion is also doing the rounds. Released in 2011, the film seems prophetic in its depiction of a similar crisis that the world is facing today. Bypassing the censors Also, you could bypass many of the problems of censor certification if you release films on these platforms. Amidst the ongoing pandemic, many film festivals are moving online. Britain’s most famous socialist filmmaker, Ken Loach, has made some of his best films available for free on YouTube. Other film streaming platforms are making foreign and documentary cinema available at a nominal fee for a limited time span. With increased awareness about films, will we go back to theatres and settle for the same content that mainstream cinema peddles after the lockdown? However, there is also a grave danger. Access to these platforms is largely limited to an urban demography that can afford an Internet connection, along with the subscription fees which also determines the class character of its potential viewers. If this were to become the norm, it would exclude a large majority of the film-viewing population. That will be a denial of cinema to those who have been its utmost supporters. The writer teaches at FLAME University, Pune
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping the peace||With four incidents along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in recent weeks, the India-China border is witnessing the highest tensions since the Doklam stand-off in 2017. In the three years since, both sides have done remarkably well to keep the peace. Prime Minister Modi and President Xi both agreed differences should not be allowed to escalate into disputes. Also, a clear message was sent to the two militaries to abide by the detailed protocols already in place, such as those agreed to in 2005 and 2013. These regulate the activities of troops in the contested zones that lie in between both sides’ overlapping claim lines of the undefined LAC. If Army Chief General Manoj Naravane wisely sought to cool the temperatures with his May 14 statement, China has unhelpfully raised them. On May 19, its Foreign Ministry accused the Indian Army of “attempting to unilaterally change the status” of the LAC. The stand-off in Ladakh appears to have been triggered by China moving in troops to obstruct road construction activity by India. Last year, India completed the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulet Beg Oldi (DBO) road which connects Leh to the Karakoram Pass. India also maintains a key landing strip at DBO at 16,000 feet. The broader context for the tensions is the changing dynamic along the LAC. India has been upgrading its roads as it plays catch-up, with China already enjoying an advantage in both terrain and infrastructure. China now seems to be telling India it has no right to carry out the kind of activity that Beijing has already done. India is well within its right to carry out construction work. Delhi needs to remind Beijing that a fundamental principle that underpins all previous agreements is recognising the right to mutual and equal security of the two sides. The immediate priority is for both sides to use existing channels and step back. Flag meetings between brigade commanders have so far been unable to break the stalemate. The incidents have underlined how the new LAC situation is placing existing mechanisms under renewed stress. India and China should grasp the current situation as an opportunity to revive the stalled process of clarifying the LAC. China has resisted this as a distraction to the boundary negotiations. But rather than agree on a line, both can instead simply seek to better understand the claims of the other and reach a common understanding to regulate activity in these areas. Clarifying the LAC may even provide a fresh impetus to the stalled boundary talks between the Special Representatives. Beyond the posturing, both sides know a final settlement will ultimately have to use the LAC as a basis, with only minor adjustments. Only a settlement will end the shadow boxing on the LAC. With both countries in the midst of an unprecedented global pandemic, the time to push for a settlement to a distracting, protracted dispute is now.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||A double disaster||The trail of death and devastation that Cyclone Amphan has left in West Bengal and Odisha demonstrates, once again, the fragile state of eastern coastal States during the storm season. At least 72 people are dead in Bengal and normal life is paralysed for millions in Kolkata and in the rural areas of both the States. That Amphan would be a terrible disaster was anticipated, but even with reliable forecasts of its movement since May 16, and the preparatory moves by National and State Disaster Response Force units, the impact has been catastrophic. The States along the east coast have evolved a code of practice for a storm coming under category 3 and above: evacuations, arranging for backup power, warning people to stay far from the coasts, designating strong buildings as cyclone shelters, and providing for at least a week’s supply of cooked food besides bolstering medical supplies. Yet, the loss of life and damage to livelihoods is always significant. This time has been no different, and the Centre and the governments of the affected States, including those in the Northeast lashed by heavy rain, must help people already weighed down by a severe lockdown pick up their lives again. There is an additional challenge, as thousands of people have been moved to crowded shelters where the COVID-19 pandemic poses a continuing threat. Adhering to hygienic practices, monitoring those requiring medical assistance and testing for the virus is a high priority. India’s cyclone warning system has made major advances for being able to provide clear warnings and saving lives but the precarious lives led by millions of citizens have once again been subjected to a severe shock. Many who were working in distant States have just returned to Odisha and Bengal in the wake of the economic paralysis caused by COVID-19, and need sustained support after the storm. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has appealed for strong support from the Centre, which the State must be provided to help it overcome the double jeopardy of the pandemic and the cyclone. Encouragingly, some vital activities such as functioning of the Kolkata airport were restored a day after the cyclone struck, facilitating movement of essentials, and additional NDRF personnel despatched to restore normalcy. The challenge is to provide pre-fabricated facilities for safe shelter in outlying areas, such as the Sunderbans, and use off-the-shelf solutions such as solar power to mobilise communities. While the battle against the virus may yet be won sooner or later, India must strengthen its response capabilities for a never-ending cycle of storms along its coastline.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The eternal longing for the distant home||Some travel for fun, some for the experience of it. Some to find themselves. Then there are those who rally for rivers or similar noble causes. My road trip earlier this month had no such lofty aim — I just wanted to bring my family, stuck in Mumbai since mid-March, back to Chennai. Around 2,800 km in four days — that is the distance I had to drive to get them home. The maths was simple, but as life keeps reminding us, it is anything but. Armed with two cloth masks, a bottle of hand sanitiser, a 20 litre can of water, and some bananas, I set off in an SUV with a driver just before midnight on May 8, the pass issued by the Tamil Nadu government valid between May 9 and May 12. Editing reports for the newspaper on a daily basis and keeping track of news developments closely, I thought I knew a lot about the problems and sufferings of migrant workers trying to get back home. Once we crossed Krishnagiri on the way to the Karnataka border, I realised how wrong I was. Vehicle after vehicle, full to the brim with migrants and their families from Erode, Tiruppur, Salem and other parts of Tamil Nadu, zipped past, making their way to Rajasthan via Karnataka and Maharashtra. These were labourers and agents and small-time businessmen, who had collected money, hired buses and then organised passes to get back home. Jobs lost and sources of income drying up, with some being asked to vacate their rented accommodation, they wanted to go back to their villages where they were assured of food and shelter. A horrifying picture Talking with them while waiting at police checkposts en route , little did I realise that these migrants were among the luckier lot. Only when my vehicle left the Pune expressway and entered the roads leading into Mumbai did the horrors unfold. Scores and scores of people sat by the roadside — some alone, others huddled together in groups — hungry and tired after hours (or maybe days) of walking in the hot sun, waiting for food and water and maybe a miracle to enable them to go home. Policemen hung around, checking vehicle passes and ensuring that they sat around in one place. The more people I saw by the roadside, the more I thought about the blank look in their eyes. Was it due to hunger or thirst? Was it that they were tired of walking long distances, or were they thinking about the effort needed to reach home? Was it fear about what the future held for them, or were they worried about their livelihoods once they go back to their towns and villages? Or was it sadness, brought about by the disappointment that the very society for which they had cooked and cleaned, or built roads or houses had abandoned them? Was it due to the inaction of those who had rendered them refugees in their own country? Or was it their way of expressing disgust for a society that entertained itself by watching reruns of Ramayan and Mahabharat while a humanitarian tragedy unfolded outside on the roads? My driver Ganesh ensured I was back home in Chennai with my family by the evening of May 11, a whole day and a half earlier than the deadline. I still wonder about those I saw on the Mumbai roads — were they able to get food and water? Were they able to catch a train back home? Or were they beaten up by policemen and sent back to their unlivable tenements? Or if they just ended up as statistics on some highway accident report? The exodus of vehicles from Tamil Nadu to Rajasthan and Bihar, meanwhile, continues unabated.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Atom Isolated and Photographed||A British-born physicist announced yesterday [May 20] he had succeeded in achieving one of science’s ultimate dreams—isolating and photographing a single atom. The scientific breakthrough was made by Professor Albert V. Crewe, assisted by two graduate students, Joseph Wail and John Langmore, at the University of Chicago two months ago with the aid of a scanning electron microscope which Dr. Crewe designed and built with funds supplied by the Atomic Energy Commission. Dr. Crewe displayed photographs of single uranium and thorium atoms, magnified a million times, at a press conference. They were the result of six years’ research and expenditure of between $750,000 (Rs. 56,25.000) and one million dollars (Rs. 75.00.000). The technique devised by Dr. Crewe enables a single atom of these metals to be seen within a molecular structure for the first time. With further research the technique “will provide a tool for investigating the materials of biological processes and enable biologists to proceed more rapidly in the techniques of studying biological cells, such as cancer and other cells,” he said.
22 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Aditya Birla MF suspends fresh inflows into two debt schemes||Aditya Birla Sun Life Mutual Fund has temporarily suspended fresh investments in two of its debt schemes — Medium Term Plan and Credit Risk Fund —with effect from Friday. The fund house said that it had made significant gains in the two schemes, which would be realised by existing investors, and hence has stopped fresh investments so that the gains are not diluted. “We have stopped taking additional money in our credit oriented funds —Medium Term Plan and Credit Risk Fund,” the fund house said in a statement on Thursday. “We believe that there are substantial gains in our funds which would be realised by the existing investors over the next few months. Since we do not wish to dilute this for existing investors by taking more money in these funds, we have stopped fresh subscriptions in these funds,” it added. While the Medium Term plan is an open-ended debt scheme that invests in instruments with a maturity period between three to four years, the Credit Risk Fund predominantly invests in AA and below rated corporate bonds. The cumulative assets under management (AUM) of the two schemes is around Rs. 5,000 crore. It is believed that the move is to ensure that the incremental gains from some of the written down assets go to the existing investors while barring new investors that invest just eyeing the recent gains. Meanwhile, the fund house’s decision will not impact existing systematic investment plans (SIPs) and systematic transfer plans (STPs). Only fresh registrations will be barred. Incidentally, the development comes close on the heels of Franklin Templeton Mutual Fund announcing the winding up of six debt schemes with a combined AUM of Rs. 26,000 crore due to an illiquid market for low rated securities. The ongoing coronavirus pandemic has significantly affected the cash flows of most corporates that, in turn, has impacted the payment capabilities especially those with a lower rating. Further, given the bleak outlook, the market for low rated papers has become illiquid. However, after the Franklin Templeton MF announcement, industry body Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) had said that it was a one-off instance and not an industry-wide phenomenon.
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Second round of airport privatisation awaits nod||The bidding for the second batch of six airports to be privatised will be done ‘quickly’ and the Union Cabinet is expected to take a decision on it soon, Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri said on Thursday. “The Ministry of Civil Aviation has approved the proposal for privatisation of another six airports, which include Amritsar, Varanasi, Bhubaneswar, Indore, Raipur and Tiruchi,” Chairman of the Airports Authority of India Arvind Singh said a press conference. “A Cabinet note has been prepared and it is under consideration of the government and once there is a decision, we will go ahead and invite bids,” he added. “We intend to do the bidding quickly,” Mr. Puri added. In another significant move, the Empowered Group of Secretaries has taken a decision on awarding three airports — Jaipur, Thiruvananthpuram and Guwahati. These three airports were part of the first round of privatisation of airports last year when a total of six airports were auctioned out. While Adani Enterprises emerged as the winning bidder for all of these airports, the government had not taken a decision on awarding these three airports. But now, the government has decided to go ahead with awarding them too as there is no judicial stay on the bids, the chairman explained. This should next be tabled before the Union Cabinet.
22 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Airlines cautiously optimistic||Airline companies gearing up to resume domestic operations after two months on Monday (May 25) remain only ‘cautiously’ optimistic.  Most airlines, except Vistara, refrained from commenting on the record on the government’s announcement on reopening the skies for passenger flights, that too with limited operations and with capped fares to protect air passengers from high charges. “It was [supposed] to open one day and we are happy that it is opening now. We are ready to restart. But demand is the main concern. Only those who are stranded will book. Is that enough to fill the seats and cover the costs?” asked a private airline executive not wanting to be named. His airline declined to comment officially. “Leisure travel is not going to happen, corporate travel is unlikely to take off and considering the current scenario, it will be difficult to even fill the 33% capacity that is allowed,” he said. Airlines are expected to cancel flights which will have very less load — say 30 to 40 seats in some sectors. Airline officials said the capping of fares was not in their favour as they cannot recover any part of their losses they had incurred due to stoppage of scheduled operations for two months. “Now there is no option. We could have charged more. And fares could have gone below the lowest slab also on account of low demand. We have to wait and see,” an executive said. Commenting on the development, Leslie Thng, CEO, Vistara said, “Aviation is a growth engine for the economy and resumption of air travel will give great impetus to the government’s overall efforts in helping the country eventually return to normalcy.” “We thank the government for taking this step and for their consultative approach in bringing about the new SOPs/guidelines for all stakeholders in the aviation sector,” he said.  An Air India spokesperson said, “We would be glad to serve our passengers by operating scheduled flights adhering to all government guidelines and protocols.” An airline executive, on the condition of anonymity said, “If intrinsic demand is muted, then the minimum fare will help in general. Maximum fare will not be that relevant.” “However, when demand is muted and minimum fare is higher than what it would otherwise have been, the weakest or least attractive player suffers the most as they cannot use pricing as a tool to increase share,” he added. “Setting a cap will create shortages like we see for trains. That is why typically leaving fares to be determined by the market is the best method,” he said.  (With inputs from Jagriti Chandra in New Delhi)
22 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Colgate-Palmolive sales drop||Colgate-Palmolive (India) has reported a 7.35% drop in net sales to Rs. 1,062.35 crore for the quarter ended March 31, 2020, from a year earlier. Further, volume declined 8%, which the company attributed to the COVID-19. According to a statement by the company, net profit for the quarter was pegged at Rs. 204.15 crore, 3.32% higher than in the year-earlier period. Net sales for FY 20 For the financial year 2019-20, net sales rose 1.2% over the previous fiscal to Rs. 4,487.6 crore. Net profit for FY20 rose to Rs. 816.5 crore, from Rs. 775.6 crore, the statement added. “The COVID-19 pandemic has required us to think, operate and behave differently,” said Ram Raghavan, MD, Colgate-Palmolive (India). “... all our plants are now operationa,” he added. The company declared an interim dividend of Rs. 16 for FY20. The dividend would be paid on or after June 16, 2020, according to the company’s statement.
22 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Virus attack takes the aroma out of coffee||The Indian coffee industry will take a long time to recover from the severe blow dealt by the pandemic on all commercial activities across the globe. Most coffee growers in the country were already in deep debt after they were hit by excessive monsoon rains, floods, landslides and huge crop losses consecutively in 2018 and 2019. Again, during the December-March (2020) picking season, they could not sell or export much of their beans due to the lockdown. “The global coffee situation is grim as the entire coffee chain is shut due to COVID-19. A bulk of our coffee goes to Europe and cafés in all those countries are shut,’’ Anil Kumar Bhandari, president, India Coffee Trust (ICT) told The Hindu.  In the current situation, coffee growers will be forced to hold on to the last season’s produce for more time, until markets open up and demand shows up. “The industry is hopeful that the Union Government will restructure existing debts with lesser interest and long-term repayment options, in addition to releasing some fresh working capital to look after the workers, farms and the berries that’s already set for next season crop,’’ said Mr. Bhandari.“This year’s crop is reasonable, but if growers don’t have adequate working capital, the berries on the plants might wither away and it will bring more uncertainty to the already suffering sector,” said Bose Mandanna, former Coffee Board member and a leading coffee grower in Coorg. “The stimulus package announced by the government is yet to reach small businesses. There is a huge cash crunch in the market. We are in need of the stimulus right now and not two months later,’’ said Chandan Cotha, a coffee roaster and partner at Cotha Associates.
22 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Rating agencies can bypass curing period||Taking into account the practical issues faced by companies due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has allowed credit rating agencies (CRAs) to bypass the 90-day curing period to revise ratings from default to non-investment grade. While current norms bar CRAs from revising the ratings before 90 days, few companies were able to meet their payment obligations a few days after the due date due to COVID-19-related delays. The rating agencies were, however, not able to revise the ratings due to the regulatory framework. “It has been noted in a few recent cases of defaults that even though the rated entity was able to correct the default within a relatively shorter span of time, the rating could not be upgraded and continued to be under sub-investment grade due to the extant provisions on post-default curing period of 90 days for the rating to move from default to speculative grade and generally 365 days for default to investment grade,” stated a SEBI circular.  The capital market watchdog has said that CRAs can deviate from the said period of 90 days on a case-to-case basis, subject to the agencies framing a detailed policy in this regard.
22 May 2020||COIMBATORE,||PET recycling units seek permission to import||PET bottle recycling units have sought permission from the Centre to import washed PET bottle flakes. B.P. Sultania, former president of the All India Recycled Fibre and Yarn Manufacturer Association, said PET bottle scrap is processed and converted into valuable products such as polyester staple fibre and yarn. The 40 PET recycling companies in the country have a production capacity of close to 12 lakh tonnes of recycled polyester staple fibre a year, including capacities that are in the pipeline. Industry in trouble With the spread of COVID-19 pandemic and the nationwide lockdown following this, the industry is in trouble as almost all the plants are closed due to shortage of raw materials. PET bottles are used to pack and store water, cold drinks, and the like. With the closure of airlines, railways and hotels, the use of PET bottles has declined. Generation of PET bottle scrap has also reduced drastically. Reviving industry “The Centre must take steps to revive this industry. Import of washed PET bottle flakes, banned in October 2019, must be allowed again; the Environment Ministry may allow a certain percentage of requirements by providing licences to existing industries for a year at least,” he said. This will enable the industries to operate. Import of PET recycled fibre and yarns should be either banned or attract higher customs duty to protect the Indian recycling industries, he said.
22 May 2020||New Delhi,||Amazon enters Indian food delivery market||Amazon India on Thursday said it is launching its food delivery operations in select parts of Bengaluru, a move that will see the e-commerce giant compete against major players like Zomato and Swiggy in the country. The announcement by Amazon India, which has been testing the service for a few months, comes at a time when Zomato and Swiggy have announced laying off of over 1,600 employees amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Separately, Swiggy said on Thursday it had started home delivery of alcohol through the ‘Wine Shops’ category on its app. The service went live in Ranchi, Jharkhand, on Thursday, and will be extended to other major cities in the State in a week. “Swiggy is also in advanced stages of discussions with multiple state governments to provide support with online processing and home delivery of alcohol which the company can immediately enable by leveraging its existing technology and logistics infrastructure and nationwide presence,” the company said in a statement.  (With inputs from Yuthika Bhargava)
22 May 2020||Chennai,||Sundaram Home Finance profit at Rs. 82 cr.||Sundaram Home Finance posted a net profit of Rs. 82 crore for the fourth quarter ended March 2020 that included a one-time exceptional item of Rs. 60 crore. In the previous comparable quarter, it posted a net profit of Rs. 26 crore. Hence, the net profit for the two quarters was not comparable on a like-to-like basis, the firm said.
22 May 2020||MUMBAI,||India may tour SA for T20 series||Talk that India could mark its return to international cricket with a short white-ball series in South Africa in August has been doing the rounds for more than a month now. On Thursday, Cricket South Africa (CSA) admitted it was discussing a three-T20I series with the BCCI. “India wants to honour [a prior] agreement. If it’s postponed, maybe a bit later,” CSA acting CEO Jacques Faul said at a virtual media interaction. However, everything hinges on government clearance from both sides. The series is being planned to make up for the cancelled ODI series between the two teams in India in March, after a washed out first ODI. That both Boards have the same broadcaster also augurs well for the conduct of the series in South Africa. A BCCI executive confirmed that the Board hopes to get the government nod. With guidelines for resumption of sports training having been released, the BCCI’s medical team, in consultation with the support staff, has started planning for a simulation camp starting early June. Mini IPL by Sept-end? Meanwhile, Indian Premier League (IPL) executives are understood to have sounded the franchises out on the likelihood of the postponed 2020 season being staged from late September to early November. For that to happen, the BCCI is likely to push for the T20 World Cup, scheduled from October 18 in Australia, to be deferred during the ICC Board meeting on May 28. “If the ICC event is postponed, we will start preparing for the IPL,” said a franchise official. On Wednesday, BCCI CEO Rahul Johri ruled out the possibility of having the IPL without overseas cricketers. “The flavour of IPL is that the best players in the world come and play, and everyone is committed to maintaining that flow,” he said at a TCM Sports Huddle webinar.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||A mystical spinner turns 80||Many summers back, a senior citizen ambled across and turned his arm over in a leafy ground at Bengaluru. He was about to coach at a local academy and talk veered towards spin bowling’s seductive charms. It is a skill in which he was one of the leading practitioners. E.A.S. Prasanna, as always, had a twinkle in his eye, a mischievous grin and for a lark, he bowled. On that warm day, the kind which makes Bengalureans yearn for either an ice-cream at Corner House or something frothy and potent at Koshy’s, Prasanna’s off-spin was spot-on. It had flight, dip and accuracy and harked back to the 1960s and 70s, when he along with Bishan Singh Bedi, B.S. Chandrasekhar and S. Venkataraghavan constituted the great spin quartet. But despite nostalgia’s warm embrace, time flies and the iconic Prasanna will clock a personal milestone on Friday as he turns 80. When legends met Back then while discussing the academy’s summer camp, he briefly spoke about his old tricks like the ability to hold on to the spinning ball as if it was attached to a thread. “I could shorten its flight subtly and lure the batsman into a foolish drive,” he said with a chuckle. Legendary batsmen have been sent to their doom through this method, and the irrepressible Ian Chappell once introduced Prasanna to Shane Warne and told the Aussie wizard: “Son, you are talking to one of the greatest spinners ever.” The late Rajan Bala, in his book All the Beautiful Boys , wrote: “Prasanna will be remembered as the trickiest of them all. Rotund and cunning, it was always nicer being on his side.” With 189 Test wickets, most of which contributed to India’s epochal victories, and a whopping yield of 957 scalps in First Class cricket, Prasanna remained a key figure as first M.A.K. Pataudi and then Ajit Wadekar forged a unit that could take on the world's best. Staying relevant Even if the 1978 Pakistan tour ended his tenure at the highest level while simultaneously heralding the arrival of India’s talismanic all-rounder Kapil Dev, Prasanna stayed relevant. Contributing in the nets and bouncing ideas, he played a key role in the backroom as the Indian team manager when the squad under Sunil Gavaskar won the 1985 Benson and Hedges World Championship of Cricket in Australia. In another chat pertaining to that specific triumph, a tale further embellished with Ravi Shastri being crowned ‘Champion of Champions’, Prasanna recalled: “I was playing multiple roles — manager, supervisor at nets, sharing inputs with Sunny. I multi-tasked and those were days when we didn’t have a coach.” The splendid tweaker of the ball, whose oft-repeated refrain on spin bowling is that ‘length is mandatory while line is optional’, has much to be proud about, including leading Karnataka to two Ranji Trophy titles. And as the clock ticks away, it is appropriate to say ‘Happy birthday, Pras’.
22 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Golfing action resumes||After a long hiatus caused by the coronavirus pandemic, organised sports action resumed with golfers teeing off at Prestige Golfshire here on Thursday. Around 45 golfers savoured the picturesque Nandi Hills backdrop while hitting their drives and putts, marking among the first scenes of sports in the country since the lockdown came into effect. Adequate precautionary measures were followed to ensure safety. Golfers — comprising mostly of club members — wore masks and maintained social distancing. Every golfer was given a cart for use, which helped avoid any form of fraternising through walking the course. All carts were sanitised after every round. Caddies were not in action; they performed the role of ball-spotters instead to ensure timely completion of rounds. Temperature checks were conducted at the entrance, followed by a mandatory check of the Aarogya Setu application. Golfers booked their spots through online registrations, and all payments — course fee, green fees etc. — were cashless (through UPI applications). The clubhouse facility for food and beverages was not open; golfers could only use a takeaway facility for the same. In a novel initiative, Prestige Golfshire used a ball-lifter to take the ball out of the cup after the putt was completed. After sinking a putt, a golfer pulled a lever attached to the flag with his club, resulting in the ball popping out of the hole and onto the green. This device helped reduce secondary contact, as it eliminated the need to reach into the cup and take out the ball with the hand. Shankar Gopal, a club member, was thrilled to return to the course. He played a round with his wife Suparna, with their son following them in a third cart. “The experience has been really enjoyable. I am really happy to be out and on the course after a long time,” Suparna said. Other golf courses in the city are set to follow suit, with KGA opening on Friday and Eagleton resuming on Monday.
22 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||To be World champion is my biggest goal: WGM Pratyusha||She has always been a quiet performer, plotting her strategy on the 64 squares to get the better of opponents. However, the lockdown seems to have come at the wrong time for 23-year-old B. Pratyusha, who had to take this forced break almost immediately after become a Woman Grandmaster — she earned her third and final GM norm in the Gibraltar International event in January. “Yes, in a way, it was disappointing. After getting the GM title, I played in one more tournament before coming back home. And, within days, I am ‘locked’ at home for what is turning out to be the longest stay indoors. The only saving grace is I am with my parents (B.S. Prasad and Satyadevi, both school teachers),” said Pratyusha in a chat with The Hindu on Thursday from her hometown Tuni in East Godavari (AP). First target The B.A. graduate’s first target now is to reach an Elo rating of 2400 from her existing 2329. The India No. 8 in women’s category regrets missing the Vietnam and Budapest internationals because of COVID-19. “To be the world champion one day is my biggest goal,” she said while adding that financial support has been a major hurdle. High points Some of the high points of her career are winning the 2014 Asian (under-18) gold, WIM title in 2016 and, in the same year, representing India in the Olympiad. Only the third WGM from both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana after K. Humpy and D. Harika, Pratyusha says she is quite comfortable with the speed of her moves and rarely gets into time pressure. A huge fan of Bobby Fischer and Judith Polgar, whose games she constantly analyses, Pratyusha has been training for six hours daily even during the lockdown under coach N.V.S. Ramaraju. “I need to improve my end-game technique and that has been the focus right now,” said Pratyusha.
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Green light for training, with caveats||Indian sportspersons can finally resume training, starting Friday, subject to guidelines and restrictions as mandated by the government and the sports ministry. The actual activities on ground, however, might take a while to begin. The Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), unveiled by SAI on Thursday for resumption of sporting activities “come into immediate effect” and would be applicable at all SAI and non-SAI centres, SAI secretary Rohit Bhardwaj said during a web interaction. Training would also have a phased start for sports and athletes. No batons, kneeling... Relay teams will have to practice without batons, no kneeling or sitting activities for hockey players and individual training sets for weightlifters — these are some of the provisions mandated by the SOP. Every equipment, regardless of sport and usage, will have to be sanitised before and after every use. While the draft SOP had been shared last week itself, the final version includes sport-specific details, declaring that these were only for broad reference and a final decision at every centre would be taken in consultation with local authorities. “In case of any confusion, the government guidelines and local administration would prevail,” Bhardwaj clarified. That would make a definite date for actual resumption of training difficult given the spread of SAI centres across the country. Patiala has been one of the hotspots for COVID-19 and although the National Institute of Sports (NIS) with its athletes and weightlifters has been isolated, Punjab government’s guidelines would need to be considered before re-starting sports.  The SOP mandates not just no sharing of personal equipment and gear but also limits the number of athletes that can train at a given time anywhere.  Relay teams will have to practice without batons No kneeling or sitting activities for hockey players Individual training sets for weightlifters Every equipment will have to be sanitised before and after every use
22 May 2020||KOCHI,||‘AFI meets should be open to all’||With some of India’s top athletes resuming training in a small way, the next thing to look forward to will be when and how the country gets back to competition. But with the situation showing no signs of abating, sportspeople could be in for a long, anxious wait. “If this situation continues, more than the virus, the anxiety over what could happen if one is infected would be a huge mental burden for athletes when competitions resume,” said P.T. Usha in a chat with The Hindu . The Athletics Federation of India (AFI) has planned a September 12 season-opener with the Indian GP. And since AFI president Adille Sumariwalla has said he would prefer if the national campers don’t leave the Patiala SAI-NIS Centre, there is a good chance that a majority of the National meets this season, and probably next year too, would be held there. Worry There is also a worry that the early meets could be a national campers-only events, like the Indian GP which was scheduled to take off in Patiala on March 20 before sports action was halted across the country. Usha feels campers-only National meets would be unfair to other athletes. “Whatever competition the AFI conducts, including the Indian GP, should be open to all, as was done all these years. If such a national campers-only meet is held during the Olympic qualification period, performances there should not be counted towards Olympic qualification,” said Usha, who runs the Usha School of Athletics where training has started. “Aren’t others also preparing to qualify for the Olympics? And when competitions resume, the AFI should ensure that top athletes are brought safely to the meet venue.” But if the current situation continues for the next couple of years, Usha feels that athletes would probably not go for competitions. “If this situation continues for something like two years, I don’t think athletes will be willing to compete risking their lives. Nobody will want to risk their lives. After all, athletes are human... they are [as]worried about their lives as anybody [else].”  Whatever competition the AFI conducts, including the Indian GP, should be open to all, as was done all these years
22 May 2020||Chennai,||TNCA seeks clarity from MHA||The Tamil Nadu Cricket Association (TNCA) is seeking clarity from the Ministry of Home Affairs on whether Ranji Trophy players will also be allowed to practise with their trainer. Relevant authorities in the TNCA told The Hindu that since the Ministry’s communication said both international and national cricketers would be allowed to practise with the trainer once they had received clearances from the local authorities concerned, it felt that that Ranji cricketers too would be allowed to train. The venue would the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium and different time slots would be given to the cricketers. Nets for batsmen? Would batsmen be allowed to have nets? The source said, “The trainer could do some throw downs to the batsman. That way he could have something close to having nets. “But we will not have net bowlers at this stage. And the bowlers can just practise operating at the stumps.” Turning his attention to the TNCA First Division league which has reached the semifinal stage, the source said, “We are confident we would be able to finish the league. We will have a discussion about it on June 1. We want to complete the league having come so far.” And the future of TNPL will be on the agenda during the deliberations on June 1. “At the moment it seems the most likely window would be August 1 to 21, if things go smoothly from here.
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Your struggles help you win’||The lockdown has united tennis players and Ramkumar Ramanathan is thrilled that the core workout sessions that he started on March 30 has expanded to about 70, attracting the cream of Indian tennis. “We are all connected on Zoom, every day by 5 p.m., and do the exercise for an hour. Each day we have a captain and new exercises are suggested and tried. Rohan Bopanna, Sania Mirza, Arjun Kadhe, Yuki Bhambri, Purav Raja, Vishnu Vardhan, Mahak Jain, Sathwika Sama and a lot of juniors have joined and many of them are regulars. The energy level is fantastic,” said Ramkumar. Healthy interaction It is not just exercise, but there is a lot of healthy interaction, which helps the youngsters to learn a lot. The group also made it a point to put together individual birthday wishes for Denis Shapovalov and sent it across to him through Bopanna, his doubles partner on the Tour. “Shapovalov joined us and we had a 20-minute fun session with him. He answered all the questions and inspired the players,” said Ramkumar, who does his exercise on the terrace. He is clear about the basics for development. “Your struggles help you win. Have patience, train hard, enjoy it. Don’t stop believing. Be kind to everyone. And surround yourself with a circle of good friends,” he explained his philosophy. Ramkumar expressed gratitude to coach T. Chandrasekaran for the guidance over the years. Revealing his technique of dealing with the big points, Ramkumar said, “Focus on the present. Negative thoughts come only when you start thinking about the outcome.” Like everyone, Ramkumar is waiting to get back to the circuit as a better person and player.
22 May 2020||Bengaluru:,||Tournament postponed||The FIBA 3x3 basketball Olympic qualifying tournament, which was scheduled to commence here in March, has been postponed to 2021. No FIBA 3x3 official competitions will take place before August 2020 at the earliest, due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen suffers twin defeats||Rare twin-defeats for Magnus Carlsen marked an action filled day in the $150,000 Lindores Abbey Rapid Challenge online chess tournament on Wednesday.   The results:   Eighth round: Hikaru Nakamura (USA, 5.5) drew with Yu Yangyi (Chn, 4); Alireza Firouzja (FIDE, 3) lost to Sergey Karjakin (Rus, 5,5); Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 4.5) drew with Wesley So (USA, 4.5); Levon Aronian (4) drew with Jan-Krzysztof Duda (Pol, 3.5); Alexander Grischuk (Rus, 4) lost to Daniil Dubov (Rus, 3.5); Ding Liren (Chn, 4) bt Wei Yi (Chn, 2).   Seventh round: Nakamura drew with Grischuk; Yangyi bt Liren; Wei drew with Aronian; Duda bt Carlsen; So drew with Firouzja; Karjakin drew with Dubov.   Sixth round: Liren drew with Nakamura; Grischuk drew with Karjakin; Dubov bt So; Carlsen bt Wei; Firouzja bt Duda; Aronian bt Yangyi.   Fifth round: Liren lost to Grischuk; Nakamura bt Aronian; Yangyi bt Carlsen; Wei drew with Firouzja; Duda bt Dubov; So drew with Karjakin .
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Aravind live!||Catch Aravind KP, international rider and the second Indian ever to complete the Dakar Rally, in a live chat on Sportstar's Instagram handle ( @sportstarweb ) on May 22 (Friday) at 5 p.m. IST.
22 May 2020||Johannesburg,||Smith wants Ganguly to head ICC||South Africa director of cricket Graeme Smith on Thursday made a strong call for India’s Sourav Ganguly to be the next chairman of the ICC. Speaking at a tele-conference, Smith expressed his support for BCCI president Ganguly to take over the ICC chairmanship after Shashank Manohar’s term ends this month. Smith’s comments were backed by his CEO Jacques Faul. Due to the current situation, Manohar’s term may be extended by two months. “From our perspective, it would be great to see a cricket man like Sourav Ganguly maybe getting into the president’s role of the ICC. I think that will be good for the game. “He understands it; he has played it at the highest level; he is respected; and his leadership will be the key to us going forward,” said Smith.
22 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam police’s social media posts get whacky||Policing is serious business in Assam, even if it occasionally means seizing a ‘cartoon’ of ‘bears’. The police in eastern Assam’s Dibrugarh district on Wednesday seized a huge cache of liquor and tobacco products in the Naohalia area of Duliajan. The constables were patted for a job well done amid COVID-19 duties. Senior officers could not help but smile when they received a seizure list mentioning the types of liquor and packets of chewing tobacco with misspelt brand names. Many of the items were in cases or cartons with an extra ‘o’, a common mistake in these parts. Nos. 4 and 5 on the list were ‘bear’ of strong and mild types. “...Before you point out serial no 4, we are doubly sure the officer on duty meant fermented barley and not the four-legged omnivore,” the Dibrugarh police tweeted on its handle late on Wednesday. “Winnie the Pooh, Baloo [of The Jungle Book ], Yogi and other cartoon bears were certainly not on the minds of the policemen on duty. They meant ‘beer’ and ‘carton’ when they wrote ‘bear’ and ‘cartoon’,” a district police officer said. On Wednesday, the Kamrup district police added a bit of wit to their social media announcement about catching three drug-peddlers with heroin after a 15-minute chase at Changsari near Guwahati. “You may be a top racer in NFS Most Wanted. But when it comes to drugs, you can’t beat us even if you are a Walter White of Breaking Bad ,” the Kamrup police tweeted. The Dibrugarh police had a few days ago tagged Apple CEO Tim Cook, Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg and Google CEO Sundar Pichai while tweeting on the need to wear masks to keep the novel coronavirus away. “Facial recognition in your phone may not work with the mask on. Leave that thought to the likes of @tim_cook @finkd and @sundarpichai and that’s no reason not to wear a mask,” it tweeted. A team headed by Mr. Harmeet Singh, ADGP (Modernisation-Logistics), has been behind the witty face of the State police.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 08:20 IST,||Sudoku - May 22, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The Craft Connect||“I sold 60 stoles. Yardage, saris, everything got sold. I logged over Rs. 3.5 lakh worth of sales,” says Itishree Sur of Gopalpur, Odisha. In the male-dominated weaving of tussar and ghicha in Odisha, Itishree stands out as a rare woman weaver. “There are so many orders that I have lost track of sales which is over Rs. 3 lakhs,” says Bikash Mahapatra, an ikkat weaver from Maniabandha (a unique Buddhist village in Odisha where the entire hamlet is engaged in ikkat cotton weaving). Both are a part of Antaran Artisan Connect, a philanthropic initiative by the Tata Trusts. Their happiness gets communicated to me over the phone. I have not heard of such jubilant stories from the handloom sector even in the pre-Covid era. A classic case of ‘Give man a fish and you feed him for a day; teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime.’ Several organisations such as Tata Trusts, Kutch Craft Initiative, Desi and Paramparik Karigar are helping artisans in the Covid crisis. The mode of working is simple. The products made by the artisans are put up for sale on the website, Facebook page or WhatsApp. The buyer places the order and pays in advance against the promise that the products will be shipped when the lockdown is lifted. The money is transferred straight into the craftpersons’ account. The organisations act as a facilitator, ensuring that the buyer will have a smooth experience and not be cheated. The artisans get working capital to make more products. They need not do distress sale. For the buyer it is money well spent — helping an artist, of course with a sweet discount thrown in. Litmus test Sharda Gautam, Head of Crafts, Tata Trusts says, “We began working in 2018 in three clusters, and now in six. Tata Trusts is a philanthropic institution and our work is aimed at nurturing artisans, helping them connect with markets directly without any intermediary. We had trained the craftspersons to use digital platforms for sharing regular product updates over WhatsApp and email with buyers and for online payments. With the lockdown, our ground team had moved out. For us, it was a litmus test to see if the training and the groundwork done by us was working. It has. Since we launched Antaran Covid Campaign, Artisan Entrepreneurs have notched up sales of over Rs. 32 lakhs in a month through the Antaran Artisan Connect website.” For the artisans this direct interaction with the market has given them an idea about the trend. Vekuvolu Dozo of Dimapur, Nagaland belongs to the Chakhesang tribe and is an expert at the backstrap loom. She says, “I did sell stoles and shawls, but my cushion covers and runners have done very well. Especially those in traditional designs.” Most weavers have experimented with new designs. Vekuvolu has made a bedspread on the narrow loom. “I joined five strips of 18 inches to make a bedspread of 90-inch width. I have made beautiful rucksacks which will be available online soon,” she adds. The excitement is all about reaching out through a new medium without leaving the confines of one’s home. Gautam explains: “Our model is to enable B2B connect of artisan entrepreneurs but with order cancellations due to Covid, B2C was considered to help liquidate the stocks as a short-term step. With success in that domain, we are now looking at a customisation option, where buyers can give their own designs to the weaver entrepreneurs. Artisan entrepreneurs can custom make new designs because of the design education that they have received in the last two years.” Pankaj Shah, Mentor, Kutch Craft Collective and who has been associated with the crafts of Kutch for over two decades says, “The craft organisations of Kutch — Kalaraksha, Shrujan, Qasab, Khamir and VRDI — are now developing strategies individually and together as Kutch Craft Collective for work post-Lockdown. Things will change. Also all the groups and many artisans have unsold stocks , liquidation of which is a priority. We welcome entrepreneurs, designers and individuals to buy them. The payment in advance will come in handy for the craftsmen.” Paramparik Karigar has started a similar venture though on a smaller scale on Facebook. Vaishali Goel, member, Managing Committee, says, “We have worked with our team of craftspersons on a personal level, but this online method is new for both of us. We have started a Facebook page, where a craftsman is promoted everyday. Products can be bought directly. Our focus on textiles will begin next week.” Will artisan empowerment with direct buyer contact usher in a new dawn for the handmade industry? Only time will tell.  The excitement is all about reaching out to a market place across a new medium without leaving the confines of one’s home. For the artisans this direct interaction gives an idea about the trend
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Ragas — much more than seven swaras||Believed to have been given by Mahavishnu, the Pancharatra Agamas are called Bhagavat Sastra. They are followed in many Vishnu temples, including Srirangam Ranganatha, Kanchi Varadaraja, Sarangapani, Melkote etc. P.T. Seshadri, a trained musician, who has also studied Sanskrit and Visishtadvaita under scholars, began exploring references to music and dance in the Pancharatra Agamas, and was amazed at the variety of ragas and talas described therein. He also looked up musical references in the Puranas. According to Seshadri, Vishnu Purana refers to Vishnu as nadha roopa. Thirumazhisai Azhvar and Nammazhvar say that Vishnu embodies the seven swaras. “In the Brihat Dharma Purana, Vishnu tells Narada about the classification of ragas into male (ragas) and female (raginis). There are six main ragas — Kamoda, Vasantha, Mallara, Vibhashaka, Gandhara and Deepaka. Kamoda is the chief raga, whose wives are Mayuri, Todi, Gowli, Varali and Dhanasri. Likewise, each of the ragas has its own raginis, with a total of 36. In addition, the ragas have male attendants and the raginis female ones,” says Seshadri, who adds that deviations from the swarasthana leaves the swara devathas mutilated. Pancharatra Agamas say that music, musical instruments and dance are all an inseparable part of worship in Vishnu temples. Atonements are recommended if one of these is left out. If dance is omitted, then an abhisheka for the deity must be performed with ghee. If music is not offered, the abhisheka must be with honey and if musical instruments are not played, the abhisheka must be with milk and so on. The Agamas talk elaborately about Kaisika raga famously associated with Nampaduvan. “According to the Pancharatra Agamas, this raga must be sung on the day of dvadasi, in the month of Kartika, Sukla paksha, during Sayanotsava. This raga is believed to purify the temple. In all Vishnu temples, Kaisika Purana is read on Kaisika dvadasi. In the late 1800s, the whole of Kaisika Puranam was presented as a musical opera by Vembu Ammal, daughter of Chakrapani Iyengar. Her opera, which was published in 1896, contains 17 viruttams, 11 kannis, 34 kirtanais and 10 slokas. It has venbas, pasurams and upadesa vachanas. She has used 30 ragas. The work begins with a salutation in venba to her Acharya — Sirupuliyur Annan. Then follows a viruttam in praise of Sarangapani Perumal. Kaisika Puranam, which stresses the importance of music in worship, was narrated by Vishnu to Bhu Devi, and since Andal was an avatara of Bhu Devi, Vembu Ammal put together all the lines in the Thiruppavai, which had the word ‘paadi’ (singing). The introduction has a kirtanai in Purvikalyani, in praise of Ramanujacharya,” elaborates Seshadri. Vembu Ammal also wrote other operas — Prahlada Charitram, Kusa-Lava Charitram, Durvasa Charitram, Kalyana charitrams of Andal, Rukmini, Vatsala and Sita, Nammazhvar Vaibhavam, Dhruva Charitram, Rukmangada Charitram, in addition to many standalone kirtanais. There is another work, which presents Kaisika Puranam in the form of vachana kirtanais, and this was composed by Koil Kurugesa Ramanuja Ekangi. This work has dora, viruttam, kuravanji and nondi chindu. Kattumannarkoil Lakshmu Ammal, a devotee of Andal and of Rukmini Thayar of Thiruvallikeni, composed in Tamil a musical opera of the 10th and 12th chapters of Srimad Bhagavatam. She went from one Divya Desam to another, the songs flowing from her spontaneously. In Venkatesa Suprabhatam, Prativadi Bhayankaram Annan says that the humming of bees in Tirumala sounds like the beri.” Seshadri points to a proverb about the Srirangam temple, which shows the high regard in which the bheri was held:  Kaarikai padithu kavi paaduvadai vida   Berikai kotti pizhaippu nadathu.  A rough translation: It is far better to play the beri for Ranganatha than study poetic rules and praise the kings with that knowledge.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Of women with conviction||Fiction-lovers of the 1960s and 70s would be familiar with author Lakshmi. A prolific writer, she churned out novels, which were women-centric and mostly family-oriented. A medical doctor by profession, Dr. Tripurasundari assumed the name Lakshmi to touch a chord through her vivid characterisation and gripping style. She was born in a large middle-class family in Thottiyam on March 21, 1921. Pursuing medicine did not dampen Tripurasundari’s creative urge. Her short story, Thaguntha Dhandanaiya ? (Fitting punishment), written under the pseudonym Lakshmi, was published in Ananda Vikatan on March 10, 1940. Encouraged, she unleashed a string of short stories, which were published in Tamil journals, most of them in Ananda Vikatan . Lakshmi’s novels were tearjerkers but the women were not always weak. They were vulnerable all right, but stoic and stood on the side of justice. There were negative characters too, with trademark traits. In fact, certain phrases and adjectives in Tamil were exclusive to Lakshmi, which stood out in her narration. It was therefore not difficult to identify a Lakshmi novel. Most of her novels were serialised in Ananda Vikatan and were popular — Bhavani , Mithila Vilas , Penn Manam , Nayakkar Makkal , Sooryakantham , Lakshiyavathi , Pannaiyar Magal , Adutha Veedu , Kanchanayin Kanavu , Srimathi Mythili , Arakku Maaligai and so on. All of them had the privilege of being embellished with artist Gopulu’s illustrations, which made the stories memorable. How were the men in Lakshmi’s novels? The heroes were always suave and dignified. Penn Manam has a rich playboy as the hero. He turns over a new leaf when he falls in love with the heroine Chandra. The supporting elderly characters came in all shades — good, bad and the ugly.  Penn Manam and Kanchanaiyin Kanavu were made into movies, of which the former was a huge box-office hit. The latter was made in 1952 as Kanchana with K.R. Ramaswamy, Lalitha and Padmini in lead roles. A decade later (1963), Penn Manam was made as Iruvar Ullam with Sivaji Ganesan and Saroja Devi in the lead. Produced by L.V. Prasad, the film, dialogue for which was written by M. Karunaidhi, deviated from the original. This included the engaging antics of M.R. Radha, who played the Public Prosecutor and even had a duet with T.P. Muthulakshmi. At the pinnacle of her writing career, Lakshmi migrated to South Africa in the 1950s with her husband, Dr. Kannabiran, and lived there for the next two decades. Her writing almost came to a halt except for a travelogue type of series, ‘Irunda Kandathil Ettu Aandugal’ (Eight years in the Dark Continent). After returning to India, Lakshmi picked up where she left off, with journals, especially Ananda Vikatan , eager to publish her short stories and serialise her novels. All of them were once again women-centric but taking into account changes in society. Her writing style also had changed marginally. Many accolades Lakshmi received the Tamil Valarchi Kazhagam Award for her novel Penn Manam . Her novel, Oru Kaveriyai Pola , drew a lot of appreciation and won her the Sahitya Akademi Award in 1984. It was about the life of a young girl Kaveri, born in Tamil Nadu and brought up in Durban, South Africa. A nurse by profession, she faces hardships after the death of her loving sister-in-law, who always would speak highly of Tamil Nadu and the Cauvery. Her broken marriage proposal and her love for a politically active lawyer Damodaran in Durban, her travel to South India and the different types of people she meets and her return journey to Durban with the help of her lover form the extended novel. Though the story did not end on a happy note, the finale held a sense of hope and determination. Later, Lakshmi also wrote an autobiography, Kathasiriyayin Kathai , in two volumes. It showed that the path she traversed was not paved with roses, her literary achievements notwithstanding. Lakshmi passed away on January 7, 1987, at the age of 65. In 2009, the Tamil Nadu Government offered to nationalise her works but her legal heirs declined it. In a way, Lakshmi was a positive writer. She never depicted evil winning over good. Her man-woman relationships were based on dignity, the romance lowkey. Also, her writings advocated feminism. Her women succeeded with all their finer qualities in tact, never compromising their principles. Devaki of Mithila Vilas , Chandra of Penn Manam , Geetha of Lakshiyavathi , Manjula of Arakku Maligai  and Kaveri of Oru Kaveriyai pola — they may seem identical , but, they bear subtle differences. Lakshmi had created simple but strong characters, who linger in the hearts of her fans after several decades, her distinctive style of writing not playing a small role in this journey.  Lakshmi’s novels were tearjerkers but the women were not always weak. They were vulnerable but stoic and stood on the side of justice.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Eloquent lines||Most of the students of the Government School of Arts and Crafts, Madras (now known as College of Fine Arts), who came out in the mid-1960s are considered to have formed the major part of the golden period of the Madras Art Movement. Vellore-born D. Venkatapathy belongs to that group. The strength of the line of his work alone is enough proof of it. Whether it is the numerous pen and ink drawings or paintings, one can discern the strong presence of the line in his work. In his paintings too the lines bordering the forms are striking. There is an intangible relation between him and Nature although he did not do landscapes much except perhaps during his student days. Venkatapathy’s paintings are more like drawings because the human and animal forms stand alone on the background rather than merge with it and the colours too are quite mild. He does not also fill the space with elements other than just the characters as can be seen in ‘Kishkinta’ or ‘Sanjeevi.’ Even when using deep tones of colours they are juxtaposed in a way that they appear rather sober. He has done a number of large pen and ink drawings, which have been executed in painstaking detail, both in the elements for giving them a sense of solidness through hatchings and cross hatchings and creation of textural variations. For example, this is apparent in ‘Ravana with Sita’ or ‘Asokavanam,’ where the human forms are more in the tribal style and in the setting too there is no attempt to create a realistic feeling of depth. When depicting scenes like ‘Lanka Devi’ or ‘Incarnation’ the third dimension happens, but what is striking is the way Venkatapathy combines various periods of time freely such as the legend and the historical, but it does not appear odd; in the former, Sita looks like Kali with a drawn sword, Hanuman in front of her but behind them are seen a temple, church and fort all belonging to different time frames. There is a print-like quality to his drawings. Funny twist  Some works like ‘Nataraja’ and ‘Ganapathy’ appear in a typical style of drawings/paintings seen in Tamil Nadu temples. Funny thing about ‘Muruga’ in this genre is that He replaces Krishna — Muruga plays the flute in the same stance surrounded by people and cattle as if the artist is taking a light-hearted dig at popular belief. Venkatapathy was attracted to the African masks, totem poles as also Mexican art which were all part of nature worship in their respective lands. Subjects from Indian puranas and epics also had their impact on him. Many of his works have a vertical arrangement even when the basic format is square. He has a propensity for placing figures one above the other such as ‘Harmony’, the charcoal work with an attractive variation of shades, mixed media ‘Vishwamitra,’ etc. The viewer’s eyes are led from top to bottom or vice versa. This is perhaps a result of his liking for totems. He has done a number of totems (acrylic on canvas) though the human and animal forms are quite Indian, such as yali, lion, pot bellied demons etc. inspired by what he has seen in temples or his own imaginary characters. Venkatapathy has had a penchant for painting masks. Although he was inspired by African masks, his works are by no means a copy. The imageries in general are steeped in his rural background. There is harmony and quietude; they are not dramatic and don’t appear emotional irrespective of the theme. His approach to picture-making is as direct as his speech; he expresses his views freely though he does not care to discuss his paintings and themes. When in the 1960s and 70s the tendency was to go with the modern art stream, he adhered to his own way of artistic activity in a sincere manner. A Retrospective Exhibition hosted at the DakshinaChitra, Chennai recently gave an opportunity to revisit his works and ideology. A recipient of several awards and honours — both at the national and international levels besides the Tamil Nadu Government’s ‘Kalaichemmal’ title — Venkatapathy was one of the earliest to move into the Cholamandal Artists’ Village.  The human and animal forms stand alone on the background rather than merge with it and the colours too are quite mild
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Melody unlimited||Online concerts, chamber music recitals at home, initiatives to help musicians and artistes in distress, robust practice sessions and more have kept Carnatic musicians all over Kerala extremely busy even during the lockdown. An outpouring of melody on social media is giving listeners enough food for the soul. “The concerts have been a message of resilience and hope for all of us, a reminder that this phase too will pass and we will soon be celebrating all the art forms,” says young Carnatic vocalist N.J. Nandini. Her Facebook page is alive with her rendering of Carnatic compositions, both rare and popular. Nandini also participated in ongoing online concerts organised by Panachikad Dakshina Mookambika Kala Mandapam and Mani Krishnaswami Academy. Most of her solo recitals had only the tambura in the background. Percussionist and singer Charu Hariharan feels that the lockdown has given her plenty of time to listen, create and play the mridangam although she misses the interactive warmth of live concerts and audiences. She and her brother Sreekanth Hariharan, playback singer and vocalist, have been on a musical high during this period. Recently, she posted her take on konnakkol, which she has been doing for a year now, from the page of Berklee India Exchange’s playlist of #TakaDimiTuesdays. Kochi-based Priya R Pai has uploaded several videos of her in concert with her two daughters, Shradha and Shreya. The sessions are visually and aurally pleasing as they take up kritis and select film songs as well. “I have been teaching them since they were children and we used to sing together. When they were kids, there was a difference in our sruti range but now we are on the same wavelength, musically and aesthetically. In fact, some of the Telugu songs we have sung were chosen by them,” says Priya. Many well-known musicians tuned in with their children to come up with some interesting recitals. Sreevalsan J Menon, Kavalam Srikumar, Palakad Sreeram and Baby Sreeram, Udupi Sreedhar and son Udupi Srikanth.... came up with soul-stirring melody and rhythm to entertain their listeners. Sreevalsan says that although his son S Narayana Menon, a student of engineering, is more into Western music, he was not averse to the idea of singing together with his father. “A former student of Ranjini Varma, he had stopped learning music formally when he was in class seven. I never forced him to learn. Now, when I suggested that we tune in for a song, he was game,” he says. In fact, after more than 50 days of the lockdown, Seevalsan says that he was getting set for a round of music at home in the company of Edapally Ajith Kumar and Vazhappilly Krishna Kumar past Tuesday. However, most of the well-known Kerala-based artistes did not stop with renditions on social media. They point out that the outbreak of COVID-19 and the lockdown have wiped out the season when artistes earn the most from recitals at temple festivals, which take place across the State. “The online concerts and live music sessions showcase our passion and dedication for music and we do it without any monetary benefits. However, the Chennai-based Mani Krishnaswami Academy, which has been uploading some superb recitals, request listeners to pay Rs. 50 for the concerts. It is voluntary. While 50 per cent goes to the artiste, the rest goes to the organisation, which is into many philanthropic activities,” says Kavalam Srikumar. The singer and composer adds that if the situation does not improve, musicians may have to think of ways to monetise their online activities to earn a living. Srikumar is part of Singers’ Association of Malayalam Movies (SAMAM) and their effort is to raise money for indigent musicians deprived of their livelihood because of the lockdown. In fact, it was to help such struggling musicians and dancers that Sreevalsan Menon, violinist Edappaly Ajithkumar, percussionists Balakrishna Kamath and Vazhappilly Krishnakumar and dancers Methil Devika and Rajasree Warrier came together to form Musicare Kerala. Formed in April this year under the guidance of director-cinematographer Shaji N Karun, the organisation was able to channel contributions from donors to more than 600 classical musicians, Melam artistes and dancers. “Abu Dhabi-based Sarvamangala Trust led by Ajay Kumar and Advaitha Dasa Foundation led by Binu Panicker took the initiative to collect the funds for the artistes,” says Sreevalsan. While the renowned singers and artistes are doing their bit to lend a helping hand to the needy, all of them chorus that they miss the feedback and applause of live audiences. “It is a different feel altogether. In a live online session, you can see the listeners waving, hearts floating up and comments too but the sound of applause and the feel when you connect with live, discerning listeners do wonders for a musician in concert,” says Nandini.  Nandini’s Facebook page is alive with her rendering of Carnatic compositions, both rare and popular
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The lovable diva of choreography||Art can make you a better person. And Kumudini Lakhia is proof of it. One of the most gifted and influential Indian choreographers, she brought about a radical shift in Kathak's vocabulary and repertoire, but never lost her humility and sense of humour in the process. On May 17, she turned 90. Amidst answering calls from her disciples, admirers, friends and family, she spoke as passionately as she always does, about her nearly eight-decade bonding with the art that continues to define her life. “You know when I began teaching in my husband’s garage, we would keep moving the tyres around to make space. It didn't annoy me; instead, I felt it was a challenge to dance there,” she laughs. From a mundane automobile workshop to prosceniums across the globe, Kumudini learnt how to maximise the impact of every move and moment. As a dancer, she went beyond the self and made performances a collaborative effort involving artistes (she has shared the stage with Ram Gopal and Pt. Birju Maharaj), audience, space, costume, lights and music. As a choreographer, she transformed into a fearless experimenter, redesigning Kathak’s landscape by challenging the conventional notions of storytelling. She reinterpreted the traditional technique, created for solos, through her ground-breaking ensemble works. From sensual swirls and fluid leaps to expansive lines and sharp formations, her movement language is both thought-provoking and visually thrilling. Thus, the veteran has shown subsequent generations how to push boundaries aesthetically. New challenge “Intimacy and connect are the essence of art, not distancing, which has become a must in a world with COVID-19. Yet there is no need to panic or be distressed. Patience, the core of classical arts’ training, is the need of the hour. The digital medium may be great for business, but the beauty of art is in live performances. We need to deal with the pandemic in a peaceful manner. Don’t be in a hurry to establish a ‘new normal’,” says Kumudini. Without losing hold on what she imbibed from her gurus, Kumudini set out on a choreographic journey, giving shape to her curiosity, anxiety and imagination through the body. Her unfussy style belies the richness that marks her works. “I didn’t plan my path. I just wanted to break away from a restrictive order. Labels such as ‘innovator’ or ‘trailblazer’ didn’t mean much to me. In fact, I initially faced a lot of ridicule. Many felt I was crazy and up to something that was unacceptable in the classical realm. I remember my production featuring dancers in pure white costume being termed a funeral procession.” But her critics strengthened Kumudini’s resolve to explore and improvise. She was keen to come up with narratives that were not about Radha-Krishna, Shiva-Parvati and the goddesses. “Your desire to attempt something new has to be backed by a strong foundation, purpose and perseverance. I know these are clichéd classroom lessons but they are timeless too." Known to be a liberal guru, she encourages students at her Ahmedabad-based dance institute, Kadamb, to be as free-spirited as the art. “Training in art cannot be templated. You have to allow young enthusiasts to grow as a dancer and person. An inhibited mind and body cannot bring out the expressive abandon of dance. Besides finding your feet, you also should find a voice and vision,” says Kumudini, who premiered her piece, ‘Yugaantar’ this February. Featuring 160 of her students, it shows how a child grows, and grows better with art.  With her dynamic approach to choreography, Kumudini Lakhia devised a distinct movement language and new models of artistic collaboration
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||What comfort zone?||About 50 uniformed children, age group 5-10, happily clap their hands and recite konnakkol phrases to a refrain of instrumental music. An hour later, eyes bright, the children have bonded with their master of ceremonies and learned about the mridangam, ganjira, konnakkol and the cajon. Akshay Anantapadmanabhan is immensely articulate, deconstructing complex thoughts into comprehensible nuggets, as in the workshop mentioned above. Probably the most recognised face of IndianRaga, Akshay spent his early years in India, followed by 15 years in the U.S. and many years travelling between both countries. Akshay has accompanied them all — stalwarts, Sangita Kalanidhis and the young brigade — R.K. Srikantan, Sudha Ragunathan, O.S. Thiagarajan, N Ravikiran, Lalgudi GJR Krishnan and Lalgudi Vijayalakshmi, P. Unnikrishnan, T.M. Krishna, S. Shashank, Ranjani-Gayatri, Sikkil Gurucharan, Ramakrishnan Murthy, Sandeep Narayan, Vignesh Ishwar, Sriranjani Santhanagopalan and so on. Ramakrishnan Murthy, who has known Akshay professionally since 2005, states, “Akshay is the quintessential millennial mridangist, straddling genres from pure Carnatic music to contemporary Indo-Western fusion. Maintaining purity of the classical art form and meeting the requirements of a fusion calls for an open mind and versatility. I have been amazed by these qualities in Akshay.” Akshay responds: “When you create music outside your comfort zone, you may actually discover something new.” Besides solo performances highlighting Indian rhythm in non-traditional contexts, he has been recently involved with Carnatic 2.0 Reloaded, and The Thayir Sadam Project, whose production Crazy Little Thing Called Chakravakam (with Ranjani-Gayatri) reached over one million views on Facebook. Engaging in Carnatic and independent music, contrary to popular belief, has been synergistic. “In the recording studio, just aligning the instrument to the sruti perfectly is very difficult, yet critical to make sure what I play is exact and tuned to perfection,” he informs. Sudha Ragunathan affirms this cognizance in kutcheri-s too, “Akshay is very conscious of the quality, timbre and resonance of his mridangam,” she says. “When unsure of my instrument, I play it for 1.5 to 2 hours before a concert. The mridangam really is like a person. The more time you spend with it, the more you are aware of its mood swings.” observes Akshay. Between two spaces He enjoys moving between the two mind spaces. Studio productions go through multiple iterations, artistes knowing exactly what, when and where they are going to play, effectively acting out roles. “On the other hand, in a traditional kutcheri, we are always creating content, constantly composing, forcing us to keep thinking outside the box,” he expands. Sudha Ragunathan appreciates Akshay’s quick discernment of varying sound conditions. “He ambiently balances his instrument whilst ensuring that the vocal is heard above the mridangam.” According to Akshay, few Carnatic artistes are aware of how their instrument sounds through amplification. “It is important that the entire stage is balanced,” he says. Akshay started training at age five in Mumbai with T.S. Nandakumar. Passion set in when he moved to the U.S. (where he learned from Venkat Natarajan, student of T.H. Subash Chandran), kickstarted by preparing to accompany his sister’s vocal programme (in 2001 at age 12). At the Cleveland Aradhana competitions in 2004 and 2005, Akshay won first prizes. Before long, he came under the tutelage of Subash Chandran. Challenging concerts piqued his interest. He mentions accompanying R.K. Srikantan — “I was 18 and he, about 90,” he says. “Senior artistes would teach me even as they sang — particularly noticeable with Srikantan mama.” Seriously into tennis, Akshay juggled sports, academics and music. “I would frequently fall sleep on the mridangam,” he says. Akshay studied at The Cooper Union in New York City, getting a flawless 4.0/4.0 GPA in his Master’s degree. “On weekends, I lugged my mridangam to clubs, pubs, the metro and got exposed to jazz and other music too.” Akshay keeps his tani avartanams short — usually no more than 10-15 minutes in a 2.5 hour concert. “I like the notion of keeping things compact, striving towards choosing meaningful phrases that reflect what has already happened.” Lalgudi GJR Krishnan says, “Akshay is a pleasure to be with, has an open mind and the ability to adapt. He has the right temperament and his playing is focused and unobtrusive.” Always elegantly attired, he believes in the visual element, crediting his wife, dancer Sudharma Vaithiyanathan, for selecting fabrics and combinations. His kurtas are frequently custom-tailored, often with a complimentary mridangam cover too. “I strive for my own identity as a mridangam artiste. In the olden days, people came to listen to specific artistes or combinations. I would like to establish myself similarly in the present 21st century scenario,” concludes Akshay.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||His work embodied silence||When someone passes-on, they don’t only leave you bereaved but also burdened to find a way to remember and contain them in your thoughts. This is my attempt to hold on to my dear friend and teacher Phillip Zarrilli — 1947-2020. There are very few people who can traverse two worlds with the love, care, and respect that Phillip did. And I don’t say this out of fondness for the man but out of awe at the delicacy with which he inhabited the two realms: Western/Eastern, modern/traditional, somatic/cerebral. And he did that with effortless ease, with a matter-of-factness that would exemplify his work, training, teaching, and attitude to life and death. Phillip first came to India to train in Kathakali in 1976, after being influenced by the work of theatre-innovators/anthropologists like Jerzy Grotowski and Eugenio Barba, who were turning Eastward in the search of somatic methods to build wholeness, presence and energy in the performer. But in doing so, they were perhaps also risking rendering Eastern performance traditions as precious, as is evident in Barba’s view of Kathakali, which he calls, “a distant glittering star helping me find my way to some other galaxy.” Training methods Phillip’s stated intention at the very start of his training at Kerala Kalamandalam was not to become a Kathakali performer but to understand its pre-performative training methods that could be used in the training of modern-day actors. His rigorous training in the dance-theatre form soon led him to kalaripayattu, the martial art that served as preliminary training to the dance-theatre form, which had made a strong impression on Grotowski, and in which Phillip would see the promise of the pre-performative method that he was seeking, unfold. Over the next two decades, he made repeated trips to Kerala to devote himself to training in kalaripayattu under the expert guidance of Govindankutty Nair at the CVN Kalari, Thiruvananthapuram. Deeply entrenched in the form, he continued to remain an enquiring observer-participant. I think one of the most perceptive insights that Phillip offers to theatre-anthropology is that these cultural forms are not only rich repositories of culture but also commonplace within the local culture. By doing so, he deflates the insider/outsider, subject/object divide virtually in one stroke. One can say that by positioning himself so delicately and may I add, casually, between this inside and the outside, Phillip brought self-consciousness not only into the form (as is evident from his highly reflective writing on Kathakali, Kalaripayattu, and actor-training) but also to the field of intercultural theatre, forcing an appraisal of the Western intellectual traditions of representation, especially, of the Asian Other. Phillip stands both tall and clean in his deeply immersive yet unfussy and un-embellishing engagement with the Indian forms. If he critiques the Western perspective, he is equally critically-alert of and does not buy into the many socio-cultural and political narratives which seem to have become part and parcel of pedagogy of Indian embodied practices (and I say that from first-hand experience as a student and practioner of Bharatanatyam). Three practices The psychophysical training method that he devised and taught involved three mandatory practices, that of yoga, kalaripayattu and tai-qi-quan. If I can recall two things that stood out for me in Phillip’s actor-training, it was breath and listening. As he led the training, you could actually see him positioned in that station of listening within the breathing-moment of the here-and-now. I would say that both he, and his work, embodied silence — the silence of attentive and respectful listening. His theatre was indeed a spectacle in listening : slow, absorbed, mindful, attuned, and gripping! With Phillip’s passing, the world of international theatre has lost a teacher, theorist, and director who was able to successfully garner and foster the pre-performative impulse; someone who reinstated process into performance-making as opposed to concepts, words, and semiology. Apart from a rich corpus of books, A Phenomenology of Acting; When the Body Becomes all Eyes; Kathakali Dance Drama: Where Gods and Demons Come to Play, to name a few, he leaves behind a legacy of a finely delineated psychophysical training that has resulted from a deeply-felt and sensorially-experienced theory  alongside a finely analysed, observed and attuned practice for performers of all colours. He will be remembered as a gentle warrior-weaver, who quietly but firmly battled ethnocentric stereotypes and interwove performance cultures from across the globe making them our own. On April 28, 2020, Phillip Zarrilli passed away peacefully, “riding on his breath”, as described by his wife and partner Kaite (Caitlin) O’Reilly. A portion of his ashes will be immersed in the Karamana river that flows proximate to the CVN Kalari, through Thiruvananthapuram.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Names of ragas||The Agamas give the names of many ragas, besides Kaisika. Parameswara, Paadma and Aniruddha samhitas mention the following ragas — Kamada, Kedara, Gowlai, Gowleeya, Kaisika, Gandhara, Gouda, Gowli, Ghanta, Cholapaani, Takkesi, Daksha, Desakshi, Panchama, Poornachandra, Bhupala, Mangala, Madhyamavati, Malathi, Malavi, Megharadha, Mohana, Varalika, Shreekamada, Sriraga, Hamsadhvani, Natabhashaka and Mallaka. Aniruddha Samhita gives ragas for the different directions — Gandhara (East), Kaisika (South), Kamada (West) and Takka (North). Likewise, ragas are given for the other four directions too.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Global tunes||Filmmaker Shruthi Namboodiri along with music director Sudeep Palanad, musician Naveen Mullamangalam and Carnatic vocalist Vishnudev Namboodiri, all founder-directors of World Music Festival Foundation (WMFF), came up with ‘Saudade,’ an online celebration of classical and world music right from day one of the lockdown on March 24. Along with introducing young and talented musicians, they also uploaded pieces of world music by eminent practitioners of different genres of music. “We started this organisation in 2014 with the idea of starting a music festival in Kerala. Resource was a stumbling block and so we came up with small online programmes, films and music-related organisations. For instance, all my films have been produced under the banner of WMFF. During the Lockdown, we came up with the idea of Saudade, a Portuguese word that really does not have an equivalent in English. It is a mixture of nostalgia, pain, melancholy and longing that one usually associates with music or songs,” says Shruthi.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The bow speaks... and sings||Gandhi Subbu Arumugam  When stages across the world have become inacessible, YouTube has given me an opportunity and a platform to share my creations with the audiences, transcending geographical borders. I was closely associated with my illustrious father, Subbu Arumugam, a Villupaatu exponent, for more than five decades. The rich experience has helped me create YouTube videos in all formats — speeches, songs, short stories and poems. The content is based on my Villupaatu experiences with my father, blending social messages and what I have learnt from various people. One such example was our divine meeting with Kanchi Mahaswami, which became a spiritual turning point for my father and Villupaatu. In the past three months, I have created around 20 videos, which have been well-received by the viewers. I am uploading at least two every week and planning to increase the number. I strongly believe that my YouTube channel will benefit young aspirants.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||On social issues||Prakash  Theatre audience might be familiar with me as an actor. I acted in ‘Sammadham’ by Mali’s Stage and ‘Tenali Raman’ in Shri Srirangam Rangamani’s Arangan Arangam troupe. I have essayed many roles in both historic and social plays. After starting my drama troupe, Brahma Fine Arts, I wanted to stage my play with Kartik Fine Arts. I had submitted my script, when the lockdown was announced. I decided to create short films, my experience with one venture — ‘Samiyar,’ which depicted the ill-effects of consuming alcohol — standing me in good stead. I have written and directed three digital short films — ‘Sarve Jana Sukhino Bhavanthu,’ emphasising kindness and humanity, ‘Anbu’ on the importance of maintaining healthy interaction among family members and ‘Thunive Thunai’ stressing the need for women to be courageous in facing challenges. The artistes of the recent short film are Sandhyashree, Umashankar, Abdul Rahman, Anand Srinivasan, Anand, Master Dwijesh. Apart from digital short films, I’m working to present more social and historical plays on stage.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||A la Jiljil Ramamani||Prema Sadasivam  Physical constraints cannot restrain imagination. Can it? Lavanya Venugopal, Maheshwar and Subramaniam (Subbu) have teamed to produce ‘Jiljillum Coronavum,’ myself coordinating it. It was Lavanya Venugopal who got the idea, while watching the Tamil classic film, Thillana Mohanambal on television. A Bharatanatyam dancer, Lavanya wanted to reprise the immortal role legend Manorama played on screen. She discussed the idea with her theatre friends Maheshwar and Subbu, who responded with enthusiasm. Thus was born ‘Jiljillum Coronavum’ with Lavanya playing Jiljil Coronomba. Subbu penned the dialogue aptly conveying messages of awareness, precautions to be taken to fight the virus and emphasising the importance of adhering to the norms set by the government. Maheshwar shot the entire video of his role as Nagalingam — a Mirasdar, portrayed in the original by E.R. Sahadevan. He sent it to Lavanya, who shot her part. Everybody stayed in their places, the family members performing the jobs of cinematographer, editor and mixer.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Crime thrillers||Satish  We had plans to celebrate World Theatre Day with six shows in three days — March 27, 28 and 29 — all under different genres such as crime, court drama, psychological thriller and humour. Legally Yours uploaded on YouTube its most popular ‘Sadhi Vidhi Madhi,’ a court drama on the the law of Karma. Kesavan, who wrote the dialogue for ‘Sambar Vaali Sambu,’ (our first full-length comedy play with Kathadi Ramamurthy playing the lead role) also came up with a short film, involving a single character (Gowtham), on the ‘Vanakkam-Namaste’ concept. We are using this time to discuss, on phone of course, projects in the pipeline and new story ideas. Legally Yours also hopes to enter film production by this year end.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Four short films||Muthukumar  Our troupe has been busy producing short films during the Lockdown. ‘Othigai’ deals with rehearsals through conference calls for a drama festival, which eventually gets cancelled. It has some of the artistes giving funny excuses for not attending video call rehearsals. This would include unusual domestic duties. The play also highlights the duties of citizens towards helping others especially elders during this period. ‘Othigai’ was released in YouTube on May 12. The other short films under production are ‘Samayal Thanthiram’ is about a woman under constant pressure to cook delicacies for the family. She finally tricks them into learning culinary skills to get much needed relief. Another skit deals with a lady physician, who puts duty above everything. The other short film, which is yet to be titled, is about a smart child, who does her bit to help underprivileged.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||New avenue||Shankar Kumar – Artiste  Although I’m an amateur artiste in the Tamil theatre field, acting is my passion. My younger son Nitish, an engineering student on the other hand is passionate about film making, cinematography and photography. He narrated to me two interesting scripts and insisted that I do the roles. With limited resources of lighting and his DSLR camera, he shot the two films, and also did the post- production work. The first film, a four-minute short, is ‘Illatharasan’ (Homemaker), which describes the plight of house-bound husbands during the lockdown in a humorous vein. It has been well-received. The second is “Iru Manam,” where I had to do a dual role, speaking in two different voices. The 7.3-minute short film won the appreciation of friends and colleagues not only in India but the U.S., Australia, Singapore and Dubai. Along with his online classes, Nitish is working on the third project, the lockdown opening up new avenues for both of us.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Political overtones||One of the first to utilise the digital medium to entertain theatre lovers, S. Ve. Shekher has recently uploaded ‘Corona Kudumbam.’ It is actually play-reading with Shekher himself ‘donning’ the roles through voice modulation, etc., Shekher relying on the script — written by Kicha — to sustain attention. In a preamble, Shekher explains that generally a new script is thrown open to the team, read and roles decided. This time round, Shekher presents in monoact form, Natakhapriya’s new play, which is in the form of a telephone conversation among the characters. Laced with humour, for which his productions are well-known, ‘Corona Kudumbam’ has strong political overtones, the characters reflecting some leading politicians. The veteran, who straddled both stage and cinema with ease, exploits current developments to bring smiles on the face of the watching listener.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Who’s your neighbour?||T.V. Radhakrishnan  I have been in the field for 41 years and our troupe has presented many popular plays, including ‘Iraivan Kodutha Varam,’ ‘Valaikkul Sikkiya Meen’ and ‘Karuppu Aadugal.’ I went to the U.S. to visit my daughter but my stay has been extended by the lockdown. I used the opportunity to make two short films. ‘Kollai’ and ‘Stay home, Stay Safe’ were conceived and directed by me in order to create an awareness, not only about the norms to be diligently followed during this period but the need to be alert about our neighbours and what is happening around us. The cast includes ‘Cho’ Ramesh, Ramanan, Padmavathi Nagarajan and Anand Srinivasan.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Shorts, talks... in touch||T.V. Varadharajen  In March we had six shows, including one at Pune. The lockdown changed everything and the troupe was getting a bit depressed. To cheer them up, I decided to make a short video film, ‘Poonala Drama Podaporom,’ in which they participated with enthusiasm. I uploaded it on the social media platforms and received sizeable viewership and appreciation. The response led to the talk show, which happened during our morning walks on our terraces. We are delighted with the response walk-the-talk garnered. We are shooting two short films — one a full-length comedy centred on the lockdown and another a socially relevant subject on divorce. I also would like to add that one of our troupe members, Shanker Kumar, with the support of his son, an engineering student, has made two short films. Whatever be the medium, our strength will be clean humour. We’re looking forward to meeting the audience in sabha halls. Until then we’ll stay connected with our beloved rasikas through social media.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Into the fantasy world with Harry Potter||The Harry Potter and The Sorcerer's Stone   On May 23 : Adaptation of the first of J.K. Rowling’s popular children's novels about Harry Potter, a boy who learns on his eleventh birthday that he is the orphaned son of two powerful wizards and possesses unique magical powers of his own. He is summoned from his life as an unwanted child to become a student at Hogwarts, an English boarding school for wizards. There, he meets several friends who become his closest allies and help him discover the truth about his parents' mysterious deaths.  Harry Potter & The Chamber Of Secrets  On May 24: The young wizard’s adventures at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry is unfolded in this second instalment.  Harry Potter & The Prisoner Of Azkaban  On May 25: Harry’s third year at Hogwarts throws at him many challenges from Sirius Black (Gary Oldman). Harry learns to defend himself with the help of a mysterious new teacher. Tune in to see what is his secret tie to Sirius Black.   Harry Potter & The Goblet Of Fire   On May 26: Harry (Daniel Radcliffe) returns for his fourth year at Hogwarts, along with his friends, Ron (Rupert Grint) and Hermione (Emma Watson). Harry's name is drawn for a tournamnet between three major schools of magic. Tune in to see how he competes to win the dangerous contest.   Showtime: 9 p.m.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||22fr_tubewatch||News 7 Maanbumigu Neethi Arasargal This morning show explains the intricacies of various laws and ways to handle legal issues with ease. Senior legal practitioners are invited in every episode. They not only talk about these laws but also the cases they dealt with and how they settled disputes. Sunday, 9.30 a.m.
22 May 2020||May 22 2020 00:00 IST,||On mother’s love||Poovai Mani  Kalaivani has been presenting stage plays since 2017 — ‘Uravodu vilaiyadu’ (2017), ‘Vilaiyattu Bommaigal (2018) and ‘Thiruvadi Saranam’ (2019). C.V. Chandramohan directed the last two. Kalaivani Digital Media, in association with Mother Creation, has produced a short film, titled ‘Gomathi Amma.’ Dedicated on Mothers’ Day, it is based on Mahaswami’s quote: “Mother’s love is the only purest form of love in this world.” The artistes — Girish, Malathi Sampath and Jayakumar — shot their scenes staying safely in their houses. Editing was handled by Gautham and I have produced and directed this short film with Chandramohan.
22 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘ Bois Locker Room, a reflection of an existing mindset’||The controversy triggered by leaked lewd chats from ‘Bois Locker Room’, an Instagram group run by some teenagers, and the death of a 17-year-old boy in Gurugram, allegedly in connection with the incident, have raised serious questions about the mindset of youngsters, their use of social media and the way forward. The Hindu spoke to a few psychologists, specialising in adolescent counselling, who narrowed down the reasons to lack of proper sexual education and gender sensitivity among teenagers. “There are multiple episodes — the Bois Locker Room, a 17-year-old ending his life, and the Snapchat screenshot. Though we may feel they are all different, what comes out is that there is a complete lack of sex education, gender sensitisation and sensitivity among teenagers,” said Mahalakshmi Rajagopal, a psychologist who works as a consultant with some Delhi schools. ‘Forbidden topic’ According to Dr. Rajagopal, while girls are imparted with some amount of sex education when they start their menstrual cycle, for boys sex is often a “forbidden topic”. “The reason you have a boys room locker, where all these discussions are taking place, is because at that age they are curious and they haven’t been given healthy sensitisation about sex, women and things related to sexual health. Nothing has been provided,” she said. Roma Kumar, a counselling psychologist at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, echoed Mr. Rajagopal’s views. She said it is common and natural to be curious about sex, especially when it is hushed up, and stressed on open and constructive conversations about these topics. Dr. Kumar said misogyny is rampant in society, illustrated by “how people like to sexually objectify women and laugh on sexist jokes”. She said boys should be educated about the thin lines that separate banter and abuse. Even social media chat groups are fine, she said, if the members don’t slander each other and turn abusive. “As long as they are talking about sexual stuff, it should be fine because everybody talks about these things. We talk in a different manner, children are learning differently. But there should be some rules,” she stressed. Taking the instance of even special needs children exploring their sexuality, Dr. Kumar said, “We can’t stop them, and we shouldn’t stop them because it’s a sexual energy that you are born with. But somebody has to be able to talk to these children in that manner, connect with them and also engage in conversations related to sexuality,” she said. Learning from adults In the absence of proper sex education, children are observing adults at home and accordingly developing their attitudes and patterns of behaviour, counsellors said. “A 17-year-old doesn’t suddenly start objectifying women. It builds up over time. Such children are either coming from homes where they listen to parents using these kinds of words casually, or they see and observe their extended families engaging in such casual exchange. So the children grow up thinking it is okay to objectify women. This then gets reinforced with their peers,” said Dr. Rajagopal. Damini Grover, another counselling psychologist, agreed. “It’s a reflection of an already existing mindset,” she said. She also pointed out the role of Bollywood movies that engage in similar conversations between men about women. This, she said, comes from a “sense of superiority, an assertion of masculinity which involves thinking and talking about women casually”. Taking the example of asking for consent, Dr. Kumar said, “We don’t take consent in our homes. We just order. It’s how we communicate to our children also. And they learn from the environment, how a man or the father is talking to the wife. And how the wife is connecting to the in-laws or to the husband.” Still a stigma Stigma attached to sex and sexuality has been a hindrance, observed counsellors. Dr. Grover said there is reluctance among parents to talk about sex and sexuality to their children. Because of it, a volley of topics, like exploring one’s sexuality, sex and its consequences, ideas of masculinity and femininity, consent, building relationships and treating partners are left undiscussed, she said. Removing the sense of taboo is the first step, said Dr. Rajagopal. “We as a society must be comfortable to sit down and talk about the sexual act. We give the impression that it is a big secret and something bad. Even today the minute there is an intimate scene in a movie, parents tell their children to get up and leave. We have to get out of that sort of mindset. We should be able to have a healthy and open conversation,” she said. “If somebody’s asking about masturbation or oral sex, talk about it. Tell them,” said Dr. Kumar, adding that parents too need to learn to deal with their children. “They shouldn’t stop children, but guide them,” she said. ‘Sexual’ education Looking forward, Dr. Kumar said that there is a need for sexual education and not just sex education among children. Dr. Rajagopal stressed that apart from proper sex education and gender sensitivity among children, it is important to teach parents about such concerns and ensure a positive environment at home. Dr. Grover asserted the need for social media education, given a complete lack of any kind of sensitivity training to children either in schools or at home. “It is part of a new way of living and there is a need to develop some rules around it. Future generations will continue to use these platforms and we need to understand how to use them responsibly,” she said. Restricting the use of social media is not an option, she argued. As individuals grow older, the focus has to be on creating a sense of responsibility when using social media, she said. The ‘Bois Locker Room incident’ should act as a tale of caution.
22 May 2020||New Delhi,||High Court directs police to pay motorist Rs. 75 lakh compensation||The Delhi High Court has directed the Delhi police to pay Rs. 75 lakh as compensation to the parents of a man, who is in vegetative state, after his motorcycle rammed into an unmanned and poorly lit police barricade five years ago. Justice Navin Chawla said that the victim was entitled to damages for the negligence and failure of the Delhi police in discharging their duty. The court remarked that placing of barricades, though, may be for valid security reasons, also casts a duty on the police to ensure that they do not cause accidents due to their non-maintenance. As per rules, all barricades must have necessary fluorescent paint as well as blinkers so that they are visible from a long distance. The rules also mandate that the barricades, under no circumstances, should be left unmanned. The alignment of the barricades should be done to ensure that the traffic halts for checking, but at the same time, is able to negotiate through them. The High Court noted that chaining of such barricades was not permissible. On December 5, 2015, Dheeraj Kumar (21) had gone to attend a marriage function in the vicinity of Paschim Vihar in Madipur Village. Around 5 a.m., a constable from the nearby police station informed the family that Mr. Kumar had met with an accident. He had suffered severe injuries on his body and head. He was discharged from the hospital while he was unconsciousness, on January 14, 2016. He has been in the same state since. Meanwhile, an FIR was registered against Mr. Kumar by the police for rash and negligent driving. The Delhi police had stated that he seemed to have tried to slip through the gap in between the barricades and due to the speed at which his vehicle was travelling, he was unable to spot the chain linking the barricades. The victims’s family disputed the above assertions and placed on record photographs of the site to show that the barricades were placed at a spot which was not well-lit and therefore, was not visible from afar. The High Court came to the conclusion that “the chains tying the barricades could not be visible to a motorist from far”. “Merely because no helmet was shown to have been recovered from the site, cannot lead to a conclusion that petitioner no.1 [Mr. Kumar] was not wearing a helmet or was driving at a high speed or rashly,” the court added. The court also held that Mr. Kumar was entitled to claim of damages for the negligence and failure of the police to discharge their duty.
22 May 2020||New Delhi,||Anti-CAA protest: notice to Centre, State over woman’s detention||The Delhi High Court has issued notices to both the Centre and the Delhi government over continued detention of a 25-year-old woman, involved in anti-CAA and NRC protest, under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) when the Special Courts which can extend her custody have not been functioning due to COVID-19-induced lockdown. A Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar posted the case for a detailed hearing on May 29. The High Court order came on a habeas corpus petition by Aqil Hussain, seeking direction to produce his sister Gulfisha Fatima, an MBA student, who has been under continued detention since she was arrested on April 9. Ms. Fatima, along with others, were initially arrested over an FIR lodged in Jafrabad police station for allegedly instigating a crowd to block the road near Jafrabad metro station on February 22 to protest against the CAA and the NRC. Later, stringent provisions under the UAPA were invoked against her in a separate FIR, which is under investigation by the Crime Branch. The Delhi Police had earlier opposed her bail application before the trial court, saying that her conduct was “attributable to anti-national activity”. Mr. Hussain stated that even though his sister was granted bail in the initial FIR at Jafrabad police station, she remains in custody due to the alleged charges against her under the UAPA. As per the National Investigation Agency Act, offences under the UAPA can be tried only by a Special Court constituted under the NIA Act only. The petition pointed out that the Special Courts empowered to extend the judicial custody of Ms. Fatima have not been functioning since March 23, when the first lockdown began. “This constitutes a deprivation of the liberty of Ms. Fatima without due process, and therefore violates her fundamental right to life and liberty secured under Article 21 of the Constitution of India,” the plea said. The plea said that her continued detention was without authority of law, and urged the High Court to released her immediately.
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||CISF adopts no-touch policy for passengers entering airports||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) said they have adopted a “no-touch policy” for passengers entering airports, said a senior CISF officer on Thursday. The officer said that to ensure safety of passengers and CISF personnel, they have adopted the policy to prevent spread of COVID-19. “Passenger entering the airport have to undergo thermal screening and their ticket and ID will be checked by security personnel via a camera. A CISF personnel will check the ID by sitting in a glass cabin at the entry point,” said the officer. He added that they have provided masks, gloves and alcohol-based sanitisers to all their personnel. Infra-red thermometers have also been arranged for screening at building entry points and at access control places. “At frisking point, passenger will cross Door Frame Metal Detectors. If any metal object is detected in possession of passengers then an extended hand-held metal detector will be used to frisk. There will be no pat-downs,” said the officer.
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Student held for JMI violence booked in riots case||Days after Asif Iqbal Tanha, a Jamia Millia Islamia student, was arrested by the Crime Branch in connection with the “violence” in the Jamia area in December last year, the Delhi Police Special Cell has booked him under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) for being part of a “larger conspiracy” behind the riots that broke out here in February, police officers said on Thursday.  The police have alleged that Mr. Tanha is a member of the Students Islamic Organisation and was part of the Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC), a public organisation, which spearheaded protests against the CAA. “We have evidence and he was wanted in a case that we were investigating. So we arrested him on production warrant on Tuesday. We have been granted seven days of custody,” an officer said. A city court on Wednesday sent Mr. Tanha to a seven-day police custody. Earlier, the Delhi police charged JCC members Safoora Zargar and Meeran Haider, Jamia Alumni Association president Shifa-Ur-Rehman and “suspended” AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain under the UAPA. The Crime Branch had arrested Mr. Tanha recently in a case registered at Jamia police station on December 16 last, in connection with “violence” in the Jamia area in which he was named an accused, a senior police officer had claimed. On December 15, 2019, buses and police vehicles were torched as the police and protesters clashed in New Friends Colony during an anti-CAA demonstration, leaving at least 40 people injured. Communal clashes had broken out in north-east Delhi on February 24 leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.
22 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||DCW – social media||The Delhi Commission for Women on Wednesday issued notice to social media platforms like Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and TikTok seeking details of standard operating procedures put in place to curb and deal with content which incite violence and harassment. The social media platforms have been asked to respond to the women’s commission by May 25.
