22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Stopping religious activities alone is strange, says top court||It was “strange” that the State governments were opening up activities involving economic interests but were citing the COVID-19 pandemic when it came to religious activities, the Supreme Court said on Friday. A three-judge Bench, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, said this while allowing a plea by Shri Parshwatilak Shwetamber Murtipujak Tapagacch Jain Trust to keep temples at Dadar, Byculla and Chembur in Mumbai open for prayers on August 22 and 23 for the Paryushan festival, subject to COVID-19 preventive norms. “We find it strange that they are willing to allow activities involving economic interests, but if it involves religion, they cite COVID to say they cannot open,” Chief Justice Bobde remarked orally. The observation was triggered by a submission made by senior advocate Dushyant Dave questioning the policy of the States in opening malls, saloons and liquor shops. If the Centre was allowing religious congregations, how could worshippers at these Jain temples be denied their right to offer prayers, Mr. Dave asked. The Trust was seeking permission for a congregation of five at a time up to 250 people a day. “If it is only five people, we do not mind going beyond Jain community and allowing the same for Hindu, Muslim and other communities too,” the Chief Justice said at one point. Alarming rise Senior advocate A.M. Singhvi, for Maharashtra, said the number of pandemic cases in the State had seen an alarming rise. He said if Jains were allowed by the court, how could the State prevent other religions from congregating. The Ganesh Chaturthi festival was also about to start. “If this is allowed, the floodgates will open”, Mr. Singhvi struck a cautionary note. But the court said a blanket ban on religious congregations could not be instituted. Chief Justice Bobde referred to how the court allowed the Jagannath Rath Yatra to be held in Odisha in June amidst strict restrictions. The court made it clear that its order to allow worshippers access to the specific Jain temples in Mumbai did not, by default, extend to other temples, trusts or other faiths. The court said its permission would not act as a precedent for allowing congregations during Ganesh Chaturthi. Those would be considered on an individual basis by the Maharashtra State Disaster Management Authority, it clarified.
22 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Nine killed in Srisailam powerhouse unit fire||Nine people, including five engineers, were killed in a fire in one of the units of the State-run hydel station of the Srisailam project on the Telangana side of the inter-State border across the Krishna. All nine bodies have been recovered. The fire broke out from a panel board in the 150 MW unit around 10.30 p.m. on Thursday and gradually engulfed the entire area. The 17 engineers and technical staff on duty made frantic efforts till midnight to control the fire. Eight of them, who were in the upper floors, managed to escape through an underground tunnel linked to the power station. The remaining nine were stuck deep inside the power house on the left canal of the project, which serves Telangana. The right canal meets the irrigation requirements of Andhra Pradesh. Probe ordered Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao expressed shock and ordered an inquiry by the Crime Investigation Department of police. Its head, Govind Singh, has been appointed as the investigating officer. Thick smoke, which caused zero visibility, obstructed fire-fighting for several hours, said Energy Minister G. Jagdish Reddy. The Power Minister said Fire Department personnel, wearing masks, managed to gain entry into the shallow unit after three aborted attempts. They were joined by rescue teams from the National Disaster Response Force and Singareni Collieries, which reached the site around 1 p.m. on Friday. Power generation was shut down after the accident.
22 August 2020||Bengaluru,||87.5% CET candidates qualify for engineering counselling||With 87.5% students qualifying for engineering counselling through the Common Entrance Test (CET) in the results announced on Friday, the competition for the stream is set to get more strong in the 2020-21 academic year. This is a huge jump compared to 2019, when 78% of the candidates were eligible to take part in counselling for the engineering stream. While announcing the results, Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said 1.53 lakh out of the total 1.75 lakh students who appeared for the test in the engineering stream had qualified to take part in counselling. Students, who have qualified for engineering counselling, have increased by 9.5 percentage points compared to last year. This is because the number of students who have crossed the minimum qualifying percentage required to get a CET rank in the engineering stream has increased. Experts attribute this to improvement in the pass percentage in the second year PU Science stream results this year, which rose from 66.58% in 2019 to 76.2% this year. However, Mr. Ashwath Narayan attributed the good performance in CET examination to the online classes that the department conducted. Three students bagged full scores in the chemistry section, while 80 students aced the biology section. None of the students secured full marks in the physics and mathematics sections. In CET 2019, 38 students had secured full marks in the biology section, while one student each had full scores in chemistry and mathematics. Last year, no student secured full marks in physics.
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||EC nod for filing nominations online||Ahead of the Bihar Assembly poll, the Election Commission on Friday approved guidelines for conducting polls during the COVID-19 pandemic, allowing public meetings and roadshows, subject to social distancing and other safety norms. The broad guidelines for elections and byelections include allowing online submission of nomination forms, affidavits and security amount, and limiting the number of people accompanying candidates for filing nomination to two. Masks, gloves for voters For voters, the EC’s guidelines include wearing of masks and gloves, and protective gear for polling staff. On election meetings, the guidelines stated: “Public gatherings/rallies may be conducted subject to adherence to extant COVID-19 guidelines,” while limiting the number of people allowed for door-to-door campaigning to five, including the candidate. The District Election Officer should identify dedicated grounds for the gatherings with entry and exit points marked clearly. “In all such grounds, the officer should, in advance, put markers to ensure social distancing by the attendees.” The number of attendees should not exceed the State Disaster Management Authority’s prescribed limit for public gatherings, the guidelines said. Roadshows should have convoys of five vehicles each, excluding security vehicles, separated by an interval of half an hour, instead of the existing 100 metre rule. “Public meetings and road shows shall be permissible with suitable instructions subject to containment instructions issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs/State. Face mask, sanitiser, thermal scanners, gloves, face shield and PPE kits shall be used during the electoral process ensuring social distancing norms. Gloves shall be provided to all the electors for signing on the voter register and pressing button of EVM for voting,” an Election Commission statement said.
22 August 2020||Mumbai,||HC refuses to stay transfer of funds from Siddhivinayak temple to govt.||The Bombay High Court on Friday refused to grant an interim stay on the transfer of funds from the Trust of the Siddhivinayak temple to the State government for the government’s ‘Shiv Bhojan thali meal scheme’ and the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to fight COVID-19. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Revati Mohitedere was hearing a PIL filed by one Leela Ranga challenging government resolutions dated March 19, June 25 and July 23. By such resolutions, it had been decided to transfer Rs. 5 crore from the temple trust to the government to give effect to the scheme. According to advocate Pradeep Sancheti, representing Ms. Ranga, such transfer is beyond the provisions of the Shree Siddhi Vinayak Ganpati Temple Trust (Prabhadevi) Act, 1980.
22 August 2020||Chennai,||History-sheeter gunned down in Chennai||The Chennai police gunned down a 48-year-old history-sheeter, Shankar, when he allegedly attacked a police constable with a knife on New Avadi Road in the early hours of Friday. Reacting to the incident, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami told journalists in Namakkal that stern legal action would be taken against those indulging in rowdyism. “Tamil Nadu leads in maintaining law and order in the country. Rowdies will be suppressed and the government will take stern legal action against persons indulging in rowdyism,” he said. Police said Shankar, of Ayanavaram, had 51 criminal cases against him, including three for murder and four for attempt to murder, besides cases of extortion and selling ganja, police said. Police said a team led by Ayanavaram inspector Natarajan had detained Shankar in connection with cases related to murder and possession of ganja. At 6.30 a.m., he was taken to recover contraband, which was concealed in the debris dumped on a vacant plot near the Ayanavaram RTO on New Avadi Road. According to Additional Commissioner of Police, (South) R.Dhinakaran, Shankar took a knife and attacked constable Mubarak in a bid to escape. Mr. Natarajan opened fire on Shankar and the bullet hit his chest and stomach. He was taken to Government Kilpauk Hospital where he was declared brought dead. The injured constable Mubarak has been admitted to the hospital for treatment. Mr. Dhinakaran and Joint Commissioner of police, East R.Sudhakar inspected the spot and held enquiries with police personnel. Police said Shankar was detained under the Goondas Act on nine occasions. He was acquitted from a few cases. He was recently involved in the attack on a Congress functionary and owner of a supermarket demanding protection money (mamool) from him, police said. Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal visited Mr. Mubarak at the Government Kilpauk Hospital and enquired about his health. Mr. Aggarwal told The Hindu Shankar was a history-sheeter and was absconding and five non-bailable warrants were issued by courts against him. Asked about steps to control rowdyism, Mr. Aggarwal said, “We are going to deal with them legally and are executing NBWs, following up on their cases in the courts. If required, we will detain them under Goondas Act.” As per the Code of Criminal Procedure, a magisterial inquiry has been ordered to go into the circumstances which led to the killing of Shankar. Police are investigating how Shankar had obtained COVID-19 e-pass which was affixed on his car.
22 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Individuals can immerse idols: HC||The Madras High Court on Friday directed the State government to permit individuals to place idols of Lord Vinayaka in front of their houses after puja on Saturday and then drop them outside temples or immerse them in water bodies and the sea. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha held that the ban imposed by the government on accessing beaches to prevent the spread of COVID-19 would not restrict people from performing their religious obligation of disposing of the idols on Vinayaka Chaturthi day. “The pandemic is likely to spread on two grounds — when more people congregate in a particular place and they stay on the said place thereafter. We are not having such a situation now. We are not allowing groups to undertake the exercise stated supra,” the judges said. “Secondly, even individual family members, who are to perform the religious obligation, can at best go to the water body, including the sea, drop the idol and come back,” the Bench said. “The pandemic is likely to spread on two grounds — when more people congregate in a particular place and they stay on the said place thereafter. We are not having such a situation now. We are not allowing groups to undertake the exercise stated supra,” the judges said. “Secondly, even individual family members, who are to perform the religious obligation, can at best go to the waterbody, including the sea, drop the idol and come back. Therefore, there is no question of staying back and using the said place,” the Bench said. It, however, banned immersion at Marina beach from Napier Bridge to Santhome in Chennai since Advocate General Vijay Narayan feared that large number of people might end up congregating on the beach and it would be difficult for the police to control the crowd. When advocate G. Karthikeyan, representing Hindu Munnani, said at least two persons would be required to carry an idol on a motorcycle, the judges replied that two people could transport the idol to the waterbodies or sea but only one of them would be allowed to immerse. They made it clear that permission shall be given to individuals to immerse the idols by following all safety norms such as wearing masks, maintaining physical distance, adhering to the time limit and so on and that police could initiate action for violations. The Bench also stated that the ban imposed by the State government on processions and immersion of idols by organisations such as Hindu Munnani and Shiv Sena would continue and recorded a submission made on their behalf that they would cooperate with the police. Earlier, when the A-G told the court that an explicit order allowing individuals to immerse idols might lead to a congregation, the judges asked how come the government had decided to allow devotees to pray in 20,204 small temples that had been opened for public worship now. “What will you do if 10,000 people congregate in each of those temples on Vinayaka Chaturthi day,” the senior judge in the Bench asked. He said the prohibition on accessing beaches would not apply to performance of a religious obligation under Article 25 of the Constitution. To this, the A-G replied: “The State has never stood in the way of any religious celebration but this year a peculiar situation had arisen because of which many temples remain closed for nearly five months. We are not going to restrict individuals but some groups may take advantage.”
22 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||Woman fears for life after interfaith marriage in July||A 22-year-old woman from Kanpur has sought security after alleged threat to her life from her family for opting for an interfaith marriage in July. The parents of the woman, Shalini Yadav, had lodged a police case against Mohammad Faisal and his family on the charge of kidnapping her and forcibly getting her converted, the woman and the police said. Video on social media In an undated video circulated on social media, a woman, who identifies herself as Ms. Yadav, claims she married Mr. Faisal and converted of her own free will “without any force or pressure”. In the video, the woman says she eloped with Mr. Faisal, a friend of six years, on June 29 under the pretext of appearing for a college examination. Mr. Faisal is seen in the video next to her. The woman says they got married in a court in Ghaziabad on July 2. She alleges that her father then went to Mr. Faisal’s house and threatened his family, saying they wanted her back “dead or alive”. “My life is under threat. I don’t know what will happen to me tomorrow. I want your help, please get us security,” she pleads in the video. Babupurwa Circle Officer Alok Kumar Singh on Friday said a First Information Report under Indian Penal Code sections including kidnapping or abducting in order to murder had been lodged on the complaint of Satrupa Yadav, the woman’s mother. The video is being investigated and the police were conducting searches at several locations to trace the couple, he said.
22 August 2020||Patna,||Maternity benefits ‘scam’ in Bihar district||Leela Devi, a sexagenarian woman in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district, has on paper given birth eight times in 13 months and received Rs. 1,400 for each delivery under the maternity benefits scheme of the National Rural Health Mission (NRHM). Shanti Devi, another sexagenarian, has been shown in documents as having claimed money for giving birth twice within a span of 10 hours. Both of them, as well as 16 other women of Chhoti Kothia village and 50 in the Musahari block of Muzaffarpur district overall, are unwitting victims of a “scam” allegedly orchestrated by customer service point executives of a nationalised bank and local health officials. The matter came to light after Musahari Primary Health Centre in-charge Upendra Chaudhary smelt a rat and lodged an FIR at the local police station recently. “When I came to know that I have been included as a beneficiary under the NRHM, I approached the bank’s customer service point executive. He pleaded not to lodge a complaint, promising to return the money withdrawn in my name,” Ms. Leela Devi told local media persons. The executive in question, Sushil Kumar, is now absconding. A local official in Muzaffarpur said an accountant of the Musahari PHC has been put under suspension even as the District Magistrate set up a four-member probe team led by an ADM-rank official after several reports of fraudulent withdrawal of money under the scheme came to light. The team has been told to submit a report within three days.
22 August 2020||Tirumala,||Directive only in people’s interest: Minister||“The government is primarily concerned about the lives of people, and that is the reason why it has asked them to confine the Vinayaka Chavithi celebrations to their homes,” Minister for Endowments V. Srinivasa Rao has said. Addressing the media here, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said the decision was taken in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, and as such there was no need to read too much between the lines. He said various temples were also directed to strictly adhere to the standard operating procedures while celebrating the festival and follow the safety protocols. Mr. Srinivasa Rao, who earlier took part in the ‘Sundarakanda parayanam’ at the Nadaneerajana Mandapam in front of the main temple complex, lauded the noble intention behind the programme, and urged the TTD to come up with more such initiatives. He also lauded the TTD for adhering to the health advisories and helping the devotees have a satisfactory darshan.
22 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘No video of incendiary speeches by Devangana’||Delhi Police on Friday told the High Court that it does not have any video where Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita can be seen making speeches instigating people during the communal violence in north-east Delhi earlier this year. Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju, appearing for the police, said that Ms. Kalita’s call date records placed her at the location of the riots on the date that violence erupted.
22 August 2020||Kolkata,||Sniffer dog helps trace Bison poacher||Forest officials in north Bengal have arrested a person in Jalpaiguri district for killing a bison (Indian Gaur). The incident occurred in Gorumara National Park, where the carcass of a bison was found in the forest on Wednesday. Forest officials deployed a sniffer dog to trace the culprits. On Thursday morning, a sniffer dog called Orlando took the forest officials to a house in Tilabari of Matiailli block, a few kilometres from the site of the carcass. Raw and cooked meat was recovered from the house of Somra Munda, who was arrested.
22 August 2020||Pune,||State records over 14,000 cases again||Maharashtra reported a spike of over 14,000 COVID-19 cases for the second consecutive day on Friday. With 14,161 new cases, the State’s total case tally has reached 6,57,450, of which 1,64,562 are active cases. The State also recorded 339 more deaths, pushing its total toll to 21,698. This is the second-highest single-day spike reported in the State, with the highest being 14,492 cases reported on Thursday. As many as 11,749 patients were discharged on Friday, taking the recoveries to 4,70,873. While the State’s recovery rate has improved to 71.62%, its case fatality rate has reduced to 3.30%.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Toppers all||Rakshith M. of R.V. PU College, Bengaluru, topped the State in engineering stream. Varun Gowda A.B. of Expert PU College, Mangaluru, secured first rank in B.Sc. (Agri.). Sai Vivek P. of Narayana e-Techno School, Bengaluru, secured first rank in both B.VSc. and B. Pharma/D. Pharma. In Naturopathy and Yogic Sciences, Arnav Aiyappa P.P. from Alva’s PU College, Moodbidri, secured first rank.
22 August 2020||Mysuru,||Doctors’ strike to continue?||Despite Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s assurance for a fair probe into the alleged suicide of Nanjangud THO S.R. Nagendra, doctors here are learnt to have resolved to strike work until their demands are met. Sources in the Health Department said healthcare services, including COVID-19 testing in government establishments across Mysuru district, may continue to be disrupted. “The strike has continued and the staff will not report to their respective duties until their demands are fulfilled by the government,” they said. Meanwhile, COVID-19 cases from Mysuru on Friday showed zero in the State bulletin with the testing hit since Thursday. No testing was done on Friday as the doctors and the staff stayed away from their duties.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||BJP leaders to visit Bihar||The BJP will be plunging into full-scale political action in poll-bound Bihar, with national president J.P. Nadda scheduled to visit Patna on August 28. Other senior party members, too, will visit the State next week, sources said.page 15
22 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Phone-tapping case: notices served on 16 respondents||The High Court has served notices on 16 respondents in the case pertaining to the alleged tapping of phones of VVIPs, including some judges. The recipients of notices in the Central government are Principal Secretaries of the Departments of Telecommunications, Information Technology, Information and Broadcasting and Home Affairs, Central Vigilance Commissioner and the Chairman of Telecom Regulatory Authority of India. Officers in the State government to whom notices were issued to are the Chief Secretary, Principal Secretary (Home) and the Director-General of Police. The other recipients are the Director of CBI and CBI Superintendent in Visakhapatnam, CEOs of BSNL, Vodafone-Idea, Airtel and Reliance Jio Infocomm and the Internet Service Providers Association of India. According to petitioner’s counsel J. Sravan Kumar, the respondents have to make their position clear on the issue. Tapping of phones cannot be done except as per the procedure laid down in the Telegraph Act, 1885 and in compliance with the guidelines mandated by the Supreme Court and Articles 14, 16, 19 and 21 of the Constitution.
22 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana’s fresh curbs to check virus spread||Amid a surge in COVID-19 cases in Haryana, State Home Minster Anil Vij on Friday announced that all offices and shops will remain closed every Saturday and Sunday till further orders.
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||City records 1,250 fresh virus cases, 13 deaths||Delhi saw a total of 1,250 new COVID-19 cases and 13 deaths, as per a health bulletin released by the government on Friday. The tally now stands at 1,58,604 and the death toll is 4,270.
22 August 2020||MYSURU,||Dasara festivities to remain simple||Clearing the cloud of uncertainty over Dasara celebrations this year amid COVID-19 pandemic, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday said the festivities would remain simple this year. After offering bagina at the Kabini reservoir in H.D. Kote taluk of Mysuru district, Mr. Yediyurappa told reporters that the government will discuss the matter and chalk out the modalities. He said the Dasara High-powered Committee would meet shortly.
22 August 2020||Chennai,||Action against hospitals for late referrals: govt.||Notices are being issued to private hospitals referring COVID-19 patients late to government hospitals, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said.
22 August 2020||Chennai,||5,995 new COVID-19 cases, 101 deaths in T.N.||Another 5,995 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Friday. As many as 101 persons, including a teenager, died of the infection. This took the State’s tally to 3,67,430. Another 5,764 persons were discharged. Chennai saw a marginal increase in its daily count, at 1,282 new cases. The State’s toll has climbed to 6,340.
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Our policies on hate speech are uniformly applied: Facebook||Following allegation of bias in implementing the company’s own guidelines on hate speech in India, Facebook India Vice-President and Managing Director Ajit Mohan on Friday said the social network platform is “non-partisan” and denounces hate and bigotry in any form. The statement comes almost a week after a report published by the Wall Street Journal alleged that the company violated its own rules for hate-speech in favour of some individuals, including those associated with the ruling BJP, after opposition from Ankhi Das, the head of public policy at Facebook India. The report stated that Ms. Das had reasoned that punishing violations by politicians from the ruling party “would damage the company’s business prospects in the country”. Mr Mohan, in a post, said over the last few days, Facebook has been accused of bias in the way it enforces its policies. “We take allegations of bias incredibly seriously, and want to make it clear that we denounce hate and bigotry in any form,” he said. He added that Facebook is and always has been an open, transparent and non-partisan platform where people can express themselves freely. ‘Impartial approach’ Stating that many questions have been raised specifically about enforcement of the company’s policies around hate speech, Mr Mohan said, “There is no place for hate speech on our platform. We have an impartial approach to dealing with content and are strongly governed by our Community Standards. We enforce these policies globally without regard to anyone’s political position, party affiliation or religious and cultural belief.” Mr Mohan said the platform will continue to remove content posted by public figures in India when it violates our Community Standards. “Decisions about designating people or groups as “dangerous individuals or organizations” are different — these are based on a combination of signals and are made by our dangerous organisations team who have deep expertise in terrorism and organized hate and pay attention to global and regional trends,” he said. Individuals who are designated as “dangerous” are removed from Facebook services altogether, and all praise, support and representation of them is taken down, as well, he added. “Because the penalty associated with designation is so severe, it’s important that our analysis is comprehensive and detailed, and that our process applies consistently and fairly around the world,” Mr. Mohan said. He further clarified that “In addition to the external input that informs our designation process, we also solicit input from cross-functional teams internal to the company when we’re making decisions about individual designations. These decisions cannot and are not made unilaterally by just one person; rather, they are inclusive of different views from around the company, a process that is critical to making sure we consider, understand and account for both local and global contexts. And the process is dynamic and ongoing based on newly available information or activity.”
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ventilators from firms funded by PM CARES fail trials||Two firms given purchase orders for indigenously manufactured ventilators for COVID-19 treatment funded by PM-CARES have failed a clinical evaluation by the Health Ministry’s technical committee, according to information accessed through the Right to Information (RTI) Act. The firms — Jyoti CNC Automation and Andhra Pradesh MedTech Zone (AMTZ) — had already received Rs. 22.5 crore in advance payment in May, when the PM CARES allocation was made. However, by July, they were dropped from the list, according to the Ministry’s response to an RTI request filed by activist Anjali Bhardwaj. Jyoti CNC is a Gujarat-based firm whose ventilators were slammed as inadequate for critical COVID-19 patients by the Ahmedabad civil hospital. AMTZ is run by the Andhra Pradesh government. Although its ventilators were not included in the list of recommended suppliers post clinical evaluation, according to the Health Ministry’s July 20 response, the AMTZ orders were mentioned during an August 4 press briefing by Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan. Falling numbers The reduction in the list of manufacturers post-clinical evaluation has cut down the PM CARES order for “Made in India” ventilators from the planned 58,850 units to 40,000, with price tags ranging widely from Rs. 1.6 lakh to Rs. 8.6 lakh per unit. Less than 18,000 units have so far been delivered for installation in hospitals. As of August 3, only 0.27% active COVID-19 cases were on ventilator support across the country, said Mr. Bhushan, adding that at no time were there more than 1% of cases which needed ventilator support. Recognising that the domestic demand for ventilators may not be as acute as earlier projected, the Centre lifted its export ban on August 1, allowing domestic manufacturers to start taking their products to the global market. The situation was very different a year ago. In 2019, the annual supply of ventilators in India was only about 8,500 units, with 75% of the market share held by imported equipment, according to Mr. Bhushan. The pandemic led to a global spike in demand for ventilators, with several producing countries imposing export restrictions, and the cost of imported ventilators shooting up to Rs. 10-20 lakh each. The Centre then calculated a projected domestic demand for 60,000 units and called for domestic manufacturers to step up production. The PM CARES fund announced its first allocations on May 13, including a sum of Rs. 2,000 crore for the purchase 50,000 “Made in India” ventilators “for augmenting the infrastructure to tackle COVID-19 cases across the country”. On May 18, adviser to Prime Minister Bhaskar Khulbe wrote to then-Health Secretary Preeti Sudan asking for a detailed proposal for the purchase. With GPS tracking “I would request you to ensure that the manufacturers of these 50,000 ventilators are informed that the ventilators bear a distinct identity to show that the supply has been supported through PM CARES Fund. Further, all these ventilators must have an embedded GPS device so as to track their placement and operation,” said the letter, accessed through Ms. Bhardwaj’s RTI request. On May 20, Ms. Sudan responded, promising to ensure the PM CARES logo and GSP chips on the devices, and noting that the Ministry had already placed orders for 58,850 ventilators at a total cost of Rs. 2,332 crore. This included 30,000 units from state-run defence manufacturer Bharat Electronics Limited at an order value of Rs. 1,513.9 crore, with Rs. 205.5 crore paid as an advance. Other companies which received purchase orders by May 20 included Allied Medical (350 units at Rs. 30 crore, no advance), AMTZ for both basic and high end ventilators (13,500 units at Rs. 500 crore, Rs. 14.5 cr advance) and Jyoti CNC Automation (5,000 units at Rs. 121 crore, Rs. 8 crore advance). The Ministry’s July 20 RTI response included the same list of purchase orders. Then it added, “However, the technical committee constituted under DGHS [Directorate General of Health Services], after successful clinical evaluation, so far recommended the following ventilators for installation in various States.” The subsequent list does not include AMTZ or Jyoti CNC.
22 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||5,995 more cases in TN, two centenarians die||Another 1,983 COVID-19 cases were reported in Kerala on Friday, the cumulative tally going up to 54,182, and number of patients in hospitals to 18,673. Mortality was also rising. The Health Department confirmed 12 more deaths as caused by COVID-19, raising the toll to 203. Five deaths were reported from Kozhikode, four from Malappuram and one each from Alappuzha, Kannur and Ernakulam. Locally acquired infections constituted 92% of new cases, and in the 1,820 such infections, no source could be traced in 109 cases. Also, 35 health workers, 14 of them from Thiruvananthapuram tested positive. Cases in the capital district were the highest at 429. In Malappuram, 324 of 335 cases were due to local transmission. The trend was similar in other districts. Among other districts, Ernakulam reported 165 cases, Kozhikode 158, Alappuzha 155, Kottayam 136, Thrissur 119, Kasaragod 105, Palakkad 83, Kollam 82, Pathanamthitta 78, Kannur 78, Idukki 34 and Wayanad 26. The State tested 35,825 samples in 24 hours. In Andhra Pradesh, it was another day of close to ten thousand new infections and about hundred deaths on Friday. With 9,544 positive cases and 91 deaths, the tally rose to 3,34,940 and death toll to 3,092, the Health Department said. The positivity rate of tests was 10.70%. So far 31,29,857 tests were conducted, 55,010 in the past day. Chittoor saw 16 deaths for the second day, West Godavari 13, Nellore 12, and East Godavari 11. Anantapur recorded eight deaths, Kadapa seven, Visakhapatnam six, Srikakulam five, Prakasam four and Guntur, Krishna and Kurnool three each. East Godavari reported 1,312 cases, West Godavari (1,131), Chittoor (1,103), Kurnool (919), Prakasam (797), Nellore (761), Visakhapatnam (738), Anantapur (704), Srikakulam (571), Vizianagaram (542), Guntur (358), Kadapa (343) and Krishna (265). Telangana logged 1,967 cases on Thursday, the State bulletin said on Friday. Eight more persons succumbed to the disease, taking the toll to 737. The State tested 26,767 samples, and results of 1,300 samples were awaited. Among positive cases, 24.6% were in the 31-41 age group, while 10% were older than 61. Also, 45% of patients in government and private hospitals were on oxygen support, while 22% were in ICUs. Mulugu district had 11 positive cases, the lowest, while Greater Hyderabad recorded 473 cases. Tamil Nadu’s case incidence on Friday stood at 5,995. Of the fresh cases, Chennai saw a marginal increase in its daily count as 1,282 persons tested positive.This took the overall tally to 3,67,430. Another 5,764 persons were discharged, taking the total number of persons discharged so far to 3,07,677.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, and Chennai bureaus)
22 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Kashmir figures in China-Pak. dialogue||China and Pakistan on Friday said they would firmly back each other on “core national interests”, as their Foreign Ministers discussed the Kashmir issue in their annual strategic dialogue. China said Pakistan was “its staunchest partner in the region” and it would “firmly support” the country “in safeguarding its territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence” and in “striving for a better external security environment,” according to a “joint press release” from Pakistan’s Foreign Ministry. At the talks in China’s Hainan province, China’s Foreign Minister Wang Yi and his counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi both “underlined that a peaceful, stable, cooperative and prosperous South Asia was in common interest of all parties,” the release said. “Parties need to settle disputes and issues in the region through dialogue on the basis of equality and mutual respect,” the release said. “The Pakistani side briefed the Chinese side on the situation in Jammu and Kashmir, including its concerns, position and current urgent issues. The Chinese side reiterated that the Kashmir issue is a dispute left over from history between India and Pakistan, which is an objective fact, and that the dispute should be resolved peacefully and properly through the UN Charter, relevant Security Council resolutions and bilateral agreements. China opposes any unilateral actions that complicate the situation.” China’s comments on “unilateral actions” echoed Beijing’s multiple statements last year that hit out at India’s move to dilute Article 370 and end statehood for Jammu and Kashmir. Xi’s message On Friday, China also released what it called “an oral message” from President Xi Jinping to his Pakistani counterpart, as well as a statement made by Mr. Wang, the Foreign Minister, at the talks. Both those statements did not mention the Kashmir issue. Mr. Xi, in a message sent to mark the second meeting of a consultation mechanism among the political parties of both countries under the China Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) plan, described the two countries as “brothers and partners” and the CPEC as a landmark project of the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). The press release from Pakistan’s Foreign Ministry said both sides “agreed on continuing their firm support on issues concerning each other’s core national interests.” “The Chinese side reiterated that Pakistan and China are iron brothers and Pakistan remains China’s staunchest partner in the region and that China firmly supports Pakistan in safeguarding its territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence, independently choosing a development path based on its national conditions, striving for a better external security environment and playing a more constructive role on international and regional affairs,” it said. “The Pakistani side appreciated China for standing together with Pakistan in safeguarding its national security and sovereignty.”
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP plunges into preparation for Bihar poll||The BJP will be plunging into full-scale political action, especially in Bihar, as the Election Commission unveiled its broad guidelines for the conduct of polls on Friday, with national president J.P. Nadda scheduled to visit Patna on August 28. Sources in Bihar BJP have confirmed to The Hindu that a series of visits by senior party members will be on the whole of next week with an eye on poll preparation in Bihar, where the election is expected to be held by November. “National general secretary in charge of the State, Bhupendra Yadav, will be in Patna on August 22, former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, who has been roped in for poll preparations, will be in town on August 24, Sauran Singh, who is co-in charge (organisation) for the Bihar BJP will visit on August 27 and Mr. Nadda will visit on August 28,” said a source in Bihar BJP. Mr. Nadda and senior party leaders will take part in a two-day virtual meeting starting Saturday to draw up strategy, BJP State president Sanjay Jaiswal told reporters. Mandal and district-level meetings will be done with the State executive stated to meet on August 23 and a virtual address by Mr. Nadda. Mr. Nadda is expected to meet with Chief Minister and NDA ally Nitish Kumar while in Patna, to take forward the process of seat distribution between the BJP, the Janata Dal (United) and the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP). The BJP and the JD(U) had fought equal number of seats in the Lok Sabha polls but speculation is rife on whether a similar arrangement will be endorsed for the Assembly polls. The party is expecting the poll to go ahead as scheduled around November, and the EC’s guidelines seem to be a step in that direction. The BJP had already kicked off its organisational preparations during the lockdown via virtual rallies and meetings and door-to-door visits to workers. Booth-level preparedness was also prioritised during this period with almost 80% of booths being completed, that is, with the requisite number of workers. The party is banking on the benefits distributed through the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Yojana during the COVID-19 pandemic to generate goodwill for the party. “Almost every household in the State has received something or the other as relief under the programme and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s work will be a big campaign plank for us,” said a source. The EC’s guidelines include the facility of filing nomination papers online, postal ballots for COVID-19 patients and no big rallies.
22 August 2020||New Delhi,||EC norms will not ensure free polls: Cong.||The Congress on Friday said that the Election Commission (EC) guidelines to conduct polls during the pandemic do not meet the norms of “free, fair and independent elections” and asserted that the poll panel failed in its "basic constitutional obligation". The party called upon the EC to revisit the recommendations made by the party and invite all political parties for a comprehensive discussion in a transparent and effective manner. “In case the ECI falters in this bounden duty the consequences for democracy would be catastrophic,” All India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretary K.C. Venugopal said in a statement. He said the EC guidelines could not ensure the conduct of elections in “free, non-partisan and fair fashion without giving undue advantage to the ruling party”. Questions raised “The ECI guidelines clearly fail these principal tests thereby negating the constitutional obligation of ‘superintendence and control of elections’ in a non-partisan and unbiased manner. The simple question to ponder over is, if the very foundation of democracy i.e. our elections cannot be conducted fairly, how will adult franchise and majority mandate, the lifeblood of our democracy, be effectively upheld?” he asked . “The ECI’s guidelines say the relevant provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 and the Indian Penal Code will be invoked against anyone who violates the said guidelines. However, the ECI has surprisingly missed the potential for abuse by the Ruling Party which controls the policing machinery. For example, where members of a crowd in a political gathering violate the rules, how does the ECI ensure that the candidate will be indemnified from unjust penalty or harassment?” asked the Congress general secretary. He said though the poll panel sought the views of the political parties such as the Congress, their suggestions were ignored. For example, the principal Opposition party had suggested not to use to electronic voting machines (EVMs) for the fear of infections but the EC ignored it. Similarly, the EC has not made any distinction between urban and rural areas that have had very different trajectory in terms of spread of COVID-19. “The ECI must provide for detailed guidelines and not leave the safety and well-being of the voters to the differing interpretations and largess of local authorities,” he said.
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fair criticism of govt. is not sedition, journalist tells SC||Veteran journalist Vinod Dua on Friday argued in the Supreme Court that criticism of the government does not amount to sedition. Mr. Dua has moved the court to quash an FIR accusing him of sedition registered in the Kumarsain police station located on the outskirts of Shimla in May. The basis of the case is his YouTube show telecast on March 30. The FIR accused him of blaming the government for its COVID-19 preparedness and making personal allegations against Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice U.U, Lalit, Mr. Dua, represented by senior advocate Vikas Singh, drew the attention of the court to its own judgment of 1962 on how “in a democratic setup a citizen is entitled to criticise the government with a view to change it”. Mr. Singh quoted from the Kedar Nath judgment, which said “a citizen has a right to say or write whatever he likes about the Government, or its measures, by way of criticism or comment, so long as he does not incite people to violence against the Government established by law or with the intention of creating public disorder”. The word “citizen” would also mean a member of the Press, Mr. Singh argued. Criticism of public measures or a comment on government action, however strongly worded, would be within reasonable limits. Such comments made would be consistent with the fundamental right of freedom of speech and expression. In short, fair criticism is not sedition, he said. ‘Distorted FIR’ “The government established by law has to be distinguished from the persons engaged in carrying on the administration”, he stated. Referring to transcripts of the show, he said the FIR has distorted what was said in the show. The Press should be allowed to function freely in a democracy. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who was engaged in another case, appeared briefly to inform the Bench about his absence. His associate had earlier sought an adjournment. However, Justice Lalit pointed out that the case had been adjourned thrice and allowed Mr. Singh to commence his submissions. During the hearing, which spanned over an hour, Mr. Singh also highlighted the over 20-day delay in registering the FIR. The case was finally adjourned to September 2. Mr. Dua approached the SC after a police team appeared at his residence on June 12 and ordered him to be present at the remote Kumarsain police station the very next day.
22 August 2020||Mumbai,||HC refuses to stay transfer of funds from Siddhivinayak||The Bombay High Court on Friday refused to grant an interim stay on the transfer of funds from the Trust of the famous Siddhivinayak temple to the State government for the government’s ‘Shiv Bhojan thali meal scheme’ and the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to fight COVID-19. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Revati Mohitedere was hearing a PIL filed by one Leela Ranga challenging government resolutions dated March 19, June 25 and July 23. By such resolutions, it had been decided to transfer Rs. 5 crore from the temple trust to the government to give effect to the scheme. According to advocate Pradeep Sancheti, representing Ms. Ranga, such transfer is illegal and beyond the provisions of the Shree Siddhi Vinayak Ganpati Temple Trust (Prabhadevi) Act, 1980. Mr. Sancheti sought an interim stay on any transfer of money from the temple funds to the government. The court refused the same, however, and said that if any irregularities were found related to the funds, it would direct the government to refund the amount. The court directed the State and the Shree Siddhivinayak Ganpati Temple Trust Management Committee to file affidavits in response to the plea. The court posted the matter to be heard in the first week of October.
22 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Notice to Meghalaya cement plants||The Meghalaya government has asked the cement companies in the State to pay Rs. 614 crore for using illegally-mined coal and evading tax. Officials in the State could not provide specific data, but at least six private firms have cement plants across the coal and limestone belts of Meghalaya. A government spokesperson said a notice was issued to the cement plants after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had in December 2019 submitted a report directing the State government to realise Rs. 400 per tonne from the cement companies and their power subsidiaries. A reminder was set to these companies a few days ago. The NGT also asked the State government to deposit the extracted money for “using illegally-mined coal” in the Meghalaya Environment Protection and Restoration Fund. The NGT had in April 2014 banned hazardous rat-hole coal mining in Meghalaya and set a time limit for transporting the coal already mined till that time. Rat-hole is a term used for constricting tunnels that allow an adult to virtually crawl and scrape coal from the seams underneath. The tribunal said that the cement companies and their power subsidiaries had purchased the illegally-mined coal in the name of slate, a non-fuel mineral, to get around the NGT ban on coal extracted from rat-hole mines. The NGT also found the appetite of the cement plants for coal had sustained illegal rat-hole mining the State.
22 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Nagaland govt. faults Governor’s speech||The People’s Democratic Alliance (PDA) government in Nagaland has faulted Governor R.N. Ravi’s Independence Day speech, underlining the growing differences between the two over the protracted Naga peace process. The State government, appreciating the Centre for resuming the talks, also asked the opposition Naga People’s Front (NPF) to return to the Joint Legislator’s Forum that was formed in 2017 as a catalyst for the peace process involving several extremist groups since 1997. The NPF had on Tuesday quit the forum citing “huge trust deficit” and indifference of the PDA government headed by Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio to suggestions for taking the peace process forward. “Nagaland is endowed with one of the finest human and natural resources. Unfortunately, today it has the dubious distinction of the worst-performing State in the country, including the northeast region, on almost all the significant indicators of human development,” Mr. Ravi had said in his speech. He is also the interlocutor for the peace process. The State government, run by the Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party in partnership with the BJP, took its time to react. In a statement issued on Thursday evening, it said: “The PDA has taken note of the people’s concern on the contents of the honourable Governor’s Independence Day speech wherein negative statements on Nagaland were made. The PDA observes that the speech has not been well received by the people.” “Though Nagaland may not be the best performing State, we are making every effort to take the State forward on all developmental fronts. As representatives of the people, the PDA is compelled to voice the feelings of the people,” the government said, reminding Mr. Ravi of the awards it had received as performing small State in law and order in 2018 and 2019.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Army issues tender for 7.62mm ammunition from private firms||In a move to take forward the long-delayed process of opening up ammunition manufacture to the private sector, the Army has issued a Request for Information (RFI) for procurement of five different types of 7.62mm calibre ammunition to meet the annual requirement for the next 10 years. The RFI was issued by the Army’s Master General of Ordnance and gets particular focus following the 101 negative import list announced by the Defence Ministry that includes a range of ammunition. “Various 7.62mm ammunitions as mentioned will have to meet all specifications of in-service ammunitions. All available specifications with Director general Quality Assurance (DGQA) and drawings, where available, with DGQA are proposed to be provided for manufacturers to confirm to, in providing required ammunition,” the RFI issued in August first week says. The technology partners could be indigenous or any foreign vendor. The five types notified include ammunition for Dragunov sniper rifle and Galil sniper rifle. The RFI also specified the annual requirement of the various types, some of them running into 1-2 million rounds. The Ordnance factory Board has so far been the manufacturer and supplier of ammunition and efforts to open it to the private sector over the last few years had been delayed. “With the negative import list, the effort should get high priority for the Army to diversify its ammunition procurement,” an industry source said on condition of anonymity. The last date to respond to the RFI is September 30. The selected manufacturer is expected to commence supply within six months of signing the contract and initial supply may be through Semi Knocked Down (SKD), Completely Knocked Down (CKD) ammunition procured from the Transfer of Technology (ToT) partner. “The subsequent supply of ammunition will be manufactured in India,” the RFI states. It also proposes that the manufacturer develop the infrastructure and absorb the complete ToT for manufacture of ammunition within two years from signing of contract. It proposes that the manufacturer will ensure continuous availability of minimum one year’s stock components during first two years after signing of contract or 100% indigenisation, whichever is earlier, the RFI said. In case full indigenisation is either not possible or not proposed, from third year the manufacturer fwill have to hold two year’s stock.
22 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||Inter-faith couple face ‘threat’, seeks safety||A 22-year-old woman from Kanpur has sought security following an alleged threat to her life for marrying a person belonging to the Muslim community. The parents of the woman, Shalini Yadav, had lodged a police case against Mohammad Faisal and his family on the charge of kidnapping her and forcibly getting her converted, the woman and the police said. In an undated video circulated on social media, a woman, who identifies herself as Ms. Yadav, rejects all allegations of forced conversion and claims she married Mr. Faisal and converted to his religion by her own free will. The police said they would take further action after probing the authenticity of the video, which could not be independently verified. In the video, the woman says she eloped with Mr. Faisal, a friend of six years, on June 29 under the pretext of appearing for a college examination. Mr. Faisal is seen in the video next to her. The woman claims she went to Lucknow and they got married in a court in Ghaziabad on July 2. Later, her family members tried to persuade her to return home and made it clear to her that her act would not be acceptable to them. She alleges that her father went to Mr. Faisal’s house and threatened his family, saying they wanted her back “dead or alive”. “I am under threat where I am staying at present. I don’t know what will happen to me tomorrow. I want your help, please get us security”, she states.
22 August 2020||CHENNAI / NEW DELHI,||AYUSH training in Hindi ignores T.N. group||Delegates from non-Hindi speaking States, including a group of 37 government yoga and naturopathy practitioners from Tamil Nadu, were in for a rude shock during a virtual training of master trainers organised by the Union Ministry of AYUSH earlier this week, with Hindi being predominantly used through the three-day programme. Their repeated attempts to share their concerns over the loss of communication and information with the organisers elicited no response. Further, when addressing the participants on Thursday, the last day of the training programme, Secretary of the Union Ministry of AYUSH Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha said on camera that he would speak only in Hindi as he was not fluent in English. Participants who wanted English “could leave”, he added. ‘Video manipulated’ Mr. Kotecha has since claimed that the video of his comments was manipulated. He said while the web link for the programme was sent to 350 invited participants, 430 participants turned up and his address was disrupted by “hooligans”. The Tamil Nadu Directorate of Indian Medicine had selected a government yoga and naturopathy practitioner from each district for the national-level training for the AYUSH Health and Wellness Centres, organised by the Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga (MDNIY). Only a handful of speakers handling the sessions spoke in English, often a mixture of English and Hindi that was time-consuming, the participants said. “The idea behind the programme was right but the approach was not. It was primarily to promote yoga at primary health centres. Though it was a national-level programme, they spoke only in Hindi and we do not know the language. We sent repeated messages to the organisers on the chat box asking them to speak in English but they did not accept saying they were fluent only in Hindi,” one of the participants from Tamil Nadu said. “At the end of sessions, we had questions for the speakers. But only other participants fluent in Hindi were allowed to pose three or four questions,” he added. Speaking to The Hindu, Mr. Kotecha said , “I was to give a 10-minute introductory speech and began speaking in Hindi, making it very clear that I would be speaking in both languages — Hindi and English. A bunch of hooligans, who had come in as participants in the webinar, started shouting, disturbing the speech and demanded that only English be spoken.” The official said he had requested the participants to stop disrupting the programme and leave. “They have manipulated the video and have sabotaged the entire educational programme,” he alleged. For smaller batches Meanwhile, the Indian Naturopathy and Yoga Graduates Medical Association and Tamil Nadu BNYS Graduates Medical Association has written to the AYUSH Secretary. The associations said the master trainers could have been trained in groups of 30 on a common training manual preferably in English and regional languages if needed. When one of the participants from the State emphasised that yoga and naturopathy were part of a single system of medicine under the Ministry and should not be separated, the Secretary allegedly called the remark a “nuisance” and threatened the participant that “appropriate punishment” would be considered against him by writing to the Chief Secretary.
22 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Officials baffled at Srisailam hydroelectric power station fire||The major fire accident at the Srisailam left bank hydroelectric power station resulting in loss of lives has baffled power officials. Senior officials said the power station, set up with a loan of around Rs. 600 crore from the Japanese Bank for International Cooperation, had several inbuilt protection features. “There are arrangements that will shut down the systems even if a minor fire is detected. The overall project has been designed in such a way that it can be controlled even from a location outside the project if need be,” a senior official of the erstwhile united Andhra Pradesh government associated with the project said. The project is fitted with generators and control systems developed by Mitsubishi Corp and Turbines and Gas Insulated Switchgear manufactured by Hitachi. It is equipped with emergency lighting systems operated through UPS in times of emergency, but there is still no clarity as to whether the lighting was on after the fire broke out. “Nobody is able to understand the reason for the fire. Reports that there was fire in more than one place is technically not possible given the design of the project, which has been prepared keeping in mind scope for such eventualities,” the official said. Also, there are exits at three places that can be used during emergencies, and a route for movement of vehicles at the lower level and another exit with low gradient of about 800 metres as an emergency exit. Also, there is an inclined tunnel, and a third gate with steeper gradient and adequate ventilation that can be utilised as emergency exit by the staff, the official said.
22 August 2020||Srinagar,||J&K police flay militants’ bid to circulate Baramulla video||The Jammu and Kashmir police on Friday described militants’ bid to circulate a video of the Baramulla attack, which took place five days ago, as an attempt at “glamorising terrorism”. “By releasing (the) video of attack, terrorists want to glamorise terrorism. But they can’t. We replied by actions and killed four top commanders, Sajjad alias Haider and foreign terrorist Taimur Khan alias Abu Usman (seen in said video/attack) and Naseer alias Sad bhai and foreign terrorist Ali bhai alias Danish within 72 hours,” a police spokesman tweeted. The tweet came hours after militant outfit People’s Anti-Fascist Front (PAFF) released the video on social media. The video showed an attacker, wearing a body camera, shooting at the security personnel along with another attacker, apparently in Baramulla’s Kreeri on August 17. The two-day gunfight, which followed the attack, left three Lashkar-e-Taiba militants and five security personnel dead. The video also comes a day after Director General of Police Dilbagh Singh said the killing of 26 wanted commanders in the past seven months and four top commanders of Lashkar “has led to the collapse of the militancy structure”. He also described the killing of Haider, in the Kreeri encounter, and Naseer-u-Din Lone, in the Handwara encounter, “as a major success for the security forces”.
22 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||HC notice over appointment of SPCB heads||The Orissa High Court issued notice to the State government over appointment of bureaucrats as chairman and member secretary of the State Pollution Control Board for the past 10 years. Pradyumna Satpathy, a social activist, had moved the HC drawing attention that “as per the Section 4 of Water (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, and Sec 5 of the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) 1981, there is provision for appointment of full time member secretary and nomination of full time or part time chairman by the State government. But, for last more than 10 years, the posts of OSPCB are filled up from the cadres of IAS and IFS respectively without adhering to any selection procedure”. Stating that the same was the case in many other States, he pointed out that a case was filed in the National Green Tribunal, New Delhi, since the posts require scientific and engineering or management qualification and experience. The NGT made a similar observation in its 2016 order. He added that in September 2017, the Supreme Court had directed the State governments to formulate policy regarding the qualification and experience for these posts within six months. A Division Bench of the HC, comprising Chief Justice Mohammad Rafiq and Judge Dr. B.R. Sarangi, directed to issue notice to the Chief Secretary and Additional Chief Secretary (Forest and Environment). The State has been told to file its reply by October 5.
22 August 2020||Kozhikode,||Kerala’s kayaking dreams drown in pandemic rapids||Attempts to promote Kozhikode’s prominent white water kayaking destinations in the national and international arena have faced a temporary setback with the continuing fight against COVID-19. Considering the difficulties in complying with the COVID-19 protocols and hosting international delegates, the eighth edition of the annual kayaking championship has been cancelled by the Tourism Department. “Opening of sub-centres planned by various training institutes in the area is also likely to be delayed with the unfavourable situation, which has affected almost all sectors,” says Thiruvambady grama panchayat president P.T. Augustine. The case is the same with the proposed construction of a kayaking academy at Pulikkayam, he adds. Mr. Augustine, who was one of the coordinators of the previous international kayaking events, points out that investors are not likely to take up any new projects now with the difficulties in hosting international participants in the sport. It is impossible to organise such an event without good public participation, he adds.  Residents in the area say the cancellation of the Malabar River Festival has dashed their hope in netting some additional income as local facilitators. For more than seven years, many local entrepreneurs near the Chalipuzha and Iruvazhinhi have been active as homestay service providers and suppliers of local cuisine to the participants. It has also been a source of additional income for many local hoteliers and tour operators. Homestays hit Local volunteers who cooperated with the previous editions of the kayaking festival say the biggest losers are those who operated humble homestay facilities in Kodenchery and Puthuppadi panchayats. Since this sport is a seasonal affair, all such entrepreneurs who got magnanimous support from their national and international guests will have to wait for the next edition, they say.  Though there are no international kayakers are seen in these villages, many local youths are currently engaged in their individual-level practice, taking advantage of the rapids. Interestingly, many of such rural youths are using the kayaks gifted by the international kayakers who visited the district last year. There are seven such kayaks now being used by the local youths.
22 August 2020||Kolkata,||Sniffer dog cracks his first case: bison poaching in West Bengal||Forest officials in West Bengal have arrested a person in Jalpaiguri district for killing a bison (Indian Gaur). The incident occurred in the Gorumara National Park, where the carcass of a bison was found in the forest on Wednesday evening. On Thursday morning, a sniffer dog called Orlando took the forest officials to a house in Tilabari of Matiailli block, a few kilometres away from the site of the carcass of the animal. Raw and cooked meat was recovered from the house of Somra Munda. Munda was arrested and produced before a court in the district. Janmejay Pal, Additional Divisional Forest Officer, Gorumara Wildlife Division, said that the accused had killed the wild animal for meat. A horn of the bison was also recovered from the house. The forest official said that sniffer dog Orlando had been deputed only a few months ago. This was the first case for the Belgian Malinois dog. The practice of introducing sniffer dogs to solve cases of wildlife crime has resulted in considerable success in different States. While there have been reports of poaching of rhinos in north Bengal, poaching of bison is relatively less common.
22 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Flood threat persists in Agency mandals in Telangana||The flood threat persisted in eight Agency mandals through which the Godavari passes through in the district as the river continued to flow two feet higher than the danger mark of 53-feet at Bhadrachalam on Friday. Dozens of river-side villages in Bhadrachalam Agency and other Agency areas in the district remained out of bounds due to overflowing streams cutting off road links to remote tribal pockets along the forest stretches in Charla and Dummugudem mandals, sources said. More than 5,000 people were evacuated to safer places and most of them sheltered in the State-run relief camps set up in the eight Agency mandals. Sources said that the water level in the Godavari at Bhadrachalam site remained constant at 55.30 feet from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. on Friday. It may be mentioned that the Godavari peaked to little over 61.5 feet at the temple town on Monday before showing a declining trend in the last few days. The incessant rains that battered parts of the catchment areas of the river over the last two days brought heavy inflows into the Godavari on Thursday with the river breaching the first, second and third (final) flood warning levels within a span of 24 hours at Bhadrachalam. This has prompted the official machinery to remain extra vigilant to ward off major flood events. In a teleconference held with the mandal and divisional level officials on Friday, Collector M. V. Reddy instructed them to constantly monitor the flood situation in their respective mandals to prevent loss of life and damage to property in view of forecast of rainfall over the next two days.
22 August 2020||Bhopal,||AIIMS starts COVID-19 research via autopsies||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Bhopal, has begun researching on COVID-19 by conducting autopsies on bodies of positive patients to figure out the virus’ impact on organs and correlate autopsy findings with clinicopathological ones and similar studies worldwide. “This is the first deliberate attempt in the country to study in detail COVID-19-positive deaths,” said Arneet Arora, Dean and Head of Department, Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, at the institute. As an integrated research intramural project, Microbiology, Pathology and Lab Medicine, Forensic Medicine and Toxicology, and Anaesthesiology departments are involved in conducting autopsies on 10 deceased COVID-19 positive patients after approval from the Institution Human Ethics Committee of the AIIMS. Family consent “The consent of the families of the patients is the most important and securing it has been a challenge. We tell them the procedure might help us define treatment better,” said Dr. Arora. The research team approached families of eight of the 12 deceased since July 31, of which just one consented. The first autopsy was conducted on August 16. The study’s objectives are to report autopsy findings in deaths due to COVID-19, look for pathological changes in different organs of patients, correlate findings with clinicopathological ones, and compare them with similar studies worldwide. The team would conduct microscopic examination of all organs and microbiological analysis, that is the virus analysis, and examine possible clotting of blood in the body. In a bid to reduce the possible exposure to infection, only five, rather than the usual 10 specialists are conducting procedures. The fear of infection among the doctors conducting the autopsies looms with aerosol generation during the procedure, the reason why the Indian Council of Medical Research has not recommended it. Therefore, the team is adopting low-aerosol generating methods for the autopsies, such as using the conventional hammer-chisel technique instead of the oscillating electric saw to open a skull.    “Our research comes after autopsies in China and Italy, but is more elaborate and comprehensive,” added Dr. Arora. She said it was unclear whether bodies of COVID-19 patients were more infectious than the living ones.
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dengue may pose risk of misdiagnosis: study||Can dengue be sometimes mistaken for COVID-19? Two independent research studies — one from a group in Israel and another from the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-Indian Institute of Chemical Biology (CSIR-IICB) in Kolkata — show that tests specific to check for dengue sometimes led to a positive SARS-CoV-2 test and this, the scientists warn, could lead to misdiagnoses and skew public health responses in places where dengue is endemic and known to seasonally spike. This also prompts deeper investigation into whether there are crucial similarities in the structure of these viruses. The study from Israel, that was published in the peer-reviewed Clinical Infectious Diseases last week, describes testing 55 people, who had been confirmed to have a SARS-CoV-2 infection, for dengue. This was done using a serology test, or a blood-based test, where antibodies produced by the body during a dengue infection are used to probe for the presence of the virus. The principle is that when an antibody binds to a specific place on the virus, called an antigen, like a key that goes into a lock, a test is returned as ‘positive’. Antibodies and antigens are highly specific to each other. Among the 55, 12 (21%) returned positive. Because the viruses that causes dengue and coronaviruses belong to entirely different families, it is not expected for one to show affinity to the other. Further, another lot of 95 samples obtained from patients diagnosed with dengue before September 2019, or the advent of COVID-19, targeting the spike (S) protein, was positive, the report adds. Vulnerable areas The study by CSIR-IICB used dengue antibody- positive serum samples from 2017 (pre-dating the COVID-19 outbreak) and produced false-positive results in SARS-CoV-2 IgG/IgM rapid strip tests, according to Subhajit Biswas, senior scientist at the IICB. This study is yet to be peer-reviewed and has not been published in a journal, but appears in Medrxiv, a preprint repository of scientific publications that are open to public evaluation. “In places with recurrent epidemics of dengue, there is a risk that dengue may be identified as COVID-19 and so there ought to be confirmatory testing with other tests to rule this out,” he told The Hindu . “22% testing positive is a significant number as the inherent error of the test itself is 4%. So we need to study further if the dengue virus is able to stimulate the body’s immune system to produce antibodies that could then bind to the coronavirus,” Dr. Biswas said, adding, “India and Brazil are highly endemic for dengue as are many parts of southeast Asia. Could that explain relatively lower per million mortality compared to Europe and the United States, where there’s little dengue? That may be worth investigating.”
22 August 2020||Kochi,||Kerala govt. moves HC against airport leasing||The State government on Friday filed an application in the High Court seeking to stay all further proceedings in pursuance to the Union government’s order approving grant of lease/concession on right of operation, management, and development of Thiruvananthapuram International Airport to Adani Enterprises Ltd. The government said the Supreme Court had set aside a judgment of the High Court dismissing the government’s writ plea against the Airport Authority of India’s (AAI) ‘Request for Proposal’ to grant the right of operation, management, and development of the airport to the Adani Group. The Supreme Court while passing the verdict had sent back the matter to the High Court for considering the government’s challenge on merit. However, during the pendency of the writ petition, the Centre had approved the lease in favour of the Adani Group. The State government had substantial proprietary and other rights over the land on which the airport was built. Besides, as the grant of lease/concession had been approved when the matter was sub judice, the balance of convenience was in favour of the government. The High Court, while dismissing the government’s earlier plea, had observed that the dispute was between the State of Kerala and the Union government. Only the Supreme Court, and not high courts, had jurisdiction in such Centre-State disputes. Kerala should have directly filed a suit under Article 131 in the Supreme Court, the High Court had observed. In its writ petition, the government had opposed the attempt of the AAI to lease the airport to the Adani Group.
22 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala readies to host its first dragonfly festival||The WWF-India Kerala unit has joined hands with the Society for Odonate Studies (SOS) and Thumbipuranam for the first-ever State Dragonfly Festival in Kerala, named Thumbimahotsavam 2020. ‘Pantalu’ is the official mascot forthe festival. Several programmes are set to be rolled out in the coming months to reach out to various sections of society. A ‘dragonfly backyard watch’ has been announced to enhance the participation of people and improve their observation skills — it will be a citizen science project in view of COVID-19 restrictions. A social media campaign is also on to spread the message around. A field guide on the common dragonflies of Kerala, and a children’s dragonfly colouring and activity book are also under development.  Knowledge hub A digital odonate knowledge hub will also be set up under the SOS/Thumbipuranam Facebook page, which will host all available material in the form of scientific papers, posters, videos and stickers on dragonflies. Various competitions will also be organised. The festival is expected to culminate with the State dragonfly summit, which is likely to be held in January. The events are a part of a national dragonfly festival being organised by the WWF India, Bombay Natural History Society and the Indian Dragonfly Society in association with the National Biodiversity Board, United Nations Environment Programme, United Nations Development Programme and the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Resource persons Initially, a training of trainers will be organised to so that more people can serve as resource persons for the upcoming events. This will be followed by a series of webinars, commencing from September and targeting the public, especially children and youth. Webinars will also be organised for specific target groups such as zoology teachers; district coordinators and members of biodiversity management committees; coordinators of Bhoomithrasena clubs for students; district coordinators and teachers-in-charge of eco-clubs; and Forest Department personnel, mainly Vana Samrakshana Samithy and Eco Development Committee members involved in ecotourism activities. Readeres interested in participating may contact A. K. Sivakumar of WWF India at asivakumar@wwfindia.net or Sujith V. Gopalan of SOS at sujith.vg@gmail.com.
22 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Bengaluru Urban’s tally crosses one lakh mark||Bengaluru Urban, where the COVID-19 graph has seen one of the most noticeable jumps among major cities, now has over a lakh positive cases. On Friday, as Karnataka reported 7,571 new cases and 93 deaths, Bengaluru Urban had 2,948 new cases and 22 deaths. With this, the city’s total tally is 1,02,770 positive cases. The State has a total of 2,64,546 positive cases. On August 15, the city had recorded 3,495 new cases, which was its highest. Bengaluru Urban had crossed the 50,000 mark on July 29. The total number of deaths in the State is 4,522, while the total number of active cases is 83,066. In comparison, Bengaluru Urban has a total 1,635 deaths. The city has 34,532 active cases. Bengaluru Rural too reported 79 new cases, taking its total number of positives to 3,875. It has 628 active cases. Other districts Mysuru, which has 12,304 total positives, had no new cases on Friday, the only district to post such a score. Ballari, on the other hand, had 540 new cases, the second highest. As many as 6,561 persons were discharged in the State on Friday, taking the total number of persons discharged to 1,76,942. As many as 57,623 tests were conducted on Friday.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||AYUSH training in Hindi ignores T.N. delegates||He said while the web link for the programme was sent to 350 invited participants, 430 participants turned up and his address was disrupted by “hooligans”. The Tamil Nadu Directorate of Indian Medicine had selected a government yoga and naturopathy practitioner from each district for the national-level training for the AYUSH Health and Wellness Centres, organised by the Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga (MDNIY). Only a handful of speakers handling the sessions spoke in English, often a mixture of English and Hindi that was time-consuming, the participants said. “The idea behind the programme was right but the approach was not. It was primarily to promote yoga at primary health centres. Though it was a national-level programme, they spoke only in Hindi and we do not know the language. We sent repeated messages to the organisers on the chat box asking them to speak in English but they did not accept saying they were fluent only in Hindi,” one of the participants from Tamil Nadu said. “At the end of sessions, we had questions for the speakers. But only other participants fluent in Hindi were allowed to pose three or four questions,” he added. Speaking to The Hindu, Mr. Kotecha said , “I was to give a 10-minute introductory speech and began speaking in Hindi, making it very clear that I would be speaking in both languages — Hindi and English. A bunch of hooligans, who had come in as participants in the webinar, started shouting, disturbing the speech and demanded that only English be spoken.” The official said he had requested the participants to stop disrupting the programme and leave. “They have manipulated the video and have sabotaged the entire educational programme,” he alleged.  For smaller batches Meanwhile, the Indian Naturopathy and Yoga Graduates Medical Association and Tamil Nadu BNYS Graduates Medical Association has written to the AYUSH Secretary. The associations said the master trainers could have been trained in groups of 30 on a common training manual preferably in English and regional languages if needed. When one of the participants from the State emphasised that yoga and naturopathy were part of a single system of medicine under the Ministry and should not be separated, the Secretary allegedly called the remark a “nuisance” and threatened the participant that “appropriate punishment” would be considered against him by writing to the Chief Secretary.  Lack of experts The participants also said they were shocked and disappointed that there were no yoga and naturopathy doctors (BNYS graduates) among the trainers. They called for rigorous selection criteria for the experts, stressing that only qualified and experienced persons with relevant clinical expertise and research background be brought in. The associations said this was “an unplanned, unprofessional, poorly coordinated activity by the MDNIY, New Delhi, which has shown its inefficiency in conducting programmes of national importance”.  (With inputs from Bindu Shajan Perappadan)
22 August 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. will offer govt. jobs on NRA scores: Chouhan||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has said that State government jobs would be offered based on marks obtained in the National Recruitment Agency (NRA) test. “The youth will not be required to take any separate examination for government jobs in the State. They will get government jobs only on the basis of marks obtained in the test conducted by the NRA,” Mr. Chouhan said on Twitter on Thursday. The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the creation of the NRA to conduct a preliminary examination, the Common Eligibility Test, for recruitment to Group B and C (non-technical) vacancies in the Central government, which have been filled through different examinations until now. Mr. Chouhan claimed that the State was the first to take such a decision. “This will make lives of youth comfortable and easy,” he said, while exhorting other States to follow suit to provide relief to the youth. Earlier, Mr. Chouhan had announced that all State government jobs would be reserved for locals. “Now, there will be relief from unnecessary expenditure and travel owing to several examinations,” he said.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||EC nod for filing nominations online||The number of attendees should not exceed the State Disaster Management Authority’s prescribed limit for public gatherings, the guidelines said. Roadshows should have convoys of five vehicles each, excluding security vehicles, separated by an interval of half an hour, instead of the existing 100 metre rule. “Public meetings and road shows shall be permissible with suitable instructions subject to containment instructions issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs/State. Face mask, sanitizer, thermal scanners, gloves, face shield and PPE kits shall be used during the electoral process ensuring social distancing norms. Gloves shall be provided to all the electors for signing on the voter register and pressing button of EVM for voting,” an EC statement said. While masks are mandatory for voters, they would be asked to lower the masks for identification when required. Sanitisers would be kept at the entry as well inside booths. If an elector is found to have a fever, it would be checked a second time, and if the temperature is still high, they would be given a token number and asked to come back during the last hour of polling to cast their vote. Similarly, those electors suffering from COVID-19 would be allowed to cast their votes in the last hour of polling with preventive measures being followed. The EC had invited suggestions from political parties till August 11 and taken them into account before issuing the guidelines, it said. The Chief Electoral Officers of the States and Union Territories concerned would make comprehensive plans for the State, district and Assembly constituency level.
22 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||A.P. officials helping Telangana counterparts||Energy Secretary N. Srikant has directed officials of the Srisailam right bank power house and A.P. State Load Despatch Centre to extend all help to the officials of Telangana left bank hydel station where a major fire broke out on Thursday night. According to an official release, the officials of Telangana State Load Despatch Centre called the Chief Engineer (CE) of APSLDC Thursday night and informed about the incident. The Chief Engineer of Srisailam right bank power house arranged ambulances along with doctors and supporting staff and alerted nearby hospitals.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Stopping only religious activities is strange: SC||The Trust was seeking permission for a congregation of five at a time up to 250 people a day. “If it is only five people, we do not mind going beyond Jain community and allowing the same for Hindu, Muslim and other communities too,” the Chief Justice said at one point. Senior advocate A.M. Singhvi, for Maharashtra, said the number of pandemic cases in the State had seen an alarming rise. He said if Jains were allowed by the court, how could the State prevent other religions from congregating. The Ganesh Chaturthi festival was also about to start. “If this is allowed, the floodgates will open”, Mr. Singhvi struck a cautionary note. But the court said a blanket ban on religious congregations could not be instituted. Chief Justice Bobde referred to how the court allowed the Jagannath Rath Yatra to be held in Odisha in June amidst strict restrictions. The court made it clear that its order to allow worshippers access to the specific Jain temples in Mumbai did not, by default, extend to other temples, trusts or other faiths. The court said its permission would not act as a precedent for allowing congregations during Ganesh Chaturthi. Those would be considered on an individual basis by the Maharashtra State Disaster Management Authority, it clarified.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Nine killed in Srisailam powerhouse unit fire||Those who died included deputy engineer Bathini Srinivas Goud and assistant engineers Venkat Rao, Mohan Kumar, Uzma Fatima and Sundar Naik, plant attendant Rambabu and junior plant attendant Kiran Kumar. All of them were employed by the State generation corporation. Two technicians of Amara Raja Batteries who were servicing the batteries in the panels — Vinesh Kumar and Mahesh Kumar — also died. The power station is towards Domalapenta village of Amrabad mandal in Nagarkurnool district. The plant is located 1.2 km below the surface and surrounded by a terrain on one side. It overlooked the river and faced the dam on the other side. An underground tunnel is the sole entry to the station. Generation at the power house commenced a month ago when Srisailam, which is on the upper reaches of Nagarjunasagar on the Krishna river started flooding. The Power Minister was camping at Nagarjunasagar for a overnight stay to open the crest gates of the project next morning in view of heavy inflows caused by rains. He rushed to the site with Telangana State Power Generation Corporation Limited (TSGENCO) chairman and managing director D. Prabhakar Rao.
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bhushan case: court adds AG’s name in order||The Supreme Court has published a “revised” order in the advocate Prashant Bhushan suo motu contempt case, this time prominently featuring the name of Attorney General K.K. Venugopal. The order copy published initially on the court’s official website on Thursday had not shown Mr. Venugopal’s name even though the top law officer was present during the entire hearing and had even urged the court against punishing the civil rights lawyer for his tweets. Mr. Venugopal was present after the court issued notice to him when it initiated the suo motu proceedings against Mr. Bhushan for his tweet about a photograph of Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde astride a heavy bike and another on how posterity would perceive the role played by the Supreme Court in the past six years. He was found guilty of contempt by scandalising the court on August 14. On Thursday, Mr. Bhushan sought neither mercy nor magnanimity from the court. He, in a short statement, told the court he would cheerfully submit to the punishment, whatever it may be. ‘Genuine mistake’ The court reserved its judgment but gave an opportunity to Mr. Bhushan to tender an “unconditional apology” by August 24. Mr. Bhushan later refused to apologise in court but said the tweets were a “genuine mistake”.  During the hearing, Mr. Venugopal stressed that Mr. Bhushan has “done tremendous amount of public good”. “You have convicted him but do not punish him,” Mr. Venugopal told the court.
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC notice on Nagaland plea against Lokayukta||The Supreme Court on Friday issued notice on a plea filed by the State of Nagaland for a direction to its Lokayukta to cease exercising his powers and functions and transfer all his work to the Upa-Lokayukta. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde posted the case after two weeks. A statement issued by Nagaland Advocate General K.N. Balagopal, who appeared for the State, alleged that the writ petition sought the removal of the Lokayukta for “acts of impropriety.” The petition by the State asked the court to use its extraordinary powers under Article 142 of the Constitution to preserve the institutional integrity of the Lokayukta and ensure that a “fit, proper and competent person” occupies the office of the Lokayukta. Mr. Balagopal cited several reasons for seeking the Lokayukta’s removal, including the latter’s alleged demand to be able to work online from Delhi. The State’s top law officer said an inquiry had been proposed on the origins of a letter, purportedly approved by the State Chief Secretary, permitting the Lokayukta to function from the National Capital. Mr. Balagopal said it was later learnt that the letter was not approved by the Chief Secretary. The petition alleged that the Lokayukta had also made an “unjustified request” to be allotted the former office-cum-bungalow of the CM. Earlier this year, the Lokayukta, Justice Uma Nath Singh, a retired Chief Justice of the Meghalaya High court, had ordered a “preliminary enquiry” against the Deputy CM.
22 August 2020||Bhopal,||Chouhan should quit over I-T raids on builder: Cong.||The Madhya Pradesh Congress has demanded that Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan step down after a string of income tax raids on premises of a builder, who the party believes is linked to a Minister, revealed unaccounted for transactions and properties. “The builder is linked to Cooperatives Minister Arvind Singh Bhadoria who played a pivotal role in toppling the Kamal Nath government in March,” alleged Congress’s Gwalior-Chambal media incharge K.K. Mishra. “The sources of black money being unearthed were used to buy over our legislators.” Around 150 officials from the Income Tax department raided 20 premises belonging to Faith Group’s Raghvendra Singh Tomar and others here and in neighbouring Sehore district. More than Rs. 1 crore in cash and documents relating to nearly 100 properties have been recovered, said an official of the department requesting anonymity. Meanwhile, State Congress spokesperson Narendra Saluja tweeted, “In the past the same Minister publicly said Raghvendra Singh Tomar was like his younger brother. The BJP needs to clarify the Minister’s relations with Mr. Tomar.” Further, Mr. Mishra claimed Mr. Tomar was an accused in the Vyapam scam and later made an approver. In March, 22 rebel Congress MLAs resigned from the party precipitating the fall of the 15-month Nath government, and paving the return of Mr. Chouhan as the Chief Minister. In the midst of political turmoil, they were cooped up at a resort in Bengaluru, from where photographs emerged then showing Mr. Bhadoria along with them. The MLAs later joined the BJP along with Jyotiraditya Scindia. Denying the Minister’s link with the builder, BJP spokesman Hitesh Bajpai said the Narendra Modi government had zero-tolerance towards corruption. “The Congress didn’t raise a voice for 15 months and the political charge is useless now. Mr. Nath has been harbouring corruption for these months and the raids are troubling him now.”
22 August 2020||KOCHI,||HC: Ensure confidentiality of CDR||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Friday asked the State government to ensure that strict confidentiality of the call data record (CDR) collected from COVID-19 patients are maintained as submitted by the government before the court. The Bench comprising Chief Justice S. Manikumar and Justice Shaji P. Chali observed that the CDR details collected should not be used for any other purpose. The court made the observations while disposing of a public interest litigation filed by Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala challenging the State Police Chief’s order on collection of CDR of COVID-19 patients.
22 August 2020||Sabarimala,||Prayers held for SPB at Sabarimala||Special prayers were held on Friday at the Ayyappa temple here for the recovery of veteran playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, who is critical and on life support battling COVID-19 at a hospital in Chennai. He was admitted on August 5. Special “usha pooja” was held at the temple on behalf of Mr. Balasubrahmanyam, the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) said in a release. “A musical offering was arranged at the temple using nadaswaram (wind instrument), thakil (percussion instrument) and Idaykka (a drum) played by TDB employees Ganesh Thiruvarppu, Sugunan and Yadukrishnan respectively.
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI questions two in actor’s death case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday questioned two persons in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput's death case. The agency recorded the statement of Samuel Miranda, who worked as housekeeping manager for the Bollywood actor. His cook, Neeraj Singh — who was purportedly present in the house when Sushant was found dead on June 14 — was also quizzed for about three hours. The CBI team collected the details of the proceedings conducted by the Mumbai police into the case and interacted with the then probe officers. It will soon visit his residence to examine the room where his body was found. Forensic study Forensic and medical experts have been roped in for all necessary assistance to verify and reconstruct the sequence of events, and compare them with the witness statements. The post-mortem report will also be scrutinised.
22 August 2020||New Delhi,||Rahul slams Centre’s plans for publicity||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Friday slammed the Narendra Modi government for spending taxpayers’ money on image correction at a time when the country is faced with multiple challenges. “Economic slump, unemployment, Chinese aggression ail our country. GOI: Let’s spend taxpayers’ money on ‘image correction’,” tweeted Mr. Gandhi and tagged a news report that said the Centre was planning a publicity blitzkrieg to improve its image on global indices.
22 August 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Rajiv Kumar is Election Commissioner||Former Finance Secretary Rajiv Kumar was on Friday appointed as Election Commissioner by the Centre. Mr. Kumar has been appointed in place of Ashok Lavasa, who has resigned to join the Asian Development of Bank. Mr. Kumar is an ex-IAS officer of the 1984 batch of Jharkhand cadre. After retirement, he was appointed as Chairperson of the Public Sector Enterprises Selection Board, which selects top officials for PSUs.
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC rejects plea over Gogoi’s conduct||The Supreme Court dismissed a plea to set up a commission to inquire into the conduct of former Chief Justice of India Ranjan Gogoi as a judge of the apex court, saying he has already demitted office. Justice Gogoi is presently a Rajya Sabha member. “This plea has become infructuous as he has demitted office... Sorry we cannot entertain this,” a three-judge Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra told the petitioner, Arun Ramchandra Hublikar. The petitioner claimed before the Bench that he had met the Secretary General of the top court for listing of his plea but it was not listed. Justice Gogoi headed the Bench, which delivered Ayodhya land dispute before he retired as the CJI on November 17, 2019.
22 August 2020||Pithoragarh,||3 of family die in Uttarakhand house collapse||A man and his two children were buried alive when their house collapsed following rains in Pithoragarh district of Uttarakhand on Friday, while the body of a woman was found in a village four days after she went missing in a landslide. Several roads were blocked due to rains.
22 August 2020||Mumbai,||Need stricter norms to curb inflammatory social media posts: HC tells Maharashtra govt.||The Bombay High Court on Friday said it is high time the Maharashtra government tightened rules to deal with inflammatory social media posts. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Madhav Jamdar was hearing a criminal petition filed by one Imran Khan, through advocate Vivek Shukla. Mr. Khan sought the court to direct the State authorities to delete a video uploaded by Abu Faizal, a supporter of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen, and permanently block him from using social media platforms. While disposing of the plea, the Bench said, “We wish to observe that the people may exercise some degree of restraint on their liberty of free speech and expression.”
22 August 2020||New Delhi,||Doctors laud decision on PG Diploma courses||Doctors have welcomed the move by Centre and the Medical Council of India to recognise eight post-graduate diploma courses under the National Board of Examinations. They said the decision would reduce the shortage of specialists within the next five years. Devi Shetty, cardiac surgeon and chairman of Narayana Health, said, “Every year, approximately 1,70,000 doctors write the NEET post-graduate exam to apply for about 50,000 post-graduate seats ... This means that, annually, many of the remaining doctors who do not get one of these seats may not return to clinical work.”
22 August 2020||Nagpur,||Ex-IAF man moves rights body over disclosure of COVID-19 status||A retired Indian Air Force (IAF) personnel has moved the Maharashtra State Human Rights Commission against the Nagpur civic body for revealing his identity to an RSS-affiliated outfit after he tested positive for COVID-19. In his complaint, the man said he tested positive for COVID-19 on August 16 and got a call from Sumadhar Gokhale on August 18, who said the RSS through its arm Lok Kalyan Samiti, was providing services to infected patients. The complainant said such disclosure of data is a violation of a patient’s right to privacy.
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pranab being treated for lung infection||The health condition of former President Pranab Mukherjee remains the same and he is being treated for lung infection, the Army’s Research and Referral hospital said on Friday. “The medical condition of Pranab Mukherjee remains same ... His vital parameters are being maintained and he is haemodynamically stable,” the hospital said.
22 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC questions commencement of Class XI admissions||The Madras High Court on Friday directed the School Education Department to explain how it could begin admissions for Class XI from Monday when the supplementary examinations for Class X private candidates have been scheduled from September 21. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha directed Special Government Pleader G. Munusamy to obtain instructions in this regard from the officials concerned by Tuesday. The direction was issued during the hearing of a public interest litigation petition. Since the private candidates who clear the Class X examinations would stand a chance to get admitted not only in Class XI but also in diploma programmes offered by polytechnics, the judges wanted to know by when such institutions would be allowed to reopen. In an affidavit filed in support of his PIL petition, the litigant S. Balasubramanian, of Coimbatore, stated that his son had to discontinue his studies in Class X in the middle of the academic year 2019-20 due to his involvement in playing snooker. However, he decided to take up the examinations as a private candidate in March this year. Unfortunately, COVID-19 broke out and the State government decided to cancel the public examinations for all regular Class X students. Though it was announced that all Class X students would be declared passed this year and that individuals would be assessed on the basis of their performance in quarterly and half-yearly examinations conducted at the school-level, there was no word about private candidates. All this happened despite the private candidates having been issued with hall tickets before the lockdown. The private students also attended practical training sessions after paying necessary fees and appeared for the practical examinations in science subjects. When it came to the conduct of theory examinations, the government remained silent for long. Anxious to know its decision, the petitioner sent a representation on August 10, seeking to declare his son and other similarly placed private students as having passed Class X. There was no response, and hence the present petition. Petitioner’s counsel P.M. Duraiswamy stated that about two days ago, the government announced that examinations for private candidates would be conducted from September 21. If such a course was adopted, the private candidates would lose the chance of getting admitted in Class XI this year because the admissions for the latter were scheduled to begin from Monday, the advocate pointed out and pressed for an interim order postponing the admissions.  Two days ago, the government announced that examinations for private candidates would be conducted from September 21
22 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||From niche schools to research centres||What began as small schools to teach a trade for the British, who were building a new city called Madras, established the roots which turned this city into a hub for higher education in the country. In 1794, the East India Company founded the School of Survey in Fort St. George, primarily to fill their need for surveyors. Soon engineering subjects began to be taught and in the next 125 years, it grew and metamorphosed in to the College of Engineering and eventually moved to Guindy. In 1978, College of Engineering, Guindy, popularly known as CEG, became part of Anna University, the seat of technical education in the State. In 1664, the British established a military hospital in Fort St. George. In the next century, the British began teaching Indians and Europeans the allopathic method of making drugs. Half a century later in the 19th century, the first batch of medical students graduated. Today, 356 years later, the city has four medical colleges with an intake of around 750 students each year. In 1840, the British established a University Board with the aim of introducing college education along the lines of the University of London. In the next century, this institution grew and led to the development of several universities across south Indian States. In the 20th Century, the State government created universities based on disciplines of study. Chennai is now home to universities for for medicine, veterinary sciences, engineering and technical sciences, agriculture, law, teacher education, sports, fisheries and distance learning. The thirst for knowledge led to establishment of even more colleges. Initially, all colleges had government support but now the city’s education map has grown to accommodate self-financing colleges. Soon after Independence, just across the road from CEG, an Indian Institute of Technology was set up. In the last 60 years, this institution put the city on the map as a place known for embracing modern technology. In the late 20th century, a new journey began with the government permitting the establishment of private universities. These deemed institutions brought youngsters from all across the country and wards of non-resident Indians. Music and fine arts Chennai has nurtured fine arts, Indian systems of medicine and the liberal arts as well. It has a university for music and fine arts with the Chief Minister as its Chancellor. The Kalakshetra Fondation, a temple for fine arts, receives students from across the world. The College of Fine Arts in Egmore is an unique institution that showcases the thriving arts. Ever since the Central government’s National Institutional Ranking Framework was introduced, at least half a dozen of Chennai’s institutions have remained among the top 10 in any given category. Anna University and IIT-Madras have been tipped for the Institute of Eminence status, a befitting tribute to a city that has and continues to nurture education. Several other institutions, which has historically prioritised education, and remains a seat not only for higher learning and conventional pedagogy, but also increasingly accepting alternate methodologies and innovations.
22 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 5,995 fresh infections||Another 5,995 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Friday. Chennai saw a marginal increase in its daily count, as 1,282 persons tested positive for the infection in the city. This took the State’s tally to 3,67,430. Another 5,764 persons were discharged, taking the total number of persons discharged so far to 3,07,677. The State’s toll climbed to 6,340, with another 101 persons, including a teenager and two centenarians, succumbing to the infection. Among the deceased was a 13-year-old boy from Sivaganga who was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on August 7. He died on August 19 due to pancytopenia, TB lymphadenitis and COVID-19. A 100-year-old woman from Chennai had coronary artery disease, systemic hypertension, chronic kidney disease, old pulmonary tuberculosis and hypothyroidism and was admitted to a private hospital on August 19 with complaints of breathing difficulty for a day. She died the next day due to left ventricular failure and COVID-19. A 104-year-old man from Chennai was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on August 16 and died on August 19 due to respiratory failure and COVID-19 pneumonia. Of the 101 deceased, 23 persons died in Chennai, six in Salem and four each in Cuddalore, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Vellore. Chennai’s neighbouring districts continued to record a surge in cases. There were 430 cases in Chengalpattu, 369 in Tiruvallur and 220 in Kancheepuram. A total of 395 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore, while 267 persons tested positive for the infection in Salem. Among the other northern districts, Cuddalore recorded 242 cases, while Vellore and Ranipet saw 197 and 178 cases respectively. Villupuram had 128 cases, while Tirupattur’s daily count touched 100. In the southern part of the State, cases dipped in Madurai (86) and Virudhunagar (50), while Tirunelveli had 163 cases and Kanniyakumari 153. There were 128 cases in Dindigul, 127 in Thoothukudi, 122 in Theni and 107 in Ramanathapuram. Among other districts, Tiruchi had 110 cases and Thanjavur 100. The total number of samples tested crossed 40 lakh in the State. In the last 24 hours, 74,344 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested to 40,62,943.
22 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Koyambedu market being spruced up||Work is in progress to improve infrastructure at the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex, which has been closed down since May. For a few days, the otherwise empty premises of the market have been bustling with activity. Labourers have been employed to repair stormwater drains in and around the complex, particularly the one on E Road where the omnibus terminus is located. Officials of the Koyambedu Market Management Committee said work was under way to repair and reconstruct portions of the market compound wall for a distance of nearly 1.5 km. Some long-pending repairs were also being carried out. “We are also repairing the roads leading to the market. Ones like B road, linking Poonamallee High Road with the market, were damaged while providing utility lines,” an official said. The damaged portion of the stormwater drains on E Road, which often led to waterlogging, is also being desilted and reconstructed. Besides painting work, plans to fix electrical issues and lighting inside the market were also on the anvil, he said. “Additional drinking facilities will be provided with Metrowater’s help. We are planning to renovate the 68 toilet blocks as well. Work will be completed in a month,” the official added. Wasted food grains On the other hand, the food grains wholesale merchants of Koyambedu have complained that stock worth several lakhs had gone waste due to the market’s closure for three months. P. Pandiarajan, of the Koyambedu Food Grains Market General Traders Association, said food grains and pulses worth Rs. 5-Rs. 6 lakh had been wasted in each shop. Of the 500 shops, nearly 240 shops were operating while the rest remained shut due to various reasons. While a few traders returned to Anna Pillai Street and George Town, many who rented out shops in Koyambedu had been affected, he said. Unlike the vegetables, fruits and flowers market, the food grains market cannot operate out of a temporary space since goods cannot be left without safety, he said. “We stocked expensive goods like cashews, raisins and cardamom that have now gone waste. The State government must allow us to reopen shops with safety norms,” Mr. Pandiarajan added.
22 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bodies of four medicos handed over to families||The bodies of four Indian students who drowned in the Volga earlier this month arrived here on Friday by a cargo flight. They were received by their respective family members after the mandatory formalities were been completed. Bharatiya Janata Party State president L. Murugan was present at the airport when the coffins arrived. On August 8, four medical students at Volgograd State Medical University, who had gone for a walk along the bank of Volga river had drowned. According to the kin of the deceased, one of the students slipped into the river and cried for help. When the rest of students went to help him, all of them were dragged in by the current. Chennai resident Three of the four students are from other districts while Stephen Lebaku is a resident of Perambur. Stephen was in the second year of medical degree while the rest — R. Vignesh, Manoj Anandan and Mohamed Ashiq — were five months away from finishing their M.D. degree. The State government had provided separate hearses to carry the bodies back to their respective hometowns.
22 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Notices being issued to pvt. hospitals for late referrals’||Notices are being issued to private hospitals referring COVID-19 patients late to government hospitals, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said. Late referrals are a challenge. When persons with co-morbidities come in late with breathlessness, a drop in oxygen saturation levels and lung damage it becomes a challenge for doctors and nurses, he said. “We have treated persons with 70% lung damage. But it becomes a challenge to save the patient when the lung damage is extensive,” he told reporters on Friday. Replying to a question on the number of fresh cases surging over 1,000 in the city, he said, “The pandemic is well under control in Chennai and the curve is flattening. It is to control transmission and prevent deaths that we are appealing to people, on behalf of doctors, to wear masks and seek medical help early, as there are problems due to late referrals.” Noting that bed capacity in government hospitals was being increased, he said that another 250 beds were added at the Government Medical College Hospital in Omandurar Estate, for COVID-19 patients. The Public Works Department has provided oxygen lines for all 250 beds. A 20-KL liquid oxygen tank has been installed at the hospital for uninterrupted supply of oxygen. There are 100 beds with ventilators, he added. “The hospital started off with 500 beds for COVID-19 patients. So far, 13,600 patients have recovered. The hospital has a recovery rate of 90%,” he said. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said in Chennai, there were complaints of people under home quarantine moving outside. “This is why we are taking up the IEC campaign, again, in Chennai, especially in workplaces and places where people come together,” he said. Noting that the number of samples tested in the city had increased from 3,000 to 13,000 now, he said that they continued to focus on areas such as Ambattur, Kodambakkam and Anna Nagar. “The focus is on reducing fatalities,” he said. R. Narayana Babu, director of medical education, and R. Jayanthi, dean of the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, were present.
22 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks list of institutions collecting over 40% fees||The Madras High Court on Friday expressed its displeasure over the School Education and Higher Education departments not having filed a proper report in the court with regard to large-scale complaints of educational institutions having demanded and collected more than 40% fees for the current academic year. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh was surprised to hear from the Director of Matriculation Schools (DMS) that only one school in the State had collected more than 40% fees, though a parent appeared before the court through videoconferencing and claimed that a complaint given by him had not been brought to the notice of the court. On July 17, the judge directed all private schools and colleges in the State to collect only 40% fees for the current academic year since educational institutions had remained shut due to COVID-19. He ordered that rest of the fees could be collected after the institutions reopen. However, on July 30, a complaint was made to the judge that several institutions were forcing parents to pay the entire fee amount, in utter violation of court orders. Taking serious note of the issue, he ordered that details of the complaints received and action taken against those institutions must be submitted before the court. On Friday, the DMS alone reported the violation by one school and there was no information with respect to colleges. Unhappy with the poor response, the judge directed the authorities concerned to collate all complaints, including those lodged orally, across the State, and submit them, along with a report on the action taken, on August 31.
22 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Assembly session at Kalaivanar Arangam?||In view of the COVID-19 situation, the next session of the Legislative Assembly is likely to be held in Kalaivanar Arangam on Wallajah Salai, in Chennai, to ensure better enforcement of physical distancing norms among legislators. The seating arrangement in the present Assembly hall provides little scope for distancing. The House was adjourned sine die on March 24 and the next session is due next month. The Assembly must meet at least once in six months. ‘Closer to quarters’ Multiple sources confirmed to The Hindu that the multipurpose hall on the third floor of Kalaivanar Arangam was being actively considered for convening the House. “The session will not be held in the Assembly hall for sure. Kalaivanar Arangam is the most likely choice since it is closer to MLAs’ quarters,” a source said. Another source cited ample parking facilities and the building’s proximity to the Assembly Secretariat, besides its major attraction — a large multi-purpose hall where seats can be arranged in compliance with physical distancing norms. Officials from the Assembly Secretariat and the Public Works Department visited the Kalaivanar Arangam a few days ago to survey the vicinity, an official said. A final call A senior official said the Assembly Speaker would take a final call on the venue. Since Independence, the Assembly has met only in the present historic hall. For a brief period during the DMK regime, the Assembly met at the present-day Government Multi Super-Specialty Hospital, which was an Assembly-cum-Chief Secretariat complex. “But before the current venue, Assembly sessions were held in Rajaji Hall,” an official pointed out. The old Kalaivanar Arangam was demolished and the new one, with multiple auditoriums and a multi-purpose hall, was constructed at the same venue. It was inaugurated by the then Chief Minister, Jayalalithaa, in February 2016.  The session will not be held in the Assembly hall for sure. Kalaivanar Arangam is the most likely choice since it is closer to MLAs’ quarters Source
22 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Closed for long, shops turn host to slithering guests||When industries and shops in Chennai and its suburbs raised their shutters after months following the COVID-19 lockdown, many of them had surprise visitors — snakes. According to the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services (TNFRS), it received 409 snake rescue calls between January and August 14. “Between March and August alone, we got 355 calls,” said a TNFRS officer. Of these calls, 66 were from shops, schools and industries. People have also been calling forest officials and snake rescuers after spotting snakes on their premises. TNFRS personnel said that most often, they spot rat snakes, and sometimes, rescue cobras. “We also rescued a common bronzeback tree snake from the Tambaram Municipal Court recently. We have a snake-catcher stick to catch snakes and we them put them in a bag safely. We later release them into forests. We received training from the Snake Park in Chennai. We were taught how to catch snakes,” said A. Fateeh, station officer, Tambaram. Rescue volunteers The Forest Department also has volunteers who help in snake rescues. People call the Forest Department at 044-22200335 for animal rescues. “However, we need more staff and transport facilities. We have around 15 staff and they go for all sorts of urban wildlife rescue. Every year, we rescue around 6,000 urban wildlife, including monkeys, snakes, birds and deer. Given the rapid development and density of houses, we need to double our staff to cover the city,” said a source from the Department. Shravan Krishnan, an animal rescuer, said: “I have attended 15-20 calls during the lockdown. Most often, I spotted Russell’s viper, saw-scaled viper and spectacled cobra. I inform the Forest Department and check if staff members are available. Otherwise, I go and rescue the snake and if they are non-venomous, I release them in forests nearby. If they are venomous, I hand them over to the Forest Department,” he said. P. Gowri Shankar, herpetologist and King cobra conservationist, said that snakes came out a lot during the lockdown as human movement was restricted and there were fewer vehicles. “When they get food and shelter with a conducive temperature, snakes stay in one place for a long time. This can be in industries, shops or even residential areas,” he said. Showkath Jamal, founder, Bay Of life Foundation, an NGO working on ocean and snake conservation, said some industries and offices along the OMR, ECR, GST Road and in areas like Oragadam, Sriperumbudur, Ekkaduthangal, Guindy and Ambattur contacted them after spotting snakes on campus.
22 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro stations not disabled-friendly: PIL||The Madras High Court on Friday sought the response of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) to a plea to make all its metro stations physically-challenged friendly. Vaishnavi Jayakumar, co-founder of mental health NGO, The Banyan, had made the plea in public interest. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha granted four weeks to CMRL to file a comprehensive counter-affidavit to the PIL. Advocate Jayesh B. Dolia took notice on behalf of the CMRL after stating that the stations were already physically-challenged friendly. However, in her affidavit, Ms. Jayakumar asserted that the existing metro stations had been built in violation of the provisions of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act of 2016, and that CMRL was continuing to design and build new stations in utter violation of the law. The litigant lamented that public transport system in the city remained far from being universally accessible, despite enactment of legislation such as the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act of 1995. She said making the transport system universally accessible would enure to the benefit of not only the physically and mentally challenged but also senior citizens, pregnant women and people suffering from temporary mobility issues. The petitioner pointed out that metro stations in the city lacked several key structures or features such as anti-reflective flooring contrasting with the wall colour and non-slippery floors in wet or dry conditions with a resistance of 40-70. Similarly, there were no wheel-chair accessible ticket counters with audio induction loop for users of hearing aids. Accessible kiosks for the visually challenged and wheel-chair bound passengers and sliding doors for toilets were also absent. Ms. Jayakumar sought a direction to CMRL to make all its stations comply with the harmonised guidelines and space standards for barrier-free built environment for persons with disabilities and elderly persons.
22 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Invite DMK MPs, MLAs for meetings’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Friday asked how Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami could stop an elected MP from the DMK from taking part in a COVID-19 review meeting, and termed his conduct anti-democratic and shameful. He condemned the government for not inviting MPs and MLAs of the principal Opposition party for government events. “Yesterday [on Thursday], when Dharmapuri MP Senthilkumar wanted to take part in a COVID-19 review meeting, they refused to let him inside. The Chief Minister also asked how he could allow an MP to be part of a review meeting chaired by him,” Mr. Stalin said. ‘Legislators’ rights’ Despite being the Chief Minister for the last three years, Mr. Palaniswami had not learnt the basics of democracy and administration, he said. “In Vellore and Kallakurichi districts too, DMK MLAs and MPs have been treated in such a manner. We are not seeking permission to take part in the AIADMK’s general council meeting or their public meetings. We just want to take part in review meetings for COVID-19, that are being held at government cost,” he said, adding that this was a basic right of elected representatives.
22 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tobacco products worth over Rs. 2 crore seized||The police on Friday seized 15 tonnes of banned tobacco products, worth over Rs. 2 crore, from a godown in Thirumullaivoyal and arrested three suspects for storing the contraband. The Tamil Nadu government has banned the sale of gutkha, pan masala and chewable food which contain tobacco and nicotine as ingredients. Frequent raids are being conducted on godowns and outlets, which sell them illegally. Following information from the Organised Crime Intelligence Unit (Crime), the police raided a godown in SIDCO, Kattur, Thirumullaivoyal, and recovered 15 tonnes of tobacco products from there. Two vehicles were seized and the building was sealed. The police arrested M. Balaji, 27, of Karanodai, R. Ranjith Kumar Yadav, 27, and Babu Lal Yadav, 40, of Uttar Pradesh. Investigations are on. This is a major seizure in recent days. The seized goods had been valued at over Rs. 2 crore, police said.
22 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Senior CPI leader hospitalised||Senior CPI leader R. Nallakannu, who was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) with complaints of fever, has tested negative for coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and his condition is stable. According to hospital authorities, Mr. Nallakannu was admitted on Thursday with complaints of fever for two days. His swab returned negative for COVID-19. “His condition is stable, and he is undergoing treatment at the hospital,” a hospital authority said.
22 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Project launched to help slum dwellers in the city||In order to help people during the pandemic, the ‘COVID Slum Relief Project’ was initiated by Rajan Eye Care Hospital and Chennai Vision Charitable Trust in May this year, according to a press release. As part of this, slum dwellers from 15 areas, including Giriappa Road, Kodambakkam Market, Kakan Colony, Gangaikaraipuram, T.P. Chathram, Taramani, Thoraipakkam and Besant Nagar, were given essentials such as rice, dal, medicines and hand sanitisers. Dr. Mohan Rajan, chairman of Rajan Eye Care Hospital, said, “Since we had been doing eye camps, we came to know about the plight of people. Then, we began providing groceries as a package. But we realised that many girls needed sanitary napkins and we have been providing that as well. We are hoping to cover more people in the coming weeks. If more people pitch in, it will help many families.” In the next two months, the project will cover 300 slums with 75,000 families, he added.
22 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||We have faith in the medical team: Charan||Producer and singer S.P. Charan said that his father and singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam was “stable”, but underlined that this did not mean that he had completely recovered. “What it means is that there are no complications and all his vitals are just fine. We have complete faith and confidence in the medical team,” said Mr. Charan. He thanked those who prayed for Mr. Balasubrahmanyam’s health.
22 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wanted gangster held in Velachery||A notorious gangster, ‘Velachery’ Thiruvengadam, 54, who features on the most wanted list of the city police was nabbed at gunpoint in Velachery on Friday. A senior police officer said Thiruvengadam had over a dozen cases, including murder, attempt to murder, extortion and land grabbing, against him. When Guindy sub-inspector M. Rajasekar and his team were on patrol at Nehru Nagar, they happened upon a few suspicious persons. When asked to disperse, Thiruvengadam, who was among the group, threatened the police. When approached, the history-sheeter and his friend Karthik threatened to attack them with broken bottles, police said. The duo were eventually arrested. A case has been registered and an investigation is under way.
22 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Ranking reflects poor waste management||The clean cities ranking that the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs released on Thursday – Swachh Sarvekshan 2020 – puts Coimbatore at the 40th place in the list of 47 cities with over 10 lakh population. The current year’s ranking is the same as that of last year. The Swachh Sarvekshan is an annual ranking exercise in cleanliness and sanitation that the ministry undertakes to rank cities and towns on various criteria for 6,000 marks. For the 40th rank, the ministry awarded Coimbatore 2,337.12 marks. The cleanest city – Indore, Madhya Pradesh – had scored 5,647.56 marks. The Ministry had divided the 6,000 marks in four categories of 1,500 marks each. Coimbatore’s score in the first category – Service Level Progress – was 663.22, in the second category - Direct Observation – was 842, in the third category – Citizen Feedback – was 831.79, and in the fourth category – Certification – it was zero. The national average score for the first, second, third and fourth categories was 306.24, 232.44, 819.98 and 855.72 respectively. Sources in Coimbatore Corporation that were familiar with the preparation for Swachh Sarvekshan 2020 and the result said the civic body letting the city down was not unexpected as right at the time of submitting its achievements for last year, it skipped furnishing details under the ‘Certification’ category. And, it was forced to do so because it had not made any significant progress in both Garbage Free City (GFC) and Open Defecation Free (ODF) components that make up the ‘Certification’ category. As for GFC, the ministry had devised a star ranking system, awarding each city marks based on the starts it bagged. Likewise, in ODF it measured the progress made in construction of individual household toilets, community toilets and public toilets and factored in the cleanliness, ambience, accessibility, etc. That the Coimbatore Corporation did nothing more than showcase two public toilets as model toilets – the one near Kattoor Police Station on Dr. Nanjappa Road and the second near its North Zone office on Balasundaram Road – and ignored the rest had reflected in the marks it scored, the sources explained. An officer said with the ministry making Swachh Bharat Mission and Swachh Sarvekshan exercise a round-the-clock affair, civic bodies could no longer get away with last-minute dressing up like what the Coimbatore Corporation used to do in January-February every year by placing placards or cleaning toilets or sweeping roads. The corporation had the wherewithal and resources to take Coimbatore to a place in the 10 cleanest cities in the country but poor supervision, slow progress in initiatives and lack of manpower remained its undoing, the officer added.
22 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Education dept. reports indicate increase in govt. school admissions||With admissions in government schools nearing completion in Coimbatore district, initial reports from the Department of School Education indicate an increase in the number of students who enrolled in government and aided schools this academic year. “Last year, about 13,000 students enrolled in Class I in government and aided schools. This year, the number has already crossed 14,000,” Chief Educational Officer P. Usha told The Hindu on Friday. Admissions to Classes I, VI and IX began in Coimbatore district on August 17. As per the data till Thursday, government and aided elementary schools with Classes I to VIII saw 14,594 admissions (10,292 in government schools and 4.392 in aided schools). Secondary schools which extend till Class X saw 11,870 admissions (8,211 in government schools and 3,659 in aided schools) in Coimbatore district. However, Ms. Usha said it was yet to be ascertained whether the admissions had definitively increased for all classes, and there were any migrations from private schools. Education activist and secretary of MDMK’s state youth wing V. Eswaran welcomed the increase in admissions in government schools. He said that all government schools in the district must continue to improve its infrastructure and ensure retention of new students. “Henceforth, government schools should be the first preference of parents,” he said.
22 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on cancer treatment held||Rotary Club of Coimbatore Metropolis and GEM Hospitals organised a webinar on cancer treatment on Thursday. M. Jose Chacko, District Governor of Rotary International District 3201, inaugurated the event and actor Gautami Tadimalla was the special guest, a release said. Hospital chairman C. Palanivelu spoke.
22 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Award for typography skill||Anagha Narayanan, former student of DJ Academy of Design, Coimbatore, bagged the SOTA Catalyst Award 2020 by the Society of Typographic Aficionados (SOTA). The award recognised a person aged 25 and below who demonstrated significant achievements in the field of typography, a release said. She was working on‘Ilai’, one of the first variable Tamil typefaces.
22 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Ganja seized||The Mettupalayam police arrested a man on charges of possessing ganja weighing 1.2 kg. He was booked under provisions of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and remanded in judicial custody.
22 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode Collector contracts infection||Erode District Collector C. Kathiravan tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. He is under isolation at his Camp Office in Sampath Nagar. Mr. Kathiravan told The Hindu that he tested positive for the infection and was under home quarantine. “I was undergoing COVID-19 tests every 10 days, and results returned positive on Friday,” he said. An official said the Collector had mild symptoms and swabs were lifted from him on Thursday. Following the result, his Camp Office and chamber at the Collectorate were fumigated. On Thursday, Mr. Kathiravan took part in the inauguration of a power sub-station at a village in Modakurichi taluk. The event was attended by Electricity Minister P. Thangamani, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan, Environment Minister K.C. Karuppannan, three MLAs, Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai and other government officials.
22 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Fix minimum wage for local body workers’||All India Trade Union Congress, Erode District Committee, has urged the district administration to fix a minimum wage of Rs. 750 for daily wagers facing hardship due to high cost of essential commodities. “Wage should be fixed soon and the dues given to the workers, the AITUC said in an email to Collector C. Kathiravan.
22 August 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Vitamin A camp for children||Vitamin A camp will be held in two phases in the district for children in the age group of 6 months to 5 years. The first round will be held from August 24 to 29, and the second from August 31 to September 5. The administration said 1,40,857 children will be given Vitamin A syrup under the programme. Collector S. Prabhakar has urged the public to bring in their children to the camp.
22 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Toned-down celebration in store||Residents across Madurai bought fruits, flowers and Ganesha idols on Friday, a day ahead of Vinayaka Chaturthi celebration. Due to closure of flower market at Mattuthavani owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, farmers sold flowers in various parts of the city, including Race Course Road, Surveyor Colony and Arapalayam bus stand, said S. Ramachandran, president of a flower vendors’ association. He said the prices of flowers had risen on Friday ahead of Vinayaka Chaturthi celebration. A kilogram of jasmine was sold for Rs. 700, ‘sampangi’ for Rs. 300, ‘arali’ for Rs. 300 and button rose for Rs. 300. “Most of the flowers saw a good increase in prices, especially ‘sampangi’ had a 10-fold rise, on Friday,” he said. M. Nadandi, a farmer from Nilakottai, who sold flowers at Surveyor Colony, said after a gap of over four months since the outbreak of COVID-19, flowers being sold for a good price. A large number of residents also bought fruits from makeshift shops at Yanaikkal and across the city. V.P. Manikandan, a resident of S.S. Colony, said the usual excitement ahead of Vinayaka Chathurthi was missing. “It is evident that many people are still struggling to recover from the financial loss caused due to the pandemic,” he said. Sales of Ganesha idols is lower than expected, said Meena Kumari, who belongs to the artisan families residing on 120-Foot Road connecting Mattuthavani with Surveyor Colony. “Out of 1,000 small-sized Ganesha idols that my family made, only 300 have been sold till Friday evening. We have to sell these idols to repay moneylenders. We hope more idols are sold on Saturday,” she said.
22 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||86 cases in Madurai||A total of 86 new COVID-19 cases were recorded on Friday, taking the total number of cases in Madurai district to 13,237. As many as 138 persons were discharged on Friday. The active cases were 1,003. One death was recorded on Friday, taking the district’s toll to 331. Two more COVID-19 deaths were reported in Virudhunagar district, taking the death toll to 165. The number of positive cases came down to 50, taking the total to 11,843. After 351 patients got discharged (11,064 till date), the number of active cases has come down to 614. Theni tested 122 positive cases which took the tally to 11,131. As many as 381 patients were discharged. There were 2,258 active cases. So far, the infection had claimed 126 lives. Dindigul tested 129 cases with which the tally moved to 5,432. There were 181 discharges and 875 active cases. So far 108 people had died. Ramanathapuram had 108 fresh cases after which the total positive cases moved to 4,307. There were 37 people discharged. The active number of cases stood at 553 and 94 people had succumbed so far. Sivaganga had 37 cases with which the tally moved to 3,630. There were 13 discharges. The hospitals had 322 active cases and 95 had died so far. In Tirunelveli, 197 patients were discharged and 163 new cases were admitted. There are 1,308 active cases, taling the tally to 8,198. Three patients died and the fatality moved to 139. Kanniyakumari had 1,554 active cases following the admission of 155 cases that took the tally to 8,248. While 105 patients were discharged, three succumbed. Thoothukudi reported 127 cases, taking the tally to 10,422. With 637 active cases, the district discharged 149 patients while a patient died on Friday. Tenkasi recorded 112 cases to move the tally to 4,473 and the number of active cases to 1,126. While 61 patients were discharged, three patients died.
22 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Theft in temple, 3 held||Puja articles and figurines stolen from a temple at Pechiamman Padithurai here on Monday were recovered with the arrest of a gang of three - Jeyaraman, Mohammed Mustafa and Sebastian. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) R. Shivaprasad told reporters here on Friday that the Thilagar Thidal police cracked the case with the help of CCTV footage. Since the police had arrested Jeyaraman in a similar crime in the past, it made the identification easier, Mr. Shivaprasad said.  One killed in blaze M. Krishnammal, 60, was killed and another worker K. Parvathiammal, 70, suffered burns in a fire accident reported at a match unit at Sadayampatti near Sattur on Friday late afternoon. The police suspect that friction while handling dipped match sticks could have sparked the fire. Parvathiammal, who sustained 40% burns, has been admitted to a private hospital in Sattur. Sattur Taluk police have registered a case and are investigating.
22 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Dispose of applications for pattas: HC||Taking a serious view of the fact that a large number of applicants were being made to run from pillar-to-post to get pattas, even in cases where there were no disputes, the Madras High Court (Madurai Bench) has directed the State government to take effective steps in disposing of pending applications and file a report to the court on queries raised. The court was hearing a batch of petitions seeking a direction to the authorities concerned to dispose of the pending applications pertaining to the transfer of pattas. The petitioners complained that the authorities had not considered their applications pending for several months and in some cases several years. Justice D. Krishnakumar directed the State to file a report on a series of queries.
22 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Bid to break open ATM near HC Bench||A gang of four made a vain attempt to break open an ATM of a nationalised bank near Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Madurai-Melur highway on Thursday night. Police said the gang attempted to break open the cash box but only managed to dismantle its cover. The gang had also snapped the CCTV camera wire. Othakadai police are investigating.
22 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Periyar dam on Friday stood at 133.55 feet (142 ft.), with an inflow of 768 cusecs and a discharge of 2,130 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 52.79 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,508 cusecs and a discharge of 72 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 7,439 mcft. There was no rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Friday.  Tirunelveli The water level in Papanasam dam stood at 107.65 feet (143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 508.57 cusecs and 1,404.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 74.36 feet (118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 21 cusecs and no water was discharged.
22 August 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Annual Velankanni festival to be held without pilgrims||For the first time, the Velankanni annual feast this year will be held without a gathering of pilgrims due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Having announced that Shrine Basilica of Our Lady of Good Health, Velankanni, will remain shut for public worship during the annual festival, administrators of the shrine have apologised to the pilgrims for the inconvenience caused and have decided to live-stream the festivities, starting off with the flag hoisting. The flag is to be hoisted by the Bishop of Thanjavur Diocese, Rev. Fr. Devadas Ambrose. Prayers will be conducted at 7 a.m., every day, for the duration of the festival in Konkani, Malayalam, Tamil, English, Kannada and other languages. No public worship will be conducted until further announcement from the government. Appealing to the pilgrims to avoid visiting the shrine, in keeping with the government’s instructions, Rector Rev. Fr. Prabakar said the proceedings would be telecast live until September 8, when the annual festival would culminate with lowering of the flag. In his message to the pilgrims, Fr. Prabakar requested them to pray together, with family, to save humanity from the dangerous situation.
22 August 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Sand smuggling gang attacks officials||A gang of sand smugglers allegedly attacked three Village Administrative Officers and other government officials at Mahadhanam in Nagapattinam district on Thursday when they attempted to intercept a sand-laden tractor. A video clipping of the attack that went viral showed the VAOs and a sub-inspector of Police trying in vain to confiscate the tractor. Subsequently, a team from the Velankanni police station arrived at the scene and confiscated five tractors and an earth-mover. A senior official of Revenue Department said a First Information Report naming six persons has been registered and the tractor driver has been arrested.
22 August 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Couple commit suicide||A middle-aged couple from Tiruchengode committed suicide fearing loan sharks. Handloom workers According to the police, the deceased were identified as Subramanian (40) and his wife Menaka (38). The deceased were handloom workers and they had taken loans from private financiers. However, due to COVID-19 crisis, the family couldn’t return the amount and private financiers kept pressuring the family demanding money. Feeling depressed, the family decided to commit suicide consuming poison. On Thursday night, the deceased along with their children consumed poison and attempted suicide, Police said that they had left a suicide note. The children vomited and fell unconscious while Subramanian hanged self after he became conscious during the early hours of Friday. Neighbours alerted the police and they were rushed to Tiruchengode government hospital. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)
22 August 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Did not stop MPs, MLAs from attending govt. events: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Friday denied the DMK’s charge that its elected representatives were prevented from attending COVID-19 review meetings in the districts. Asked about the DMK’s charge that its representatives were being ignored in government programmes, he said, “These are testing times. The aim of the meeting is to contain the spread [of COVID-19]. Containment measures and implementation of government schemes are reviewed. Anyone can attend these meetings, none of them have been stopped; just that persons attending must undergo COVID-19 tests. Otherwise the entire district administration will come to a halt. It is not the government’s motive to ignore anyone.” Mr. Palaniswami, along with Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani, Minister for Social Welfare V. Saroja and other senior officials, reviewed COVID-19 preventive measures in Namakkal district and held discussions with farmers, industrialists and SHG members. Regarding the resumption of public transport, the Chief Minister said that it was stopped as part of containment measures. “Many will travel using public transporta and contact tracing will then become difficult. It is the government’s responsibility to save precious human life and we are doing it. People should extend cooperation,” he said. He added that the e-pass system for inter-district/inter-State vehicular movement was being followed as part of contact tracing. He visited a Siddha-based 200-bed COVID-19 care centre, set up near Ernapuram, and inspected the construction of a medical college hospital. Mr. Palaniswami said that check dams would be built across the Cauvery river in Anichampalayam in Namakkal and Punchaikudu in Karur.
22 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Testing rate in U.T. is highest in the country, says Narayanasamy||Offering a divergent take on the assessment made by the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research (Jipmer) that the Union Territory has the highest number of COVID-19 cases per million in the country, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Friday said detection of COVID-19 cases was more due to the testing rate in the U.T., which is the highest in the country. “As per norms, we should have conducted around 20,000 tests for our population size. Instead, we have conducted more than 60,000 tests. As of now we are carrying out around 1,000 tests, which will be scaled up considerably in the coming days as we started receiving necessary kits,” the Chief Minister told The Hindu when asked to comment on the alarming COVID-19 assessment made by Jipmer for Puducherry. Jipmer Director Rakesh Aggarwal had stated on Thursday that in recent days the COVID disease burden in Puducherry had grown to become the highest in the country on a cases per million basis. He had also said the current doubling time of 14 days for cases was one of the quickest in the country. As of August 20, the overall COVID-19 tally in the U.T. was 9,292 cases, with the samples tested aggregating 59,757. Jipmer being an institute of national importance, the Chief Minister said the government expects more “cooperation” from the institute in containing the spread of virus. Given the space, resource and facilities available with Jipmer, the hospital authorities could considerably increase bed capacity and accommodate more patients. The institute has now set aside around 350 beds for COVID-19 patients, he added. “I will request the Union Minister for Health and Family Welfare to prevail upon the hospital management to work in close coordination with the territorial administration. Given our resource constraints, we need support of an institute with such eminence,” Mr Narayanasamy said. He also ruled out imposing a complete lockdown in the U.T. “As of now, we will continue with lockdown on Tuesdays. We are not in a sound financial position to implement another round of lockdown,” the Chief Minister added.
22 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Toll in Puducherry goes up to 143||The COVID toll in Puducherry has gone up to 143 with six more deaths reported on Friday, even as 313 new cases pushed the cumulative tally past the 9,500 mark. The active cases, including 1,964 patients in home isolation, stood at 3,517. The overall tally was 9,594 cases and number of patients recovered 5,934 (a recovery rate of 61.85%).
22 August 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Potassium chlorate destroyed||Bomb Detection and Disposal Squad sleuths from Chennai destroyed a huge quantity of potassium chlorate at an isolated location here on Friday. About 14 years ago, the Q Branch police had seized 2,500 kg of potassium chlorate in bags weighing 50 kg each and kept them in the custody of police as per court order. When the court ordered that they be destroyed in a safe manner, the police here sought the assistance of trained personnel.
22 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Discharge from Mettur dam increased||The discharge from Mettur dam for irrigation in delta region has been increased to 18,000 cusecs from Friday afternoon. According to officials from Public Works Department, water level in the dam was 99.81 ft against the full reservoir level of 120ft and the storage was 64,595 tmc. The inflow to the dam reduced from 34,366 cusecs on Thursday to 27,845 cusecs on Friday. The discharge into River Cauvery was increased to 18,000 cusecs from 16,500 cusecs.    The discharge through East-West canal was maintained at 500 cusecs. Rainfall Salem received meagre rainfall on Thursday and the average rainfall recorded in the district was 1.55 mm.
22 August 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Hindu Munnani cadre detained||The Thanjavur Town West Police took into custody 15 Hindu Munnani cadre when the latter attempted to stage a road roko on the Gandhiji Salai here on Friday. According to police, the demonstrators, who were demanding the lifting of ban on the installation of Vinayagar idols at public places as part of the Vinayaka Chathurthi celebrations in the State, staged a procession on the Gandhiji Road around noon on Friday with Vinayagar idols. When the police prevented them from going in a procession, they squatted on the road. Subsequently they were arrested and released later.
22 August 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Child marriage prevented||The District Childline authorities have prevented the marriage of a 15-year-old girl to a 30-year-old person at Swamimalai on Friday. The Childline authorities received information about the marriage on Thursday night and when they rushed to the marriage hall at Swamimalai on Friday morning they found that the information was true. Subsequently, they stopped the marriage and brought the girl to Thanjavur and accommodated her at the Government Home, sources said. Interrogation by the officials revealed that the girl’s mother a resident of Reddypalayam on the outskirts of Thanjavur town, had arranged the marriage of her daughter with the bridegroom hailing from Thulasendrapuram near Ayyampettai, in order to reduce her burden of raising two children on her own.
22 August 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Awareness song CD released||A song to create awareness among the public about the precautionary measures to be taken to avoid contracting the novel coronavirus was released here on Friday. The song penned by Rev. T.Arokiya Baskar, Correspondent, Punitha Arokiya Annai Nursing College, Thanjavur, would be played at public places, at medical camps and through the public address system fitted vehicles in Thanjavur Corporation area. A compact disc containing the awareness song was handed over to Corporation Commissioner T. Janaki Ravindran by Collector M. Govinda Rao on Friday.
22 August 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Inauguration of Sri Ramakrishna Mutt today||A sub-centre of Sri Ramakrishna Mutt, Chennai, will be inaugurated at Thanjavur on Saturday. According to Swami Vimurthananda, in-charge of Sri Ramakrishna Math and Prayer Hall constructed at Sivaji Nagar, Thanjavur, the ceremonies in connection with the inauguration of the new math at Thanjavur would commence by 5.30 a.m. on August 22. The premises would be declared open by Swami Gautamanandaji Maharaj, vice-president, Worldwide Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission, Belur Math, Kolkata, and the inaugural ceremony would be streamed live in YouTube –https://youtu.be/pQeP_ 2-c61ofrom 6.30 a.m. to 1 p.m.
22 August 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Head Constable suspended||Senthil Kumar, Head Constable, Thirupanandal Police Station, has been suspended from service on charge of dereliction of duty on Friday. The suspension order was served to the Head Constable as he failed to ensure the safety of air-guns seized in connection with an illegal firearms case booked and pursued by the police in March this year. The disappearance of two air-guns out of the six seized in connection with the case came to light two days ago when the process of depositing seized materials at the Court was taken up. Thus, after the conduct of departmental inquiry the suspension order was served on Senthil Kumar on Friday, police said.
22 August 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||15 Vinayaka idols seized||Police seized 15 Vinayaka idols being transported in a cargo auto here on Thursday night, in violation of the State government’s ban on installation of idols in public places as part of Vinayaka Chathurthi celebration this year in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Tension prevailed for a while on Friday as members of a few Hindu outfits gathered in front of the Thoothukudi taluk office where the seized idols were kept in a sealed room. They performed puja in front of the entrance of the locked office. The idols, each one-and-a half feet tall were being transported from Ananthavilai near Sattankulam to Vilathikulam. The police seized them at Muthiahpuram checkpost.
22 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi sees maximum number of positive cases||The central districts on Friday recorded 587 new COVID-19 cases and 13 deaths – three in Nagapattinam and two each in Ariyalur, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi. In Nagapattinam, a 55-year-old man died of COVID pneumonia, besides two other men aged 63, and 86 with pre-existing medical conditions. Meanwhile in Ariyalur, a 64-year-old woman who had been diagnosed with co-morbidities including hypothyroidism, diabetes and hypertension and a 21-year-old man, without any pre existing health conditions, succumbed to the infection In Pudukottai, a 63-year-old man suffered respiratory failure due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID pneumonia and an 83-year-old man with pre-existing conditions of glaucoma and hypertension died at a private hospital. Another 83-year-old man who suffered from viral pneumonia and a 63-year-old woman from Thanjavur with co-morbidities of bronchial asthma, hypertension, diabetes died of respiratory failure due to viral pneumonia. Men aged 70 and 53 with diabetes and hypertension died in Tiruvarur, while in Tiruchi, two men- a 64-year-old with co-morbidities of hypertension, and a 66-year-old suffering from bronchial asthma succumbed to the virus at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital. Tiruchi recorded the maximum number of fresh positive cases among the central districts on Friday with 110 new cases, many of who hailed from containment zones. The patients were admitted to the Tiruchi MGMGH. Sixteen patients from the Tiruchi MGMGH and 22 from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. In Thanjavur, a house surgeon, a policeman of the Kumbakonam police station, a staff of an eye clinic and a health inspector were among the 100 who tested positive. Primary contacts, patients with Influenza-like Symptoms and patients whose infection was detected at the various fever camps in the district were among the others. Pudukottai recorded 98 new cases, many of who were contacts of those who had tested positive earlier and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses. Tiruvarur recorded 68 cases, many of who were primary contacts of patients who tested positive earlier. In Ariyalur, 85 patients tested positive for the viral infection, taking the total number of COVID cases reported in the district so far to 2,115. Of the 85 patients, 20 hailed from Ariyalur, 25 from Jayankondam, 14 from Thirumanur, 15 from Sendhurai, eight from T. Palur and three from Andimadam blocks. Nagapattinam saw three policemen- one from Vadakadu, one from Sirkazhi and another from Manalmedu testing positive for the infection along with a few travellers from other districts and ILI patients. Of the 49 patients who tested positive, 21 were admitted to the Nagapattinam District Headquarters Hospital, others were admitted to Periyar Government Hospital in Mayiladuthurai and Sirkazhi Government Hospital. Karur recorded 41 new cases, including patients hailing from Kulithalai, Manavadi, Sellandipalayam among other areas. Perambalur recorded 36 new cases on Friday. Of the 36, 17 hailed from Perambalur, seven each from Veppur and Alathur and five from Veppur blocks. Six new containment zones were added and 376 new throat swabs were lifted and sent for tests.
22 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Work resumes on Heritage Park||The Tiruchi Corporation has resumed work on establishing a Heritage Park (Purathana Poonga) under the Smart City Mission on Butterworth Road in the city. The project will come up in an area of 1.27 acres and celebrate the heritage and history of the city, officials said. Civil works for the park had begun in December last but had to be abruptly stopped in March due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. However, after the lockdown norms were eased, work began after Independence Day, said S. Sivasubramanian, Corporation Commissioner. The park will have on display mural paintings, statues and information tracing the vibrant history of the city through the ages, he added. “We are ensuring physical distancing and regular handwashing practices. Since the workers live nearby, they are able to go home even without the availability of public transport,” an official said. The area where the park is to come up used to be a horse stable and the original archway, depicting two horses still remains intact. It is to be preserved and will be used as the main entrance of the park, Rajesh Kanna, Assistant Executive Engineer, Tiruchi City Corporation said. The park is being established at a cost of Rs. 4 crore. The entrance will also feature statues of Rani Mangammal, Karikala Chola and Raja Raja Chola, all rulers who helped develop the area that is Tiruchi today. It will also also have statues of Viswanatha Nayak, the first Nayakar king and Thirumalai Nayak. The park will feature sections on the early Cholas, Pallavas, medieval Cholas, Pandyas, Vijayanagara Empire, Maratha Empire, Madurai Nayaks and the British Empire. Each of the sections will have statues made by the Tamil Nadu Handicrafts Development Corporation. “The statues and plaques alone cost Rs. 2 crore and will include details of the contributions of various rulers and dynasties to the city and important landmarks,” Mr. Kanna said. Walkways, a large amphitheatre, herbal garden with plants including hibiscus, Mexican mint, holy basil, rose and butterfly pea are some other features of the park. All retaining walls of the park will also double up as vertical gardens. “Schools will be encouraged to bring students here on study tours,” Mr. Sivasubramanian said. A large children’s play area, car and two-wheeler parking space and a toilet complex is also being planned. “We intend to complete the work within a year. The statues have already been ordered and work is under way,” he added.
22 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Better awareness of plasma donation need of the hour||Recovered COVID-19 patients, who have donated plasma, and doctors feel that there has to be more awareness on convalescent plasma therapy to help recovery of COVID-19 patients. “Assuming there are 200 patients admitted in a COVID ward, 100 will have better chances of recovery with convalescent plasma therapy. But we are only able to provide for 15 to 20 of them,” said Mohammed Hakkim, Emergency Physician at the Kauvery Hospital. Many patients are afraid, due to the stigma caused by the infection, he added. Dr. Hakkim said that any person who had recovered from COVID-19 and has tested negative for the viral infection after 14 days of treatment followed by 14 days of self-isolation is eligible for donating plasma. Antenatal mothers, persons above the age of 50 and with comorbid conditions, and those who take intravenous insulin for diabetes are not eligible to donate. “After the 14-day home quarantine period, if a patient is willing to donate, another RT- PCR (Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test is done to ensure they test negative, following which they can donate,” he said. Only 600 ml of blood is taken to extract plasma. “The novel coronavirus in the body is an antigen, and the human body will develop antibodies in its fight response against the viral infection. These antibodies, present in the plasma is nature’s vaccine which we can use to fight the infection”, Dr. Hakkim said. A patient can donate once in two weeks for up to two months from the date of discharge. S. Amanullah, a 72-year-old man suffering from lung cancer was able to recover from the infection after he underwent convalescent plasma therapy. Plasma donations saved his life, he said. “My family found it very difficult to find donors. With the help of the doctors who treated me, I was able to find donors. Now I am COVID-19 free,” he said. There is an urgent need for awareness, said G. Kathiresan, another donor, who spoke to The Hindu while donating plasma for the third time. “Many are afraid as they are asked to donate blood soon after they recover. They are apprehensive about side-effects or even falling sick again, especially since the process of plasma extraction is different from regular blood donation,” he said. Another donor, Hari Prem urged the government to promote plasma donation. “There is a lot of stigma surrounding the illness. Even though I have recovered and come home, some run away when they see me on the street. If one recovered person decides to donate plasma and help at least one ailing patient, so many lives can be saved. The government could take testimonials from donors like us assuring that there are no side-effects and help those who are suffering,” he said.
22 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Encroachments removed and saplings planted||Fulfilling a long felt need, the State Highways Department has removed encroachments along the roadsides between Uttamarkovil and No.1 Tollgate on the Salem-Tiruchi Highway. About 100 tree saplings have also been planted by the department on the stretch. For several years, the stretch had largely been occupied by roadside vendors, including a clutch of meat sellers. The encroachments had been causing much traffic congestion and pedestrians were forced to walk on the highway. A few days back, the Highways Department removed all encroachments, end to end on both sides, as part of the road development works taken up between No.1 Tollgate and Amoor under the Comprehensive Road Infrastructure Development Project. The service lanes along the road over bridge near Uttamarkovil has also been laid, much to the relief of devotees visiting the temple. Sources in the department told The Hindu that arrangements have been made to water the saplings. In an attempt to prevent encroachers from returning, a fencing is to be erected along the road. “We have planted pungan species, which do not grow very tall, as there are overhead power lines passing through. We have planted about 5-6 feet high saplings and they will require watering for only about a year,” said a Highways Department officer. Welcoming the move, Saravanan Natesan, a regular commuter on the road, observed that encroachments had been a bane of the road stretch and people have long been demanding their removal. “We also appreciate the move by the Highways Department to plant tree saplings,” he said.
22 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Private bus drivers, conductors seek financial assistance||A section of private bus drivers and conductors, owing allegiance to the CITU, staged a demonstration here on Friday demanding financial assistance from the government and owners in view of the pandemic as complete suspension of bus services have rendered them unemployed causing severe hardship to them and their families. The demonstrators assembled near the Tiruchi Collectorate and urged the State government to sanction a relief of Rs. 10,000 a month and for bus owners Rs. 5,000 a month. The stir organised by the Private Bus Drivers and Conductors Association lasted nearly an hour and was led by its district president Selvam, said police sources.
22 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Overwhelming demand for B. Com. seats||In most arts and science colleges, several thousands of seats have been filled for B. Com degree programme and B. Com with specialisations such as Computer Applications, Banking, and Corporate Secretaryship. The huge demand is reflected in every seat getting filled for the course offered in second shift as well. But principals and even subject teachers are candid that the trend has little to do with the prevailing job market requirements. As has been the case every year, the first preference of a majority of students who had studied commerce group in Plus Two has been B. Com programme. “It is not uncommon because unlike in the case of students of science group, the options are limited for Commerce group students, and B. Com becomes the first choice more because of the nomenclature and the misconception that the course is a gateway for jobs in banks. Unless the students walk the extra mile to acquire extra-skills, getting jobs is not going to be easy,”, says S. Ismail Mohideen, Principal, Jamal Mohammed College. In this context, there is only limited variation in the contents of B.Com and B.B.A. But, the former programme commands the preference. It is another matter that the students enrol for B.B.A. with a misconception that it would provide them direct entry into M.B.A., Prof. Ismail said. Specialisations in B. Com has helped colleges to increase the intake capacity for the B.Com programme. All specialisations do have equivalence but only students who undergo regular B. Com programme enjoy preference for admission to M. Com, Principal of National College R. Sundararaman said. According to M. Selvam, Professor and Head, Department of Commerce and Financial Studies, Bharathidasan University, the quality of B.Com programmes has deteriorated. “The edge that students with B.Sc. Mathematics enjoy in having a far better pass percentage in Chartered Accountancy exams in the profession that had been for long considered the domain for students with Accounting background is a glaring reflection of the deterioration in the B.Com programme,” Prof. Selvam observed. Students of B.Com need to realise that even for banking jobs, the extent of recruitment has shrunk phenomenally. It is now more of software to customer interface in the banking system. The future is not entirely grim. Medium scale business houses do look for Accountants with B.Com qualification. Commerce students need to necessarily acclimatise themselves with use of accounting software to be in the reckoning for jobs after graduation, Prof. Selvam said.
22 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Burnt body of man found near Tiruchi||A partially burnt body of a man was found near SIDCO compound wall in Navalpat police station limits near here on Thursday. Police identified the victim as A. Rethinasamy (58) of Selvapuram on the outskirts of the city. The man ended his life by dousing himself with petrol. Rethinasamy who worked in a hotel at Tiruverumbur had been suffering from piles and asthma. He left home on Thursday afternoon and did not return. His son R. Ravikumar (28) who works in BHEL and his friend went in search of Rethinasamy. In the meantime, locals informed the police about a partially burnt body near the SIDCO compound wall. The Navalpat police went to the spot and conducted inquiries and established the identity of the victim. They said the man was depressed over his health condition and resorted to the extreme step. The Navalpat Police has registered a case under section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
22 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||New goods shed opened at Mannargudi station||A new goods shed was opened at Mannargudi railway station on Friday paving the way for handling freight trains. The goods shed has three platforms to handle goods traffic. The 715 metre long goods platforms have the full rake capacity of holding 42 wagons. The facility was expected to facilitate convenient transportation mode for food grains, cement and other goods from nearby regions, a Southern Railway press release here said.
22 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||New president of CREDAI||I. Shajahan assumed office as the new president of the Tiruchi Chapter of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI) for the period 2020-22 at the investiture ceremony held virtually on Thursday. The following office bearers also assumed office on the occasion: Chairman – S. Anand; vice president – R.S.Ravi; Secretary – S. Mohan; Joint Secretary – R. Manoharan and Treasurer – A. Nazurudeen. Various committee chairpersons and executive committee members also took charge. S.Sridharan, Chairman, CREDAI, Tamil Nadu and V. Gouthaman, president, CREDAI, Tamil Nadu, participated in the event.
22 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Five detained for triple murder||The police on Friday picked up five persons including two transwomen on charges of murdering three persons including two transwomen and dumping the bodies in abandoned wells in Palayamkottai. Police said a group of transgender persons, all living in Narasinganallur transgender colony having 29 houses, brought five persons including two transwomen to the Suththamalli police station on Friday. They told the police that the five had murdered three persons including two transwomen and dumped their bodies. During investigation, the Suththamalli police found that one Rishkesh alias Thangavel, 38, from Salem was living with S. Renuka, 26, a transwoman in Narasinganallur. When transwoman Bhavani, a neighbour of Renuka, who was living with one Murugan, 30, of Kaariyaandi, wanted to adopt a child, they approached Renuka and Rishikesh for help. As Renuka and Rishikesh demanded Rs. 3 lakh for giving them a baby, Bhavani and Murugan reportedly gave the money to them. When Renuka and Rishikesh failed to give the baby as promised, Bhavani and Murugan asked them either to return the money or give the baby. Police said following this, Rishikesh, along with friends Chelladurai, 28 and Snowvin, 29, both from Shanthi Nagar in Palayamkottai took Murugan to an undisclosed destination a week ago in the guise of handing over a baby. On getting a call from a yet-to-be identified person, Bhavani, along with one Anu, another transwoman living in Narasinganallur, went to the pre-designated spot to receive the baby. While Murugan, Bhavani and Anu were yet to return to Narasinganallur, Rishikesh and his associates returned to Narasinganallur on Friday. When the transgenders asked them about the whereabouts of the three, they refused to answer. At one point, the transwomen thrashed them. They alleged that the three had murdered Bhavani and Anu and photographed their bodies with their mobile phones. Along with Rishikesh, Chelladurai and Snowvin, the transgender also detained Renuka and Hareena, another transwoman, and took the five to the Suththamalli police station. On being handed over to the Suththamalli police, Rishikesh, Chelladurai and Snowvin reportedly told the police that they had murdered Murugan, Bhavani and Anu and dumped the bodies in two wells at Kakkan Nagar close to the Tirunelveli – Madurai 4-lane national highway. When they were taken to the abandoned wells, police found two bags in one well and another sack in the other well. After recording the statements of the five, the bags containing the bodies were retrieved and sent for post-mortem. Police, however, suspect that two gangs, led by Rishikesh and Murugan, were operating flesh trade involving the transwomen. The rivalry in luring the customers might have led to the murder of Murugan, Bhavani and Anu, police suspect. Further investigations are on.
22 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Two injured in clash||Two persons were injured in a clash between youth belonging to two castes while they were taking bath in the river near Srivaikundam on Friday. When a group of people from Thaathankulam were taking bath in the Tamirabharani on Friday evening, another group of villagers from Puliyankulam also took bath in the same area. As an argument that broke out between the two groups became a scuffle, Ammamuthu, 37, and Ganesan, 35, of Thaathankulam sustained injuries. They were taken to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for treatment. Since the victims and the attackers are from different castes, tension prevailed in the area for a while. Demanding the arrest of the attackers, a group of people staged a protest near Karunkulam bus stop. After the police assured them that the attackers would be detained at the earliest, the agitation was given up. Srivaikundam police are investigating.
22 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Youth held||The Suththamalli police have arrested Gomathi Shankar, 23, of VOC Nagar for posting his photos and a video with a sickle, apparently to send a threatening message to somebody. The video shows Gomathi Shankar twisting his moustache and swirling the sickle while coming out of a house with a Tamil movie song in the background. Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan ordered the detention of the grocery shop worker. He was remanded in judicial custody on Thursday night.
22 August 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Coconut seedlings distributed||Coconut seedlings were distributed for planting in the houses at Nedumbalam village panchayat in Thiruthuraipoondi Panchayat Union on Friday. Distributing the seedlings, R. Kamaraj, Food Minister, called upon the villagers to extend their support to the efforts initiated to revive the green cover in the area where several hundreds of trees got uprooted during Cyclone Gaja. A total of 1,300 coconut seedlings were distributed, sources said.
22 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Non-bailable warrants issued against eight accused in Kodanad case||Non-bailable warrants were issued against eight accused in the Kodanad murder-cum-dacoity case by district judge P. Vadamalai at the district sessions court in Udhagamandalam on Friday. The warrants were issued after eight of the 10 accused in the case failed to turn up for a court hearing. According to sources, one witness in the case had approached the Madras High Court with a petition urging the trial, ongoing in Udhagamandalam, to be completed in a time-bound manner. The high court then directed the sessions court to complete the trial within a period of 90 days. 10 accused The 10 accused – K.V Sayan, ‘Walayar’ Manoj, Santhosh Sami, Deepu, Satheeshan, M Kutti alias Bijin, Jithin Joy, Manoj Sami, Zamsheer and Udhayakumar – were told to produce themselves before the court on Friday. However, except two accused – K.V.Sayan and ‘Walayar’ Manoj, who were produced before the judge, – the eight other accused did not turn up for the hearing. As a result, judge P.Vadamalai issued non-bailable warrants against eight of the accused in the case. Public prosecutor Bala Nandhakumar appeared for the prosecution. Travel restrictions  The lawyer representing the accused, G. Anandan, said that his eight clients were unable to make it to Udhagamandalam due to restrictions placed on travel due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “All of my clients are in Kerala and could not get e-passes to travel to the Nilgiris,,” said Mr. Anandan. The next hearing in the case has been posted for August 27.
22 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Revenue department staff held for graft||A revenue department staff was arrested for demanding Rs. 15,000 bribe from a resident for property tax assessment. Sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) said Prabhu, a resident of Theetukkal, approached Sakthi Arokiyanathan, a revenue department staff, for property tax assessment of his new house. Sakthi Arokiyanathan had demanded Rs. 15,000 as bribe. Mr. Prabhu approached the DVAC and lodged a complaint. A trap was laid and the police arrested the accused when he was accepting the money from Mr. Prabhu. Further investigations are on.
22 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Kodanad case: Warrants issued to eight||Non-bailable warrants were issued against eight accused in the Kodanad murder-cum-heist case by district judge P. Vadamalai in Udhagamandalam on Friday. The warrants were issued after eight of the accused failed to turn up for the hearing at the district sessions court. According to sources, one of the witness in the case had approached the Madras High Court with a petition seeking a time-bound trial, currently in progress in Udhagamandalam. The High Court then directed the sessions court to complete the trial within 90 days. The 10 accused in the Kodanad heist-cum-murder case — K.V Sayan, ‘Walayar’ Manoj, Santhosh Sami, Deepu, Satheeshan, M. Kutti alias Bijin, Jithin Joy, Manoj Sami, Zamsheer and Udhayakumar — were directed to be present before the court on Friday. However, except two — K.V.Sayan and ‘Walayar’ Manoj — the others did not turn up. District judge P. Vadamalai issued non-bailable warrants against them. Public prosecutor Bala Nandhakumar appeared for the prosecution. Defence counsel G. Anandan said that his clients were unable to make it to Udhagamandalam owing to restrictions on travel due to COVID-19.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||1,048 cases in western region||Coimbatore district reported three COVID-19 deaths and 395 COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the overall tally to 10,957 cases. A 55-year-old man and 41-year-old woman, who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, died on Wednesday. An 80-year-old woman died at Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Tuesday, the media bulletin said. On Thursday, doctors at ESI Hospital performed surgery on a 56-year-old woman from Vedapatti who tested positive for COVID-19. She was suffering from paraumbilical hernia and had comorbidities including diabetes and hypothyroidism, sources said. The patient has been on post-operative care since Thursday. Out of the 10,957 cases, 7,660 recovered and 3,066 were active cases. Coimbatore district reported 231 deaths as of Friday. A total of 258 patients were discharged on Friday from various hospitals. With the reporting of 99 cases, Tiruppur district saw its highest single-day increase, so far. One death was reported in the district on Friday. A 72-year-old man, who was admitted in a private hospital in Coimbatore after testing positive, died on Thursday. The 99 cases took the district’s tally to 1,875 cases. Out of this, 1,226 have recovered and 597 were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 52 deaths in total. On Friday, 21 patients were discharged from various hospitals. As many as 269 positive cases were reported in Salem. According to officials, 262 cases were indigenous, including 161 within Salem Corporation limits. Two patients have returned from Kerala. Five persons affected with COVID-19 died during the late hours of Thursday. The victims include a 83-year-old man from Sevapet admitted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, here on August 16 died during the late hours of Thursday. 35-year-old woman from Kadayampatti, 67-year-old man from Pethanaikenpalayam, and 63-year-old man from Venandhur. A 62-year-old man from Pethanaikenpalayam who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital died during the late hours of Thursday. Erode district reported 103 new cases taking the overall tally to 1,907. A total of 67 persons were discharged on Friday. A 60-year-old woman, who was under treatment died. In Namakkal, 62 cases were reported. Officials said 11 patients have travelled to other districts like Salem, Coimbatore, Tiruchi and Erode. Three patients have returned from Uttar Pradesh. A total of 49 persons tested positive in Krishnagiri while 32 were discharged. The total number of COVID infections was 1,094. The Nilgiris recorded 46 positive cases. With the latest infections, the total number of cases recorded in the district now stands at 1,220 with 983 people having recovered and 232 currently undergoing treatment. A fifth death was recorded on Friday. In Dharmapuri, 25 persons tested positive, with nine discharged after treatment. The total number of infections in the district was 1,760.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Make Tiruchi second capital of TN’||With a couple of State Ministers pushing for Madurai to be made the second capital of the State, Tiruchi MP Su.Thirunavukkarasar and a section of traders have sought to project the Rockfort city’s claim to the status that has remained unfulfilled for nearly four decades. Tiruchi, they say, should be made the second capital of the State as envisaged by former Chief Minister late M.G.Ramachandran in the early 1980s. On Tuesday, Mr. Thirunavukkarasar contended that Tiruchi’s vantage position in the central part of the State made it an ideal choice for developing the city as the second capital. “ Puratchi Thalaivar MGR proposed to make Tiruchi the second capital in view of increasing population and congestion in Chennai. I was the first person to put forward the request to make Tiruchi the second capital to him. Tiruchi is the heart of Tamil Nadu and can be reached within about four hours from any part of the State,” he said. He suggested that all new head offices of government departments and agencies be set up in Tiruchi to reduce congestion in Chennai. Tiruchi had all amenities such as adequate water supply and infrastructure, including road, rail and air connectivity, required for a satellite city. “Only after considering these advantages and consulting officials and experts did MGR announce his decision to make Tiruchi the second capital. But he was not able to execute his desire as his health was affected subsequently,” Mr. Thirunavukkarasar, who served as a Minister under the former Chief Minister, maintained. Though all cities and towns in the cities were important, Tiruchi’s vantage location made it a better choice, he said pointing to the High Court bench functioning in Madurai. He urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to rise above politics and go by the geographical advantage and people’s interest to initiate steps to make Tiruchi the second capital. Meanwhile, the Tamil Nadu Traders Federation expressed shock over the Ministers’ demand. “When Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran expressed his intent to make Tiruchi the second capital, the people of the city were overjoyed. It was unfortunate that his decision could not be implemented over the past 35 years despite persistent demands. It is regrettable that the Ministers from Madurai are trying to crush a 35-year-old demand in just three days,” said Ve. Govindarajalu, general secretary of the federation. Tiruchi, besides its vantage position and good infrastructure, was also a city that was not largely affected by natural disasters. It was an education centre and a fabrication hub. The city had already lost out on projects such as the All India Institute of Medical Sciences Hospital. The High Court Bench was also established in Madurai. Now attempts were being made to snatch away the city’s rightful claim to be the second capital of the State. Such attempts should be nipped in the bud, Mr. Govindarajalu said. The federation vowed that a struggle committee comprising all sections of the city residents would be formed to take forward the demand and make Tiruchi the second capital of the State.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Security tightened for Vinayaka Chathurthi||Ahead of Vinayaka Chathurthi, the city police will deploy nearly 1,000 personnel to monitor and prevent illegal installation of Vinayaka idols in public places on Saturday. Police sources said the personnel will be deployed as a few organisations have said that they would install the idols in public places despite the directions given by the State government. Permission denied On August 13, the State government announced that permission will not be granted for installing the idols in public places and for processions to arrest the spread of COVID-19. The police personnel will maintain vigil and ensure that the idols are not installed in public places, sources said. Tiruppur City Police will deploy 959 police personnel. Security has been beefed up across Erode district to prevent installation of idols and maintain peace.  Over 1,100 police personnel were posted across the district to monitor the celebrations and also to prevent unlawful activities.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Install idols on private premises, temples: Hindu Munnani||Hindu Munnani State president Kadeswara C. Subramaniam announced that the idols of Lord Ganesh will be installed in private places, houses and temples on Saturday. The installed idols will be immersed on Saturday evening by Hindu Munnani members “in their own arrangements" without allowing any crowds, he said in a statement from Tiruppur. Due to the COVID-19 restrictions, the organisation had announced earlier that there will be no public meetings or processions and discussions were held with “various officials including the Chief Minister” regarding the celebrations, Mr. Subramaniam claimed in the statement. G.O. upheld The Madras High Court on Friday upheld the government order banning processions and said that only individuals will be allowed to immerse the idols. “Considering all this, the Vinayaka Chathurthi festival will be celebrated with caution and safety,” Mr. Subramaniam said. On August 13, Mr. Subramaniam announced in Coimbatore that Hindu Munnani will install idols of Lord Ganesh in 1.5 lakh locations across the State, condemning the State government for not permitting the installation in public places. However, his statement on Friday did not make any mention of the number of idols to be installed across the State. Sources in Hindu Munnani maintained that the works to install idols in public places are under way across the State, but the number will be lower than 1.5 lakh. Mr. Subramaniam was, however, not available for a comment.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Madras Memories||As the debate rages on about what languages students should learn in schools, as part of the new National Education Policy, here’s an interesting factoid from the British era. After the construction of Fort St. George, the British issued orders to their factories in the rest of South India, and thereby dawned the realisation that they needed to learn the south Indian languages. The missionaries working here also found this imperative. This is where the Diocesan Press, established in Madras in 1761, gained prominence. First TV transmission While we live in the glorious digital era, did you know when Madras began its daily TV transmission? On 15 August, 1975, the TV centre, Madras, commenced the daily TV transmissions and it was from a temporary 35 m high mini-tower and had a 1KW transmitter. It used to air from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Individuals can immerse idols, says High Court||“Therefore, there is no question of staying back and using the said place,” the Bench said. It, however, banned immersion at Marina beach from Napier Bridge to Santhome in Chennai since Advocate General Vijay Narayan feared that large number of people might end up congregating on the beach and it would be very difficult for the police to control the crowd. When advocate G. Karthikeyan, representing Hindu Munnani, said at least two persons would be required to carry an idol on a motorcycle, the judges replied that two people could transport the idol to the waterbodies or sea but only one of them would be allowed to immerse. They made it clear that permission shall be given to individuals to immerse the idols by following all safety norms such as wearing masks, maintaining physical distance, adhering to the time limit and so on and that police could initiate action for violations. No processions The Bench also stated that the ban imposed by the State government on processions and immersion of idols by organisations such as Hindu Munnani and Shiv Sena would continue and recorded a submission made on their behalf that they would cooperate with the police. Earlier, when the A-G told the court that an explicit order allowing individuals to immerse idols might lead to a congregation, the judges asked how come the government had decided to allow devotees to pray in 20,204 small temples that had been opened for public worship now. "What will you do if 10,000 people congregate in each of those temples on Vinayaka Chaturthi day," the senior judge in the Bench asked. The senior judge said the prohibition on accessing beaches would not apply to performance of a religious obligation under Article 25 of the Constitution. To this, the Advocate General replied: "The State has never stood in the way of any religious celebration but this year a peculiar situation had arisen because of which many temples remain closed for nearly five months. We are not going to restrict individuals but some groups may take advantage."
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Minister backs demand||Tourism Minister Vellamandi N. Natarajan on Wednesday said he would take up with the Chief Minister and Deputy Chief Minister the aspirations of the people of Tiruchi to make it the second capital of the State. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Natarajan said it was a dream of former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran to make Tiruchi the second capital. Being centrally located in the State, Tiruchi was easily accessible by road and rail to people living in different corners of the State. It had an international airport too. Moreover, there would not be drinking water crisis as the city was located on the banks of the Cauvery. The party men would take up the demand with Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||New Reading Room Opened in City||Declaring open a Corporation Reading Room in Santhome on Wednesday last, Mr. C.H. Sibghathulla, Mayor, appealed to people to make proper use of the reading rooms and to make them the nucleii for spreading culture and education. The Mayor suggested to the government that a part of the Library Cess collected from the city be made available to the corporation for starting more libraries and reading rooms, he said. Mr. C. Narasimhan, Commissioner, said that the reading rooms might also be used by the people of the locality for discussion and exchange of ideas. Mr. K. Krishnan, Divisional Councillor, proposed a vote of thanks.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man commits suicide, police harassment alleged||The Nilgiris district police are inquiring into an alleged incident of police harassment, which could have resulted in the suicide of a 38-year-old man, a few days ago. According to the relatives of the deceased, P. Srinivasan, who lived near Udhagamandalam town, he was stopped by the police for riding a motorcycle under the influence of alcohol and taken to the Denaducombai police station. The relatives alleged that Srinivasan had become distraught at the treatment meted out to him at the police station. The deceased’s wife claimed that he had alleged that the police demanded Rs. 15,000 to release the two-wheeler, and that he was also subjected to verbal abuse. Srinivasan is alleged to have committed suicide at his house on August 16. Probe ordered Following the allegations made by the family of the deceased, Superintendent of Police V. Sasi Mohan said an inquiry had been ordered into the incident. Mr. Mohan also said that a Sub-Inspector attached to the station had been transferred on “administrative grounds”. Another top police officer said preliminary inquiries did not unearth any substantial proof of harassment. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||History-sheeter gunned down in Ayanavaram||Mr. Natarajan opened fire on Shankar, and the bullets hit his chest and stomach. He was taken to the Government Kilpauk Hospital, where he was declared brought dead. Injured constable Mubarak has been admitted to hospital for treatment. Police said Shankar had been detained under the Goondas Act on nine occasions. He was acquitted from a few cases. He was recently involved in the attack on a Congress functionary and the owner of a supermarket, police said. City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal visited Mr. Mubarak in hospital. Mr. Aggarwal told The Hindu that Shankar was a history-sheeter and was absconding. Five non-bailable warrants had been issued against him. “We are going to deal with rowdys legally and are executing NBWs, following up on their cases in the courts. If required, we will detain them under the Goondas Act,” he said. A magisterial inquiry has been ordered to look into the circumstances which led to the killing of Shankar. Police are investigating how Shankar had obtained a COVID-19 e-pass.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Home isolation for persons with mild symptoms||With over 520 COVID-19 patients in the corporation limits under treatment at the hospitals, persons clinically categorised as having very mild symptomatic diseases were allowed to be in home isolation and monitored by health officials regularly. As on Friday, the district had reported a total of 1,804 cases of which 782 are under treatment at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai and private hospitals. On Thursday, the Corporation Marriage Hall was converted into a COVID-19 Screening Centre where patients were screened for lung infection and complication of other diseases. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that the patient in self-isolation should follow home quarantine guidelines and health workers will monitor their health condition every day.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Taking stock||
22 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||D.J. Halli riots: Bengaluru police framing Congress workers, says Satish||KPCC working president Satish Jarkiholi has alleged that Bengaluru police were falsely framing Congress workers for the riots in Devara Jeevana Halli in Bengaluru. He alleged that the police were politicising the riot investigation on instructions from the ruling BJP government. “We suspect that the city police is trying to fix Congress leaders by associating them with the riots. Any person who has spoken to some of the accused is being arrested. The police are targeting city corporation members and former members of the corporation. We strongly object to this,” he said. He denied allegations that KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar had threatened the police commissioner. “Mr Shivakumar has done no such thing. He has spoken to the police officer with respect,” he asked. He complained that the State government had completely failed in law and order management. “They could have easily avoided the riots in Bengaluru if the police had acted in time. The police not only delayed taking cognisance of the online hate campaign by those who were allegedly insulting the Prophet, but also failed to act in time when the violence began. This is not acceptable,” he said. “BJP is adopting dual standards. When the Congress was in power, BJP leaders said they had no faith in the CBI and described it as ‘Chor Bachao Institution’, but now they want every case to be probed by the CBI. They are playing politics even in such matters,” he said. Flood woes Mr. Jarkiholi complained that Revenue Minister R. Ashok who is supposed to have toured the State to inspect flood-hit areas, was wasting his time in Bengaluru. The State was suffering from the problems of flooding and COVID-19. He alleged that the Ministers were shying away from their responsibilities. He accused the four Ministers from Belagavi district of failing to take charge of the situation and remaining limited to their respective taluks. “How can such leaders understand the pain of the people,” he questioned.
22 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Water levels decrease||Water levels in the Krishna and its tributaries reduced on Friday following intermittent rainfall and reduced water release from Maharashtra. The rate of water release from Maharashtra stood at 2 lakh cusecs, down from 2.3 lakh cusecs on Thursday. Rain stopped in most parts of the district, though there was some rainfall in Khanapur and Belagavi taluks on Friday. Irrigation officers kept the outflow from Almatti at the rate of 2.5 lakh cusecs to contain the threat of flooding in the catchment areas. The dam now has 99.17 tmcft of water, standing at 518.1 metres, as against the capacity of 123.08 tmcft at 519.6 metres. Outflow from Hidkal dam was reduced to 8,600 cusecs from 40,000 cusecs four days ago. Outflow from the Malaprabha was reduced to 2,264 cusecs — 10 times lower than the release on Sunday. The Naviluteertha dam on the Malaprabha now has 34 tmcft of water, as against its capacity of 37.7 tmcft. Officers maintained the zero-storage method at Hippargi dam, where the rate of inflow and outflow was 2.32 lakh cusecs.
22 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lockdown gave them an edge||Students who bagged top ranks in the Common Entrance Test (CET), the results of which were announced on Friday, attributed their performance to the three extra months they got after the examination was postponed on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. At the same time, the delays and uncertainty as well as the stress of sitting for the examination while the number of COVID-19 cases was rising, took a toll on their mental health, they said. It took time to get a routine, follow it, and prepare rigorously for the CET, said a student. The CET, which was supposed to be held on April 22 and 23, was postponed to July 30 and 31. Rakshith M. of R.V. PU College, Bengaluru, bagged the first rank in the engineering stream. He attributed his success to studying consistently all through the year. “I prepared short notes of all chapters, which helped me immensely during revision as the syllabus was very vast,” he said, adding that it was only two months after the lockdown that he was able to focus. ‘Got time to revise’ Shubhan R. of Sri Chaitanya e-techno School, Bengaluru, who secured the second rank in the engineering stream, said he aspires to bag a seat in IIT Bombay. “I am preparing for the JEE Advanced and I had very little preparation to do for CET,” he said. Shubhan ensured that he took time out to relax. “I stuck to the prescribed books and the lockdown gave me a chance to revise the concepts again. I had decided to leave some portions out but as I got so much time owing to the lockdown, I was able to finish studying all the concepts,” he said. The only girl student to bag a top 10 rank across three disciplines was Sanjana K. of BASE PU College in Mysuru. She bagged the second rank in agriculture and yogic sciences, third in veterinary sciences, and fifth rank in the Pharma D. and B. Pharma stream. While elated with her CET scores, she is focussing on NEET, which she intends to top as she wants to become a doctor. “The preparation for NEET helped me to do well in the CET. I am looking forward to doing well in the ensuing entrance tests. If you have dedication, success will follow you,” she said. Ms. Sanjana, who scored 99.25% in PCMB in the board exam, said she was focused on her studies over the last two years. “The additional time that I got for the preparation because of the lockdown was very helpful. This was useful in facing the exams more competently. I made the best use of the time.”
22 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CET counselling likely in Oct.||To prevent engineering seats from going vacant, the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) has decided to conduct counselling only after the first round of counselling for medical and dental seats is conducted based on the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET). Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan on Friday said that counselling was likely to be conducted in October. The academic year for engineering colleges, which has been delayed by four months, will begin in November as stipulated by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE). Every year, many students opt for engineering seats through the Common Entrance Test (CET) only to surrender them after they obtain either medical or dental seats through their NEET scores. Many top engineering colleges had complained that their seats were vacant as students surrendered them after the last date for filling the seats. “If we conduct counselling even before the NEET counselling is done, students who pick seats through CET will surrender the same once they get seats through NEET. To avoid such surrendered seats going vacant, we have decided to wait for the NEET schedule,” a KEA official said. Dr. Narayan added that the interest of meritorious students would be protected and they would ensure that CET counselling is held before that of COMEDK. Engineering seats in private colleges under COMEDK are three times more expensive than seats available under government quota in private colleges. The Joint Entrance Examination (Main) is scheduled to be held between September 1 and 6, while NEET is scheduled to be held on September 13.
22 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Preference for eco-friendly idols brings out Ganeshas in mud, seed, chocolate||The COVID-19 pandemic seems to have diminished this year’s Ganesh Chaturthi celebrations. With multiple restrictions in place, businesses have taken a hit. This includes the sale of idols, which is the staple of the festival. However, while traditional potters and sculptors are banking on last-minute sales, there appears to be renewed interest in eco-friendly idols. Anagha Sree, 13, is more excited about Ganesh Chaturthi this year than usual. For the first time, she, along with her family, will be praying to a clay idol they moulded at home. “Marigold seeds are embedded inside the idol. So, after we are done praying, we’ll plant the seeds,” she said. This, according to her, is more environment-friendly than the traditional immersion of idols (usually made of Plaster of Paris and other pollutants) in water bodies. Anagha was among 85 participants in Darpan Foundation’s online ‘Do It Yourself Ganesh idol workshop’. The organisers had sent fresh clay and basic moulding tools to the participants and showed them how to mould the idol. Deepa Chacko Pillai, a volunteer at Darpan Foundation, said, “The idea of the workshop was to bring together kids and adults to make their own idols so there’s more involvement and enjoyment. Through the materials we used to make the idols, we wanted to highlight environmental sustainability.” She added, “We even had a live puppet show online, wherein the puppets were made of cloth, cardboard and other recycled material.” Vinay Prashant, co-founder of Tamaala Art Merchandise, has observed an increase in online sale of idols. Two aspects of Tamaala’s sales this year, however, interest him. “One: over 95% of the 5,000 Ganesha idols we sold this year were via online. Our online sales in previous years have been just about 30%. Two: There’s been an increased demand for eco-friendly idols.” Vinay says, “Most of the people who got these eco-friendly idols were youngsters. And, they belong to the generation that believes in sustainability.” With restrictions in place, families are looking at different ways to immerse their idols. Some might immerse in milk as they have bought idols made of chocolate. Priya Jain’s Mishikrafts has sold about 75 idols made of chocolate.
22 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students who tested positive come out with flying colours||While students who appeared for the Common Entrance Test (CET) faced anxious moments writing the examination during the pandemic, it was all the more challenging for those who appeared for it having tested positive for COVID-19.  The Hindu spoke to two students who were both asymptomatic and have now secured high ranks in the CET. They admitted it was extremely challenging and stressful both mentally and physically. They, however, praised their colleges and the government for making all the arrangements, including their transportation to the examination centre. They also pointed out that the invigilators and other exam staff who were dressed in PPE kits took care of all their needs and ensured that they were able to write the competitive examination in a calm environment. Chirag S. Rao, a student of Sri Chaitanya PU College, Mangaluru, said he was worried when he was tested positive for COVID-19 a week before the examination. “My father was in a critical state and I was worried about his health. Moreover, I was unsure how I would reach the examination centre as I was positive. None of my relatives would have been able to drive me to the centre. My principal, however, helped me and got in touch with the district administration, which in turn arranged for my transport to the examination centre. I was happy that I did not miss out on the opportunity to write the test,” he said. He is ranked 28 in agriculture and 214 in engineering. “My mother is thrilled with my scores despite all the challenges,” he added. Elated by results Another student who studied in a CBSE school in Bengaluru tested positive eight days before the exam, but was elated to learn that he is ranked 115 in the veterinary stream, and 650 in engineering. The student, who did not wish to be named, said he did not let the situation get to him. “I remained calm and expected to do well as I had studied consistently throughout the academic year,” he said. These two students are considering other courses and said they wrote the CET to keep their options open as all competitive examinations were getting postponed owing to the pandemic. While Chirag wants to be a doctor, the other student wants to pursue pure science at the IISER, Pune.
22 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HDK slams BJP, Congress for ‘politicising’ D.J. Halli violence||Janata Dal (Secular) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy has written an open letter, coming down heavily on both the ruling BJP and the Opposition Congress, alleging that they were “politicising” the violence at D.J. Halli in Bengaluru on August 11. Terming the incident the “biggest law and order failure”, he asked if any responsibility had been fixed on any official so far by the BJP government. “Instead the party [BJP] has gone one step ahead and is conspiring to use it for political polarisation,” he said, terming this “shameless.” He pointed out that while some BJP leaders have alleged that Congress leaders had engineered the riots and even claimed that goons from a neighbouring State were brought in to indulge in violence, he questioned why the party had not submitted any relevant evidence to the police if it was so. “If there was no evidence, it is clear that all loud-mouthed claims are only aimed at political polarisation,” he said. Mr. Kumaraswamy said that there was no point in being in power if the government is so powerless that it cannot ensure the safety of an MLA. Does the BJP, “which is always waiting for an opportunity to get political mileage using communally sensitive issues”, really understand political morality, he questions in the letter. Mr. Kumaraswamy was equally critical of the Congress. He said that the party had projected itself as the saviour of the minorities during the D.J. Halli and the earlier Padarayanapura violence, but had failed to speak up for the community when it was really needed. “Why did the Congress not come to the rescue of minorities during the anti Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests? Where were they when minority youths were gunned down by the police in Mangaluru?” he questioned. He challenged the Congress to explain the “political calculations” behind challenging the government to ban the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI). He asked whether the conspiracy behind the riots, as alleged by some Congress leaders, came from within the party or from outside. “Coming to power is the main aim of all political parties. But there has to be some social responsibility, leadership and honesty. The behaviour of the BJP and the Congress on an issue related to communal harmony reflects that they have none of it,” he concluded in the letter with an appeal to both parties to “quit petty politics.”  Coming to power is the main aim of all political parties. But there has to be some social responsibility, leadership, and honesty.
22 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students in a dilemma as pvt. varsities start admission process||While the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) has announced that the counselling process will be conducted in October, many private universities have announced the results of their own entrance tests and finalised the counselling schedules. This has put students in a dilemma as private institutions are filling their seats and they are unaware if they would get seats under the government quota through the Common Entrance Test (CET). The engineering seats in these universities are more expensive than government quota seats. ‘Can assess their chance’ Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said as the CET scores were announced on Friday, students could assess where they would get seats based on their ranks and accordingly make a decision on which seat to pick. Students, however, are in a fix. A student said, “I have been allotted a rank in a private university where I had my entrance exam last week. They have told me that we need to register for counselling and seat allotment will take place after that. On the other hand, I have got my CET rank, but I don’t know if I will get a seat in a college of my choice. I am not sure whether to go ahead and get admitted in a private university or take the risk and wait for the CET counselling.”
22 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Another plasma bank in Bengaluru||Another plasma bank is now ready in the city to pitch in for plasma therapy for treatment of COVID-19 patients. The Ramaiah Blood Bank is equipped to obtain and store convalescent plasma from recovered COVID-19 patients, a press release from M.S. Ramaiah Medical College and Hospital said. Convalescent plasma will be collected from voluntary donors who had complete resolution of symptoms for the past 28 days and developed satisfactory serum IgG antibody levels against COVID-19. The stored plasma will be available for transfusion not only for in-house patients but also for any patients across the city upon request by the treating hospitals, the release added. Earlier, the State’s plasma bank was launched by COVID India Campaign, under the aegis of ICATT Foundation in association with HCG Hospitals and the State government under Mission COPE (COVID Plasma Endeavour) to promote plasma donation from recovered COVID-19 patients. Manipal Hospitals too recently launched a plasma bank for advanced treatment of COVID-19.
22 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Expert committee points to ‘excessive use of oxygen’||The State government has issued guidelines for the usage of oxygen after an expert committee ruled that there was excessive use of oxygen as a treatment. In a circular issued on Friday, Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, said there is an “unprecedented surge in the demand of oxygen” to treat COVID-19 patients. “The clinical expert committee has conducted an analysis of the usage of oxygen, which reveals that there is a non-judicious and excessive use of oxygen therapy without proper monitoring. Excessive usage, besides having deleterious health effects, is resulting in the wastage of a precious resource leading to shortage of the commodity and waste of money,” the circular states. With the panel recommending guidelines for judicious use of oxygen as a therapy to treat patients, the oxygen therapy protocol has been finalised for all health institutions and doctors to strictly adhere to. Recently, patients were shifted out of Kempegowda Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) and Research Institute owing to shortage of liquid oxygen.
22 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. opposes setting up of search panel||The State government has rejected the Hota Committee recommendation to constitute a search committee for selection and appointment of Karnataka Public Service Commission(KPSC) members. This implies that the government has decided to retain its power in the selection of members to the KPSC. The State Cabinet, which met on Thursday, reduced the ratio of candidates to be selected to the KPSC main examination from 1:20 to 1:15. This decision was as per the recommendation of the Hota Committee. It was also decided that the post of the KPSC chairman would be upgraded to that of the Chief Information Commissioner, Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said.
22 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Centre releases Rs. 395.5 crore for flood relief||The Union government on Friday released Rs. 395.5 crore, the second annual instalment towards the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF), to handle the flood situation in the State. Revenue Minister R. Ashok tweeted on Friday evening thanking Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the immediate relief. The State government had requested for a special assistance of Rs. 4,000 crore, apart from the immediate release of the second instalment, during a videoconference with Mr. Modi on August 10.
22 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Field General Manager’s office opened||The Field General Manager’s office of the Indian Bank was opened in the city recently. According to a press release, the branch will focus on growth and quality banking services in Karnataka and Kerala. This office will cater to the need of 339 branches spread over the five zones of Bengaluru, Hubballi, Kozhikode, Ernakulam, and Tiruvananthapuram with total business of Rs. 42,000 crore, of which advances are Rs. 18,000 crore and deposits Rs. 24,000 crore. The Tiruvananthapuram Deputy General Manager was present on the occasion.
22 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six police personnel suspended||Six police personnel, including an assistant sub-inspector attached to Jalahalli Traffic Police Station, have been suspended for dereliction of duty and violation of COVID-19 safety measures. On August 11, Soumya Lata, DCP (Traffic West), spotted them in a park, without masks and violating social distancing norms. “They were posted at six points, but had left their posts and gathered in a park. They were violating COVID-19 safety measures,” she said.
22 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Snippets (4)||Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan has said that the Common Entrance Test (CET) for 2021 will also be a pen and a paper test. For the past several years, the Karnataka Examinations Authority has been planning to switch to the online examination system, but it has not been implemented.
22 August 2020||Bengaluru/Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Medical fraternity seeks redressal of staff shortage||As the death of a COVID-19 warrior in Mysuru on Thursday caused widespread anger among the medical fraternity, doctors warn that with cases mounting, focus has to be on providing critical care and the manpower to do so. Karnataka has over 2.64 lakh cases now. The alleged suicide of Nagendra S.R, in-charge Taluk Health Officer in Nanjangud, has also raised questions on whether public healthcare staff on COVID-19 duty are under severe work pressure. A senior government doctor, who wished not to be quoted, alleged that there is “nobody to listen to the plight of doctors” who are being blamed for everything. “How can they be blamed for a stinking bathroom when there is shortage of Group D staff to handle hygiene tasks?” he asked. He said the pandemic has “exposed the deficiencies” in the public health sector which has been neglected all these years. “The government needs at least five years to set right the public healthcare system provided it is serious to scale up the healthcare facilities. COVID-19 has come as a wake-up call and it’s time to act,” he added. Severe scarcity of nursing, paramedical, and other support staff, primarily Group D, has escalated the stress on doctors, who are answerable to their higher-ups in case of public complaints. “The pressure on doctors cannot be eased if the shortage of doctors and supporting staff is not addressed on top priority,” sources in the Health Department said. Various organisations registered their protest in different ways on Friday. In support of the call given by the IMA-KSB, doctors, nurses, paramedical, and support staff of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANHA) wore black badges. The Medical Service Centre, Karnataka State committee, said “one more corona warrior has succumbed to the broken healthcare system. On the other side, common people are also suffering because of this diseased system. Brace for critical care With the government tweaking home quarantine rules, which means not all patients will need to get themselves admitted in hospitals, the medical fraternity says the State should prepare for critical care as cases surge. Prasanna H.M., president-elect, PHANHA, said: “Doctors are being given targets for conducting tests. They are under huge stress. The government needs to take humanitarian view and look at the manpower issue. As cases rise, though hospital admission has gone down because of home quarantine, the new problem is of people coming to hospitals late. Hospitals need critical care beds. Infrastructure such as oxygen supply, skilled ICU staff etc. needs to be increased.” He also suggested that undergraduate medical students be roped in for testing and treatment of mild cases. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar’s office said the government has acknowledged the shortage of staff and vacancies will be filled shortly. “The Minister has also put forth the plan to rope in medical students, with the Prime Minister. Once the Centre gives its nod, they will be used for assistance,” said a source.
22 August 2020||DHARWAD/ HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Officials in Dharwad directed to submit report on rain damage||Principal Secretary for Industries and Commerce and district-in-charge secretary for Dharwad Gaurav Gupta has asked officials of the district administration to expedite the survey and assessment of rain damage and submit a report to the government at the earliest. Chairing a review meeting on floods, the rain situation and COVID-19 management in Dharwad on Friday, Mr. Gupta said that as the district had received more than average rainfall in August, there had been widespread damage to crops and public and private properties, which should be assessed at the earliest. Emphasising the need for expediting the survey to assess the loss caused by excess rains, he asked officials to visit the affected villages and towns and send a factual report instead of sitting in their office and finalising the report. On COVID-19 management, Mr. Gupta stressed the need for ensuring timely treatment for those testing positive as well as patients with other ailments. He also asked the authorities to ensure that doctors did not skip their duties during the pandemic. Clarifying that already, a preliminary report had been submitted to the government on rain damage, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil said that a joint survey had been launched to assess the damage. The final report will be submitted after a ground survey, he said. On COVID-19 management, he said the district administration, with the assistance of private hospitals, was fighting the pandemic and also ensuring treatment for non-COVID-19 patients. KIMS visit Subsequently, Mr. Gupta visited the designated COVID-19 hospital in Hubballi — the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) — and sought details on the patients, treatment facilities, and the functioning of the virology lab conducting RT-PCR tests. Mr. Patil told the secretary that 630 beds at KIMS had oxygen support while an ICU with 100 ventilators had been set up at the hospital. As patients from neighbouring districts were getting admitted to KIMS and private hospitals in Hubballi, the information on them was being sent to the respective district administrations, he said. KIMS director Ramalingappa Antaratani said that at present, 333 patients were getting treated at KIMS, and of them 115 had SARI symptoms. Among these patients, 185 were being treated in the ICU, he said. Mr. Gupta also visited the centralised oxygen supply unit set up on the KIMS premises. Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal, Assistant Commissioner Mohammed Zuber, KIMS administrative officer Rajashree Jainapur and others were present.
22 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Sasyagraha’ campaign for greenery along BRTS corridor||Condemning the apathy and failure of the Hubballi Dharwad Bus Rapid Transit System (HD-BRTS) Company Ltd. in taking up the plantation programme along the BRTS corridor, Aam Admi Party (AAP) has decided to launch ‘Sasyagraha’ campaign from August 23. Addressing presspersons on Friday, Dharwad president of AAP Santosh Naragund and District Committee member Vikas Soppin said that the party along with other organisations would launch the campaign seeking planting of 4,000 saplings along the BRTS Corridor from Navanagar Bus Station on Sunday. Mr. Naragund said that despite opposition, nearly 5,000 trees were felled to facilitate the Rs. 1,200 crore BRTS project which had been implemented under the Sustainable Urban Transport Project funded by the World Bank. “When the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change approved the project in 2011, it had clearly issued a direction that on either side of the BRTS corridor, a sapling should be planted at every 10 metres. However, BRTS officials have not followed the direction so far,” he said. He added that BRTS authorities were apathetic towards the environment and when asked the about the plantation offered vague answers and listed paucity of funds as the reason for not taking up plantation. Mr. Naragund said that while the elected representatives of the twin cities were making tall claims about developing Hubballi-Dharwad as ‘city of the future’, they also should not forget the large scale felling of trees for the project. “From 2012, various organisations have submitted memoranda to the HDBRTS company seeking plantation of saplings amounting to ten times of the trees felled for the project. However even after getting the Vice President of India for inaugurating the project, the authorities have failed to do their basic duty towards the environment”, he said. Mr. Soppin said that to urge the authorities to launch plantation programme to plant 4,000 saplings along the corridor, AAP would be launching the ‘Sasyagraha’ campaign by planting saplings along the median near Navanagar BRTS Bus Station on Sunday at 11 a.m. AAP would urge environmental activists, citizens and various organisations to join hands in the campaign, he said.
22 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Third rank for Hubballi boy||M. Shashank Balaji secured the third rank in the Engineering stream of CET, the results of which were announced on Friday. The son of railway employee M. Nagendra Prasad, Shashank is a student of BASE PU College in Hubballi. Speaking to presspersons on Friday, he said that while he expected that he would get a ranking within 50, he had never expected to be among the top three. He attributed his success to the support of his parents, guidance by teachers and hard work. He wants to join IIT.
22 August 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Standing crop on 16,170 ha damaged in Bidar dist.||Standing kharif crop on over 16,170 hectares, of the total sown area of 3.68 lakh hectares, has been damaged in Bidar district because of heavy rain in the last month and a half, according to a survey conducted by the Agriculture Department. According to the rainfall data available with The Hindu , the district received 501 mm of rain, against the normal rainfall of 410.80 mm between June 1 and August 20. Chittapugga taluk recorded the highest rainfall of 606.20 mm, as against the normal rainfall of 386.80 mm. It was followed by Basavakalyan taluk, with 577mm rainfall, against the normal rainfall of 376.4 mm. Humnabad taluk received 566.2 mm of rain, as against the normal rainfall of 403.50 mm. Aurad recorded 481.40 mm of rain, as against the normal quantum of 446.70 mm. Bidar received 452 mm of rain, as against the normal rainfall of 452.6 mm, while Bhalki recorded the lowest rainfall of 419 mm, just under the normal of 420.5 mm. As per the data provided by officials of the Agriculture Department, crop on over 16,170 hectares of land was damaged, with green gram crop being among the worst hit. Of the 16,170 hectares, 10,475 hectares (64%) saw green gram damage. Green gram had achieved the sowing target on 28,345 hectares area. Soybean crop on 3,616 hectares was damaged, black gram on 1,008 hectares, and red gram on 1,003 hectares. The maximum crop damagewas reported in Basavakalyan taluk (5,975 hectares), followed by Humnabad and Bhalki taluks. Aurad talukrecorded crop damage on 19 hectares. An official said the figures were tentative and estimated on eye test. The area of crop loss may increase during the joint survey.
22 August 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||9 more COVID-19 deaths in Ballari||Ballari district reported nine more COVID-19 deaths on Friday and the toll in the district is now 204. According to information from Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul, the district also reported 514 new cases taking the total number to 16,767. The district also reported the recovery of 404 patients, taking the total to 10,884. There were 5,679 active cases as on Friday evening. Meanwhile, Dakshina Kannada and Udupi reported seven COVID-19 deaths. Of them, six patients had co-morbidities. The death toll in Dakshina Kannada is 301 and in Udupi 82. Five deaths were in Dakshina Kannada and two in Udupi, according to government releases. The two districts reported 480 new cases. Dakshina Kannada saw 202, taking the active cases to 2,420. In all, 64 persons were discharged in the district on the day. Udupi had 278 new cases and the active cases rose to 2,729. As many as 365 persons were discharged in the district. Belagavi and Davangere districts recorded 384 and 237 new cases, and seven deaths each on Friday. Vijayapura and Haveri recorded four deaths each, while Dharwad recorded three, and Gadag recorded one fatality. Dharwad saw 252 new cases and 216 patients got discharged. In Belagavi, 192 patients were discharged from hospital and in Davangere 158. Raichur and Yadgir districts reported 355 more positive cases on Friday, 255 from Yadgir, and 100 in Raichur.  (With inputs from Mangaluru, Hubballi, and Yadgir)
22 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Body of youth washed away recovered||The body of 12-year-old Mallikarjun, who was washed away in a stormwater drain late on Thursday near Kere Bhosga tank on the outskirts of Kalaburagi, was recovered on Friday. The incident occurred when Mallikarjun, a resident of Dabarabad village, was riding pillion on a bike. He got down from the vehicle, fell into the overflowing drain, and was washed away. His companion, who was driving the bike, managed to escape. Teams of the NDRF and the Fire and Emergency Services launched a 12-hour effort and recovered the body.
22 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Stop abuse of healthcare professionals’||Attributing the suicide of the Taluk Health Officer of Nanjangud, S.R. Nagendra, to “tremendous pressure from higher officers, especially the CEO [of the zilla panchayat] Prashant Kumar Mishra”, Kiran Deshmukh, vice-president of the doctors’ cell of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee, has urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to direct top officials to “stop threatening or abusing healthcare professionals”. In a memorandum addressed to the Chief Minister and submitted to the Deputy Commissioner of Kalaburagi, Mr. Deshmukh referred to the statements made by Dr. Nagendra’s family members in which they had mentioned the abuse of power by the CEO. He insisted upon the constitution of a high-level committee to investigate the matter and called for the suspension of the officer till the investigation is completed. “Healthcare professionals have been working for months without taking leave, away from their families and taking all the risks, but the higher officials, instead of creating a conducive working atmosphere, are resorting to threatening and abusing them,” he said.
22 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Sriramulu’s mother passes away||Health Minister B. Sriramulu’s mother Honnuramma died of age-related ailments in Ballari late on Thursday. She was 95 years old. Her last rites were completed around 5.30 a.m. on Friday in the presence of family members. COVID-19 recovery A few days ago, she, along with Mr. Sriramulu, tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital in Bengaluru. A source close to the Minister’s family claimed that she had recovered and was shifted to her Ballari residence three days ago. Officials in Ballari did not clarify whether it was a COVID-19 death. However, Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul said that “she was discharged from a Bengaluru hospital”, indicating that she had recovered from the infection.
22 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||50 people detained for attacking police in Koppal||Disregarding COVID-19 restrictions, hundreds of people gathered to celebrate Adda Pallakki Utsav at Dotihal village in Kushtagi taluk, Koppal district, late on Thursday and attacked the police who attempted to enforce restrictions. The police had denied permission for mass gatherings. The crowd pelted stones and damaged a police vehicle. Based on CCTV and mobile footage, the police have taken 50 people into custody.
22 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Giving the exam separately at NITK helped me score higher’||Chiraj S. Rao from Sri Chaitanya Pre University College, Mangaluru, who wrote the Common Entrance Test (CET) after testing positive for COVID-19, said on Friday that he was under tremendous pressure when he proceeded to the venue of the test at the National Institute of Technology - Karnataka, Surathkal, to write the first of four papers on July 30. Chirag, a medical seat aspirant, secured the 28th rank in B.Sc (Agriculture), 29th rank in B.V.Sc, 32nd rank in BNYS, and 214th rank in the engineering stream. “My mother and I had tested positive for COVID-19, while my father was in the intensive care unit. Writing the examination separately at this centre proved to be advantageous for me as I was not in a state to write at a centre with many students,” he said. The staff posted at the NITK centre, he said, were very friendly and supportive. This relieved him of pressure. He was the lone student to write the tests at the centre. Now that he and his parents have recovered, Mr. Rao is focusing on the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (to be held on September 13). He has also planned to write the JEE Main (to be held between September 1 and 6). Arnav Aiyappa P.P. of Alva’s College, Moodbidri, who secured the first rank in BNYS, fourth rank in B.Sc. (Agriculture), fifth rank in B.V.Sc and 7th rank in B. Pharma, also wants to become a doctor. Mr. Aiyappa said the chairman of Alva’s Education Foundation M. Mohan Alva and teachers of the college supported him in his studies. “Daily studies mattered most while appearing for the competitive examinations,” he said. Varun Gowda A.B. of Expert Pre University College, Mangaluru, secured the 1st rank in B.Sc (Agriculture), 7th in B.V.Sc. and 8th in B.Pharma. Shashank P. from Expert Pre University College, who secured the 4th rank in engineering, wants to pursue a career in computer engineering. “I will write both the JEE Main and Advanced examinations,” he said. Goureesha Kajampady from Vivekananda Pre University College, Puttur, secured the 9th rank in engineering and 10th in B.Pharma streams. “I am yet to make a choice between engineering or medical,” said Mr. Kajampady, who is writing the NEET and the JEE Main examination. Tejas Bhat from Sharada Independent Pre University College, Mangaluru who secured the 10th rank in B.V.Sc stream, echoed the same sentiment. H.C. Gourish from Expert Pre University College, who secured the 9th rank in B.Sc. (Agriculture), is keen on pursuing engineering in Indian Institutes of Technology or National Institutes of Technology. Aryan Mahalingappa Channal of Pragati Public Secondary School, Kota, Udupi, got the 2nd rank in BVSC and 4th in B.Pharma. Madan Y.N. from Excellent Science and Commerce Pre-University College, Moodbidri, secured the 35th rank in B.Sc. (Agriculture) and 60th rank in Engineering. According to a release from Excellent Science and Commerce Pre-University College, Moodbidri, seven of its students secured ranks within 100 and 31 students bagged ranks within 1,000.
22 August 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Leopardess caught near Udupi||A leopardess fell into a trap laid by Forest Department officials at Santhoor village, near Padubidri in Udupi district, in the early hours on Friday. According to Clifford Lobo, Range Forest Officer, Udupi, the big cat which was caught was about four years old. Dogs attacked There were some complaints of it being sighted in the surroundings of Palimaru and Santhoor villages and attacking some domestic dogs and killing them. The trap to capture it had been laid two days ago. It was released in the Western Ghats later in the day, he said.
22 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three institutes get Band A rank||The National Institute of Technology-Karnataka (NIT-K), Surathkal, has been ranked in Band A, under the category of government-funded institutions, in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovation Achievements (ARIIA) 2020. Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management, Mangaluru, and The Yenepoya (Deemed-to-be University), Mangaluru, have also been ranked in Band A in the category of private or self-financed colleges. It is an initiative of the Union Ministry of Education to systematically rank all major higher educational institutions and universities inIndia on indicators related to “innovation and entrepreneurship development” among students and faculty members. The award ceremony of ARIIA 2020 and the ranking announcement was done by Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on August 18. In all, 674 higher educational institutes under different categories participated in ARIIA 2020. The ranking has been drawn up for three years to inspire Indian institutions to reorient their mindset and build ecosystems to encourage high-quality research, innovation and entrepreneurship, according to notes issued by the colleges. As many as four other institutions from the State — JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research, KLE Technological University, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, and REVA University — figured in the Band A category.
22 August 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||GSoC: NIT-K ranked fourth in the world in list of varsities||The National Institute of Technology-Karnataka (NIT-K), Surathkal, has been ranked fourth in the world in the list of universities with the most number of students accepted for Google Summer of Code (GSoC)-2020. The GSoC is a global programme organised by the Google Open Source team to introduce students to open source software development. The students are paired with mentors from open source organisations to work on a programming-intensive project. This year, the GSoC programme has beenrunning from June to August, the institute said in a release. According to the note, 23 students from NIT-K were selected for GSoC-2020 in some of the best open source organisations across the world. A total of 1,198 students from 550 universities globally areparticipating. Over the past three years, there has been a voluntary and organised effort led by Mohit P. Tahiliani, assistant professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, and interested students from various departments of NIT-K to structurally plan open source activities at the institute. The first batch that was part of the effort resulted in seven selections to the GSoC, and the number has only increased in the past two years, the release said.
22 August 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Locomotive derails||A locomotive of a goods train derailed in the New Mangalore Port Trust (NMPT) area, when it was moving out of the Panambur Yard on Friday afternoon. The locomotive came off the track during the incident short of toppling. The incident occurred just before the inter-change point of the NMPT area and Southern Railway’s jurisdiction. With a consignment of 42 wagons of palm oil, the train was heading towards Lucknow. Rerailment will be taken up as the accident relief train of SR had reached the spot. As of Friday night, there was no proposed movement of other goods trains on the section, sources added.
22 August 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||When tubers, fruits fight for ‘supremacy’||A rare Yakshagana script, said to have been written more than a century ago with tubers, fruits and vegetables as characters, has now been performed in Tenku Thittu style of Yakshagana and is available online. A joint production by Siribagilu Venkappaiah Samskritika Prathisthana, Kasaragod, Kerala, and Kannada Natya Ranga, Hyderabad, the video of the two-hour performance was uploaded on YouTube on Wednesday night. According to Siribagilu Ramakrishna Mayya, well-known ‘bhagavatha’ of Tenku Thittu school, and founder of the prathisthana, Kerodi Subba Rao of Udupi, who lived between 1863 and 1928, wrote the script. “When exactly he wrote the script is not known,” the told The Hindu , adding that the Kannada Natya Sangha had been founded by the descendants of the family of the late Rao. “It is a very rare script in Yakshagana,” Mr. Mayya said. The storyline revolves around the king of tubers, Palandu (meaning onion), and the king of fruits and vegetables, Chuta Phala (meaning mango), arguing and fighting over their supremacy. The two kings who declare a truce and finally approach a third party, Lord Sri Krishna, appealing to him to decide and declare who was supreme. Sri Krishna takes three days to decide on the matter, thinking that the solution to such issues would emerge on their own naturally. The mango, engulfed with ego, rots after three days and falls from the tree, while the onion remains intact. When the rotten mango is given a “rebirth” by Sri Krishna, it realises its real self, strength, weaknesses, and limitations, and sheds its ego. The spiritual message of the performance is that no one is superior or inferior. One has to understand one’s real self and live accordingly by helping the needy as much as possible. The characters of the performance led by King Chuta Phala, representing fruits and vegetables, include jackfruit, tamarind, pumpkin, ash gourd, and the leafy vegetable ‘harive’, and the ones representing tubers and led by King Palandu include radish, elephant yam, and sweet potato. The artistes who played the lead characters include Radhakrishna Navada Madhuru as King Chuta Phala, Jayaprakash Shetty Permude as King Palandu, and Vasudeva Ranga Bhat Madhuru as Sri Krishna. Mr. Mayya said that he learnt that the same ‘prasanga’ had been staged in the Badagu Thittu style in Uttara Kannada about three decades ago.
22 August 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Hoax threat caller wanted to be famous, says officer||Vasanth Sherigar, 33, the farmer who was arrested on Thursday for allegedly making a threat call about placing an explosive at Mangaluru International Airport, has told the police that he was inspired to do so by the person arrested in January on similar charges, Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash said on Friday. “Vasanth told us that the accused [Aditya Rao] who had been arrested in January got good publicity. Vasanth too wanted to become famous,” Mr. Vikash told reporters. The police have taken a serious view of Vasanth’s action as it concernd the safety and security of an airport. He has been arrested for offences punishable under provisions of the Indian Penal Code and the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against Safety of Civil Aviation Act, 1982. Aditya Rao, 37, had been arrested on January 20. The city police have filed a charge-sheet against him. Mr. Vikash said Vasanth, who has studied till class 8, was active in using a smart phone. He worked for about three years in some hotels in Bengaluru before moving to a hotel in Udupi. Following the lockdown, Vasanth started cultivating his ancestral farmland in Mudrady of Karkala taluk in Udupi district. He got the number of former airport director M.R. Vasudeva on Google. He called him on Wednesday and claimed that he had placed an explosive substance. “We are investigating whether he had attempted such act earlier,” the officer said.
22 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Police personnel ready to donate plasma’||A majority of the 140 city police personnel, who are back on duty following recovery from COVID-19, are willing to donate plasma for critically ill COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment in hospitals of Dakshina Kannada, Commissioner of Police Vikash Kumar Vikash said on Friday. He told reporters that 140 officers and other staff were among the COVID-19 warriors who had tested positive. They remained in isolation and followed treatment protocol. “Most of them are willing to donate. They will be the first to respond when a collection centre opens in the city. They are ready to help in the recovery of patients,” he said. Mr. Vikash said the city policemen were wearing masks and face shields and following other guidelines and protocol to prevent the spread of COVID-19. He met and thanked the personnel who expressed their willingness to donate plasma. “The exact number of personnel who will donate will be known when the collection starts.”.
22 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Karnataka Bank inducts two more directors||Karnataka Bank Ltd. on Wednesday appointed A.V. Chandrashekar and Pradeep Kumar Panja as additional directors, at its board meeting. Mr. Chandrashekar was a judge of the High Court of Karnataka as well as a Member (Judicial) of the Karnataka State Administrative Tribunal. Mr. Panja  is a career banker. He retired as Managing Director (Corporate Banking) of State Bank of India (SBI) in October 2015. Bank Managing Director and CEO M.S. Mahabaleshwara said that the bank’s board now has 72 % independent directors as against the minimum requirement of 33.33%.
22 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||KIOCL donates ventilators||KIOCL Limited, a public sector undertaking under the Union government, handed over two ventilators to the Department of Health and Family Welfare in the presence of Nalin Kumar Kateel, Dakshina Kannada MP, here on Friday.
22 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Doctor’s death: CM orders probe, announces Rs. 50 lakh compensation||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has ordered an enquiry into the death of Nanjangud in-charge Taluk Health Officer (THO) S.R. Nagendra, who allegedly committed suicide at his residence here on Thursday. The Chief Minister has asked the Regional Commissioner, Mysuru, to conduct the enquiry and submit the report to the government within a week. Mr. Yediyurappa also announced a compensation of Rs. 50 lakh to the next of kin of Dr. Nagendra besides a job to family members on compassionate grounds, in response to an appeal from the Karnataka State Government Employees’ Association. The Chief Minister’s decision comes after the alleged suicide sparked off angry protests in Mysuru on Thursday with doctors and other staff members from the Department of Health and Family Welfare boycotting COVID-19 duties demanding justice for Dr. Nagendra, and holding a dharna outside the DHO’s office with the body. The protesting doctors alleged “persecution” of Dr. Nagendra, who was on COVID-19 duty for over five months, and claimed that he was under pressure to ramp up testing in the taluk. Minister for Medical Education K. Sudhakar, who rushed to Mysuru on Thursday evening for damage control over the doctors’ strike, had to face the protesters’ ire. They demanded an impartial probe into the circumstances that forced Dr. Nagendra to allegedly end his life. Appeal to govt. After Mr. Yediyurappa announced the enquiry, the protesting doctors appealed to the government to probe the incident in a fair manner. The body of Dr. Nagendra was later shifted from the DHO’s office and funeral rites were performed. A condolence meet was also held. In a statement, Mr. Yediyurappa said government employees on COVID-19 duty do not have to feel they are isolated in the fight since the government is there for their support. “If you have any problems, discuss with your higher officials and get them resolved,” he advised frontline workers. Former president of IMA, Karnataka chapter, H.N. Ravindra, who led the protest, said the doctors may be forced to strike work once again if justice was not done to Dr. Nagendra. He thanked the government for announcing the compensation and setting up an enquiry. How can doctors discharge their duties when nearly 50% posts in the Health Department are vacant, he asked.
22 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Dasara festivities to remain simple||Clearing the cloud of uncertainty over Dasara celebrations this year amid COVID-19 pandemic, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Friday said the festivities would remain simple this year. After offering bagina at the Kabini reservoir in H.D. Kote taluk of Mysuru district, Mr. Yediyurappa told reporters that the government would discuss the matter and chalk out the modalities. He said the Dasara High-powered Committee would meet shortly in this regard. Earlier, Mr. Yediyurappa offered the customary bagina to the Cauvery at the Krishnaraja Sagar in Mandya district. Addressing reporters at the KRS, the Chief Minister said the reservoir had reached its full capacity on 36 occasions, including in the last three consecutive years, since it was built more than 80 years ago. Expressing satisfaction over the filling up of all the reservoirs in the State, Mr. Yediyurappa said sowing had been by and large completed across the State and farmers could expect the harvest to be the best in the last 25 to 30 years. He said the State government was pursuing the Mekedatu project, conceived to provide drinking water to urban areas of the State, and necessary steps had been taken to secure the Centre’s approval for its implementation. Farmers’ protest Meanwhile, several farmers were taken into custody and released later when they were marching towards the Kabini dam to stage a black flag demonstration against the “anti-farmer” decisions of the government such as amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act and the APMC Act. The group of farmers, led by president of the Federation of State Farmers’ Associations Kurubur Shanthakumar, was stopped by the police near Shiramalli circle, leading to an altercation. The police said the farmers would not be allowed to go near the Chief Minister and meet him in view of the safety measures in place owing to COVID-19. The farmers were detained and taken away in a police vehicle. Tight security was in place around the KRS and the police denied entry to activists of farmers’ organisations who were planning to protest against the Chief Minister.  The State government is pursuing the Mekedatu project, says the Chief Minister Farmers’ bid to stage a black flag demonstration against the government stopped by the police
22 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Poaching racket busted; four persons nabbed||A joint operation by the Forest Department and the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) preceded by year-long planning led to the busting of a poaching racket and one of the biggest seizures of wildlife derivatives in recent years in the State. The joint operation took place along the border separating MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary and BRT Tiger Reserve in Chamarajanagar district. The seizure included four tiger claws, tiger bones, a pair of leopard claws, two deer skin, a pair of sambar skin, skin of two flying squirrels besides bones and skins of dholes. Four persons directly involved in dealing with wildlife derivatives have been taken into custody and a dragnet has been spread to nab the others involved in the crime. V. Yedukondalu, Deputy Conservator of Forests, MM Hills Wildlife Sanctuary, said they were alerted during intelligence gathering from the local community about the possible involvement of the four persons in poaching of wildlife.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Handful of applications for public celebrations||The number of applications for the installation of Ganesha idols in public spaces has dropped drastically this year in the backdrop of the pandemic and restrictions placed by the government. Following directions from Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has decided to allow only one public installation per ward. All the applications are being vetted by the jurisdictional joint commissioners. Just a handful of applications had come in from the 198 wards in the city, sources in the BBMP said. In the South zone, just one application was received from Basavanagudi ward, said joint commissioner N.N. Veerabhadraswamy. Mahadevapura ward, too, received a single application. “A single window system had been set up in the office of the jurisdictional Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP). We had met councillors of all wards coming under the zone,” said R. Venkatachalapathy, Mahadevapura joint commissioner. Bommanahalli zone bucked the trend in that it received many inquiries. Joint commissioner M. Ramakrishna said the decision would be taken by the respective ward committees. “Once the ward committees finalise the applications, we will accord permission,” he said. K. Narasimhamurthy, joint commissioner of Dasarahalli zone, said until 4 p.m., the deadline for receiving application, only four applications had come in. “We are coordinating with the DCP, heads of five police stations coming under the zone. We have also readied the Kalyani of Chokkasandra lake to facilitate immersion of idols,” he said. Rajarajeshwarinagar joint commissioner Nagaraj held meetings with the chief engineer, ward engineers, DCP, Assistant Commissioner of Police and various cultural organisations. “We told them of the restrictions in place. We received applications from just a handful of organisers,” he said. Information on applications received by West, East and Yelahanka zones was not available. Meanwhile, the BBMP has issued another circular on the restrictions in place for the celebration of Ganesha festival. While urging citizens to opt for eco-friendly idols not more than four feet high, the civic body has clarified that the permission for installation of public idols is valid from August 22 to 24. Arrangement for immersion of idols installed in public places had been made and mobile immersion tanks will be deployed. No processions, orchestra or music performance will be allowed, said the civic body in the circular.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||KSRTC experiments with seating in buses||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), which has been badly hit by the pandemic, is experimenting with the alignment of seats in its fleet of buses to help passengers maintain distance from each other. It has reduced the seats in a Rajahamsa bus from 39 to 29 by realigning them so that there are three seats instead of four in a row. The bus runs on the Bengaluru-Mysuru route. “We will take a decision on changing the seating alignment in other buses based on the response from passengers,” said a KSRTC official. . The realignment was done in the Corporation’s central workshop in Bengaluru. “This will help in maintaining social distancing, and also provide more comfort. The middle seats have been fixed on the passage. Space has been provided for the movement of passengers on either side of the middle seat,” said the official. The Corporation’s losses have been mounting as a majority of its fleet, including luxury AC buses, has remained off the road over the last four months. During the festive season, KSRTC would run additional buses. However, this time there is no such demand. “We are not getting enough passengers for operational buses. We do not see demand for additional buses this time as the movement of people is really low due to the fear of COVID-19,” the official said.  We will take a decision on changing the seating alignment in other buses based on the response from passengers Official, KSRTC
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||87.5% candidates qualify for engineering counselling||In the CET this year, several candidates also secured 55 marks and above out of 60 in various sections: while 2799 students secured above 55 in biology, 233 students got these scores in Chemistry. As many as 64 and 66 students secured 55 and above in physics and mathematics sections respectively The number of candidates who are eligible to take part in counselling in other streams include 1.29 lakh aspirants of naturopathy, yogic sciences, and veterinary sciences and 1.27 lakh for agricultural sciences. Around 1.55 lakh students are eligible to obtain seats in B. Pharma and Pharma D. Venkata Raja, Executive Director of the Karnataka Examinations Authority, pointed out that students had performed better in CET as they had got more time to prepare for the examination as it was postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. This year, CET was held on July 30 and July 31 after it was postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Chaturthi custom||
22 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha’s case burden up by 155||The district logged 155 COVID-19 cases on Friday, including 123 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission. Twenty-five persons who came from other States, five from abroad, a health worker and a Kainakary native also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The Kainakary native’s source of infection is unknown. The district also reported a COVID-19-related death with a 62-year-old man from Kareelakulangara who died on August 15 testing positive. Of the contact cases, 22 were reported from Purakkad and another 12 from Kuthiathode. Rest of the locally transmitted cases were from Alappuzha (11), Ambalappuzha (11), Thumpoly (8), Kadakarappally (7), Kayamkulam (7), Chembupuram (5), Vayalar (5), Chettikkad (4), Aroor (3), Krishnapuram (2), Thaikkattussery (2), Arattupuzha (2), Cherthala South (2), Chengannur (2), Kainakary (2), Karuvatta (2), Cherthala (2), Kodamthuruthu (2) and one case each from Thuravoor, Haripad, Pathiyoor, Arookutty, Pulpally, Panavally, Mulakuzha and Kalavoor. With 67 testing negative, the number of active cases in the district is 1,864. Containment zones Ward 21 in Alappuzha municipality, ward 14 in Ambalappuzha South, ward 9 in Mararikulam North, ward 10 in Kainakary, ward 2 in Nedumudi, ward 12 in Bharanikavu, wards 7, 8 and 11 in Arattupuzha, wards 4 (partial), 2 and 3 in Nooranad, wards 3 (partial) and 4 in Thaikkattusserry, and parts of wards 10 and 2 in Vayalar grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.
22 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha municipality innovates and wins||Alappuzha municipality has been named as the best small city in ‘innovation and best practices’ in the country in Swachh Survekshan 2020. It has bagged the award for implementing a decentralised waste water treatment system (DEWATS). The municipality has come top in the category of cities with 1-3 lakh population. It has scored 45 marks out of 50 in the urban local body-led innovation and 22 marks out of 30 in citizen-led innovation. “Known as Venice of East in the State of Kerala and having a legacy of successfully practising decentralised solid waste management for the last four years, Alappuzha has taken a step in the direction of liquid waste management by working towards mitigating pollution of canals,” the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs said while announcing the results on Thursday. Alappuzha won this achievement through a serious of interventions over the past three years. The initial efforts to avoid flow of polluted water into its canals started in 2017 under the aegis of Canalpy (a combined effort from the academia, government, and the public to save the canals of Alappuzha). Aided by the cooperation of Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac and the civic body, a Winter School was organised by the IIT, Bombay, and the Kerala Institute of Local Administration to understand the water and sanitation problems. This was followed by a Summer School in 2018 on the theme ‘rejuvenation of Alappuzha canals: decentralised solid and liquid waste management’. Later as a pilot project, the Canalpy team intervened to improve the overall water quality of Chathanad Canal. The team prepared a total sanitation solution for the Chatanad municipal colony in order to deal with solid and liquid waste scientifically to provide improved sanitation to the residents. With the help of an architecture firm based in Kochi, Canalpy achieved the goal by constructing individual toilets for each household, designing and constructing a decentralised waste water treatment system to treat black and grey water and constructing an aerobic composting unit to deal with biodegradable waste. The Swachh Survekashan 2020 recognised it as an innovation and best practice.  First in State Illikkal Kunjumon, chairman, Alappuzha municipality, said the civic body was the first to achieve this feat in the State. “This has been made possible with the active support of cleaning and health staff of the municipality.” Alappuzha is ranked 152nd nationally in the Swachh Survekshan 2020, the fifth edition of the annual cleanliness survey, in the category of cities with 1-10 lakh population, improving its standing from 256, a year ago. The civic body scored 2,811.75 marks out of 6,000.
22 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Woman, son found dead||A 32-year-old woman and her 10-year-old son were found dead inside their home at Kodamthuruthu, near Cherthala, on Friday. The deceased were identified as Rajitha Vinod and Vaishnav. The police said that Rajitha was four months pregnant and they suspect it to be a murder-suicide. “She posted a note on her Facebook page at 1 a.m. on Friday citing the family’s financial problems. They were found dead inside their room by relatives and neighbours in the morning,” said an official. Rajitha and her son were living with her in-laws as her husband Vinod left for Kayamkulam a week ago for job. (Suicide Prevention Helpline: DISHA - 0471-2552056, 1056)
22 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Corpn. gets flak for poor tax collection||The Kochi Corporation’s local fund audit report for 2018-19 reveals shortcomings in the civic body’s collection of taxes, resulting in a fall in revenue. The audit department points out that the civic body has not made available some registers, pass books, and statements for audit. Compared to the previous financial years, tax estimates have been increasing, but the corporation has failed to ensure efficient and timely collection. In March 2019, the end of the financial year for which the report was prepared, the corporation was yet to collect Rs. 22.37 crore owed to it in taxes. A failure to make use of the sources of its revenue has resulted in massive losses to the civic body, according to the report. In the absence of an online system for tax collection, crores worth of taxes were being collected manually by bill collectors, leading to inconsistencies in the handling of receipts. Receipts that were cancelled or audited years ago were found to have been misused. Against fake receipt numbers, bookings worth Rs. 4.53 lakh for the Mattancherry town hall and Kalvathy commmunity hall were registered. A statement from the Opposition LDF says there is an absence of effective monitoring and a lack of clarity in how money was being spent. “Within a month of the report being published, a special council meeting must be held to discuss the problems it mentions. There is always a delay in submitting the annual financial statements of the corporation for audit,” said V.P. Chandran, LDF parliamentary party secretary. “Such irregularities appear in the audit report when officials do not provide necessary explanations in time. The report will be placed before the council soon,” said Mayor Soumini Jain. The corporation has 69 bank accounts, of which 18 have no money in them.Apart from the own fund account, there are separate accounts to handle salaries, provident fund, and pension. In addition to the expenses from these accounts, expenses for the same reasons are made from the corporation’s own account, the report says.
22 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||River pollution: Collector asked to file action taken report||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has asked the Ernakulam District Collector to submit an action taken report against local bodies responsible for the pollution of Konothupuzha river under the provisions of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The directive was issued by the Bench comprising Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta in a case related to the indiscriminate pollution of the river, which passes through Thripunitura municipality, and Chottanikkara, Udayamperoor, Mulanthuruthy and Amballoor grama panchayats, covering a distance of nearly 17 km before joining the Vembanad lake at Poothotta. The District Collector is the chairman of a committee constituted by the government to formulate an action plan to restore the original condition of the Konothupuzha. The tribunal considered a report filed by the State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) on solid waste management, which found that the lack of proper waste management systems in the local bodies had resulted in the pollution of the river. The Bench asked the State Pollution Control Board to impose environmental compensation on those responsible for the pollution of the river based on the suggestions included in the report filed by SLMC chairman A.V. Ramakrishna Pillai.
22 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||18 persons at Palluruthy boys’ home test positive||As many as 18 people, including 15 boys between the ages of 10 and 17, at the Don Bosco Home for Boys in Palluruthy tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. A caretaker at the institution had tested positive on Thursday. A total of 165 people tested positive in the district on Friday. Of them, 10 had returned from outside the State. A 63-year-old native of Pachalam succumbed to the disease at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery. He also had heart-related ailments, said a release from the hospital. West Kochi continues to record several cases each day, with 14 people from Palluruthy, four from Fort Kochi, 10 from Mattancherry and two from Thoppumpady testing positive. Seven officials of the Navy have tested positive, besides four health workers. Eight people from Mulanthuruthy and four from Chellanam have also tested positive. A total of 89 people recovered and tested negative on Friday, while 1,812 people are being treated for it.
22 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cash in locker proceeds of crime: court||The Rs. 1 crore found in the bank lockers of Swapna Suresh, one of the accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, was proceeds of the crime, Kauser Edappagath, Principal Sessions Judge, Ernakulam, has concluded. The judge on Friday refused to buy the arguments of the accused that the money was part of the commission she received “by executing deals between the UAE consulate and UAFX Solutions Pvt. Ltd, Forth Force, Unitac Builders and Sane Ventures for the project of renovation of 150 homes in Kerala during the floods in 2018.” While rejecting the bail application of Swapna Suresh under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002, the court said it was prima facie clear that the amount was not acquired through commission. The court took note of the statement of Santhosh Eappen of Unitac Builders that he had given commission to all three accused, including Swapna, through bank transfer into the account of M/s. ISOMONK Trading Company with Axis Bank, Sasthamangalam branch, and not to the petitioner. Section 24 of the Act states that the court shall presume that the proceeds of the crime are involved in money laundering in any proceedings unless the persons charged with the offence of money laundering prove to the contrary, the judge pointed out. The court noted that prima facie there were materials to show the involvement of the petitioner in the crime. The investigation of the case is in its preliminary stage. The illegal activities of money laundering posed a serious threat to the financial system and sovereignty of the country, the court noted. Considering the gravity of the offences, the court rejected the bail application.
22 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Foreign body may not have caused death of child||The police surgeon has ruled out the presence of foreign body as the potential cause for the death of a three-year-old child at Aluva earlier this month. The incident had triggered a controversy shortly thereafter. Instead, the forensic report attributed the death to a condition called status asthamaticus, which is considered an acute state of asthma unresponsive to standard treatments. The boy had reportedly swallowed two coins and eventually died less than 24 hours later at the Aluva taluk hospital late night on August 2. The Binanipuram police had registered a case for unnatural death even as the family alleged medical negligence. A senior police officer of the probe team said the findings of the department of forensic science at the Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, had effectively ruled out coins as the reason for the death. A one rupee and 50 paise coins were found inside the body. He said the forensic report attributed the death to complications related to breathing emanating from status asthmaticus. Adding to the theory was the boy’s pneumonic history. He was hospitalised as latest as February due to breathing complications. The boy had reportedly developed cold owing to extensive travel on the fatal day, which may have further deteriorated his already failing condition, the police said. The death had stirred a controversy, since the boy was taken to three different hospitals — Ernakulam General Hospital and Medical college in Alappuzha — before his death at the Aluva hospital.
22 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Civic body to consider funding canal work||The Kochi Corporation on Friday informed the Kerala High Court that it would consider funding the restoration of Mullassery canal, Twelve Link canal from Atlantis to Vadutha, Punchathodu and Kareethodu to avoid inundation in the city. The counsel for the Corporation made the submission when a case relating to the desilting of Perandoor canal came up for hearing before Justice Devan Ramachandran. The counsel informed the court that the discharge of waste from the Kaloor slaughterhouse into the Perandoor canal had been completely stopped.
22 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Four held for stabbing youth||The Eloor police on Friday arrested four persons for their alleged involvement in the stabbing of a youngster. The arrested were identified as Ramyesh, 29, Rajesh, 24, Saravanan, 26, and Mahendran, 24. They are all residents of Eloor with criminal antecedents. They were accused of stabbing Prashanth on his thighs at Pathalam Junction on Wednesday night.
22 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Need to probe role of UAE officials: NIA||The role of UAE consulate officials and high-profile individuals in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case needs to be probed in India and abroad to bring out all conspirators in the case, according to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The agency, seeking the extension of the remand of six accused including Swapna Suresh, said the custodial interrogation of the accused on the basis of the digital evidences was crucial in the case. The NIA was in the process of collecting the mirror images of the seized digital devices. The court extended the remand of the accused till September 22.
22 August 2020||Kollam,KERALA||KSCDC products to tap Onam market||The Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation (KSCDC) has launched an array of products, including premium and platinum gift boxes, to tap the Onam market. At present 11 value-added products are available and the corporation is expecting sales of Rs. 5 crore this festival season. “The corporation could procure 2,000 tonnes of best quality raw cashew nut from local farms in Kannur and Kasaragod during the lockdown. The gift boxes have assorted products and the nuts have been processed in the traditional style to maintain quality,” said Minister J.Mercykutty Amma at a press meet here on Friday. Along with the most-in-demand grade 150 jumbo nuts, roasted and salted cashew, cashew soup, cashew powder, cashew vita, cashew bits, choco kaju and milky kaju will be available in the market. The corporation is also offering a range of products from cashew apple that include cashew soda, cashew apple juice, and cashew pine jam. “The products will be available at all KSCDC outlets and special counters. We are also offering a discount of 25% for all products till September 20 and after Onam we will also be launching our mobile unit,” said KSCDC Chairman S. Jayamohan.
22 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||82 cases in Kollam||The district reported 82 new cases of COVID-19 and 54 recoveries on Friday. While 77 patients contracted the virus through contact, three persons are from abroad and two others had travelled from West Bengal and Telangana. Kollam currently has 9,479 people under observation. While 312 persons completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 10,268 primary and 2,596 secondary contacts of the fresh cases. At present, Kollam has 780 active cases. Harbour closed Meanwhile, the district administration has closed the Neendakara harbour for two days as part of COVID-19 preventive measures. Sakthikulangara harbour was closed on Wednesday after a number of workers including fishers tested positive.
22 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Coaching institutes’ forum to stage protest||Authorised Coaching and Training Institutes Welfare Association, a collective of vocational training and coaching centres across the State, will organise a protest demanding permission to reopen. Owners, staff, and students will participate in the protest in Ernakulam on August 24. The collective also demanded that the government help them tide over the crisis by waiving off rent and electricity charges.
22 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Jacobite metropolitan stages satyagraha||A day after the Kottayam district administration took over the Marthasmooni church at Thiruvarppu, Thomas Mar Alexandrios, Metropolitan of the Mumbai diocese of the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church, staged a satyagraha on Friday. Geevarghese Mar Coorilos, Metropolitan of Niranam diocese, inaugurated the protest, which commenced at the Kochupalam shrine at Thiruvarppu. Episcopal synod secretary and Metropolitan of the Kottayam diocese Thomas Mar Thimothios presided. Mar Alexandrios demanded that the State government enact a law to end the ‘unilateral takeover of Jacobite churches.’ “If the government is not willing to implement the proposed Church Act, it should bring in new legislation to ensure justice,” he said. Protest plans Holding that no court had directed authorities to expel the faithful from churches, he said believers would continue to enter the Marthasmooni church once it was reopened. The Metropolitan also spoke of the plans to launch similar protests at all churches taken over by the government.  Local body polls “No political party has helped the Jacobite Church in its cause. We will lend our support to those who help us and this will reflect in the upcoming local body election,” he said. Metropolitans Mathews Mar Antheemos, Mathews Mar Thimothios, diocese secretary Fr. Kuriakose Kadavubhagam, Fr. Sanju Manuel Kidangeth and Fr. Thomas Kurian Kandathra spoke. The metropolitan will stage satyagraha every day from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
22 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||With 136 infected, Kottayam’s active cases now touch 977||The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district has risen to 977 with 136 more persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday. Of the fresh cases, 128 contracted the virus through local contact while four are foreign returnees. The remaining four persons had come from other States. Institutional cluster Vijayapuram panchayat, where a rubber factory has been declared as an institutional cluster, reported 19 cases, followed by Kottayam municipality — 16 cases. Erattupetta municipality reported eight cases while Akalakunnam, Thiruvarpp, Pampady and Kidangur panchayats reported five cases each. Meanwhile, 92 persons who recovered from the disease, were discharged on the day. The district currently has 77 containment zones in 31 local bodies.
22 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||RS poll: KC(M) factions issue separate whips||The fight between the Kerala Congress (M) factions over the party title and symbol reached a new high on Friday with both sides issuing separate whips to the party legislators with regard to casting their votes in the upcoming Rajya Sabha election and the proposed no-confidence motion against the State government. While Mons Joseph, leader of the faction led by KC(M) working chairman P.J. Joseph, issued a whip to all five KC(M) legislators to vote for the UDF candidate and for the no-confidence motion, Roshy Augustine of the rival Jose K. Mani camp issued a separate whip to abstain from voting. “Roshy Augustine, who is the party whip as per the records of the Assembly, has directed party MLAs not to attend the discussions over the no-confidence motion to be moved by the UDF on August 24 and not to cast votes as well. The MLAs are also directed not to participate in any of the proceedings with the regard to it. KC(M) MLAs should also take the same stance in the voting process to elect the new Rajya Sabha member,” the Mani faction said in a press release. May move EC Both factions are expected to approach the Election Commission of India seeking disqualification of MLAs who would violate the whip.  Similar whips issued in the case of the proposed no-confidence motion against State govt.
22 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Judge’s car damaged||The Pala police on Friday registered a case in connection with the incident in which a man broke into the premises of the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT), Pala, and damaged a couple of vehicles, including the judge’s car. The police, later, identified the culprit as an 80-year-old local resident who showed symptoms of mental illness.
22 August 2020||Koxhikode,KERALA||IIMK celebrates 25th foundation day||The Indian Institute of Management Kozhikode (IIMK) completed 24 years of academic excellence and celebrated its 25th foundation day here on Friday. The institute marked the occasion by launching a year-long silver jubilee celebrations beginning with a panel discussion involving the current and former directors of the institute. The silver jubilee celebrations will culminate on August 21, 2021. Announcing the launch of the silver jubilee celebrations, IIMK Director Prof. Debashis Chatterjee said the institute was on an exciting trajectory of expansion and growth.
22 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode sees 158 new cases||The Health Department confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection in 158 more persons in Kozhikode on Friday. With this, the total number of persons undergoing treatment for the viral infection touched 1,140 in the district. According to the department, 136 persons contracted the virus through local transmission. Seven were Non-Resident Keralites. Four persons came to the district from other States. The source of infection of 11 cases could not be traced. Twenty-eight persons contracted the virus through local transmission within the Kozhikode city corporation limits alone. Chorod village continued to be a cluster with 59 new cases. In Vadakara municipal limit, the number of cases was 16. As many as 875 more persons were added to the list of people in quarantine. Meanwhile, 163 persons recovered from the disease on Friday. Onam curbs Considering the increasing number of cases, the District Medical Office has issued a fresh directive to restrict Onam celebrations. Traders have been asked to strictly comply with crowd management measures and other related health protocol. Traditional floral carpet competitions and outdoor celebrations will be restricted to prevent the spread of the disease. In Malappuram As many as 335 more people tested positive for the virus in Malappuram district on Friday, taking the total number of cases currently under treatment to 2,670. District Medical Officer K. Sakeena said that 319 people recovered from the disease on Friday. She said 323 of the new cases had contracted the infection through local transmission. The source of infection in 22 cases, including six health workers, could not be traced. The district registered 6,541 cases of infection since March. While 3,842 recovered, 30 persons succumbed to the disease. More than 40,500 people are in quarantine. In Thrissur As many as 119 persons tested positive for the virus in Thrissur on Friday. Among them, 111 persons were infected through contact. The source of infection of 33 persons is not known. There are 9,395 people under observation. Meanwhile, new containment zones have been declared in panchayats. They are — all wards of Vadanappilly grama panchayat; ward 1 of Edavilangu; ward 19 of Kadavallur; ward 19 of Kadangode; ward 13 of Muriyad; ward 16 of Vaappad; and ward 13 of Karalam. In Kasaragod As many as 105 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod on Friday. Of these, 95 persons contracted the virus through contact. A total of 5,354 people are under observation in the district. In Palakkad Palakkad district registered 83 COVID-19 cases on Friday. However, there were 144 recoveries in the district. As many as 47 of the new cases were found to have been infected through local transmission. Seven cases came from other States and 19 from abroad. The source of infection in 10 cases could not be traced.  In Kannur Kannur reported 78 more COVID-19 cases on Friday. Among the new cases, 69 contracted the disease through local transmission. There are currently 9,287 people under observation. In Wayanad Wayanad district reported 26 more cases of COVID-19 on Friday. Of them, 15 were infected after coming into contact with COVID-19 patients. A 77-year-old man at Valad died of the disease. The death was not included in the official list of the government on Friday. There were also 44 recoveries on the day. As many as 318 patients are currently under treatment.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Kasaragod, Thrissur, Palakkad, Kannur, and Wayanad bureaus)
22 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Online visitor register for shops introduced||In an attempt to support the COVID-19 related data analytics and management of information, the COVID-19 Jagratha portal conceptualised and designed by the Kozhikode district administration with the support of the National Informatics Centre and IT Mission has introduced online visitor register service. The feature will enable shop owners, commercial establishments and event management firms to replace the conventional registration method with an easy electronic alternative. One can simply generate a QR code using the mobile number and display it at shops. Anyone can just scan the QR code and enter their details on the portal. According to IT Mission officials, one of the main objective is to reduce the use of pen-and-paper method and offer a safer e-option. Apart from this, administrators can ensure the accuracy of date and its easy retrieval for future references. All shops and commercial establishments have been asked to migrate to the new method and display the QR code for customers. Those who do not have smartphones can seek the help of shop owners to scan the code and enter data.
22 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||NIT-C lets students pay fee in 2 parts||The board of governors of the National Institute of Technology, Calicut (NIT-C) has decided to allow students to remit their tuition fee in two instalments for the coming semester beginning September 2. Dr. P.S. Sathidevi, Director in Charge, NITC, said the hostel fee for the semester had been completely waived. Also, needy students will be offered financial support through Students Welfare Fund, Parent Teachers Association, and alumni as done in previous years. The normal tuition fee for B.Tech/B.Arch per semester is Rs. 66,830 for general category candidates whose family income is above Rs. 5 lakh per annum; Rs. 25,165 for those with income between Rs. 1 and Rs. 5 lakh. This includes a miscellaneous fee of Rs. 4,330. Fee waived Tuition fee has been waived for students whose annual family income is below Rs. 1 lakh and SC/ST students. The fee for M.Tech/M.Plan/MCA/MBA for general students is Rs. 39,555. Hostel fee is Rs. 4,250 per month. At the same time, the tuition fee for general category students at the Indian Institute of Technology-Palakkad is Rs. 1.08 lakh per semester. Here too, hostel fee amounting to Rs. 26,000 per semester has been waived. Prof. Sathidevi said the concerns of the students had been communicated to the Ministry of Education. NITs and IITs follow directives from the Ministry in this regard. At present, over 3,000 students are pursuing graduate programmes, while another 600 are undergoing postgraduate courses at NITC. The fresh batch is yet to commence.  Students Welfare dean Madhu Kumar said no student would be deprived of education because of financial issues. “Students can seek assistance through the faculty advisor and heads of departments,” he added.
22 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Training institutes struggle to stay afloat||Vocational training institutes and coaching centres in Kozhikode are going through tough times as there is uncertainty over the resumption of their functioning owing to the COVID-19 restrictions. T.V. Prasanth, district secretary of Authorised Coaching and Training Institutes Welfare Association, says rental amount, power consumption charges, repayment of loans and salary arrears have doubled the burden of such temporarily closed units across the State. “Many of those who depended on such firms for survival are heading to a financial crisis,” he adds. The list of affected institutions includes those conducting specialised vocational courses in IT, accounting, fashion design, aviation logistics, AutoCAD, mobile application development, hardware and software technologies. Though some of the institutions are conducting online classes, issues such as network connectivity is affecting the students, especially those in villages. Association leaders say health protocol can be effectively followed if they are allowed to reopen the institutions. According to them, training sessions can be conducted by adopting a convenient shift system. There are also institutes that can offer safe transportation to learners, they add. To draw the attention of the government to the issue, stakeholders in the field and their families are planning to embark on a series of protest campaigns across the State. The first of such protests will be held in Ernakulam on August 24.
22 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Two injured in clash||Two persons sustained serious stab injuries in a clash between suspected ganja peddlers at Vadakara on Friday. The Thazhe Angadi and Villiappally natives who were found in a critical condition beside the national highway were admitted to a private hospital in the city. The police said the incident took place around 2 p.m. It was a suspected argument between two rival groups over the distribution of smuggled weed which ended up in the clash. Details of a few suspects are being collected on the basis of statements given by local residents.
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,KERALA||State seeks SC nod to start Palarivattom flyover work||The Kerala government on Friday moved the Supreme Court for permission to start the reconstruction of the Palarivattom flyover at Kochi. The State has challenged the Kerala High Court order to first conduct a load test on the existing flyover after cracks started appearing on it within two years of its construction. Kerala, represented by advocate G. Prakash, said the reconstruction project was notified on the basis of a high-level technical committee report in October 2019. The committee had entirely accepted the proposal submitted by E. Sreedharan, the architect of the Delhi metro. The government had already issued an offer submitted by the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation to take over the rehabilitation of the flyover. “The proposal submitted by E. Sreedharan recommends reconstruction and assures a service life of 100 years,” the State said. The State pleaded urgency to the apex court, saying the damage to the flyover was extensive. Besides, the bridge was central to the smooth flow of traffic in the city. Any delay in the reconstruction would bring traffic in the entire city, the financial capital of the State, to a complete halt. “There are about 2,100 cracks on the flyover, out of which 99 are having cracks of more than the tolerable limit of 0.3 mm,” the petition said. The State questioned the High Court’s intervention in the issue. “Administrative decisions taken by the government on the subjective satisfaction of the issue, and that too based on experts reports, ought not to have been interfered by the High Court,” the petition contended.
22 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||A journey into the picturesque hinterland||As the State strives hard to get the tourism sector back on its feet, a set of obscure, wooded villages in Pathanamthitta are too getting to work. Expecting a decisive shift in tourism to domestic holidays in the coming years, the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC) here has embarked on a plan to put its idyllic countryside life on the tourism map. The project envisages developing local visitor attractions within the limits of various local self-government institutions (LSGIs) through local participation.  Trekking and camping The plan focusses on the remote, uncrowded villages, hill tops and vast waterbodies of the hinterland for developing activities including trekking, boating and camp fire for tourism groups. “The district, with a forest cover of over 54% of its total area, holds immense potential to develop a slower form of tourism. Once the domestic visitors have discovered this unknown beauty, the international tourists may follow in,” says R.Sreeraj, secretary, DTPC, Pathanamthitta. According to him, the implementation of social-distancing measures is likely to limit the number of visitors into the traditional hotspots. “Despite its rich green cover and strong cultural background, the district is known for only a handful of ecotourism destinations such as Gavi and Adavi and pilgrimage centres like Sabarimala,” he says.   The new destinations, which can be developed through establishing some basic infrastructure, will also help the visitors to get a unique experience into the local life of these villages. Further, it also presents a chance for the local populace to evolve as tourism entrepreneurs and mitigate the impact of COVID-19-induced lockdown to an extent. Phased manner Under the project, the LSGIs are required to submit proposals to develop the select destinations within their limits. Upon verifying the tourism potential of each spot, the DTPC will select a couple of destinations and based on response it will be expanded across the district in a phased manner. Once a destination is selected, local people would be trained in all aspects of tourism and will require to own, manage and run all activities. They will be also taught to showcase their culture, lifestyle and the natural beauty of their village.
22 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||78 test positive in Pathanamthitta||Seventy-eight persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Friday. According to officials, 67 persons contracted the virus through local contact while 10 persons arrived from other States. Among the local contact cases were four children under the age of one. Officials said 40-day-old twins from Vakayar contracted the virus from their grandfather. A four-month-old from Malayalappuzha and a nine-month-old in Thiruvalla contracted the virus from their mothers.  One dead A 63-year-old woman succumbed to the disease on Friday. The woman, a native of Oonnukal, had been undergoing treatment at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital since August 14. The death has not been included in the State’s official COVID-19 death tally. With 27 more cured of the disease, the number of active cases in the district stands at 514.
22 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||429 positive cases in district||The district reported 429 new COVID-19 cases on Friday, indicating that there is no let-up in the daily caseload. As many as 394 patients contracted the infection through transmission, while the source of infection was not known in 17 cases. Five patients admitted in Ward 9 of the General Hospital tested positive after all patients in the ward underwent antigen tests. The RT-PCR results of the patients are awaited. Although the hospital was converted into a fully COVID-19 treatment facility earlier this week given the spike in cases in the city, Ward no: 9 for destitute persons and the dialysis unit had been retained. Meanwhile, 14 more health workers were diagnosed with COVID-19 on Friday, taking their total number since Sunday to 80. The 17 cases in which the source of infection was not known were reported from Parassala, Thampuranmukku, Panacode, Vattavila, Choozhattukotta, Vattiyoorkavu, Vattapara, Muttathara, Murukumpuzha, Naruvamoodu, Parassala, Tholicode, Varkala, Nettayam and Perukavu. Fourteen other patients who tested positive on Friday were in home quarantine while four others hailed from Tamil Nadu. In all, 258 persons tested negative on the day. The coastal areas continued to report more cases on Friday also. Pozhiyoor reported 17 cases, Poovar seven, Muttathara six, Kochuthope eight, Mulloor nine and Vizhinjam eight. Madavur in the district reported 16 cases on Friday, while Uchakkada reported 11 and Chempakassery, nine. As many as 1,500 people were newly placed under COVID-19 surveillance on Friday, even as 1,490 other patients completed the observation period without developing symptoms. In all, 24,233 people are under surveillance in the district. Barricaded The City Police have barricaded the entry points to Sivaji Lane and Rajiv Gandhi Lane in Muttathara ward of the Corporation which were declared containment zones on Thursday. Shops selling essential commodities will function from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. The police also registered cases against 597 people for breach of COVID-19 regulations.  Five patients admitted to Ward 9 of the General Hospital tested positive after all patients in the ward underwent antigen tests
22 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Questions over hygiene survey||With Thiruvananthapuram’s ranking yet again hovering around 300 in the latest Swachh Survekshan rankings put out by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, the city Corporation authorities have again questioned the methodology used for the survey, which they say does not consider effective decentralised waste management methods. Under the rankings for major cities having a population of less than 10 lakh, Thiruvananthapuram is ranked at 304, an improvement from last year’s position of 363. Kochi is ranked 372 while Kozhikode is ranked 361. Alappuzha has been ranked 152 for its zero-waste innovations. “The Swachh Survekshan has mainly focussed on door-to-door collection of waste and on having centralised waste management plants. Our focus has been on decentralised waste management, segregated waste collection, and recycling. The survey team has been unable to appreciate these methods or consider our achievements in this sector. In the previous years, we had written to the Centre regarding the issues with such a survey, but there has not been much of a response,” says Mayor K. Sreekumar. Ranked second in 2015 In 2015, Thiruvananthapuram was ranked second in the Swachh Bharat rankings for the cleanest capital cities. It was also ranked eighth overall. According to Corporation officials, that ranking was done based on ground-level surveys. In 2016, the methodology changed. “Now, everything is based on online questionnaires and data analysis. The agencies now hired for ground-level surveys are mostly consultancies focussing on the finance sector, with hardly any waste management expert in it. There are even consultancies that are now offering their services to prepare the materials to achieve a better ranking. So, rather than results on the ground, the focus is on building a perception with data,” says a Corporation health official. Poor sample size According to information from the Swachh dashboard, only 779 people from Thiruvananthapuram participated in the survey. After the closure of the centralised waste treatment plant at Vilappilsala following people’s protests, the city has evolved a decentralised model. The Corporation has also opened smart waste collection hubs. “Survekshan this year was robust in giving marks to both centralised and decentralised models. Alappuzha has been acknowledged as the best small city in innovation and best practice, which I feel was long overdue. For Thiruvananthapuram, there could be reasons, like low citizen participation in the survey,” says waste management expert Swati Singh Sambyal.
22 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Caseload, deaths continue to rise||The COVID-19 case graph continued its upward trend in the State with 1,983 new cases being reported on Friday. The cumulative case burden has now reached 54,182. With 35,243 persons having recovered from the disease so far, the number of patients currently being treated in hospitals is 18,673. The mortality rate has been rising in proportion to the rise in cases. The Health Department confirmed 12 deaths which had occurred last week to be COVID-19 deaths, taking the official toll to 203. Districtwise data Five of these deaths were reported from Kozhikode, four from Malappuram and one each from Alappuzha, Kannur and Ernakulam. Locally acquired infections constituted 92% of the new cases. In the 1,820 locally acquired infections, the infection could not be traced to a known source in 109 cases. The number of health-care workers who tested positive is 35. Of these, 14 are from Thiruvananthapuram. The capital district again reported the highest number of 429 cases, of which all except four cases are locally acquired infections. In Malappuram, 324 out of the 335 cases were the result of local transmission. Same trend The trend is very much similar in rest of the districts too, indicating the extent of the spread of the virus in the population. Among other districts, Ernakulam reported 165 cases, Kozhikode 158, Alappuzha 155, Kottayam 136, Thrissur 119, Kasaragod 105, Palakkad 83, Kollam 82, Pathanamthitta 78, Kannur 78, Idukki 34 and Wayanad 26. The number of persons quarantined at present is 1,76,930. Among them, 15,140 with mild symptoms are isolated in hospitals. The State tested 35,825 samples in the last 24 hours. Till date, 13,49,071 samples have been tested utilising various diagnostic modalities. More areas were designated as hotspots, taking the total number to 607.
22 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Industry, services hail move to lease out capital’s airport||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) has hailed the move to lease the Thiruvanathapuram international airport to the Adani Group. Thomas John Muthoot, chairman of the CII Kerala State Council, said the airport need to be on a par with international standards. “A private investor brings fresh capital to expand facilities and flights, so that the passenger revenue will grow and even the places around the airport will indirectly benefit. This is an ideal move which will improve flight connectivity and facilities at the airport,” he said. V.K. Mathews, executive chairman of the IBS Group, said an airport was a commercial and customer services enterprise and therefore not an ideal area for governments to operate. Tony Thomas, consultant, Boston Consulting Group, said the airport played an important role in the development of south Kerala and south Tamil Nadu. E.M. Najeeb, chairman, Air Travels Enterprises, said the Confederation of Kerala Tourism Industry (CKTI) welcomed the decision to lease out the airport. This could help overall development of southern Kerala. ‘Gateway to State’ M.I. Sahadullah, chairman, KIMS Hospital Group, said airports were gateways to a State. Having a passenger-friendly airport would provide the right message of welcome to any State. S.N. Reghuchandran Nair, ex-vice chairman, CREDAI, said the decision of the Centre would help spur development of the capital region that was in a state of neglect over the years. GTech, the organisation of IT and Information Technology Enabled Services companies across Kerala, has welcomed the Central move. It also requested the government to include proper development milestones and timelines as part of the 50-year lease agreement. ‘Proper governance’ “The State has already demonstrated a sustainable model using PPP for CIAL airport. We believe this decision will result in a sustainable model if proper checks and balances are in place. We are hopeful of seeing the airport grow further,” said GTech Chairman Sunil Jose. Binu Jacob, Secretary of GTech, felt that establishing a proper governance framework as part of the lease would ensure successful operation of the airport.
22 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree providing scientific disinfection services||Want to get your house or office disinfected? The Kudumbashree district mission is providing scientific disinfection services as part of efforts to check the spread of COVID-19. Two units under the district mission have begun disinfecting houses, offices, commercial establishments, institutions, and vehicles in the district on demand. The units have been set under the mission’s Yuvashree programme under which family members of Kudumbashree neighbourhood group members can start microenterprises. While one of the service providers is a mobile unit, the other is an all-women 40-member unit. The two units, which use World Health Organization (WHO)-recommended cleaning solutions, provide their services anywhere in the district. Rates per sq ft. Three types of services are provided by the units. One is disinfection alone using the chemical mixture. This is especially useful for homes and offices where daily cleaning is done but which are in need of disinfection. The rate charged is maximum Rs. 2.5 for a sq ft. Another involves cleaning of furniture and mopping of floor, followed up by disinfection. The rate is Rs. 3.5 for a sq ft. The third is deep cleaning, which is suitable for any house or establishment that has remained closed for some length of time and is in need of a thorough dusting and cleaning before disinfection is done. The units charge a maximum of Rs. 8 per sq ft. for this service. Machines are used for disinfection services such as fogging and spraying. The unit members have been trained not only in composition of the chemicals used but also in use and disposal of personal protective equipment and other safety equipment. They also are able to answer customers’ queries related to the disinfection process.  Call 9048503553 for the disinfection services.
22 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM’s media adviser kicks up a row||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s media adviser John Brittas appears to have kicked up a political row ahead of the Opposition’s no-confidence motion against the government in the Assembly on August 24. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Friday demanded an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation into a sensational "disclosure" by Mr. Brittas on Kairali television on Wednesday. He had claimed that a private builder had paid Rs. 4.5 crore as kickback to bag the government contract to build 140 dwellings for homeless families at Vadakanchery under the LIFE Mission scheme. The UAE Red Crescent had sponsored the Rs. 20-crore project. Mr. Chennithala said Mr. Brittas had said the builder had delivered the bribe to a suspect in the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac and Law Minister A.K. Balan had endorsed Mr. Brittas’s statement. View of the CM The views of the trio were in variance with the stated position of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who had repeatedly claimed there was no corruption in the deal. Mr. Chennithala alleged that Mr. Vijayan's former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar had fast-tracked the deal at the behest of the CM’s Office. Swapna Suresh, second accused in the gold smuggling case, played a pivotal role in the deal. Mr. Vijayan had ignored the red flags raised by the Law Department, which should have alerted the administration to the legal pitfalls, he said.
22 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State opposes short-termination of trains||Kerala has asked Railways to withdraw the move to short-terminate trains, including Jayanthi Janata Express, as part of the modernisation of the timetable and to withdraw stop for trains in the State. In a letter to Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal, Minister for Public Works and Railways G. Sudhakaran said such unilateral decisions would hamper the travel convenience of commuters. The short-termination of Jayanthi Janata Express at Pune would adversely affect passengers to Mumbai and cause immense hardship to senior citizens and children. Similarly, the move to short-terminate Silchar-Thiruvananthapuram Aaroni Express at Coimbatore will affect hundreds of migrant workers. The Minister said there was also a move to short-terminate Palakkad-Tiruchendur Express at Madurai and Kollam-Ernakulam MEMU at Alappuzha. Kochuveli-Amritsar Chandigarh Dehradum Express would start from Ernakulam. Mr. Sudhakaran urged the Union Minister to withdraw the decision.
22 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Winners announced||The Kerala State Chalachitra Academy has chosen ten winners in a short-film scriptwriting contest based on the theme ‘Isolation and survival’, in the context of the pandemic-induced lockdown. The winners were chosen from 737 entries from across the world. The winners are Ajay Kumar M. ( Motorcycle Diaries ), Anish Palliyil K. ( Superspreader ), Hema S. Chandredath ( Life is Beautiful ), Jinesh V.S. ( Akam ), Jose Puthussery ( David and Goliath ), Manoj Puncha ( Bhayabhakthi ), Riyas Umar ( Ore Swasam ), Santosh Kumar C. ( Kallante Daivam ), Shanoj R. Chandran ( Oru Barbarinte Katha ), Smitto Thomas ( The Rat ). The academy will provide Rs. 50,000 each to the winners to make short films based on the script.
22 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bicycle brigade formed by youth board||A bicycle brigade has been formed under the umbrella of the Kerala State Youth Welfare Board. The brigade, aimed at popularising cycling among the youth, was kicked off at St. Xavier’s College, Thumba, on Thursday. Reducing air pollution caused by vehicles emitting fumes and promoting good health were some of the aims of cycling promotion, board vice chairman P. Biju who inaugurated the programme said herein a pressnote. College Principal Fr. Dasappan and student representatives were present at the function.
22 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kodiyeri hails Mani’s decision on whip||CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Friday said the result of the Rajya Sabha byelection on August 24 would further diminish the relevance of the United Democratic Front (UDF) as a credible political coalition in the State. Left Democratic Front candidate M.V. Shreyams Kumar would garner more votes than the ruling front's candidate had polled in the previous Rajya Sabha poll. The Jose K. Mani faction in the Kerala Congress (M), which claimed to have at least two legislators in the Assembly, has defied the whip of the UDF. The CPI(M) State secretariat, which met here on Friday, welcomed Mr. Mani's stance. The UDF lacked the organisational strength to keep the coalition intact, he said. (Mr. Mani has not revealed whether his legislators would abstain from the voting or cast their lot in favour of the LDF. Mr. Balakrishnan said the LDF would debate whether it should welcome Mr. Mani into its fold later.) Mr. Balakrishnan said the UDF’s no-confidence motion against the government would be defeated overwhelmingly. He challenged the UDF to sit through the debate and participate in the voting. “Do not cut loose and run after your leaders have spoken.” The defeat would whittle down the Opposition's numbers in the House. Mr. Balakrishnan said the UDF was at a loss to take a stance against the Centre’s National Education Policy that discriminated against minorities, backward castes, and the Scheduled Castes. However, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor, MP, and KC(M) leader P.J. Joseph had welcomed the policy.
22 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||11 more containment zones||The district administration on Friday declared 11 more local body wards as containment zones, given the increase in COVID-19 cases. They are, Venganoor and Vazhottukonam wards in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Mavottukonam, Chittiyoorkode and Machel in Malayinkeezhu grama panchayat; Keezharoor, Kavaloor and Pashuvannara in Aryankode panchayat; Mynapara in Navayikulam panchayat; Thekkada in Vembayam panchayat; and Perumbazhuthoor in Neyyattinkara municipality. The containment zones in the following areas in the district have been lifted: South Colony road and Kunnu Bungalow Colony in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Decentmukku in Navayikulam panchayat; Ettimoodu in Vamanapuram panchayat. Webinar The district administration is organising a two-day webinar as part of drawing up a district action plan for stepping up COVID-19 containment activities.
22 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Boy found in house with mother’s body||A 13-year-old boy who was alone in his house in Kollayil grama panchayat with the body of his mother for at least three days has been shifted to a quarantine home of the LMS on the directions of the district child welfare committee (CWC). The smell emanating from the house at Kollayil grama panchayat in the Marayamuttom police station limits alerted the neighbours who informed the police on Friday. The Marayamuttom police said only the mother and the boy lived in the house, and there were not many houses in the neighbourhood. Physically challenged The mother was physically challenged and used a wheelchair. The duo did not have much contact with their neighbours. Food was provided to them by relatives. The woman’s body has been shifted to Government Medical College Hospital for COVID-19 testing. Only after inquest and post-mortem examination would details be revealed, the police said. Once the quarantine period was over the boy would be shifted to a child care institution, CWC chairperson N. Sunanda said.
22 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Online film fete begins||Stressing the need to energise and restart activities in the cultural and educational spheres during the COVID-19 pandemic, Minister for Culture A.K. Balan said online events could become a way out of the standstill that has affected all sectors. He was inaugurating the Docuscape Online Film Festival organised by the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy on Friday. Filmmaker Kamal, Chalachitra Academy Chairman, said artistes across the world were facing a lot of uncertainty. Online festivals would bring back a semblance of activity into the scene. The festival opened with Turkish film Amina , directed by Kivilcim Akay. Those interested can log in/sign up using the registration link in the websitewww.idsffk.in/https://registration.iffk.into watch the films. Registration is free.
22 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State to give 16.48 lakh tap connections in rural areas||The State government has accorded administrative sanction for providing 16.48 lakh functional household tap connections (FHTC) in rural Kerala at an estimated cost of Rs. 4,343.89 crore under the Centrally assisted Jal Jeeval Mission (JJM). Surveillance Support activities amounting to Rs. 59.11 crore and water quality surveillance activities amounting to Rs. 45.68 crore also have been cleared. As per orders issued on Friday, 16,48,023 water connections will be provided in 716 panchayats. A majority of the schemes are to be implemented by the Kerala Water Authority (KWA).
22 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Governor presented with Khadi Onakkodi||The Kerala Sarvodaya Sangham (KSS) presented a Khadi Onakkodi kit to Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Friday. KSS general secretary K.G. Baburaj and treasurer R. Satheeshkumar called on the Governor and presented the kit. They said the KSS had arranged a Khadi mela at the Khadi Gramodyog Bhavan here. The Governor wished all the workers in the Khadi sector a happy Onam.
22 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Training for industry clusters||Applications have been invited from industry clusters for the apprentice training programme offered by the Industrial Training Department under the STRIVE scheme of the Union Ministry of Skill Development. For details, visit https:dgt.gov.in/download-guidelines-strive. The last date is August 31.
22 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram/kochi,KERALA||Mathai death: State nod for CBI probe||The State government on Friday approved an inquiry by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the allegation that P.P. Mathai, a 41-year-old farmer in Pathanamthitta district, died in the custody of Forest Department officials on July 28. The decision came hours before the Kerala High Court was scheduled to consider a plea by Mathai’s wife Sheeba for a CBI probe into the puzzling death. She had alleged in her petition that wildlife enforcers attached to the Chittar forest station had arrested her husband, tortured him in custody, and later dumped his body into a well near his residence at Kudappana to make the “murder” seem like an accident. Hours before his death, local forest officials had allegedly summoned Mathai to the Chittar station for questioning in connection with the alleged vandalisation of a few surveillance cameras. Mathai's death resonated among the rural farming community when Sheeba openly swore that she would not bury her husband’s body until the family got justice from the police. The preliminary post-mortem examination pointed to death by drowning. The State police had mimicked Mathai’s fall with a mannequin matching his size and body weight in a bid to find out whether it was a homicidal or accidental death. The result of the dummy test was reportedly inconclusive. P.C. George, MLA, told The Hindu that the police had ignored overwhelming evidence and attempted to save the forest officials. He said Mathai’s body was in a private morgue for the past 23 days. Meanwhile, the Kerala High Court ordered a CBI probe in the case. Justice V.G. Arun directed the CBI to take over the investigation forthwith. The judge, disposing of a writ petition filed by Mathai’s wife seeking a CBI probe, expressed the hope that the CBI would take over the probe immediately.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Correction||The headline of the lead story of Page 3 on a national cleanliness survey, published on Friday, had incorrectly mentioned 302 as the rank of Kochi. It should have been 372.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Onam’s here||
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ganeshotsav rituals begin in capital||The three-day rituals in connection with Ganeshotsav organised by the Ganeshotsav Trust Committee began here on Friday. Former Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president M.M. Hassan inaugurated the Ganeshotsav in the State capital. Ganesh puja is being held at 58 centres in the district. Outside the city limits, the pujas are being held at centres such as Nedumangad, Venjaramoodu, Attingal, Kazhakuttam, Kovalam, Neyyattinkara, and so on. Pujas are being held at houses too. The 10-day pujas have been reduced to that of three days this year in the wake of COVID-19.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Riot of colours||
22 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tourism Dept. reaches out to COVID patients||The A.P. Tourism Development Corporation and the Tourism Department have pooled up their resources to serve COVID-19 patients at two hospitals in Anantapur. As many as 335 patients are getting treatment at Super Speciality Hospital block and Cancer Care Centre and the Tourism Department started serving quality food for them. Regional Director and Divisional Manager of Tourism B. Eshwaraiah told The Hindu that majority of their employees in other than service sector like entertainment were at present have no work and the department was utilising the services over 50 employees for the purpose. The department or the corporation does not have a property of its own in Anantapur city, hence they have taken the Revenue Kalyana Mandapam for the purpose of cooking and packing food for a targeted 1,000 patients, he said. Meanwhile, 707 patients were discharged on Friday, while 704 new cases were registered taking the tally of positive persons to 33,307 and 8 died taking the toll to 262. Meanwhile, Kurnool district saw 919 new cases taking the tally to 37,300 with 7,040 active cases and 317 fatalities.
22 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘University should focus on futuristic courses’||The founder Vice-Chancellor of Central University of Anantapur(CUA), S.A. Kori, assumed office on Friday promising to develop it as a world-class institution by inviting the best faculty. “Replicating what other successful universities have done is not I look forward to, but creating a culture of our own that connects development on the campus with the society outside is my aim,” Mr. Kori said after assuming office. The university needs to look towards futuristic courses, he said adding that in the backdrop of New Education Policy unveiled by the Centre, CUA also needs to have futuristic teaching methods. Promising that he would be a man of few words and that his work would speak for him, Mr. Kori said he would strive to have the best teaching culture and a model university.
22 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||All gas leak victims safe, says MLA||Puthalapattu MLA M.S. Babu has said that all the 12 victims of the ammonium gas leak at Hatsun dairy plant near Chittoor are safe and quality medicare will be provided to them all. The MLA, along with Revenue Divisional Officer (Chittoor) D. Renuka, inspected the mishap site in the factory near Puthalapattu mandal headquarters. The incident occurred on Thursday night. Twelve workers, mostly women, fell sick and were rushed to the District Hospital at Chittoor. Mr. Babu said that a preliminary report on the circumstances that led to the mishap at the factory was sent to the District Collector and the Superintendent of Police. Speaking to the family members of the victims, the MLA assured them of taking all necessary steps for their medical attention.
22 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||12 Nagarjunasagar gates lifted; major reservoirs full||Major reservoirs in the State are brimming as incessant rain in North Karnataka brought huge inflows into all the rivers in the Krishna basin. The rare spectacle of lifting the crest gates of the world’s largest earthen dam, Nagarjunasagar, unfolded on Friday evening. Irrigation engineers of Telangana opened 12 crest gates as the water level touched 585.70 feet against the Full Reservoir Level (FRL) of 590 feet. The reservoir is brimming with flood waters and is close to reaching its FRL of 312.05 tmcft. While the inflows stand at 3.93 lakh cusecs, the outflows are put at 1.20 lakh cusecs. Upstream of Nagarjunasagar, the Srisailam reservoir is also brimming with a water level of 883.37 feet against its FRL of 215.81 tmcft. Here, the inflows are 3.93 lakh cusecs and outflows are 3.82 lakh cusecs. The water levels at Pulichintala balancing reservoir too are good at 159.48 feet. Irrigation engineers had already said that Prakasam Barrage was expected to receive 2 lakh cusecs by August 23.  The Collector said since outflows at Nagarjunasagar were expected to cross the 4 lakh cusecs-mark by Saturday evening, high alert had been sounded in the district.
22 August 2020||KUKUNUR (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Families in R&R colonies perform ‘house warming’||It is a home away from home for many tribal families that have been evacuated from the low-lying areas in view of the Godavari floods and temporarily housed in the Resettlement and Rehabilitation (R&R) Colonies constructed for the Polavaram project-displaced. The Koya and Kondareddy tribal families performed ‘gruha pravesam’ (house-warming) and entered the new houses in the Dacharam and Sivaka colonies in Kukunur mandal. The authorities had shifted about 4,000 families staying in the low-lying areas of Polavaram, Kukunur and Velerupadu mandals to various relief centres arranged in the upland areas, and a few of them were put up in the R&R Colonies five days ago. Sources said 1,05,601 families, including 56,495 Scheduled Tribes, were affected due to the project in East and West Godavari districts, and the government is planning to shift them to the R&R Colonies. Speaking to The Hindu on Friday, K.R. Puran ITDA Project Officer R.V. Suryanarayana, who was monitoring the implementation of the R&R package for the project-displaced families, said that 373 habitations spread over seven mandals in the two district would be affected due to the national project. ‘Temporary accommodation’ “We have temporarily shifted 220 families to the Dacharam and Sivaki R&R Colonies constructed in the upland areas of Kukunur mandal. The tribal people have expressed their happiness over the facilities provided in the colonies,” Mr. Suryanarayana said. “They too are project-displaced. They would have been accommodated in the R&R Colonies in due course of time,” he said, and added that the ITDA is supplying them milk, vegetables, rice, dal, biscuits, fruits, edible oil and kerosene.
22 August 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Miniature painting of Ganesha wows devotees||City-based artist Shaik Ameer Jan’s miniature painting of Lord Ganesha on a peacock feather has become the cynosure of all eyes here on the eve of Vinayaka Chavithi. “The 4 cm painting was done with utmost care using acrylic colours, as the feather tends to ruffle even with the slightest movement of air,” he said. The painting took two hours to make, he said. Mr. Shaik has been coming up with novel paintings every year for devotees to draw inspiration from and celebrate the festival in an eco-friendly way. He has painted 222 idols in different forms on a 15 cm pencil using acrylic colours. He has etched his name in the Limca Book of Records for painting 2,000 Vinayakas on a coconut and 1,296 miniature Ganesha paintings.
22 August 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||16 more die of virus in Nellore, Prakasam||Coronavirus continued to spread across the south coastal Andhra region as 16 more patients -- 12 in SPSR Nellore district and four in Prakasam district -- lost the battle against the viral disease in the last 24 hours. With this, the toll rose to 397 in the two districts, where 1,558 persons tested positive during the period, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Friday. The toll went up to 191 in SPSR Nellore district. The figure was 206 in Prakasam district, where 54 patients succumbed to the dreaded disease in just a week. The cumulative positive cases in the two districts went up to 35,398 including 20,433 in SPSR Nellore district. Positive sign On the other hand, a positive development was that 1,427 patients -- 1,020 in SPSR Nellore district and 407 in Prakasam district were discharged from hospitals during the period. The number of active cases came down to 4,753 in SPSR Nellore district which reported 761 fresh cases during the period. Over 5,000 active cases With 797 persons testing positive in 311 clusters, including 18 new ones, the number of active cases stood at 5,712 in Prakasam district. Over 3,500 patients in Prakasam district were treated at their homes with hospitals filled to their capacity. The condition of 48 of the 976 symptomatic patients being treated at COVID-19 hospitals remained critical. Over 1,100 patients were treated at COVID-19 Care Centres set up in Ongole, Kandukur and Markapur revenue divisions in the district. The virus continued to spread in other places too. Ongole accounted for a maximum of 135 new cases followed by Kandukur with 42 cases, Kanigiri(39), Addanki(33), Chimakurthy(27), Kothapatnam(21), Darsi(18) and Konakanamitla(18).
22 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||IG probes death of accused in mishap||South Coast Zone Inspector General J. Prabhakar Rao on Friday conducted an inquiry into the death of a 23-year-old man, an accused in the case of a missing girl, while he was being brought from Hyderabad to Kandukur town in Prakasam district on Tuesday night. Mr. Prabhakar, who conducted the inquiry along with Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal, took a serious view of the incident. The accused had allegedly eloped with a minor girl and was arrested after the girl’s family lodged a complaint. Police said the accused died from injuries sustained in an accident that occurred at Miryalaguda and warned that stern action would be taken against police personnel for negligence. The IG asked police personnel in the district to be vigilant while transporting those taken into custody from one place to another. Taking note of allegations of police interference in civil disputes, the IG stated that erring personnel would be hauled up. Meanwhile, based on the recommendations of the SP after an inquiry by Ongole DSP K.V.V.N.V. Prasad, Ongole Taluka Circle Inspector K. Laxman was placed under suspension by the IG for interfering in civil disputes. Observing the functioning of the video wall system at the District Command Control Centre, the IG appreciated Mr. Kaushal for using technology to crack crimes.
22 August 2020||Polavaram (West Godavari),ANDHRA PRADESH||Flood level touches 55 feet at Bhadrachalam||Officials of the Central Water Commission (CWC) issued the third warning as the water level in the Godavari increased to 55.30 feet at Bhadrachalam at 6 p.m. on Friday. The flood level might rise further as heavy rains were forecast, the officials said, and cautioned the people staying near the banks of the river to move to safer places. The flood levels at various places such as Kunavaram, Koida, cofferdam, Polavaram, old railway bridge (Havelock bridge, Rajamahendravaram) and Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage (Dowleswaram) were increasing. Irrigation officials released 15,97,981 lakh cusecs downstream of the barrage by afternoon. Woman goes missing Meanwhile, Gangamma of Pallapur village in Polavaram mandal reportedly went missing in the Kondavagula stream. Efforts were on to trace her. About 150 habitations were flooded in the Devipatnam, V.R. Puram, Chinturu, Kunavaram, Yatapaka, Mummidivaram, Elamanchili, Achanta, Velerupadu, Polavaram, Kukunur and other mandals in East and West Godavari districts. Personnel of the Revenue, Police, National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), Fire Services, Medical and Health and other departments were evacuating the people from the marooned villages as the flood level was rising in the Godavari. More than 60,000 people were shifted to the relief centres in the two districts. The Adivasis who had shifted to the hilly areas five days ago were facing severe hardship. Communication was cut off to many villages as flood waters were overflowing onto the roads and power supply was disrupted. “We returned to our house from the relief centre on Thursday morning. As the flood level started rising by evening, we moved to the relief centre again,” said S. Adi Lakshmi of Elamanchili mandal. Word of caution “As the mud houses and thatched huts have been soaking in rain for the last few days, we request the villagers not to stay in old houses, and instead shift to safer places. In all, 28 rehabilitation centres have been arranged in the Agency area,” said Polavaram sub-collector R.V. Suryanarayana. Many Kondareddy and Koya tribal families were staying on the hilly areas for the last one week, and a few were shifted to the rehabilitation centres in Polavaram and Velerupadu mandals, he said. “The tribal families pitched tents on the hilly areas. We distributed candles, kerosene, vegetables and groceries to the flood victims staying is such areas,” Mr. Suryanarayana said. Irrigation authorities, along with Revenue, Police and ITDA officials, inspected the situation at Polavaram village, and directed officials to strengthen the riverbund.
22 August 2020||RAMPACHODAVARAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘14,000 tribals in 80 villages affected in East Godavari’||Minister for BC Welfare Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna on Friday said that nearly 14,000 tribal people in 80 habitations had been affected by floods in the Godavari in the East Godavari Agency. Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna inspected a flood relief centre in Rampachodavaram, where he inquired about the facilities and assured of timely support for the affected people from the government to lead their regular life by offering compensation to the crops or houses damaged during the flood. East Godavari Joint Collector (Development) Ch. Kirthi on Friday inspected the tribal habitations affected by the flood in Devipatnam mandal in Rampa Agency. Ms. Kirthi inspected relief operations at Ganugulagondi, Enugulagondi, Agraharam and Moolapadu in Devipatnam mandal. The families in these four habitations did not leave their habitations, expressing fear of the spread of COVID-19. Acording to East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, over one lakh people have been affected by the flood. Nearly 43,000 of them have been affected in Konaseema area alone as hundreds of houses remain under a sheet of water. He said over 51,000 people affected by the flood were in relief camps and they would be housed there for some days. As many as 339 boats were involved in relief operations.
22 August 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD Trust Board likely to meet on Aug. 28||The TTD Trust Board is tentatively scheduled to meet on August 28. The meeting assumes significance as it comes at a time when the board is rather compelled to take a final call over the modalities to be worked out for the conduct of the annual Brahmotsavams amid the COVID-19 scare. This year, Tirumala is set to witness two Brahmotsavams, one in September and the other in October. The rising number of COVID-19 cases across the country has put the TTD in a dilemma, forcing it to adopt a wait-and-watch approach. But, as there is no respite in sight and the festival date (September 19) fast approaching, the TTD is now obligated to arrive at a decision on whether to organise it on a low-key note or carry it out in all its grandeur, subject to the approval by both the State and Central governments as several lakhs of devotees from the length and breadth of the country throng the town to take part in the nine-day extravaganza. Revenue aspect Another important subject on which the board may focus its attention on pertains to the shoring up of financial resources to meet the administrative expenses of the management. The TTD spends about Rs. 110 crore to Rs. 120 crore every month on the salaries and wages of its 21,000-odd workforce alone. The closure of the temple for 80 days from March 20, coupled with the sharp decline in the ‘hundi’ proceeds (which constitute the major chunk of the income) after its reopening on June 8, has dried whatever financial resources the management is left with. This apart, huge funds will have to be spent in organising the two Brahmotsavams, irrespective of the scale of their conduct.  The meeting is also likely to discuss whether or not to enhance the number of pilgrims allowed for darshan of the deity. At present, only 9,000 online tickets of Rs. 300 special entry darshan are issued daily with the TTD scrapping the ‘sarvadarshanam’ in the backdrop of growing COVID positive cases in Tirupati.
22 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Lackadaisical attitude has led to spike’||Tirupati MLA and Chittoor district COVID coordinating committee chairman Bhumana Karunakar Reddy has cautioned the public to stay indoors and practice physical distancing, recalling that the number of cases has been on a steady rise in the district in the recent days. Reception counter “From 2-3% in the initial days to 6% last month and from 17% during the last fortnight, the positivity rate has steadily risen to 20-25% in the last two days,” he observed. The official, along with co-chairman Ch. Bhaskar Reddy and Collector Bharat Narayana Gupta, participated in the opening of a COVID reception counter at the ESI Hospital here on Friday. The counter was opened to disseminate information among the kin of COVID patients about their health status, admission and discharge details. In spite of the sincere efforts by the district machinery to prevent the spread, lack of seriousness among public had caused the spike, Mr. Reddy observed. “The doctors and sanitary workers are leaving no stone unturned, but it is the civic indifference that is taking a toll, he said. Dr. Bhaskar Reddy said the counter was necessitated by the series of complaints from the relatives about lack of transparency in divulging details about the health status of patients. He appealed to the public to stay safe, citing IMA and WHO statements on the crucial turn the curve could take in the next 45 days. They later inspected Govindaraja choultry, which is set to become the next COVID Care Centre. Joint Collector K. Veerabrahmam, TUDA Vice-Chairman S. Harikrishna, Secretary S. Lakshmi and ESI Superintendent Balasankar Reddy accompanied them.
22 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganesh idols distributed||TUDA Chairman and Chief Whip in the Assembly Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy launched a programme to distribute one lakh clay idols of Lord Ganesha among devotees at Tiruchanur on Friday. Mr. Bhaskar Reddy said 350 artisans worked for 10 days to make the idols. The idols, measuring one-foot in height, are distributed among the public at 43 kiosks set up across Chandragiri.
22 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Number of COVID hospitals increased to 287; Jagan orders hiring of doctors||To strengthen the COVID-19 treatment network, the government has increased the number of COVID hospitals from the existing 138 to 287 in the State with Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy instructing appointment of additional doctors and medical specialists, besides increasing the salaries of sanitary workers. Reviewing the pandemic situation in the State on Friday, the Chief Minister asked the officials to add 149 more COVID hospitals and wanted them to ensure availability of doctors and specialists by appointing them at the earliest. He said the salaries of the temporary staff recruited for sanitary works would be increased and the hospitals would be equipped with basic infrastructure. He asked the officials to give rating to the hospitals based on their performance. Mr. Jagan made it categorical that these 287 hospitals should have all facilities and adequate medical staff and their standards should be constantly monitored. The officials should ensure effective functioning of the COVID Call Centers and Help Desks set up in the hospitals to enable patients or the general public to bring to the notice of the authorities concerned their grievances and hygiene and good food quality should be maintained, he said. Drawing the officials’ attention to people who were in home quarantine, he said they should be properly guided during the isolation period. Speaking about the referral protocol, Mr. Jagan said it should be strictly followed from the village, ward and clinic levels. He wanted a separate call centre to be started for people to register their complaints related to Arogyasri services and said the toll-free number should be prominently displayed at all hospitals. The district health officials have been directed to conduct a ‘referral analysis’ of each hospital every fortnight and officials will scrutinise reports submitted by them every month.
22 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Consider quota for Kapus, Jogaiah urges Chief Minister||Kapu Samkshema Sena convener and former MP Chegondi Harirama Jogaiah wrote separate letters to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Friday on reservations and other issues pertaining to the community. In his letter to the Chief Minister, Mr. Jogaiah requested that the community be recognised as Backward Classes (BCs), and reservation extended to its members without cutting into the quota being enjoyed by the other sections (of BCs) whether or not an assurance to that effect figured in the YSRCP election manifesto. He said it was unfair on the part of Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy to state at the time of the elections that the Kapu reservation issue was in the Central government’s purview. Mr. Jogaiah suggested that the government constitute another committee for compiling data if the previous panels did not fulfil their mandate, so that the plea to the Central government to permit reservation exceeding the 50% ceiling could be backed by a comprehensive database.
22 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No respite from new cases||The State has yet another day witnessed close to 10,000 new infections and close to 100 deaths during the past 24 hours as of Friday morning. With 9,544 new infections and 91 new deaths the COVID tally went up to 3,34,940 and death toll mounted to 3,092, according to the Health Department's bulletin. The number of recoveries too went up to 2,44,045 with 8,827 new recoveries in the past day leaving 87,803 active cases. The recovery rate continued to go up and is now at 72.86% while the death rate is at 0.92%. Positivity rate increased to 10.70%. So far 31,29,857 tests were conducted including the 55,010 samples tested in the past day. The tests per million ratio has also gone up to 58,611. Alarmingly, four districts reported deaths in two digits. Chittoor saw 16 deaths for the second consecutive day, while West Godavari reported 13 deaths, Nellore reported 12 and East Godavari reported 11 deaths. Anantapur reported eight deaths, Kadapa (7), Visakhaptam (6), Srikakulam (5), Prakasam (4) and Guntur, Krishna and Kurnool reported three new deaths each. Vizianagaram saw no deaths. Also, three districts reported more than a thousand new cases each. East Godavari reported 1,312 new cases and is followed by West Godavari (1,131), Chittoor (1,103), Kurnool (919), Prakasam (797), Nellore (761), Visakhapatnam (738), Anantapur (704), Srikakulam (571), Vizianagaram (542), Guntur (358), Kadapa (343) and Krishna (265). The tallies of districts are as follows: East Godavari (46,668), Kurnool (37,300), Anantapur (33,307), Guntur (29,166), Visakhapatnam (28,813), West Godavari (28,156), Chittoor (27,676), Nellore (20,433), Kadapa (19,536), Srikakulam (17,561), Prakasam (14,965), Vizianagaram (14,963) and Krishna (13,501). Recovery rate The recovery rate in Anantapur, West Godavari, Krishna and Kurnool is above 80% with Anantapur topping with 82%. Four other districts have recovery rate more than 70% and four have more than 60%. Only Vizianagaram’s recovery rate is 52%, the lowest of all.
22 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APCCIF hails new tourism policy||The Andhra Pradesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry Federation and the Hotels and Restaurants Association of Andhra Pradesh have expressed gratitude to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao for their commitment in bringing out the best, investor-friendly tourism policy. Chairman of the State Tourism Committee of the Federation K. Lakshminarayana appreciated the efforts of ṭhe department in coordinating with the office-bearers of AP Chambers and the stakeholders of Tourism, Hospitality, Leisure, Recreation and Entertainment sectors for their contribution in bringing out the best possible draft Tourism Policy. He said a landmark investor-friendly tourism policy was awaited for the State.
22 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Committee to study transfers and postings||The government on Friday constituted a committee for studying the issue of transfers and postings with a view to bring in more transparency and accountability in the system. According to a GO issued by the Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, the committee will have Chief Secretary as the chairperson and comprise Chief Commissioner of Land Administration, Director-General of Police and Principal Secretary (Finance) as the members and Secretary (Services, General Administration Department) as the convener. The committee is mandated to submit it's report in 14 days.
22 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SOPs to fix responsibility in ‘referral system’||The State government has come up with a set of Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to be strictly followed by hospitals dealing with COVID patients while referring them to other hospitals, whenever necessary. The SOPs state that no patient should be referred if he/she can be treated at the existing facility, the patient’s condition should be stabilised before taking a call on shifting or referring to other hospital, ambulance should be provided to shift the patient to the referral hospital and availability of treatment should be confirmed at the referral hospital before shifting the patient. The SOP also mandates that a bed and a doctor at the receiving hospital be kept ready prior to the arrival of the patient and that treatment should start immediately without waiting for the admission procedures to be completed. Referral card To fix accountability, a referral card has been introduced that will have to be filled before a patient is referred to another hospital, with a detailed information about his/her health condition. “Accountability will be fixed at the District Medical and Health Officer level in the event of any lapse in following the SOP. The referral system should start from the village and ward level rather than the PHC level,” said Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy.
22 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No tolerance for malicious posts, says BJP||The State BJP has warned those resorting to malicious propaganda against the Central government and the party’s national and State leaders of criminal action. “If the mischief-mongers are employees, the party will bring their actions to the notice of top administrators of the organisations (public or private) concerned, requesting them to initiate disciplinary proceedings,” the party said in a release. It further alleged that some persons were posting defamatory messages on the Central government and the party leaders on social media platforms with political motives. “The party is identifying and keeping track of the social media accounts through which a slanderous campaign has been unleashed on it, and is preparing to take necessary action,” the release added. “If the persons targeting the party are residents of foreign countries, it will pass on information about them and the objectionable content published by them to the Indian embassies to facilitate action,” the release warned.
22 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID patient dies in accident||One person, suffering from COVID, died and three others were injured in an accident at Kethanakonda on the outskirts of Vijayawada on Friday. The accident occurred when a private ambulance, which was shifting the patient from Palakol to Hyderabad, skidded off the road and overturned.
22 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic fails to dampen festive spirit||Despite COVID-19 situation, city wore a festive look ahead of Vinayaka Chaviti on Friday. Ganesh temples were decked up for the festival. Demand for flowers, fruits and other materials was high as local markets were seen packed with people. A number of temporary stalls selling Ganesh idols, fruits, flowers, colours and other decorative items was set up at various places in the city. People said that rates of flowers, fruits, especially bananas and coconuts, have been doubled on Friday as the shopkeepers made a brisk business. “Fruits, flowers, coconuts and bananas alone costed around Rs. 300. There was no scope for bargaining due to high demand. The shopkeepers have been making good business for the last four weeks as people performed Lakshmi puja on Fridays,” said K. Aruna, a resident of Visalakshi Nagar area. Social distancing Clay idols were sold in huge numbers. A number of people gifted them to their friends and relatives. Many NGOs, businessmen, clubs, organisations and environmental activists also distributed clay idols to citizens. Many people have been cleaning their homes to celebrate the festival in a grand manner. Women are gearing up to prepare delicious ‘prasadams.’ Residents of several apartments have decided to arrange three-foot Ganesh idol and perform special prayers for one-day, observing social distancing. Local youth used to set up huge Ganesh pandals in their colonies. The city police used to receive more than 2,500 applications to set up pandals every year. However, the streets are going to remain silent now due to restrictions imposed in view of the pandemic. “We used to celebrate the festival with a lot of fun. It takes one-month preparation to set up pandal and we used to form committees. Throughout the day, we used to be in touch with friends and residents of colony. However, we respect the government’s decision this year. Hope Lord Ganesh protect us from the virus,” said K. Mahaveer, a resident of Allipuram. In rural areas of the district, police made it clear to people that there is no permission for setting up Ganesh pandals. Clay idols were distributed at a programme organised by the Rotary Club of Visakhapatnam South at Anuradha Auto Sheelanagar Petrol Bunk. Club president Venkanna Choudary urged people to use only clay idols and contribute to the cause of the environment. Rotary members Joga Rao, Rajasekhar, Nitish Reddy, and others were present. Meanwhile, Rotary Club Visakha Port City distributed 1,000 idols with plant seeds inside. Club president Kali Prasad said that environment is also an area of focus for them. President-elect Varma, Rotary Blood Bank secretary Rambabu and others were present.
22 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Frontline workers seek respect and appreciation||Ward volunteers, ward administrative secretaries, ANMs at the ward-level PHCs, medical officers, technicians and the paramedical staff at PHCs or ‘max centres’ are the first level of defence in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Right now, there are 25 operational max centres in the city and the district administration has proposed to open 43 new PHCs, with the aim of covering all 74 wards in the city under GVMC. These PHCs are manned by young medical officers who are fresh pass-outs and the coordination, administrative and groundwork is done by a set of another young ward volunteers and ward secretaries, who are in their early or mid-20s. From day one, ever since the first lockdown in March, these young people have been at the forefront in tackling the pandemic, not worrying about the risk to their health. “We are the first line of defence, as it is to us that they come for testing and treatment. A number of people working in this sector such as doctors, ANMs, lab technicians and ward volunteers, have tested positive. They have undergone treatment for COVID-19 and have resumed duty after 14 days,” said Dr. Sushmita Priya, medical officer at a PHC near Dr. V.S. Krishna Government Degree and PG College. “We are directly exposed to COVID-19 patients and asymptomatic cases when we go for survey, tracing primary contacts, monitoring patients who are under home isolation,” said ward secretary Vamsi Krishna Murthy, who graduated as a mechanical engineer. But despite the yeoman service, the young workers feel people do not respect them or appreciate their work. “People argue with us when we request them to maintain social distancing or wear a mask in the correct way. They abuse us for not testing them, even in cases when it is not required. What we seek is a little bit of respect and appreciation, as we are not only risking our lives but also that of our family members,” said Dr. Sushmita.  Ward volunteers are the first to address a COVID-19 call. All one has to do is go on the internet and search for ‘Know your volunteer’ in A.P. The name and number of the volunteer will pop up once the user enters the door number and Aadhaar number, Mr. Vamsi said. In Visakhapatnam, there are over 10,000 ward volunteers and over 1,400 ward secretaries, and 25 medical officers in the 25 functional PHCs (likely to increase to 74) and over 2,000 ANMs who are working on the frontlines.
22 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With six more deaths, toll crosses the 200-mark||The COVID-19 death toll crossed the 200-mark in Visakhapatnam district, after six more deaths being reported in the last 24 hours. As on Friday, the total number of persons who succumbed to coronavirus from the district was 202. About 100 deaths were reported in the last 18 days. The city has recorded first death in the early hours of May 1, after a 62-year old man from Chengalraopeta succumbed to the virus. On August 3, the toll crossed the 100-mark and stood at 102. On Friday, the toll crossed the 200-mark indicating the rapid spread of virus in the district. The cases continue to see a spike, as 738 new cases were reported on Friday. This takes the total number of cases in the district to 29,225. According to the COVID-19 bulletin released on Friday, the total number of active and discharged cases is 5,263 and 23,760 respectively. Meanwhile, 604 persons, who were being treated at COVID-19 hospitals, COVID-19 care centres and opted home quarantine, have been recovered in the last 24 hours, said the bulletin. According to Special officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College (AMC), P.V. Sudhakar, the total number of clusters in Visakhapatnam district as on Friday is 736. Of them, as many as 149 clusters are very active ones, while 74 clusters are active. Similarly 513 clusters are dormant. The District Collector had already denotified 171 clusters. It was learnt that more clusters are going to be denotified in the coming weeks.
22 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) highlights problems of tribals during rainy season||The tribal people of the Agency mandals in the districts are facing several difficulties in reaching their hamlets due to heavy rains during the past few weeks and overflowing of streams and tanks.They are crossing the streams despite the threat of getting washed away by the gushing water to reach their villages, as they have no other alternative in the absence of bridges and culverts, according to CPI(M).In a letter to District Collector V. Vinay Chand on Friday, CPI(M) district committee secretary K. Lokanadham and secretariat member Killo Surendra sought construction of bridges and culverts to enable the villagers to reach their homes safely during the rainy season. The CPI(M) leaders said that the tribal people were not getting essential commodities and even medical services due to the stoppage of transport in view of the rains. They sought among other things completion of the Kothavalasa bridge to provide transportation to seven villages of Anantagiri mandal, construction of a bridge at Kinchumanda to provide transportation to the villages of Dumbriguda mandal, repair of the damaged roads in Hukumpeta mandal, provision of transportation facilities to Pedabayalu, Munchingput, Paderu, G. Madugula, Chintapalli and GK Veedhi mandals. They noted that there was danger of the outbreak of seasonal diseases due to heavy rains. Medical camps should be organised and medicines be made available for the tribal people.     The party leaders said that the tribal people were not getting essential commodities
22 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector hints at development of Thandava||Collector V. Vinay Chand has hinted at the development of Thandava Reservoir as a tourist spot. Mr. Vinay Chand visited the reservoir along with Narsipatnam Sub-Collector Narpureddy Mourya on Thursday. Speaking to reporters, the Collector said that the feasibility of introducing boating would also be explored. Mr. Vinay Chand said that he would discuss the issue with Tourism Minister Mutamsetti Srinivasa Rao. Earlier, the Collector inspected the construction of the Secretariat building at Nathavaram and the Rythu Bharosa Kendram. Mr. Vinay Chand directed officials to complete the work within the stipulated time.
22 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Green alternative to stubble burning||Stubble burning is a major problem, particularly in north India, as it not only causes atmospheric pollution but also poor visibility due to smoke resulting in accidents at far-off places. The issue caught the attention of S. Rajesh, an assistant professor at Raghu Engineering College, a few years ago and he launched Green Gears, an NGO, to provide a solution to fight atmospheric pollution due to burning of agro residue. Environmental pollution “In the olden days farmers used to cut the stubble with a knife after the harvest but now machines are harvesting the crop and in the process stubble is made into fine pieces. I thought of utilising the agro waste to make eco-friendly products. With the assistance of my students, I started making cups, plate, egg trays and insulation boards with the agro residues,” Mr. Rajesh said. “We can replace products made of single-use plastic with this. We can also use hemp, coir banana and corn residues apart from paddy. It is biodegradable and turns into manure in the soil, and when thrown into water it can serve as feed for algae and some varieties of plants. In addition to solving the problem of environmental pollution, the farmers can also get some revenue by selling the products made out of the waste,” says Mr. Rajesh. For the first time this year, Green Gears has made idols of Lord Ganesh with agro residue. “We distributed the idols among students of a few colleges in Visakhapatnam and Srikakulam in a small way in view of the COVID-19 restrictions. Next year, we plan to do it on a larger scale and promote the concept in a big way. We are the first to make Ganesh idols from crop residues to help farmers,” he says. The other members of the Green Gears team are: D. Sushma Yadav, Gandham Sai Kumar, Barla Raghuveer, Galala Meenakshi, Gatreddy Srikanth, Duppala Mahesh Kumar, B. Yeswanth and Pulagala Sujay Sashreek (all students). The team is planning to market their products. Mr. Rajesh can be reached on his mobile no. 7702724967 or on the WhatsApp no:9493724967 for more details.  For the first time this year, Green Gears has made idols of Lord Ganesh with agro residue
22 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP sole alternative to ‘family parties’: Somu||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has said that his party alone can provide a strong alternative in Andhra Pradesh and put it on the path to progress. Addressing the media here on Friday, Mr. Veerraju described the TDP and the YSRCP as “family parties” that had no real interest in the development of the State. “On the contrary, none of the BJP leaders are involved in dynastic politics. The party’s only aim is development of the country, be it infrastructure like roads and ports, and communication facilities such as Internet in the remote areas,” he said. He wondered as to how TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, who was himself involved in irregularities, could question the YSRCP government. The BJP leader alleged that Mr. Naidu had collected Rs. 2,200 per square yard from the beneficiaries for the houses sanctioned by the Centre to the poor. The Centre sanctioned Rs. 7,000 crore for Amaravati, but Mr. Naidu failed to account for the same. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy too failed to ask Mr. Naidu as to where the Rs. 7,000 crore had gone, Mr. Veerraju alleged.
22 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU to conduct skill development courses||The Centre for Defence Studies, Andhra University, is conducting three-month skill development courses on foreign languages, Logistics & Supply Chain Management, Certificate course in Cyber Security and Certificate course in Disaster Management with an intake of 60 seats in each course (total 240 seats) for the academic year 2020-21. The programme is being sponsored by APSSDC, scheduled to commence from the second week of September. Officials said that unemployed youth of Andhra Pradesh, including ex-servicemen and dependent of defence personnel, are eligible to do the above courses. Interested candidates were asked to submit their applications in the office of the Director, Centre for Defence Studies, (Inside AU Womens Engineering College, Andhra University), Near Shivaji Park, Visakhapatnam, on or before August 31. The minimum eligibility for the courses is 10+2 or Diploma in Engineering. Priority for admission will be given to ex-servicemen/dependent nominated through Zilla Sainik Welfare Officer and students qualified in 10+2 with MPC, the officials said.
22 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ‘killed’ by husband||A 48-year old woman was allegedly murdered by her husband at Thotada Road under Anakapalle police station limits in Visakhapatnam district on Thursday night. According to reports, the woman E. Sanyasamma allegedly had dispute with her husband E Naidu, due to his alcohol addiction. On Thursday night, the couple allegedly picked up a fight, when Naidu beat his wife to death. Sources said that as Sanyasamma refused to give money to buy alcohol, Naidu assaulted her. A case has been registered. Investigation is on.
22 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MP’s vehicle meets with minor accident||Vehicle of Rajya Sabha MP Mopidevi Venkataramana met with a minor accident near Thallapalem area under Kasimkota police station limits in Visakhapatnam on Friday. The incident reportedly occurred when the MP was heading to Visakhapatnam from Vijayawada along with a few members of his family. However, no person was said to be injured. According to the police, the incident occurred at around 12 p.m. It all happened when a vehicle moving ahead of the convoy stopped all of a sudden near Thallapalem Junction. Immediately, the escort vehicle of the MP had also applied sudden brakes. The driver of the MP’s vehicle, which was behind the escort vehicle, also applied sudden brakes due to which it hit the escort vehicle from behind. Meanwhile, another vehicle behind the MP’s vehicle rammed it. Police said that as all the vehicles were travelling at a normal speed, no major damage was done. Deputy Chief Minister P. Pusha Sreevani, who was coming in another vehicle, picked up the MP and others, the police said.
22 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Muttamsetti lays stone for Rythu Bharosa Kendras||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that the State government is establishing Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) to provide better services to farmers. The Minister laid the foundation stones for construction of RBK and a health centre at Palavalasa and eBoni villages of Anandapuram mandal and for construction of an RBK and health centre at Gandhavaram village of Padmanabham mandal, on the outskirts of the city, on Friday. He handed over YSR Cheyutha'\ cheques to the beneficiaries. The welfare schemes launched by the State government has increased the self-respect of the farmers, the Minister said. The idea of the Chief Minister was to extend total security to the farmers through Rythu Bharosa scheme by extending capital to them and crop insurance, he added.
22 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bank timings revised from Monday||District Collector V Vinay Chand in a release on Friday said that he issued instructions to all the banks to function from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. from August 24. Till now the banks were working from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. only, he said. Keeping in the view of YSR Cheyutha, all banks will function with new timings from August 24, he said. The banks authorities should display the revised timings in the notice boards, he said.
22 August 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||DCI secures Rs. 61.33 crore contract||Dredging Corporation of India (DCI) Limited has again succeeded in retaining the maintenance dredging contract at Mormugao Port for a further period of three years from this year. The total value of the contract is Rs. 61.33 crore, inclusive of GST. This project involves annual maintenance dredging of around 2.2 million cubic metres and the work shall be carried out from September to October each year. The DCI is already carrying out maintenance dredging at major ports like Kolkata, Paradip, Visakhapatnam, JNPT (Mumbai) and Cochin.
22 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain likely on August 24, 25||The well-marked low pressure area lies over the central parts of east Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood with the associated cyclonic circulation extending up to 7.6 km above the mean sea level, tilting southwestwards with height. It is likely to move westwards across west MP gradually during the next three days, as per IMD. A fresh low pressure area is likely to develop over northwest Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood around August 23. Thunderstorm along with lightning and heavy rainfall is likely at isolated places in north coastal and Yanam on August 24 and 25 and thunderstorm along with lighting is likely at isolated places in Rayalaseema on those two days.
22 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central team inspects land for tribal varsity||A high-level team from the Centre led by Professor R.S. Sarraju visited Kottakki village in Pachipenta mandal where the Central Tribal University is proposed to come up. Saluru MLA P. Rajanna Dora, Bobbili MLA Sambangi Chinavenkata Appala Naidu, Vice-Chancellor T.V. Kattamani and Special Officer Hanumanthu Lajapathi Rai accompanied the team. ITDA Project Officer R. Kurmanath explained to the team about the road and train connectivity to the area. Meanwhile, BJP MLC P.V.N. Madhav met Dr. Sarraju in Vizianagaram and urged him to continue the construction of the university at Relli village of Kothavalasa.
22 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rush at markets on the eve of festival||Vizianagaram and Srikakulam markets wore a festive look on the eve of Vinayaka Chaviti on Friday with people thronging them to buy idols and other puja material. Police personnel and staff of Vizianagaram and Srikakulam municipal corporations tried in vain to ensure the protocol as people flooded the markets, ignoring physical distancing norms. With restrictions on opening hours of the market, people were in a hurry to do their errands before 1 p.m. “As the festival holds great importance for many, there is a lot of rush in the markets,” said an official of Srikakulam Municipal Corporation.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unbridled enthusiasm||
22 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Maoist ‘plot’ to attack police foiled||An alleged plot by Maoists to attack the police by planting landmines in the forest fringe areas of Manuguru division was foiled by the police with the arrest of 12 CPI (Maoist) village defence committee members on Friday, police said. Acting on specific information, three police teams launched combing operations in Regalla-Nimmagudem forest area in Karakagudem mandal and the Aswapurampadu-Motlathogu forest area in Edulla Bayyaram mandal simultaneously on Friday. During the search operations, the Karakagudem police nabbed as many as eight Maoist village defence committee members of Nimmagudem while the latter were allegedly trying to plant landmines at a hillock near Nimmagudem, sources said. The police seized explosive material, including two tiffin boxes, 10 gelatin sticks, two detonators, six batteries and a large bundle of electric wire from their possession. All those arrested belong to Nimmagudem, police added. In a separate raid, the police apprehended four more Maoist village defence committee members of Aswapurampadu while they were moving under suspicious circumstances with explosive material at Motlathogu forest area in Edulla Bayyaram mandal on Friday morning.
22 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||45% of COVID patients are on oxygen support, 22% in ICUs||Telangana logged 1,967 COVID-19 cases on Thursday, according to the medical bulletin released by the State government on Friday. Eight more persons succumbed to the disease in the 24-hour period taking the toll to 737. The State tested 26,767 samples in 1,115 testing centres, and results of 1,300 samples are still awaited. The maximum number of 24.6% positive cases are in the 31-41 age group, while 10% positive cases are in people older than 61. Worryingly, 45% of COVID patients being treated in government and private hospitals are on oxygen support, while 22% are being treated in ICUs of various hospitals, according to the bulletin by Director of Public Health.  The lowest number of cases were recorded from Mulugu district which had 11 positive cases while the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region recorded 473 cases. The surrounding districts of Rangareddy (202) and Medchal (170) recorded higher number of positive cases as did Warangal (Urban) with 101 cases. All the 33 districts in the State reported cases over the 24-hour period. Despite logging hundreds of cases per day, the number of containment zones in the GHMC limits have declined to 65. In comparison, Rangareddy had twice the number at 131. Mahbubnagar (111), Sircilla (87) and Gadwal (81) also had more containment zones than the GHMC area.
22 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Medical infra, public healthcare to be focus areas: KTR||Governments, whether at the Centre or the States, have no other choice but to invest significantly in urban infrastructure especially medical infrastructure with special focus on public health now that the COVID-19 pandemic has exposed the “inadequacies” of the system, observed Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development and IT K.T. Rama Rao on Friday. “These issues have been pushed under the carpet for so long and cannot be brushed away anymore,” he pointed out at the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) meet on “ Telangana’s Real Estate & Infra Prospects in the COVID World” with the theme To Rise up to the New Normal today on a Webex Platform .  Delivering the inaugural address, Mr. Rama Rao said urbanisation is a reality and cities are the engines of growth and revenue generators, hence governments will have to invest in better roads, highways, railways, ports, sewage treatment and so on. Track record “We will continue to invest in infrastructure and 63% of our budget is invested in economic development and infrastructure and is by far the largest by any State in terms of budget allocation,” he claimed. At the same time, he saw exciting times ahead in the future investments into life sciences and healthcare with private sector and institutional investors too chipping in along with the government. Hyderabad is well positioned because of its base for manufacture of bulk drugs, pharma and vaccines, among others, as well as the upcoming pharma city and medical devices park. This is besides IT where five new parks are scheduled to come up in new areas of L.B. Nagar, Nagole and Uppal. The combination of life sciences and IT for drug development offers exciting possibilities as is being taken up by Novaratis. Plus, the government will soon come out with an integrated township policy, he said. At the same time, the Minister urged the industry to innovate and develop world class products as “not a single Indian industry” has been able to come out with so far. There is also much scope for innovation in real estate and construction industry and abject need to re-skill the local people so that the dependence on the Middle East for employment can be reduced. “There’s a lot of scope to innovate offering affordable houses to the large middle class as has been pointed out in the JLL report. But, the industry should adhere to best practices in quality, labour management and adhering to rules. The government is also planning to launch ‘Green Space Index’ for 141 urban areas,” he said and wanted the CII to develop the model. Earlier, CII TS chairman and Cyient MD Krishna Bodanapu complemented the efforts of government for allowing infrastructure sector to continue operations amid lockdown and COVID challenges. JLL MD Ramesh Nair, infrastructure panel convenor C. Shekar Reddy and others also spoke. CII-JLL’s report on ‘Hyderabad Real Estate — A Road map amid the COVID-19 Crisis’ was released on the occasion.
22 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Short-circuit likely to be the cause of fire||The fire accident at one of the units of the 150-MW hydel power station at Srisailam on Friday was reportedly due to a short-circuit in a panel but senior officials insisted they would arrive at a conclusion only after knowing the exact cause. Meanwhile, the State government has directed the chairman and MD of State power generation corporation to constitute a committee to inquire into the incident and submit a report. Officials attributed the inability to check the fire fast as the power station was underground. For the last 11 years, power generation at the 900 MW (150x6) station of the generation corporation had gone uninterrupted even during the flood season until now. It was in 2009 that the power houses on left and right canals, carrying water to Telangana and AP respectively, were damaged due to heavy floods in river Krishna. The Srisailam power house is the biggest of the 11 stations of TS power generation corporation with a capacity to generate 20 million units per day. The installed capacity of the corporation was 2,441.8 MW, of which Srisailam alone accounted for 900 MW. The generation at other stations ranged from four to nine million units as most of them were not operational continuously. The generation cost for each unit was fixed at Rs. 5, which effectively meant that the corporation will suffer a loss of Rs. 10 crore after closure of the station now. The station was blessed with reversible hydro power turbines to generate power and release water to Nagarjunasagar during peak load time. During slack time, additional power in the grid was used to pump water back to Srisailam from Nagarjunasagar. The accident took place at a time when Srisailam reservoir was filled to its capacity and the power generation was taken up at peak load factor. The staff there initially tried to douse the fire in the panel board with the help of portable fire extinguishers but in vain. As the power generation in the left bank power house came to a halt, the authorities increased the spillway discharge of flood to over 4.29 lakh cusecs by lifting 10 gates to a height of 18 ft each.
22 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. wants criminal cases against KCR, Chief Secretary||As part of the State-wide campaign launched by the TPCC to file criminal cases against Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar for demolition of Nalla Pochamma temple and masjids at the Secretariat, Congress leaders submitted memorandums to collectors on Friday. In Hyderabad, AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan along with Hyderabad Congress Committee chief Anjan Kumar Yadav, Nampally Congress in-charge Feroz Khan and others met Hyderabad Collector Shweta Mohanty and presented a memorandum addressing Governor Tamilisai Soudarajan, demanding filing of criminal cases against Mr. KCR and Mr. Kumar. The Congress delegation also stressed on the need for reconstruction of demolished religious structures at the same place. He also demanded criminal cases against the Chief Secretary, whom he alleged was working hand in glove with KCR. “Government demolished these religious structures in the middle of the night to keep everyone in the dark and now using police to suppress those who are protesting against this,” he alleged. The Congress leader claimed that according to historians all the three religious structures in the Secretariat complex have historic significance.
22 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. urge Governor to report TS govt’s ‘failure’ to President||Telangana Congress has urged Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to use her discretionary powers and report to President Ramnath Kovind about the TRS government’s ‘complete failure’ in handling the COVID-19 situation. “If the government has failed to respond to the Governor’s suggestions, she must use her discretionary powers to send a report to the President of India,” Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy said in a media statement on Friday. Testing right denied He argued that since the State government has denied people the right to get tested for COVID despite suggestions, the Governor should have summoned the Chief Secretary and ordered him to act on her suggestions. “Instead of complaining about inefficiency of the State government, the Governor should have played a proactive role asking the officials to implement her suggestions,” he said. Further, the Congress also urged the Governor to make public the letters she wrote to the State government giving suggestions on COVID-19 situation as people have a right to know. He said some TRS leaders have crossed all limits of decency in criticising the Governor. Blame game Mr. Reddy said leaders of TRS and BJP were engaging in blame games to divert people’s attention from the failure of both the Central and State Government. “The BJP Telangana unit criticises the TRS government for its failures, but some Central Ministers and members of NITI Aayog issue statements praising the K. Chandrasekhar Rao-led government. While TRS leaders accuse the Central government of denying Telangana its share in Central funds, CM always praises Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The TRS-BJP blame game is just an eyewash aimed at diverting people's attention,” he alleged.  While TRS leaders accuse the Centre of denying Telangana its share in Central funds, CM always praises the Prime Minister. The TRS-BJP blame game is just an eyewash. Gudur Narayan Reddy TPCC treasurer
22 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IIIT-H to get Tech Innovation Hub under national mission||A Technology Innovation Hub (TIH) on data-driven technologies under the National Mission on Interdisciplinary Cyber-Physical Systems is to be established at the International Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad (IIIT-Hyderabad). It will be set up with a Rs. 110-crore funding from the Department of Science and Technology (DST) and play a pivotal role in developing and promoting data-driven technologies and Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning across the country, the institute said. IIIT-H is the only institution outside of the IITs and IISc in the initial list of 17 selected for hosting TIHs. Director P. J. Narayanan said it was a great achievement for the institute to be selected for TIH. “We will focus on creating and curating diverse datasets under the Data Foundation being set up under the Hub. Data and its fair, transparent and open access are critical to development of ML-based solutions. Translational research will be a particular focus of our Hub,” he said. Since IIIT-H has the largest AI research group in the country, “we are looking forward to taking our research from lab-to-land and making significant contributions to data-driven technologies,” Mr. Narayanan said. Even as the setting up of the hub is under way, a special initiative around COVID-19 has already started. As part of a DST initiative, a project to curate and compile datasets that can be used to address COVID-19-related solutions around diagnostics and treatment protocols have commenced, a release from IIIT-H said. TIH-Data, a Section-8 company will be a single point source for all data-driven technologies on mobility, healthcare, systems, buildings, and India-specific problems. It will support projects in the domain areas of TIH to academic, research and development institutions and industry and other funding agencies, participate in international projects, support student start-ups and initiate international collaborative projects.  We are looking forward to taking our research from lab-to-land and making significant contributions to data-driven technologies.  P.J. Narayanan Director, IIIT-Hyderabad
22 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Hyderabad real estate fares better than other cities’||Hyderabad city’s real estate performance was far better in 2020, so far, as compared to other cities in the country and its formal economy was one of the first in urban India that resumed its stability as the lockdown rules were relaxed, according to the JLL-CII report ‘Hyderabad Real Estate — A Road Map amid the COVID-19 crisis’, launched on Friday. Despite the nationwide lockdown, the city continued to witness relatively good office leasing and residential sales. It also led India’s office supply with a 30% share significantly driving the country’s office absorption with an 18% share during the same period. Strong sales has been reported with the least unsold inventory which can be offloaded within two years. “Hyderabad’s resilience comes from the confidence of doing business instilled by the State government. Business-friendly policies has helped corporates leverage the existing ecosystem to maximize output and emerge as the destination of choice. It attracts young workforce owing to its robust and fast developing infrastructure along with ease of living and cosmopolitan environment ,” said CEO and country head-India of JLL Ramesh Nair. TS-iPass, ICT policy and other investment friendly initiatives by the government helped the economic growth in the last six years, he said. “This has reflected tremendously in the city’s real estate performance,” said managing director–Hyderabad of JLL Sandip Patnaik. Office space As the city opened in early May, construction activity resumed and a few office projects started operations by June adding 3.7 million sq. ft and and 2.1 million sq. ft was absorbed dropping the vacancy rate to 9.2 %. In residential space section, most launches were in the northern and eastern sub-markets and despite the healthy volume good sales kept the city’s unsold inventory at the lowest in the country. Construction resumed at a slow pace due to reverse migration of labour.In the retail space, rental waivers or rental deferments were offered to battle the ongoing crisis even if leasing activity has continued in highstreet properties. Construction on malls has resumed, the report claimed.
22 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Over 4,000 2BHK units to be handed over by Dasara||Minister for Animal Husbandry, Fisheries, and Cinematography Talasani Srinivas Yadav has assured that over 4,000 double bedroom housing units constructed in the core city for poor people will be handed over to the beneficiaries by Dasara festival on October 25. The 4,358 units in 21 locations, part of the 2BHK housing project of the Telangana government, will be a festival gift for the beneficiaries, Mr. Srinivas Yadav said. He, along with the Home Minister Mohammed Mahmood Ali conducted review of the progress in double bedroom housing project works with officials, including Hyderabad district Collector Swetha Mohanty, GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar and others. Within Hyderabad district, a total of 7,455 double bedroom housing units are under construction at 35 different locations, are complete in all respect, Mr. Srinivas Yadav said. He directed officials to work with coordination among various departments.
22 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Woman claims sexual assault by 142 persons||In a shocking incident, a 25-year-old woman approached the Panjagutta police with a complaint alleging that she was sexually assaulted by 142 persons since 2010. According to Panjagutta sub-inspector D. Nagaraju, the complainant stated that three months after she was married in 2010, her in-laws allegedly sexually harassed her. The victim has named her in-laws as those who allegedly sexually assaulted and harassed her. “The victim has mentioned in her complaint that the family and their friends had sexually assaulted her since 2010. After examining the complaint, we have booked a case. The victim looks mentally sound. We will take a further look at the incident and the officer will decide how to proceed,” the SI said. While a rape case has been booked, other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) have also been invoked. Additionally, the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, has also been invoked. Infant hauled by dog In a shocking incident reported on Saturday, a dog was found carrying an infant in its muzzle in Almasguda. According to L.B. Nagar police, who are investigating the case, one Jaya Ram Reddy and Nitish Kumar, two commuters who were moving on a two-wheeler from Nagole towards B.N. Reddy Nagar, saw the dog pulling the baby with its mouth. They then raised an alarm which distracted the canine and it let the infant go. L.B. Nagar police reached the spot and rushed the baby to Osmania General Hospital (OGH). A case has been booked and the police are looking into the matter.
22 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Congress should focus on alienated govt. land’||Senior Congress leader V. Hanumantha Rao said that TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy should focus on the Keesara land issue as they were distributed by the Indira Gandhi government to the poor in 1981. At a press conference here on Friday, he said that it was unfortunate that tahsildar Nagaraju transferred the same to others without the knowledge of the original beneficiaries. Even the High Court had given a stay on this land in 2006 itself, he said. The alienation of land was the result of the government’s failure to implement land reforms properly, he added. Mr. Rao suggested that Congress should fight for government land snatched away from the poor and illegally distributed. He said the link between the tahsildar and Medchal Collector should also be probed.
22 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress, BJP demand CBI probe into mishap||Congress and BJP leaders demanded adequate compensation to the family members of those who died in the fire incident at the Srisailam left bank hydel power generation unit in Domalapenta. In a statement here, TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy expressed condolences to the bereaved family members and said that the government should give Rs. 1 crore compensation to them. Mr. Reddy said that a high-level investigation should be done into the incident and government should make the reasons behind it public. “One of the deceased Sundar Naik belong to my constituency. Such a young officer with great future lost his life in this tragic incident,” he said and assured all the help to the family. TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy demanded a probe by the CBI to know whether the accident was due to some conspiracy in view of the recent issues related to construction of projects by the AP government. He wanted compensation of Rs. 1 crore to the victims’ families. Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkata Reddy expressed shock and demanded compensation from the government. BJP State president Bandi Sanjay blamed the TS government for the accident and said it failed to ensure safety measures were put in place to avoid such accidents. In a statement, he said that the negligence of the government has resulted in engineers losing their lives and Telangana may suffer with power generation being hit. “We suspect some conspiracy in the accident. It should be probed and the CM and Power Minister should take responsibility,” he said demanding that the probe be given to CBI.
22 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Agonising wait of excise superintendents||The agonising wait of seven excise superintendents, including four repatriated from the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, for posting is continuing. The four officers were relieved by the AP government in August/September last year and they reported for duty in Telangana immediately. These officers are among the 28 excise superintendents allotted to the State by the Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) of the Union government. The DoPT, after prolonged negotiations with senior officials of the two States, issued orders allotting 36 officers to AP and 28 to Telangana from among the existing strength. Though their allotment to the State had been confirmed by the DoPT, the officers are yet to get posting orders and have been frequenting the Excise department office ever since. The officials represented the matter to the High Court and the court too gave direction in their favour. The court, in its order on January 7, directed the government to give orders relating to posting of these officers as per the final seniority lists prepared by the government in accordance with the allocation made by the DoPT within four weeks, but no action had been taken as yet. Acting upon a representation made to it, the DoPT, through its letter dated June 23, had asked the government to look into the matter and suitably redress the grievances raised by the officers duly intimating it. Three more officers of the same rank allotted to Telangana are said to be waiting for posting for more than a year.
22 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Free home delivery of Favipiravir in 170 cities||City-based MSN Group has announced free home delivery of ‘Faviflow’ for patients experiencing mild to moderate COVID-19 symptoms across 170 cities. The drug is available with leading pharmacies and hospitals. MSN is partnering with retail pharmacies to facilitate delivery for patients in need. Priced at Rs. 33, Faviflow is the world’s most affordable Favipiravir produced by MSN Labs and is currently available in 200 mg dosage strength while the 400 mg drug will be introduced into the market soon to reduce the pill burden. “We want our product to be available to patients across the country,” said CMD M.S.N. Reddy. Favipiravir has been granted approval by DCGI for treatment of suspected or lab-confirmed cases of COVID in adults and children, hospitalised with mild to moderate symptoms. Faviflow (Favipiravir) can be purchased by producing a prescription by a healthcare practitioner at the outlet, he said. As part of the COVID-19 treatment range, MSN has already launched Oseltamivir 75 mg capsules another anti-viral medication under the brand name ‘Oselow’. One can call their helpline number (9100591030) or e-mail to customercare@msnlabs.com, a press release said.
22 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Why is govt. not enforcing Telangana Markets Act?’||The Telangana High Court on Friday asked the State government why it is not enforcing the provisions of the Telangana State (Agricultural produce and Livestock) Markets Act-1966. Hearing a PIL petition, a bench of Justices A. Rajasheker Reddy and B. Vijaysen Reddy directed the State government to present its proposed plan of action to implement the Act by Monday. The petition was filed by Nadigadda Rytu Hakkula Porata Samithi of Jogulamba Gadwal district. The petitioner’s counsel N.S. Arjun Kumar said the Act mandated that companies supplying seed entered into an agreement with the farmers. Such agreement should incorporate details of the price at which the companies would purchase the agricultural produce. It also had some legal safeguards for the farmers. However, the ‘seed companies’ were not signing any such agreements with the farmers. Instead, they brought in the system of intermediaries called ‘seed organisers’. Such agents would persuade the farmers to undertake production of seed for the ‘seed companies’. These agents too would not ink any deal with the ryots, Mr. Arjun Kumar told the court. “They would lend amount to the farmers at high rate of interest and collect promissory notes from them,” the lawyer contended. Actually, this money is given to the intermediaries at much lesser rate of interest. The counsel told the bench that the Centre, to protect interests of farming community, had promulgated an ordinance christened Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services-2020. Over two months have passed since the ordinance was promulgated, but the State government is yet to notify rules under it, the lawyer said. With Advocate General B.S. Prasad seeking time to secure instructions on the matter, the bench posted the hearing to Monday.
22 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Rs. 1.04 cr. aid for affected journalists||The Telangana Media Academy has provided financial assistance of Rs. 1.04 crore for journalists affected by COVID-19. Academy chairman Allam Narayana, in a statement, said that 479 journalists affected by the novel coronavirus have been provided Rs. 20,000 each while 84 journalists who were the primary contacts were given Rs. 10,000 each. He said Chief Minister, K. Chandrashekar Rao promised Rs. 100 crore to the Academy and so far, Rs. 34.50 crore have been released. With these funds, Rs. 5.12 crore have been given to 260 families of journalists who died in accidents or due to diseases. Another 40 applications are pending for financial assistance and they would be cleared once COVID crisis surpasses. He said Telangana was the only state extending such aid to journalists.
22 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man murders friend||The Choudarigudem police on Friday apprehended a man for allegedly murdering his friend, dismembering the body and dumping it in an abandoned well. According to police, the victim Raju, and the accused, his friend Anjaiah, consumed alcohol on night of August 12. After an altercation Anjaiah waited for Raju to go to sleep and killed him with a stick and then disposed the body.
22 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CISF recovers nine bodies||Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) officials confirmed that they recovered nine dead bodies from the Srisailam power station. They said that a 39-member Fire Rescue and Disaster Management team, equipped with necessary equipment, led by Comdt Siddarth Raha was deployed by the CISF National Industrial Security Academy at Hakimpet to the Srisailam dam site. “They recovered nine bodies from the tunnel and controlled the fire,” a senior CISF official said. The victims are DE Srinivas Goud, Hyderabad, AE Venkatak Rao, Palvancha, AE Mohan Kumar, Hyderabad, AE Uzma Fathima, Hyderabad, AE Sundar, Suryapet, plant attendant Rambabu from Khammam, junior plant attendant Kiran from Palvancha and Amaran Battery company staff Vniesh Kumar and Mahesh Kumar.
22 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Munneru inundates low-lying areas||The flood waters from the rain swollen Munneru river encircled several houses in the low-lying areas on either side of the river banks in the town on Friday morning, prompting the authorities to move around 340 flood-affected families to the safer places here. Dozens of families from Kalvavoddu, Prakashnagar, Venkateshwaranagar and a few other localities lying in proximity to the river were shifted to the relief camps set up at the Government Women's Degree College and the Nayabazar Government Junior College, sources said. The incessant rain-induced heavy inflows from other small rivers, including Akeru and Buggeru, in the catchment areas of the Munneru river, led to a sharp rise in the water level in the Munneru in the early hours of the day. However, the water level in the river showed signs of receding late in the afternoon. Transport Minister P Ajay Kumar visited the old bridge across the Munneru where he took stock of the situation arising out of the swirling waters of the river spilling over to the periphery of a few residential colonies situated along the river banks. Collector R V Karnan and others accompanied him. Later in the day, a group of the CPI (M) leaders led by the party district secretary N Nageswara Rao visited the flood-hit residential colonies including Mothinagar, Sundaraiahnagar, Prakashnagar and Manchikantinagar. Speaking on the occasion, Mr Nageswara Rao demanded that the State government offer immediate relief to the flood-affected families by providing essential commodities and Rs. 10,000 financial assistance to each family. More number of relief camps should be opened and a special sanitation drive should be implemented in the flood-hit areas to prevent outbreak of seasonal diseases, he said. Flood banks must be constructed on either side of the Munneru river banks here to find a long-term solution to the recurring problem of water-logging in the areas abutting the Munneru, he said, demanding that a new bridge be constructed along the existing decades-old bridge across the Munneru in the town.
22 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||12 crest gates of Nagarjunasagar lifted||Following consistent and heavy inflows from brimming upstream projects, officials of the Nagarjunasagar project (NSP) on Friday commenced discharge of flood through spillway bays. NSP Chief Engineer V. Narasimha, joined by local legislator Nomula Narsimhaiah, offered prayers and operated the control system to lift the gates at around 11.30 a.m. Starting with one gate, incrementally, three more were lifted within 15 minutes, to a height of five feet to discharge a volume of 29,140 cusecs. Speaking to media persons after the operation, Mr. Narasimha said the decision was taken following consistent inflows, starting with 1.50 lakh cusecs on Thursday to a range of 3.50 - 4 lakh cusecs on Friday morning, from Srisailam project. “A 20 tmc flood cushion is being maintained. Based on the coming 12-24 hour forecast, more gates would be opened to discharge the surplus. Both NSP and the downstream Pulichintala project will achieve their optimum,” he said. By evening, two more gates were lifted and the discharge was maintained at 74,000 cusecs, as the average inflow fluctuated around 3.5 lakh cusecs. Till reports last came in at 6 p.m., 12 crest gates were opened to a height of five feet. The water level was at 585.70 feet as against the full reservoir level of 590 feet, and the reservoir was holding 299.45 tmc water, for its gross capacity of 312 tmc. The NSP gates were opened on August 12 last year, when it received record inflows and all the 26 crest gates were opened, a first since 2009 and the State bifurcation in 2014. The project had 223 tmc water and the level read 559 feet, and its optimum levels were achieved within five days. On Friday, officials said, the water level around the time of operating the gates was 583.2 feet and was holding 292 tmc water. MLA Narsimhaiah expressed happiness that farmers in over six lakh acres spread in undivided Nalgonda and Khammam districts would benefit the most. Irrigation officials, in view of the flood intensity, alerted police, revenue and other departments for preventive and emergency management. Villages, fisher communities and those residing near the banks of river Krishna were cautioned not to venture into streams. And to discourage visitors and holidaying, in wake of COVID-19, Nalgonda police imposed Section 144 in and around the NSP area.
22 August 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||In a major theft, some unidentified persons broke open a locked house and ran away with Rs. 10 lakh cash and 10 tolas of gold at Peddapur village under Sadashivapet police station limits on Friday. According to DSP P. Sridhar Reddy, Durga Prasad Goud was staying at Sangareddy and kept his house at Peddapur locked. When he came to his house on Friday, he found the door lock broken and gold and cash missing.
22 August 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Victim AE survived COVID||The first of the nine bodies recovered from the fire accident spot at Srisailam power plant on Friday, was of 32-year-old assistant engineer Dharavath Sundar Naik, who got cured of COVID only last month. Sundar Naik studied hard to get a government job. He and his family members mingled with everybody, residents of Jagan Naik thanda said, even as the rescue efforts continued. But, soon the small habitation of Vallabhapuram village of Chivvemla mandal in the district was in a pall of gloom when Naik’s body surfaced. According to locals, Mr. Naik was in the village along with his family last month for COVID-19 home quarantine, and left in the last week of July for Srisailam, where the family lives in government quarters. Mr. Naik’s father Dharavath Nagesh was also keen about a government service for his son. He was an employee at the District Cooperative Office. As news spread about the fire mishap, he along with his wife Kalpana rushed to Srisailam. Mr. Naik was survived by his wife Prameela and two little daughters Mahaswi and Nihaswi. After beating COVID, this was Naik’s first shift at work on Thursday. He had left home at 8.30 p.m., and that was when we saw him last, his neighbours added.
22 August 2020||Suryapet,TELANGANA||Tahsildars suspended for ‘gross negligence’||District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy on Friday signed orders placing two tahsildars under immediate suspension for “showing gross negligence in attending duties.” G. Chandrasekhar, Garidepally tahsildar, while he was Revenue head of Mattampally mandal, mutated 369 acres and five guntas of land at Pedaveedu village. T. Venugopal Rao, who was a naib tahsildar, and now tahsildar in full additional charge of Mattampally, also mutated another 52 acres in the same village, by violating laws.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||KCR announces relief for victims’ kin||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced relief of Rs. 50 lakh to the families of deputy engineer B. Srinivas Goud and Rs. 25 lakh each to the kin of the other victims of the fire at Srisailam. One member of each family will also be given a job in addition to departmental benefits, Mr. Rao stated in a press release.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Devotion matters||
22 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘Rao’s medical condition needs close monitoring’||In a report filed before the Bombay High Court, Nanavati Hospital has said poet Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgaar Parishad case, continues to remain “disoriented” and his condition requires close monitoring. The report, submitted before a Bench of Justices Amjad Sayed and Abhay Ahuja on August 17, said while the 81-year-old poet’s persistent hyponatremia has improved, his neurological condition is yet to improve. Mr. Rao has been undergoing treatment for various ailments at the hospital since July 16, after he tested positive for COVID-19. During a previous hearing on Mr. Rao’s bail plea, the HC had directed hospital authorities to submit a report on his health status.
22 August 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra Police record 300 new cases||Over 300 personnel of the Maharashtra Police have tested positive for COVID-19, while five more have succumbed to the virus, an official said on Friday. “As many as 303 police personnel tested positive in the last 24 hours, raising the total case tally to 13,180,” the official said. With the latest deaths, the cumulative toll in the State police force has risen to 136, including 14 officers. With 62 deaths, the Mumbai Police account for the highest number of COVID-19 victims in the force. Of the 13,180 positive personnel, including 1,387 officers, 10,655 have recovered from the disease so far, the official added. Currently, 2,389 personnel are undergoing treatment at various facilities in the State, the official said. The State police have so far registered 2,31,580 offences for violation of prohibitory orders since the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown was imposed in March and arrested 33,632 people, he said.  Attacks on frontline staff At least 335 incidents of assault on the police and 69 similar attacks on health professionals have been reported in the State amid the pandemic, he said, adding that 890 people were arrested in these cases. More than Rs. 21.76 crore were collected in fines from people who violated prohibitory orders, he said.
22 August 2020||Mumbai,||Study to find effectiveness of BCG vaccine in elderly||The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) is undertaking a study in Mumbai to evaluate if the BCG (Bacille Calmette-Guerin) vaccine, used against tuberculosis, is effective in preventing COVID-19 among the elderly, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Friday. The BMC said its public health department, Seth GS Medical College, and KEM Hospital will jointly conduct the study. “The study will also look at the degree of severity of the disease and development of immunity using immunological markers,” a BMC official said. The civic body said there is evidence to suggest that the BCG vaccine has a protective effect against other respiratory tract infections, including viral diseases. According to the BMC, the study will include elderly individuals between 60-75 years who do not have COVID-19, cancer and are not immunocompromised. “The BCG vaccine has offered hope to the elderly, and if found effective, it will help bring down morbidity and mortality in the elderly population,” said the official. The trial will be primarily undertaken in F South and G South wards and around 250 people are expected to take part in it. “The vaccine will be administered after obtaining informed consent from the participants who will then be closely monitored for six months,” the official said.
22 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Man held for selling fake N-95 masks||The Mumbai Crime Branch’s Unit III has arrested a resident of Govandi for selling fake N-95 masks under a brand name called Venus and seized 18,000 masks worth Rs. 27 lakh from him. The accused, Riyas Ahmad Raes Ahmad Khan (36), dealt in women’s footwear in Govandi till a few months ago. When the lockdown took a toll on his business, he ventured into selling N-95 masks, the police said. Based on a tip-off, Unit III personnel contacted the accused and posed as customers. They struck a deal for 18,000 N-95 masks of Venus company, and the order was to be collected near Baneshwar Temple at Sasmira Road in Worli on Thursday. Police inspector Ashok Khot said, “The accused rented a tempo and brought the masks to Worli. When he reached the spot, we nabbed him and seized the masks. We called the officials from Venus company, who came and verified that the masks were not manufactured by them. They also confirmed that the masks were of low quality and posed a risk to users.” The filter quality used by the company was also different from the one found in the fake masks. The police are now trying to find out how the accused obtained the masks. “We are yet to know who manufactured those masks as he was just a wholesaler and did not have a manufacturing unit. He used to take only bulk orders. We are also finding out how many people have bought the masks and if any hospitals have received orders from him,” a Crime Branch officer said. The accused has been charged under Sections 420 and 336 of the Indian Penal Code and relevant provisions of the Copyright Act and the Trade Marks Act.  We are finding out how many people have bought the masks and if any hospitals have received orders from him Crime Branch officer
22 August 2020||New Delhi,||No video of provocative speeches by Pinjra Tod activist, police tell HC||Delhi Police on Friday told the High Court that it does not have any video where Pinjra Tod activist Devangana Kalita can be seen making speeches instigating people during the communal violence in north-east Delhi earlier this year. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) S.V. Raju, appearing for the police, however said that Ms. Kalita’s call date records (CDR) placed her at the location of the riots on the date of occurrence. The ASG said that the riots were pre-planned and part of a larger conspiracy to malign the image of the country at a time when US President Donald Trump was to come here. The ASG said that since a large number of persons were involved in the riots, it is not possible that everyone comes in video footage. During the hearing conducted through videoconferencing, Justice Suresh Kumar Kait asked the investigating officer if he had recorded any incendiary speech given by Ms. Kalita during the riots. “I want to know what she said which instigated the mob,” Justice Kait said. Distance factor The investigating officer replied that she was making the statement a kilometre away and there was a mob of about 10,000 people with no media presence. To this, Justice Kait asked how the investigating officer managed to hear what she was speaking one kilometre away. The investigating officer replied that the SHO (Station House Officer), who had gone near Ms. Kalita, heard her making speech instigating people. The High Court was also informed that the local SHO had specifically informed Ms. Kalita about the implementation of Section 144 in the area on the day of the riots and had asked her to disperse the crowd. Senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Ms. Kalita, contended that she was only protesting against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and that police do not have any evidence to show Ms. Kalita’s participation in rioting or violence. Mr. Sibal said that Ms. Kalita was not denying that she participated in the protest. But the police have to show any video in which she was part of a violent crowd. He said that Ms. Kalita neither featured in any of the CCTV footage collected by police nor was her name taken by the co-accused in his statement. Seeking bail for Ms. Kalita, Mr. Sibal argued that she is an academician and a research scholar and has already been granted bail in two cases. ASG Raju, on the other hand, argued that the academic record of a person is not required for considering bail. The ASG further stated that Ms. Kalita cannot claim parity with the other cases in which she has been granted bail. After hearing both the parties, Justice Kait reserved his order on the bail plea. Ms. Kalita is currently facing four different FIRs connected with the anti-CAA protests in Jaffrabad, north-east Delhi riots and violence in Daryaganj during a protest against the new citizenship law. Ms. Kalita was first arrested on May 23, along with fellow JNU student Ms. Natasha Narwal, in connection with an FIR registered on February 24 over the sit-in protest at Jaffrabad Metro Station against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Delhi Police has also invoked sections of the stringent anti-terror law — Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a separate case related to the communal violence against Ms. Kalita for allegedly being part of a “premeditated conspiracy” in the riots.
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||City records 1,250 fresh virus cases, 13 deaths||The Capital recorded 1,250 new COVID-19 cases on Friday and 13 deaths, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The total number of cases now stands at 1,58,604 and there have been 4,270 deaths due to the virus. The number of recoveries was 1,082, taking the total number of recoveries to 1,42,908. There are 11,426 active cases in the city at present. The bulletin added that 6,086 RT-PCR tests and 11,649 rapid antigen tests were conducted in the past 24 hours. With this, the total number of tests conducted in the Capital now stands at 13,92,928. There are 589 containment zones at present. The Delhi government said that a decision to increase the number of CATS ambulances has helped the government save lives of thousands of patients. “Till May 15, Delhi had 160 CATS ambulances and by August 10, it increased to 594. This decision helped in the reduction of response time of CATS ambulances,” it said. On May 15, the response time of CATS ambulances was around 55 minutes, which reduced to 18 minutes by August 10, it added. The capacity of receiving calls for the ambulance was also increased from 20 lines on May 15 to 30 lines at present. “On May 15, the number of calls attended by the CATS ambulances was 750, the fleet status was 160, the lines connected were 20, and the response time was 55 minutes. The number of calls refused was 222. On August 10, the number of calls attended by CATS was 945, the fleet status was 594, the lines connected were 30, the response time was 18 minutes, and no call was refused in this month.” it added.
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||2 held for ‘donating’ Rs. 2 cr. to AAP through shell companies||Delhi Police has arrested two men, including a chartered accountant, for allegedly donating Rs. 2 crore to AAP through shell companies, officials said on Friday. The accused have been identified as Mukesh Kumar (53), a resident of Ganga Vihar, and CA Sudhanshu Bansal (43), a resident of Laxmi Nagar, they said. The police received a complaint from the Registrar of Companies (RoC) where it was mentioned that the four companies allegedly donated Rs. 50 lakh each to AAP on April 5, 2014, a senior police officer said. In its complaint, the RoC alleged that the four companies – Goldmine Buildcon Pvt. Ltd., Skyline Metal and Alloys Pvt. Ltd., Sun Vision Agencies Pvt. Ltd. and Infolance Software Solutions Ltd – were bogus and not located at the addresses which were in its record, the police said. There was a huge infusion of money in these companies by way of share premium amount, but the sources from where the money had come were not disclosed, the police said. The RoC issued notices to all the directors of the companies, but none of them, except one Deepak Aggarwal, one of the directors in Skyline Metal and Alloys Pvt. Ltd., appeared before the agency. He revealed that the signatures and photograph, on the basis of which the DIN was issued in his name, do not belong to him, the officer said. On the basis of the complaint, a case was registered on November 21, 2015. During investigation, the police found that the four companies did not exist at the address available with the RoC record. “FSL report confirmed that the various documents relating to Deepak Aggarwal submitted to Ministry of Corporate Affairs for issuing DIN were bearing his forged signatures. Photograph on the DIN form does not belong to him,” Joint Commissioner of Police (EOW) O.P. Mishra said. It was also found that the forged documents for procuring DIN in the name of Mr. Aggarwal were submitted under the Digital Signature Certificate of Mr. Bansal, he said. Investigation also revealed that all the directors of the four companies, Yogesh Kumar, Mohit Kumar, Dharmender and others are employees of accused Mr. Mukesh, the officer said. The trail of the money indicated that the fund for donation to AAP was generated from the account of Antara Purukul Senior Living Ltd, a subsidiary of Max Group, Mr. Mishra said. The two accused fraudulently procured DIN on the basis of fabricated documents and morphed photographs. Thereafter, the DIN was used for incorporating shell companies. These shell companies were used for money laundering, entry operation and other illegal activities, the police added. AAP’s response AAP, in a statement, said that it is committed to honest and transparent politics. “AAP will never compromise on its integrity,” it said. It added that this case has been investigated by almost all agencies and that it has cooperated with all and would continue to do so.
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Motorists get incorrect challans, seek cancellation||Sanjeev Kumar, a motorist, received an SMS from the Delhi Traffic Police over a violation. He was shocked when he verified the challan and found a picture of a vehicle bearing registration number of his car, overspeeding on Ring Road. “My car was at a service centre for the past two weeks after it developed some technical problem. I have a Maruti Suzuki Wagon R, but the car bearing similar registration number was a Hyundai Grand i10. It is clear that someone is impersonating my car registration number with a wrong intention. I have reported the case to the traffic police for further action,” said Mr. Kumar. Random checks Narendra Singh Bundela, Joint CP (Traffic), said that they have received similar complaints from motorists and they were taking such cases seriously. “If any motorist faces such situation, then he can approach the traffic police and his challan will be cancelled. We are in the process of registering FIRs against motorists using fake number plates. The traffic policemen on the ground have been instructed to randomly check vehicle registration certificates to identify motorists using fake number plates,” said Mr. Bundela. Several motorists have raised their grievances on Facebook and Twitter and demanded cancellation of challans issued to them. Different car Lalit Kaushik, raising the issue on Twitter, claimed that he received challan but the car shown in the system did not belong to him. Another motorist, Nitin, said that he had raised the issue over an incorrect challan with the Delhi Traffic Police several times but all in vain. The issue still remains unresolved. “I got a challan for the cab that is not in use since lockdown. A cab of a different make, bearing registration number of my cab was seen in the challan sent by the traffic police. It is a serious issue as it is a public transport system and the driver using fake number plate could harm passengers,” said a cab driver, who wished not to be named. Since the COVID-19 outbreak, the Delhi Traffic Police has moved to e-challan system to avoid any direct contact with motorists. In some cases, vehicle owners are getting challans even after reporting to the Delhi Traffic Police and getting challans removed from the website.
22 August 2020||New Delhi,||NHRC gave clean chit to none in Jamia violence: HC||The Delhi High Court on Friday observed that the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) report on violence at Jamia Millia Islamia University in December last year did not give clean chit to anyone. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan noted that the report also stated that the “entire police action was not handled very professionally”. The High Court’s remark came after Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi, appearing for Delhi Police, cited the NHRC report to seek dismissal of a bunch of petitions to set up an independent enquiry into the police brutality on students inside the university campus. The ASG stated that the NHRC report did not say that the police action as a whole was unnecessary. Mr. Lekhi said that terming the entry of police into the Jamia campus as “illegal and malafide” just because the students inside the campus were from minority community is completely untenable and unfounded. Mr. Lekhi further stated that the protests at Jamia was not peaceful, including destruction of private and public property. He said the protests was a mask for something far grave and serious. The court has adjourned the hearing on the matter for August 28. The court was hearing a batch of petitions, moved by lawyers, students of JMI, residents of Okhla in south Delhi, seeking setting up of a judicial commission to look into the Jamia violence and registration of FIRs against the erring police officers. Refuting the allegations, Delhi Police has sought dismissal of pleas. On previous hearing, senior advocate Salman Khurshid, representing one of the petitioners, also urged for an independent committee into the police brutality. He said that the police should not become a judge in its own cause. Mr. Khurshid pointed out that since there was a public road dividing the Jamia campus, students had gathered on the road where they are joined by others.
22 August 2020||New Delhi,||Rs. 1 crore for deceased sanitation worker’s kin||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday met the family members of sanitation worker Raju, who died in the line of duty, and offered them a cheque of Rs. 1 crore. Mr. Kejriwal visited the residence of the deceased in Old Chandrawal area where he met his family members and assured them of full support in the future. Mr. Raju was a sanitation worker and had lost his life in the line of duty. He was employed at the North Delhi Municipal Corporation-run Hindu Rao Hospital and had been appointed to ensure cleanliness and sanitation for COVID-19 patients. “Sanitation worker Raju laid down his life while serving people. He contracted COVID-19 while on duty. I have offered them financial assistance of Rs. 1 crore... we will do whatever we can to support his family,” the Chief Minister said.
22 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC declines to entertain plea on ‘arbitrary’ electricity bills||The Delhi High Court on Friday declined to entertain a petition claiming that power distribution companies here calculated bills during the lockdown by an “unjust and arbitrary” method. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan said the petitioner, a doctor, ought to have moved the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission, which would be the competent body to decide how the discoms should calculate the bills.
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||No positive cases among inmates at Delhi prisons||The Delhi Prisons department on Friday said that all the inmates who had contracted COVID-19 have recovered and now, there are no cases among the prisoners in all the three jail complexes. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said the pandemic situation has improved in Delhi Prisons. “In August, only two inmates of Tihar tested positive for COVID-19 and both have recovered. As on Friday, there is no inmate who is COVID-19 positive in the three jail complexes of Delhi – Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli,” he said. “A total of 63 prison inmates tested positive, out of which 61 have recovered and two died,” he said. Mr. Goel said that the first inmate tested positive on May 13 in Rohini Jail. Two COVID-19-positive inmates of Mandoli Jail unfortunately died on June 15 and July 4. Both were senior citizens, he said. Meanwhile, two staffers are yet to recover from the virus. According to prison administration, a total of 169 staffers – 87 Delhi Jail staffers and 82 Tamil Nadu Special Police staffers – tested positive, out of which 167 have recovered.
22 August 2020||New Delhi,||AAP slams civic bodies over poor ranks in Swachh survey||Attacking the municipal corporations of Delhi following low rankings in the Swach Survekshan, AAP spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj on Friday said that if AAP were to be brought to power at the municipal corporations, it would bring in a “cleanliness model” just as it had in education and health. Among 47 cities with a population of above 10 lakh, the SDMC came in at 31, the North Corporation at 43 and the EDMC was at 46. Highlighting that other cities with population of above 10 lakh, such as Indore, Navi Mumbai and Surat had performed much better, Mr. Bhardwaj said that the BJP had “devastated the Capital of India.”
22 August 2020||NUH,||Unable to access smart classes, Nuh discovers ‘smart learning’||Mohalla pathshalas, radio tuitions and loudspeakers: this is how Haryana’s Nuh responded to the challenges posed by poor digital connectivity and overcame the disruption in education system caused by the lockdown. The results are satisfactory, if not fabulous. Just over a month after theclasses at mohalla level were introduced, 135 mohalla pathshalas are running in 62 villages, catering to around 3,500 students. Haryana’s education department has been imparting lessons through television channels and online classes on mobile phones since April, but more than half of the students in Nuh have no access to them. Only a small fraction of the population in Muslim-dominated Nuh has TVs and smartphones. “We found that only 27% households in Nuh had TV sets and around 20% students had access to smartphones,” said Nuh Education Officer Anoop Singh Jakhar. To tackle this problem, Mr. Jakhar, after he took over in July, decided to hold classes in small bunches at the mohalla level. But the fear of the infection was a major concern. “I assured the Deputy Commissioner that classes will be conducted with all the precautions in place. I argued that it would not be difficult to contain the spread if someone was infected since the class caters to just 10-12 students staying on the same street, and he agreed,” explained Mr. Jakhar, an ex-serviceman. But there was a bigger challenge: the scarcity of teaching staff. Nuh has a large number of vacancies, and only a few teachers are local. The education department encouraged the local youth to contribute to the cause, albeit “free of cost”. These youth are christened “Shiksha Doots (ambassadors of education)” and promised recognition from the authorities for their contribution. Starting from Biwan village in Ferozepur Jhirka block, the concept of mohalla pathshalas has now been implemented in almost one-eighth of the district, catering to students till middle school level. For the senior students, the district education department has initiated classes through loudspeakers mounted on schools buildings, shrines and a couple of buses run by an NGO. However, the project is still in its infancy. Community radio station Radio Mewat, a community radio station run by SMART, a non-government organisation, is another important player that bridges the gap with ‘radio tuitions’. Imparting lessons to students from Class V-X for three years now, the team Radio Mewat decided to cater to the pre-primary-level students as well during the lockdown. “We felt the need to reach out to the students from Class I-V,” said Komal Sharma, station coordinator. The radio channel’s director Archana Kapoor, also founder, SMART, recalled how the poor board results in 2017 prompted them to start three-hour radio tuitions. After initial resistance from the listeners, the concept was received well. But it involves a great deal of hard work, especially with limited resources. Led by station in-charge Sohrab Khan, the team Radio Mewat coordinates with the teachers in private schools to record lessons during the classes and plays them for the listeners.
22 August 2020||Pune,||Raju Shetti questions focus on Sushant case amid dairy crisis||Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) chief Raju Shetti on Friday criticised the ruling and Opposition parties in Maharashtra and the media for their disproportionate focus on the Sushant Singh Rajput case while dairy farmers in the State are going through a financial crisis. Mr. Shetti urged the Maha Vikas Aghadi government to announce a Rs. 250 crore package and a subsidy of Rs. 5 per litre of milk to help the dairy farmers tide over the crisis. “At a time when farmers are facing a life-and-death problem, there is an inordinate focus on the actor’s death. While he may have had many fans, it is unbecoming of leading politicians in the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi alliance and the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party to centre their politics around this kind of celebrity circus,” he said. The SSS staged an agitation in front of the Ahmednagar district collectorate on Thursday. Earlier, Mr. Shetti and his activists staged protests in Solapur and Osmanabad. Responding to reports that the SSS supporters had violated ‘safety regulations’, he said desperate dairy farmers had no option but to agitate on the streets to make their voices heard. He said, “Farmers are dying any way, pandemic or no pandemic. During the protest in Ahmednagar, the brother of a dairy farmer came up to me and told me about his tragic suicide. How many farmers have taken this extreme step? We have been very restrained till now, hoping that the government will come up with some concrete solution. But as nothing has transpired, we have taken to the streets.” On July 21, the SSS, along with other farmers’ outfits, had staged a day-long milk blockade. Following the protest, State Dairy Development Minister Sunil Kedar assured the protesters that the State government would soon come up with a financial aid package. ‘Vague promises’ Mr. Shetti said, “Since then, I have written time and again to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. I have also taken up this matter with Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar. However, for the past one month, we have received just vague promises.” Mr. Shetti said the SSS will be staging protests in Satara on August 24 and in Baramati on August 27. He said of the State’s daily milk production of 119 lakh litres, around 52 lakh litres are in excess, and the price of milk powder has dipped from Rs. 330 per kg to Rs. 180 per kg. He said, “Despite 1.5 lakh tonnes of milk powder lying unused in the country, of which 50,000 tonnes are produced by Maharashtra’s dairy farmers, the Centre has decided to import 10,000 tonnes of milk powder, thereby undercutting Indian dairy farmers. This is unacceptable.” ‘Left in the lurch’ Mr. Shetti said between April 6 and July 31, the State government purchased six crore litres of milk at Rs. 25 per litre. “This ‘subsidy’ of Rs. 150 crore has only benefited big dairy cooperatives owned by politicians like Maharashtra Congress chief Balasaheb Thorat. Such cooperatives only constitute 18% of the dairy farmers in the State. The remaining 82% are smaller farmers who are left in the lurch and forced to sell milk at Rs. 17 per litre,” he said.  We hoped the government will come up with some solution. But as nothing has transpired, we have taken to the streets Raju Shetti Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana chief
22 August 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra records over 14,000 new cases again||Maharashtra reported a spike of over 14,000 COVID-19 cases for the second consecutive day on Friday. With 14,161 new cases, the State’s total case tally has reached 6,57,450, of which 1,64,562 are active cases. The State also recorded 339 more deaths, pushing its total toll to 21,698. This is the second-highest single-day spike reported in the State, with the highest being 14,492 cases reported on Thursday. As many as 11,749 patients were discharged on Friday, taking the total recoveries to 4,70,873. While the State’s recovery rate has improved to 71.62%, its case fatality rate has reduced to 3.30%. Pune reported a spike of over 3,000 cases to take its total case tally to 1,44,450, while 81 more deaths pushed its total toll to 3,598. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases was a little more than 29,700, with the recovery rate at 75.72%. Mumbai reported 1,406 new cases to take its case load to 1,34,228, of which only 18,299 are active. With 42 fatalities, the city’s death toll has climbed to 7,356. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported 17 deaths as its toll rose to 1,366. A surge of 466 cases saw its total case tally cross the 42,000 mark. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 430 new cases as its case load surged to 29,259, while seven new deaths saw its toll rise to 617. Navi Mumbai reported 11 deaths as its toll climbed to 583, while 366 fresh cases took its tally to 24,826. Nagpur district reported a record-high surge of 1,111 cases and 17 deaths. The total case tally has now reached 17,965, of which 8,997 are active, while the total death toll has reached 463. “Of a total of 34,92,966 laboratory samples tested so far, 6,57,450 (18.82%) have tested positive,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate.
22 August 2020||Pune,||27 jails in State report 1,478 cases; 6 deaths||As many as 1,478 new cases of COVID-19 and six more deaths have been reported from 27 jails in Maharashtra so far, an official from the prisons department said on Friday. A total of 1,166 inmates and 312 jail staff have contracted the infection and six prisoners have died of it, he said. “As far as inmates are concerned, Nagpur Central Jail is the worst-affected in the State with 219 cases, followed by Pune’s Yerwada Central Jail with 190 cases,” he said. Arthur Road jail and Sangli prison have recorded 182 and 145 cases respectively. “Of the 1,166 infected inmates, 848 have recovered, while of the 312 jail personnel, 272 have recovered so far,” he added.
22 August 2020||Pune,||Private doctors to get Rs. 50 lakh insurance cover||The Maharashtra government has extended a Rs. 50 lakh insurance cover to private doctors who die of COVID-19, an official said on Friday. In a circular issued on Thursday, director of State Health Services Dr. Sadhana Tayde said the insurance cover, which is being given to doctors in government and semi- government services, has now been extended to private medical practitioners. Referring to a letter dated April 9, she said the provisions of the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package, an insurance Scheme for healthcare staff, will be applicable for private doctors as well. Dr. Santosh Kadam, president of the Indian Medical Association’s Thane chapter, welcomed the move.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Bappa is back||
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||This season of darkness will end: Biden||In a speech that portrayed America as having arrived at a moment of choice between two very different futures, Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden said the country would overcome “this season of darkness”, as he accepted the nomination. “The current President has cloaked America in darkness for much too long. Too much anger. Too much fear. Too much division,” Mr. Biden said on the fourth and final day of a virtual Democratic National Convention, themed ‘America’s Promise’. Compelled by the pandemic to implement distancing measures, the former Obama-era Vice-President spoke from a mostly empty room, addressing an audience across the country watching on their computer and television screens. “If you entrust me with the presidency, I will draw on the best of us not the worst. I will be an ally of the light not of the darkness. For make no mistake. United we can, and will, overcome this season of darkness in America. We will choose hope over fear, facts over fiction, fairness over privilege,” Mr. Biden said. Declaring that he was a proud Democrat, Mr. Biden pitched himself as a candidate with broader appeal: a line consistent with his presidential campaign and the early part of the convention. Convention programming from earlier in the week had featured a number of Republicans — politicians as well as regular citizens — who were voting for Mr. Biden rather than President Donald Trump. “I will work as hard for those who didn’t support me as I will for those who did,” Mr. Biden said. Democrats are trying to get voters across their spectrum — from the centrists to the progressives — to vote for Mr. Biden. Prior to his speech, the convention organisers aired a clip of a video call between several of Mr. Biden’s former competitors from the Democratic primaries, including progressive candidates Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren, talking up Mr. Biden’s candidacy . Attack on President Throughout his speech, Mr. Biden did not directly name the current occupant of the White House (Mr. Trump), but attacked his policies and personality. “What we know about this President is if he’s given four more years he will be what he’s been the last four years. A President who takes no responsibility, refuses to lead, blames others, cozies up to dictators, and fans the flames of hate and division.” Mr. Biden said, articulating a vision for America that was in sharp contrast to his characterisation of Mr. Trump’s vision. “I see a different America. One that is generous and strong. Selfless and humble,” he said. “It’s about winning the heart, and yes, the soul of America.” He defined this winning as belonging to the generous, to the workers and to communities that have known the “injustice of the ‘knee on neck’” — a reference to George Floyd the unarmed black man who died after being pinned down by a white policeman. Mr. Biden said he had spoken to Floyd’s young daughter before her father’s funeral and being affected deeply by her words. With regard to foreign policy, Mr. Biden said: “I will be a President who will stand with our allies and friends. I will make it clear to our adversaries the days of cozying up to dictators are over.” There was also an apparent warning to Russia, with reference to intelligence reports that Russia had offered Taliban fighters bounties for killing American and coalition forces in Afghanistan. “Under President Biden, America will not turn a blind eye to Russian bounties on the heads of American soldiers. Nor will I put up with foreign interference in our most sacred democratic exercise — voting,” he said. Mr. Biden said the November 3 election was consequential and “life-changing.” “All elections are important. But we know in our bones this one is more consequential. America is at an inflection point. A time of real peril, but of extraordinary possibilities.” “Character is on the ballot. Compassion is on the ballot. Decency, science, democracy. They are all on the ballot,” he said. Fallout of COVID-19 Mr. Biden outlined the health and economic fallout of COVID-19 — five million Americans were infected and more than 1,70,000 dead, with 50 million filing for unemployment this year. Mr. Biden, who has often drawn connections between his personal story and those of people he meets, spoke about the loss of close family members — his (first) wife, their daughter and, more recently, his son Beau. He talked about his father falling upon hard times and connected that event to his economic plan. The plan included an outline of infrastructure projects, enhancing childcare and building on the Affordable Care Act, an Obama-era health care plan that was intended to bring uninsured Americans into the health insurance net. Mr. Biden also spoke of a future of rising wages and equal pay for women. His platform supports a $15 federal minimum wage and actions designed to support the closing of the gender pay gap. Mr. Biden said there would be “an immigration system that powers our economy and reflects our values,” and of an opportunity to create jobs while fighting the climate crisis. His platform includes policy reform for temporary and permanent visas for highly skilled workers. He praised his running mate, Senator Kamala Harris. “She knows about all the obstacles thrown in the way of so many in our country. Women, Black women, Black Americans, South Asian Americans, immigrants, the left-out and left-behind,” he said.“But she’s overcome every obstacle she's ever faced. The former Vice-President called his wife, Jill Biden, an “unstoppable force.” “She was a great Second Lady and she will make a great First Lady for this nation, she loves this country so much.” Mr. Trump responded to Mr. Biden’s speech on Twitter. “In 47 years, Joe did none of the things of which he now speaks. He will never change, just words!”
22 August 2020||Lahore,||Pak. Punjab pushes crackdown on publishers||Publishers in Pakistan’s most populous province could soon face prison if they fail to win approval from government bureaucrats before printing or importing books, pamphlets and many other written works. Lawmakers in Punjab, home to about half of the country’s 215 million people, unanimously approved the measure last month as part of a sweeping Bill targeting “objectionable” printed material. Dividing the industry If implemented, the Bill could gut the publishing industry in regional capital Lahore and divide Pakistan’s literary world, leaving books available in one part of the country but banned in another. Punjab’s Governor has yet to sign the Bill into law and has indicated he may seek some amendments before doing so. In its current form, the legislation would give authorities almost unlimited scope to control, censor and confiscate any texts they deem problematic. “Any material that is likely to jeopardise or is prejudicial to the ideology of Pakistan or the sovereignty, integrity or security of Pakistan” would be subject to tough new controls, the Bill states. So would any work promoting “vulgarity” and “obscenity”. Publishers would have to submit detailed descriptions of all books to an “authorised officer” with Punjab’s office of the Director General of Public Relations (DGPR) — which would gain broad new powers to inspect any printing press, publication house or bookstore and confiscate books. In the name of security Supporters say the Bill will boost national security because it will bar writing seen as glorifying “terrorists” and “extremist elements”. It would also require every single printed mention of the Prophet Muhammad to be preceded and followed by wordy honorifics — something few books currently include. Publishers would have to inform bureaucrats of works they are producing or translating, and booksellers would need to reveal books they are importing. Those falling foul of the DGPR could face up to five years in prison. More than 200 academics, journalists, historians and other community figures have written an open letter to the Punjab Assembly expressing grave concern about the “immense arbitrary, unfettered and unilateral power” given to authorities to decide a book’s fate. Newspapers and magazines already face intense scrutiny under existing laws and are not subject to the pending legislation. Neither are textbooks, which are controlled by the Punjab Curriculum and Textbook Board (PCTB). Soon after lawmakers passed the Bill, an emboldened PCTB used existing laws to impose its first mass ban — censoring 100 textbooks used by private schools. Some of the newly banned books contained quotes from Mahatma Gandhi. A mathematics book, which used three cartoon pigs — forbidden in Islam — to illustrate a simple counting exercise, was also banned.
22 August 2020||Istanbul,||Turkey to convert another former church to mosque||Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Friday ordered another ancient Orthodox church that became a mosque and then a popular Istanbul museum to be turned back into a place of Muslim worship. The decision to transform the Kariye Museum into a mosque came just a month after a similarly controversial conversion for the UNESCO World Heritage-recognised Hagia Sophia. Both changes reflect Mr. Erdogan’s efforts to galvanise his more conservative and nationalist supporters at a time when Turkey is suffering a new spell of inflation and economic uncertainty caused by the virus. But they have added to Turkey’s tensions with Greece and its Orthodox Church. Greece’s objection The Greek Foreign Ministry called the decision “yet another provocation against religious persons everywhere” by the Turkish government. The 1,000-year-old building’s history closely mirrors that of the Hagia Sophia — its bigger neighbour on the historic western bank of the Golden Horn estuary on the European side of Istanbul. The Holy Saviour in Chora was a medieval Byzantine church decorated with 14th-century frescoes of the Last Judgment that remain treasured in the Christian world. It was originally converted into the Kariye Mosque half a century after the 1453 conquest of Constantinople by the Ottoman Turks. It became the Kariye Museum after Second World War as Turkey pushed ahead with the creation of a more secular new republic out of the ashes of the Ottoman Empire. A group of American art historians then helped restore the original church’s mosaics and opened them up for public display in 1958. But Mr. Erdogan is placing an ever greater political emphasis on the battles that resulted in the defeat of Byzantium by the Ottomans. Approved by court Turkey’s top administrative court approved the museum’s conversion into a mosque in November. “It’s a place steeped in history which holds a lot of symbolism for a lot of different people,” said French tourist Frederic Sicard outside the building. “For me, (these conversions) are a little difficult to understand and to follow. But we would visit if it were a mosque. We might just have to arrange visits around prayer times.” The sandy-coloured structure visible today replaced one created as a part of a monastery in the fourth century when Constantinople was the new capital of the Roman Empire. It features a minaret in one corner and small cascading domes similar to those of other grand mosques whose calls to prayer echo over Istanbul. Frescoes and mosaics But inside it is filled with magnificent frescoes and mosaics that represent some of the finest examples of Byzantine art in the Christian world. Turkey’s tumultuous efforts to reconcile these two histories form the underpinnings of the country’s contemporary politics and social life. Opposition HDP party lawmaker Garo Paylan called the transformation “a shame for our country”. “One of the symbols of our country’s deep, multicultural identity and multi-religious history has been sacrificed,” he said in a tweet.
22 August 2020||Omsk,||Allow Navalny’s evacuation to Germany, wife appeals to Putin||The wife of the hospitalised Russian Opposition leader Alexei Navalny made a direct appeal to President Vladimir Putin on Friday to allow her husband to be evacuated to Germany, as Russian doctors denied he had been poisoned. Mr. Navalny, 44, a lawyer and anti-corruption campaigner who is among Mr. Putin’s fiercest critics, was in a coma in intensive care in the Siberian city of Omsk after he lost consciousness while on a flight and his plane made an emergency landing on Thursday. Aides say they believe he was poisoned and that something was put in his tea at an airport cafe. Mr. Navalny’s supporters organised an air ambulance with specialists from a German clinic that arrived at Omsk airport but Russian doctors said his condition was too “unstable” to move him. His wife Yulia Navalnaya posted on Mr. Navalny’s Twitter account a letter addressed to Mr. Putin, saying: “I officially apply to you with a demand for permission to take Alexei Navalny to Germany.” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said there were “no obstacles” to evacuating Mr. Navalny and this was “purely a medical decision”. Russian doctors treating Mr. Navalny said tests had shown no trace of poison and suggested he lost consciousness due to low blood sugar. “So far no poison has been identified in the blood and urine,” Anatoly Kalinichenko, the deputy head doctor of the hospital, told journalists in Omsk. “We do not believe that the patient suffered poisoning,” he said. Chief doctor Alexander Murakhovsky said the preliminary diagnosis was a “metabolic disorder”. This could have caused a “sharp drop in blood sugar in the plane that led to loss of consciousness,” he said.
22 August 2020||Strasbourg,||Parents shave French Muslim girl’s head||The parents, uncle and aunt of a teenager of Bosnian Muslim origin will face trial in France on charges of violence against a minor for shaving her head because of her relationship with a Christian Serbian boy, prosecutors said on Friday. The girl, aged 17, had her hair shaven off and was also beaten in the eastern city of Besancon on Monday, judicial sources said. Police detained the parents as well as the uncle and the aunt. They were released under judicial control but are banned from contacting the girl, who has been placed under protection. They will be tried later this year for “violence against minors”, said deputy prosecutor Margaret Parietti , confirming a report in the Est Republicain daily. The girl, who arrived from Bosnia-Herzegovina two years ago with her family, had for several months had a relationship with the boy of Serbian origin, who lived in the same building in Besancon. Punishing the girl The family took away her phone and stopped her contacting her boyfriend. The pair then fled for four days and on their return came to the apartment of the girl’s family along with the boy’s parents. “The first blow came from the mother, then there was an outbreak of violence. She was taken to a room and beaten. She was shaved, according to her testimony, by her uncle — her father’s brother — while being beaten,” the prosecutor said.
22 August 2020||Paris,||Paris, Aug 21, 2020 (AFP) -||French schoolchildren above the age of 11 will be required to wear masks when they return to school in just over a week in a bid to halt the quickening spread of the virus, said Jean-Michel Blanquer, the Education Minister .AFP
22 August 2020||Gaza City,||Gaza City, Palestinian Territories, Aug 21, 2020 (AFP) -||Israeli warplanes bombed the Hamas-ruled Gaza Strip on Friday, as Palestinians fired rockets and launched fire bombs into southern Israel, the Army said. Israeli planes launched raids against Gaza shortly after midnight on Thursday and then again later on Friday morning.AFP
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||A people living off borrowed money||After doing seven jobs in the last three years in and around Colombo, Simran Enric is now back home in Sri Lanka’s hill country. He escaped the pandemic that struck the capital, but his last job at a grocery store didn’t. “I am ready to take up any job. It doesn’t matter which city, what work or how much they pay,” says the 19-year-old. He began working after dropping out of school before his Ordinary Level examination. His parents’ stagnant wages, from tea production on an estate in Maskeliya in the central Nuwara Eliya district, was not enough for three square meals for their family of five, including Enric’s two schoolgoing sisters. His Colombo income, they hoped, would support household finances. It barely did, but the family couldn’t afford to lose any additional source of income, however meagre, as they tried to cope. Over a period of time, Enric’s small savings proved valuable. And then the deadly virus arrived. In Sri Lanka, though, the novel coronavirus didn’t seem all that deadly, going by the official data. While COVID-19 case numbers in the region and in powerful western countries increased rapidly, Sri Lanka stood out, drawing high praise, including from the World Health Organization, for containing the virus. To date, Sri Lanka has reported 11 deaths and fewer than 3,000 cases, of which only 127 are active. After a stringent lockdown for two months and the efforts of the country’s efficient public health sector, aided by the military, Sri Lanka felt relatively fit to hold the twice-postponed parliamentary elections on August 5. Over 16 million of the country’s 21 million-strong population could vote in the elections, held with elaborate health guidelines mandated by the Election Commission. The turnout was 71%. As was widely predicted, the ruling Rajapaksa brothers’ young party won comfortably, securing a rare two-thirds majority in Sri Lanka’s proportional representation system. With carefully cultivated political capital from projecting their war-victor image for a decade now, and aided by the former government’s abysmal failures, the Rajapaksas have consolidated their grip on the country like few have. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa and his older brother Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa sit in the country’s two most powerful offices. They have no imminent threat to their political might. But their government faces an unprecedented economic challenge. Fragile economy Reeling under the shock of last year’s ghastly Easter terror bombings, Sri Lanka’s economy contracted by 1.6% in the first quarter of 2020, even before the pandemic’s local and global spread was clear. The World Bank has projected a rather grim picture, warning it could contract up to 3%. Of the country’s mounting external debt – equivalent to 42.6 % of the GDP in 2019, according to the Central Bank of Sri Lanka – nearly $3 billion is due for repayment this year. This includes a non-negotiable $1 billion sovereign bond maturing in October, besides bilateral and multilateral loans. Aware of the daunting task ahead, the Rajapaksa administration wasted no time in requesting lenders for a debt freeze. On his visit to New Delhi in February, his first trip abroad after assuming premiership of the then-caretaker government, Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa sought a debt moratorium that is still being negotiated. With the pandemic that hit Sri Lanka in March amplifying the economic crisis manyfold, the country’s looming debt crunch gave the government the jitters. The government went for new loans to service past borrowings, including over $5 billion from China and $960 million from India. In March, Sri Lanka signed an agreement with China for another $500 million loan after an “urgent request” from Colombo, to deal with the pandemic’s harsh economic blow. Along the margins While the government struggles to cope with the fiscal crisis, the people, especially those on the margins, suffer. Enric stayed in Colombo for almost eight weeks during “curfew time” with a partial salary, lodging and food, until he lost his job. “There was no chance of finding a new job,” he says. He returned home and the family was back to relying entirely on his parents’ wages. “No work today; there aren’t enough tea leaves on the bushes after last week’s heavy rains,” says his mother S. Bagyalakshmi, who recently pawned the only piece of jewellery she had kept for her daughters. “Work has been irregular these days.” Increasingly, many employers across estates are asking workers to stay at home once every few days, so they don’t have to pay the monthly incentive tied to a minimum number of days’ mandatory work, according to labourers. Citing the pandemic, Sri Lanka’s major plantation companies have virtually stalled talks with the government on a basic wage hike from the current LKR 700 to LKR 1,000 that workers have been demanding for over three years. Not that the companies were any more willing to pay the rate in 2019, when tea exporters reported a record high revenue of over $1.3 billion. The estate workers were persistent enough to push their demand to poll manifestos, but not powerful enough to realise it. In January this year, two months into office, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa assured them of a wage hike by March 1, following up on his campaign slogan. Six months later, workers have resigned to yet another broken promise. For those like Bagyalakshmi, pawning her hard-earned piece of jewellery was the only option to survive. As far as her family’s poverty goes, it was not introduced by the pandemic, but was gravely aggravated by it. The nearly 1.5 lakh estate labourers among Sri Lanka’s million-strong Malayaha (hill country) Tamils, whom British planters brought down from south India to clear forested mountainous land, plant and pluck coffee and later tea, have been historically neglected. Earners of precious foreign exchange, they remain on the country’s geographic, social and economic margins, their labour invisible and voice rarely heard. Bagyalakshmi’s home, a colonial-era ‘line room’ with a living area barely 8X8 feet, is located on the edge of a winding, unmotorable road inside an estate. It is a silent witness to the violent colonial past her ancestors endured, as well as the exploitation that carried over into the years after Independence, making the lives of successive generations vulnerable and their livelihoods, precarious. But it is not just estate workers facing the brunt. Like Enric, tens of thousands of Malayaha Tamil youth, employed in hotels and shops, often as cleaners or assistants, in Colombo and other cities, have now returned jobless to the hill country. “There is a sudden increase in three-wheeler drivers in Maskeliya. That is because many of us had to come back from Colombo after the COVID-19 outbreak as there was no other option of making a living there,” says Murugaiyya Vigneswaran, 28, who lost his mason job in Colombo. “I took a loan and bought this three-wheeler, but it is not easy to find hires.” He relies on his neighbours in the estate engaging his autorickshaw for an urgent visit to Maskeliya town, paying LKR 1,500 (or two day’s gross wages) for the round trip, as estate roads are not serviced by public transport. Elders in the community note that it is over the last two decades that Malayaha Tamil youth from the estates ventured out looking for jobs, escaping the estates where their parents toil all day braving blood-sucking leeches and stinging wasps. But they couldn’t escape hardship. Precarious jobs abroad While some migrated to the capital and big towns in the prosperous Western province, others found jobs as domestic and construction workers in West Asian countries. Sri Lanka’s hill country, along with high-migration districts such as Kurunegala in the North Western Province and Batticaloa in the Eastern Province, supplies a steady flow of cheap labour abroad. Of the over 2 lakh workers who migrated from Sri Lanka in 2018, more than half were unskilled workers and housemaids, official data show. But the raging virus made their lives and jobs overseas even more perilous than at home. As many as 47 Sri Lankan migrant workers have succumbed to COVID-19 in West Asian countries, according to Mangala Randeniya, spokesman of the Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment. This is more than four times the number of deaths reported in Sri Lanka. The migrant workers’ funerals were held where they were last employed, as their families in Sri Lanka grieved from thousands of miles away. Some 40,000 workers, who are out of work in West Asia, are trying to return home. Wary of importing more carriers of the virus, after dozens who returned in special flights tested positive on arrival, the Sri Lankan government is staggering their repatriation in phases. Others wait, with savings for food dwindling, insecure accommodation, the constant fear of infection, and no clarity on their date of return or prospects in Sri Lanka thereafter. “Two of my nieces and a nephew are working abroad. We still don’t know when they can return, we are really worried,” says Bagyalakshmi. This is the prevalent anxiety among migrant workers’ families. For over 10 years now, Somasundaram Mallika has been raising her older sister’s three children, in addition to two of her own, in Badulla district, in the neighbouring Uva Province. “My sister is the only breadwinner in her family after her husband passed away. She had no choice but to leave the country for work. Thankfully she still has her job, but with this virus we don’t know when we will see her next,” says Mallika. Her sister Somasundaram Yogam did many jobs abroad before her current one as a housemaid in Saudi Arabia. Speaking to The Hindu over telephone, she says: “I don’t go out anywhere because of the COVID risk. I hear many housemaids like me have lost their jobs, I am very lucky to still have mine.” Despite a secure job and a reasonable salary, many workers find it very hard to be away from their families. Unlike Yogam, many don’t have reliable relatives to care for their children. “I miss them very much, but what do you do when you have to work?” she says. Yogam would seem better off compared to hundreds of Sri Lankan garment workers in Jordan who were sacked after the pandemic. Around 200 of them returned last week, but another 500 are stuck there, according to Abiramy Sivalogananthan, Sri Lanka coordinator for the Asia Floor Wage Alliance, engaged in international campaigns for collective bargaining in the global garment industry. “The factories first reduced the meals they are mandated to provide from three to two, and then stealthily obtained signatures from the workers in documents saying they were resigning, to be exempted from paying social security,” she says. Moreover, skilled expat workers have been returning to Sri Lanka with less difficulty, even from high-risk countries such as the U.S. and the U.K. “It’s not just the employers abroad who manipulate and exploit migrant workers, our own government discriminates against low-skilled workers by making their return very hard,” Sivalogananthan observes. Desperate measures Labourers like Bagyalakshmi or Yogam, or those back from Jordan might make an occasional news headline in Sri Lanka, but they almost never figure in policy talk on the national economy. Those discussions begin and end with the outcome of their labour – be it tea and rubber or garments that together make up about 65% of exports; or migrant remittances that are the main source of Sri Lanka’s foreign exchange. In 2019, inward remittances added up to $6.7 billion. With all key foreign exchange earners – tourism, exports and remittances – of the country badly hit, Sri Lanka is facing its biggest foreign exchange crisis in history, by the government’s own admission. The Central Bank and the government have taken several urgent measures. In March, authorities restricted import of non-essential goods and soon relaxed foreign exchange regulations, inviting deposits in foreign currency. The government curtailed outward remittances. Meanwhile, the Central Bank recently obtained a $400 million currency swap from the Reserve Bank of India to boost its reserves, while President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi for an additional $1.1 billion currency swap. Sri Lanka has also sought emergency financial support from the International Monetary Fund, under its Rapid Credit Facility. The request is under assessment. Faced with a tumbling currency – about LKR 187 (roughly Rs. 74) to an American dollar – fast-depleting foreign exchange reserves and a daunting repayment schedule this year, Sri Lanka has no time to lose while fixing its battered economy. But the task is far from easy. The government can’t open up the country for tourists without increasing the risk of a spike in new cases. It can’t strengthen exports until other countries, or at least Sri Lanka’s key markets, are ready to buy what it has to sell. Evidently, the newly installed Rajapaksa government is under enormous pressure – not only to keep Sri Lanka’s unblemished debt servicing record, but also to enhance local production and create local demand in order to keep the economy ticking until international markets brighten. Sri Lanka’s rural economy, sustained largely by agriculture and fisheries, has been crying for attention for years – evidenced in the recurring farmer and fisher protests around cost of inputs, profiteering by intermediaries, and unstable incomes. Also, it is not just the country that is growing more and more indebted. Many of its poor citizens too are mired in stifling debt. While the national spotlight is on the outstanding foreign debt, rural women across the country, including in the civil war-affected north and east, have been living off borrowed money, often microfinance loans that agents push at their doorsteps. Trapped in servicing the exorbitant interest rates – even more than 200% in some cases – of multiple loans, some have tragically taken their own lives, just as Jaffna-based Surendrarasan Mariarata did earlier this month. The fast-growing concern about predatory microfinance loans, especially among women, evoked a poll promise from Gotabaya Rajapaksa ahead of last year’s presidential elections for relief from microfinance loans. The indebted women await action before more lives are lost. Where are the jobs? Most policymakers in Sri Lanka agree that in order to tackle prevalent household indebtedness or generate greater local demand, the government must necessarily create jobs. President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has recently resumed a programme to provide jobs to 50,000 unemployed graduates and 1 lakh low-income earners. But there are several thousand more, unable to complete school and desperately looking for jobs, others like the hill country youth who are now out of work, or the migrant workers who are back in the country with uncertain futures. They will need different kinds of jobs. “In the hill country, for instance, they could set up industries that do value addition. Why must those factories be based in Colombo when all the tea is produced here,” asks Fr. Isaac Daniel Dixon, pastor at a Maskeliya church attended mostly by estate workers. His congregation includes many youth who lost their jobs in Colombo and returned recently. “Some end up as labourers in the same estates as their parents, doing the job their parents hoped they never would.” Immediately after the new government was installed this month, and ministerial portfolios allocated, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa emphasised the need to promote local industry. The thrust, aligned to the ruling party’s nationalist, populist election plank, is not new to Sri Lanka. Neither are leaders’ customary poll-time promises to alleviate poverty. Campaigning in the southern Hambantota district on the eve of the August 5 elections, the President pledged to build a “people-centric national economy, fully owned by the people.” Sri Lankans know well that for a promise to translate to policy and more crucially, action, the government’s political might alone will not do. Therein lies the Rajapaksa brothers’ next big test.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Differential impact of COVID-19 and the lockdown||In his book, The Great Leveler , Walter Scheidel, the Austrian economic historian, argues that throughout human history, there have been four types of catastrophic events that have led to greater economic equality: pandemic, war, revolution and state collapse. Currently, the world is going through one of them: a massive COVID-19 pandemic. In Scheidel’s analysis, the decline in inequality is a result of excess mortality that raises the price of labour. While the validity of Scheidel’s argument for the current pandemic can only be assessed after it is over, the pandemic has been described as a leveller more loosely, both because the disease can strike anyone, and also because the resultant lockdowns have led to widespread job losses and economic hardships across the range of the income and occupational distribution. The marginalised at risk Focusing on the looser description of the pandemic as a leveller, preliminary data and early indirect evidence from several parts of the world indicate that the incidence of the disease is not class-neutral: poorer and economically vulnerable populations are more likely to contract the virus as well as to die from it. To the extent, economic class and social identity (e.g. race, ethnicity or caste) overlap, this suggests that socially marginalised groups would be at higher risk of mortality due to COVID-19. The risks extend beyond mortality as the economic consequences of the current pandemic are likely to be most concentrated among the low wage earners, and less educated workers, segments of the labour force where racial and ethnic minorities are over-represented. Early evidence from the United Kingdom and the United States reveals that racial and ethnic minorities are indeed the ones most likely at the risk of unemployment. What does the evidence from India reveal? Disaggregated data on COVID-19 incidence and mortality are not available for India. Thus, we cannot comment on whether certain caste groups are more vulnerable to the virus than others. The Indian shutdown A key element of the pandemic control strategy everywhere has been to shut down economic and social activity, and to impose social distancing with varying degrees of strictness. India’s lockdown, imposed in the last week of March 2020, was among the most stringent. The first month of the severe lockdown, April 2020, witnessed a sharp rise in unemployment. Was this sudden unemployment caste-neutral, despite the fact that it was caste-blind? We examine shifts in employment and unemployment rates using data from the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE)’s Consumer Pyramids Household Survey (CPHS) database. It is a longitudinal data set covering 174,405 households (roughly 10,900 households per week, and 43,600 per month). Each household is followed three times per year. We use unit-level data from six waves of CPHS: Wave 14 (May-August 2018), Wave 15 (September-December 2018), Wave 16 (January-April 2019), Wave 17 (May-August 2019), Wave 18 (September-December 2019), and Wave 19 (January-April 2020). We find that the proportion of employed upper castes dropped from 39% to 32% between December 2019 and April 2020, a fall of seven percentage points. The corresponding fall for Scheduled Castes (SCs) was from 44% to 24%, i.e. a fall of 20 percentage points, almost three times as large. For intermediate castes, Other Backward Classes and Scheduled Tribes (STs) the fall was from 42% to 34%, 40% to 26% and 48% to 33%. Thus, the fall in employment for SCs and STs was far greater in magnitude than that for upper castes. Education as factor The global evidence suggests that job losses associated with COVID-19 are much more concentrated among individuals with low levels of education and those with vulnerable jobs with no tenure or security. We find that individuals with more secure jobs, i.e. not daily wagers, and those with more than 12 years of education, were much less likely to be unemployed in April 2020 than those with less than 12 years of education and with daily wage jobs, relative to their pre-pandemic employment status. Thus, education did turn out to be a protective factor in the first wave of immediate post-lockdown job losses. Our earlier work reveals that caste gaps at higher levels of education have either remained static or widened over the last three decades. The current pandemic is further likely to exacerbate these educational differences. Data from another nationally representative survey, the India Human Development Survey for 2011-12 (IHDS-II) show that 51% of SC households have adult women who have zero years of education, i.e. are illiterate, and 27% have an illiterate adult male member. These proportions are in stark contrast to Upper Caste (UC) households, where the corresponding proportions are 11% and 24%, respectively. Thus, in the face of current school closures, parents of SC children would be much less equipped to assist their children with any form of home learning, compared to parents of UC children. This would be the case both because of educational differences among parents as well as due to other significant differences in material conditions living. Issue of technology There are many dimensions that reveal continued disparity between caste groups, which would affect the ability of Dalit and Adivasi families to access online education. For example, the proportion of households with access to the Internet is 20% and 10% for UC and SC households, respectively. Only 49% of SCs have bank savings, as compared to 62% of UC households. Thus, differential access to information technology, as well as disparities in the ability to invest in technology will be critical in shaping access to online education, if the pandemic forces schools to close for a substantial period of time. Early impacts of the pandemic-induced lockdown indicate that the resultant economic distress is exacerbating pre-existing structures of disadvantage based on social identity, and investments in education and health that close gaps between social groups would be essential to build resilience in the face of future shocks. Ashwini Deshpande teaches at Ashoka University. Rajesh Ramachandran is at the University of Heidelberg
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Moving resolutely toward the post-pandemic future||A moment comes, but rarely in history, when a nation seizes control of its destiny; when a new Atmanirbhar era begins and when the people of a nation move forward with confidence. It is fitting that this moment has come during the global novel coronavirus pandemic. Even as the world is reeling from the impact of the pandemic, India is recovering with fresh energy and making bold plans for the future. The pandemic began spreading around the world just a few months ago. Yet, it has plunged the global economy into its deepest economic contraction since the Great Depression of the 1930s. Trillions of dollars of economic output have been wiped out, most countries will take years to return to pre-coronavirus levels, and billions of people are confronting a shrunken future. Calibrated measures India has avoided this fate. The government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi has undertaken a series of decisive, calibrated actions which include: implementing a rapid lockdown to save lives; providing abundant relief to protect livelihoods; and, simultaneously positioning the economy for strong revival through the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ policy package. On March 24, 2020, Mr. Modi announced a historic nation-wide lockdown that was eventually lifted on June 1. The national lockdown dramatically dampened the disease’s exponential growth rate and gave the country time to prepare. Without a lockdown, the cases of coronavirus would today be several times higher than now. More importantly, coronavirus fatalities would have been even higher since the case fatality rate has declined dramatically in the past few months. Lockdown was essential A terrible human tragedy was swiftly and decisively averted. During the lockdown, the nation got ready to face the pandemic. Every citizen learned the value of masks and mask wearing, social distancing, and hand washing. Hospital beds, intensive care units, ventilators, oxygen cylinders, personal protective equipment kits, and N95 masks were procured in vast quantities and supplied to every district. COVID-19 care and quarantine centres were established in every block. Testing capacity increased from thousands per day to almost a million per day. Testing labs are now available in 80-90% of all districts. Extraordinary medical advances have also happened in the past few months: several drugs have proven to be efficacious, treatment protocols are now widely available, and many vaccine candidates are now in the final stages of testing. The national lockdown has thus saved lakhs of lives. Along with lives, livelihoods have also been saved through bold action. Soon after the lockdown was announced, the Prime Minister announced the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana — a massive relief package for the needy. Through this programme, around 80 crore fellow citizens are being provided rations through the Public Distribution System. This has saved them money and put cash in their pockets. Over 20 crore Jan Dhan women account holders have received Rs. 30,654 crore directly into their bank accounts. Around 2.3 crore construction workers have got Rs. 4,313 crore, while 2.8 crore beneficiaries in the National Social Assistance Programme have received Rs. 2,815 crore. The rural economy, which supports 60-70% of India’s population and accounts for 46% of GDP, is surging. The excellent rabi harvest has resulted in over Rs. 75,000 crore in farmer payments by the government. Almost 10 crore farmers have received Rs. 40,000 crore as income support through the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi. Over 4 crore households are benefiting from the expanded Mahatma Gandhi Employment Guarantee Act scheme. Thus the rural economy has received over Rs. 2 lakh crore of cash directly into beneficiary accounts just from the Central government. State governments have run their own relief programmes as well. These massive cash payments have driven rural confidence, with consumer goods, motorcycle, and tractor purchases at or above pre-pandemic levels now. RBI and policy actions Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) and large corporates have also been provided substantial relief through coordinated action between the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and the government. Compliance filings and tax payments were extended by several months. Borrowers received a loan moratorium of six months. Moreover, the RBI has cut rates by 115bps and pumped in more than Rs. 9 lakh crore in liquidity into the financial system; Rs. 3 lakh crore have been made available as guaranteed collateral-free loans for MSME borrowers. with close to half of that being sanctioned already. The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, Small Industries Development Bank of India, National Housing Bank, and Non-banking financial companies have all been provided refinancing facilities. The RBI has undertaken vast long-term repo operations to bring down the yield curve. As a result of all these policy actions, credit markets have stabilised, credit is available, and spreads have come down to normal levels. With the loan moratorium coming to an end on August 31, the RBI has now announced a one-time restructuring scheme to provide relief to stressed sectors. Borrowers will be able to restructure their loans to match their cash flows, thereby protecting their businesses and jobs. The net result of these relief actions has been to prevent widespread business failures and job losses, which would have resulted in permanent damage to the Indian economy. Key reforms After these relief measures were rolled out, the government introduced the Atmanirbhar Bharat revival package. Following the adage that a crisis is a terrible thing to waste, the Prime Minister has launched bold policy reforms in agriculture, defence production, electronics manufacturing, coal mining, and the public sector. These reforms position India for the future and generate confidence among business people and investors. The agriculture sector has seen the most transformational changes. Unfortunately, the architects of industrial policy transformation in 1991 have chosen to not commend the agricultural policy transformation of 2020. Through a series of ordinances, price controls have largely been removed in agriculture, farmers can now sell their crops to anyone anywhere, and contract farming has been allowed. Kisan credit cards are being provided to all fishermen, dairy farmers, and other agriculturists. An additional Rs. 1 lakh crore has been earmarked to build rural infrastructure such as storage depots, refrigerated warehouses, and other post-harvest facilities. Animal husbandry has been sanctioned another Rs. 15,000 crore. Defence production is being indigenised with 101 items meant only for domestic production. This will likely generate over Rs. 4 lakh crore of revenues for domestic defence producers in the next few years. Defence foreign direct investment of 74% is now allowed through the automatic route. Similarly, the government has completely opened up coal mining to the private sector to ensure that imported coal worth over Rs. 1 lakh crore is replaced with domestic coal. Finally, in yet another historic decision, the government has declared that there will be full disinvestment in all public sector enterprises in non-strategic sectors. Production-linked incentives for electronics manufacturing are likely to result in lakhs of crores of smartphone production in India for domestic use and exports. Current projections are that India will soon be among the top smartphone manufacturers globally. In sum, these game-changing reforms have prompted domestic and foreign investors to start pouring in billions of dollars of investments into our economy. There is confidence During these uncertain times, India remains a safe haven. The rupee has strengthened against the dollar, the world’s reserve currency. Opinion surveys consistently show that Prime Minister Modi is the most popular elected leader in the world; in fact, tracking polls show that his popularity has actually gone up during the pandemic demonstrating that the Indian people approve of his handling of the coronavirus crisis. Confidence in the government has also increased. Many countries are stumbling through the pandemic. Meanwhile, India has seized control of its destiny and is marching resolutely toward the post-pandemic future. Jayant Sinha is the Chairman of the Standing Committee on Finance in Parliament and a Lok Sabha MP from Hazaribagh, Jharkhand. The views expressed are personal
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Repeal and reform||A two-thirds majority in the legislature is indeed a mandate for constitutional change, but the winner ought to decide whether the proposed change would bring about reform or impairment; whether it would strengthen democratic institutions or weaken them. In his first address to the newly elected Parliament, Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa has predictably declared his intention to repeal the landmark 19th Amendment to the Constitution, and, thereafter, to work towards a new Constitution. The party he belongs to, the SLPP, has just garnered a historic two-thirds majority along with its allies in the parliamentary polls — unprecedented in an election based on proportional representation. Few would doubt that the party led by the President’s elder brother and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa has the requisite mandate to overhaul the constitutional and electoral system. The abolition of the 19th Amendment was indeed the party’s major poll plank. However, does it necessarily mean that the gains of the 19th Amendment should be thrown out lock, stock and barrel? The legislation that introduced it was also based on a popular mandate for change in the 2015 presidential election, and received more than the required two-thirds support in the previous Parliament. It not only curbed the executive President’s vast powers, by restoring a two-term limit, and making it difficult for the legislature to be dissolved at the President’s whim, but also sought to protect the independence of oversight institutions. It would be a travesty of democratic principles if the independence of institutions such as the Election Commission is now curbed in the name of undoing the 19th Amendment. After all, it is now recognised that the largely peaceful and orderly polling was only because of the EC’s autonomy. If not for nothing else, but as an acknowledgement of the free election that enabled it to get a massive mandate, the ruling party should seek to prove its detractors wrong by preserving the democratic gains of the amendment. Further, the plan to rewrite the Constitution under the rubric of a ‘one country, one law’ principle should not be at odds with the urgent need for a new inclusive Constitution that would put the country on the path of equality and reconciliation. The President’s address was also notable for the absence of any reference to ethnic minorities. For long, Sri Lankan leaders have maintained that they can give little by way of constitutional concessions to the minorities without the consent of the majority Sinhalese. Given the dependence of the Rajapaksas on the majority, it is possible to look at the President’s remarks on the proposed Constitution in the portentous sense of moving away from the concept of devolution. While the abolition of the executive presidency appears no more realistic, it will be retrograde if the idea of sharing more power with the provinces is abandoned altogether.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Last lap||Former U.S. Vice-President Joe Biden has become the Democratic Party’s official nominee for the 2020 presidential election after a glitzy four-day extravaganza at the Democratic National Convention. Alongside his running mate Kamala Harris, he will seek to oust incumbent Donald Trump from the White House. If he does so, an array of remedial policy actions will be required from an early stage to lift the U.S. up from the economic destruction caused by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Besides, he will need to urgently attend to a series of controversies and setbacks, some with international repercussions, that the Trump administration has become enmeshed in. Does Mr. Biden possess the political heft, personal charisma, and party mandate to do so? The party answered with a resounding ‘yes’ to all three questions at the Convention, which featured eloquent speeches by former Presidents Barack Obama and Bill Clinton and First Ladies Michelle Obama and Hillary Clinton, as well as party heavyweights including Bernie Sanders, Nancy Pelosi, and Elizabeth Warren. While a few younger Democratic leaders were featured too, the Convention left little doubt that the old guard was still running the show, even if it was seeking to woo the next generation of voters within the framework of an altered political reality. At the heart of that reality stands Mr. Trump, wobbling as he scores lower than Mr. Biden in the opinion polls, mostly for his bungling response to the pandemic, yet relentlessly throwing punches on mail-in voting and appealing to the ‘silent majority’ that Mr. Biden, if elected, would “hike taxes on Americans by $4 trillion, eviscerate the Second Amendment, expand sanctuary cities, and end fossil fuels”. To effectively counter these arguments, and avoid another debacle of the sort that Ms. Clinton faced in 2016, Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris need show only one thing — that they can save the U.S. economy and repair the country’s standing with the rest of the world, especially by reclaiming a pivotal role in the multilateral governance of global public health, climate change and trade. Whether the Democrats, basking in the self-congratulatory afterglow of the Convention and reaffirming their commitment to liberal values, play their hand carefully through this endgame scenario, or whether the Trump vision of an inward-looking U.S. still carries the day, remains to be seen. What is clear is that the electoral outcome will be both a referendum expressing how much a broadly inclusive paradigm of the American Dream still resonates with the people, and a signal of the degree of openness that it will tolerate toward the peoples of other nations. Mr. Biden will have to bring his A-game to this final lap.
22 August 2020||DUBAI,||Dhoni-led Chennai Super Kings arrives in Dubai||Chennai Super Kings (CSK), along with Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) and defending champion Mumbai Indians (MI), arrived in the UAE on Friday for the glamorous T20 league, beginning on September 19. All three teams posted their departure photos on social media. The Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led Super Kings had held a brief training camp in Chennai before flying out and was the only team to do so. RCB skipper Virat Kohli, who made his own arrangements to reach Dubai directly from Mumbai following all BCCI SOP, also posted a photo from the team hotel after touching down. Both CSK and RCB are based out of Dubai while the Rohit Sharma-captained MI is camping in Abu Dhabi. The players are not allowed to venture out of their rooms during the six-day isolation period. The players, who were already tested multiple times before departure, will now undergo a six-day isolation period with testing on day 1, 3 and 6. If they clear all the tests, they will be eligible to enter the tournament’s bio-bubble and start training. Subsequently, the players and support staff will be tested every fifth day of the tournament. On Thursday, Kings XI Punjab, Rajasthan Royals and Kolkata Knight Riders became the first set of teams to arrive in the UAE. Sunrisers Hyderabad and Delhi Capitals will land over the weekend. Repeat test While the Royals’ squad completed its day 1 testing as per BCCI’s Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) at the airport itself, KXIP went for a repeat test on Friday. The Royals have demarcated the outdoor area which a player cannot use if his next door teammate too is outside. KXIP players can also talk to their immediate neighbour while using the balcony. KKR skipper Dinesh Karthik said lack of extensive training would be a factor in the IPL but the players would give their “all” to make fans proud. A challenge “We haven’t played or trained extensively for the last few months. The road ahead may be full of obstacles, but we promise to give it our all. It will be a challenge, playing cricket in these trying circumstances. But, we understand that when we play the game, we bring happiness to our fans,” Karthik was quoted as saying on the KKR website. KKR would miss the crowd support at its home ground — Eden Gardens — but Karthik said every player would carry the iconic venue in their hearts while playing in the UAE. Chinaman bowler Kuldeep Yadav admitted the lockdown had taken a toll on him. “Initially, it was very tough to adjust because we were unable to practise outdoors. But I am ready now. In fact, I can’t wait to get back in action,” said Kuldeep. Top-order batsman Shubman Gill was equally pumped up. “I think we all are really desperate (to play) because for a long time we have only been prepping mentally,” he said. Pacers Kamlesh Nagarkoti, Sandeep Warrier, Shivam Mavi and Prasidh Krishna stressed on how important the next few weeks were going to be. Different experience “It won’t be an easy year. Playing cricket after being locked up in the house for over five months is going to be quite a different experience,” Prasidh said. “The last four-five months at home have really taught me how important cricket is for me,” Warrier stated. Nagarkoti, who missed the 2018 and 2019 seasons due to injuries, is also raring to go.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Cincinnati ushers in main-event tennis’ return||After a five-month hiatus, big-ticket tennis will finally return with the Cincinnati Masters getting underway in a ‘bio-secure bubble’ in New York on Saturday. The women have had a head start, warming up with WTA International events in Palermo, Prague and Lexington. For the men, it will be the first taste of the new normal — of tennis without fans, handshakes and ball kids to handle sweaty towels. The storylines, though, will remain as intriguing as they were at the start of the season, more so with the Masters tournament leading up to the US Open from August 31. World No. 1 Novak Djokovic’s Australian Open triumph early this year for his 17th Major may have escaped fans’ collective memory in these times of the pandemic, but the Serb hasn’t forgotten. By his admission, one of his prime motivations to travel to the United States is to catch his two biggest rivals, Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer, in the race for the most Slam titles. Nadal, the defending champion at Flushing Meadows, is on 19, but hasn’t crossed the Atlantic, choosing his beloved clay instead to make his comeback. Federer, on 20, has already shut down his season. All of this will make it the first of Djokovic’s 61 Slams without at least one of the celebrated duo, and how he holds off the charge of the ‘next gen’ – Dominic Thiem, Stefanos Tsitsipas, Daniil Medvedev and Alexander Zverev – will make for fascinating viewing. Cincinnati is a good precursor, where seven of the world’s top-ten are present. The women’s section, in contrast, wears a dishevelled look, with just three of the world’s top-10 set to feature at the WTA Premier competition. But Serena Williams’ quest for a record-equalling 24th Grand Slam will continue to be the headline-grabbing narrative. The American great, who will soon turn 39, has faltered in her last four Major finals, attempting to tie Margaret Court’s number. However, if she plays herself into form over the next week, she will have a genuine shot at creating history at a venue where she first triumphed 21 years ago.
22 August 2020||MUMBAI,||‘India committed to touring Australia in December’||BCCI president Sourav Ganguly has reiterated India’s commitment to tour Australia in December but remained non-committal about the fate of the domestic season and women’s cricket in the wake of COVID-19. “The BCCI and the Indian cricket team will continue to fulfil its FTP commitments. The senior Indian men’s team will travel to Australia for its series starting in December this year and will come back to the country for a series against England starting from February next year,” Ganguly wrote on Thursday in a letter to the State associations, accessed by The Hindu . “This will be followed by IPL 2021 in April. The tours of the senior Indian women’s teams are also under discussion and more details will be shared shortly.” At the moment, the itinerary for India’s tour Down Under remains far from being confirmed with coronavirus cases increasing in Victoria and South Australia. There are reports in the Australian cricketing circles that India may end up playing its matches in Sydney (New South Wales) and Perth (Western Australia).  The BCCI has provisionally drawn a domestic season schedule from November 19 to March 10. Anticipating a restart, most domestic teams have started training. However, Ganguly was non-committal. “In the domestic cricket context, we are currently in the off-season and the BCCI is making all efforts to ensure that domestic cricket resumes as and when the conditions permit. The health and safety of players and all others involved in domestic cricket is of utmost importance to BCCI and we are constantly monitoring all aspects,” he wrote. “All members will be duly informed about the future course of action and suggestions will be taken before we resume domestic cricket. We are hopeful that the COVID-19 situation will improve over the next few months and we will be able to start domestic cricket in a safe and healthy environment.”
22 August 2020||Abu Dhabi,||Knight Riders raring to give it their all: Karthik||Kolkata Knight Riders skipper Dinesh Karthik on Friday said lack of extensive training would be a factor in the IPL but the players would give their “all” to make fans proud. Two-time champion KKR arrived here on Thursday night. “We haven’t played or trained extensively for the last few months. The road ahead may be full of obstacles, but we promise to give it our all. It will be a challenge, playing cricket in these trying circumstances. But, we understand that when we play the game, we bring happiness to our fans,” Karthik was quoted as saying on the KKR website. KKR would miss the crowd support at its home ground — Eden Gardens — but Karthik said every player would carry the iconic venue in their hearts while playing in the UAE. Chinaman bowler Kuldeep Yadav admitted the lockdown had taken a toll on him. “Initially, it was very tough to adjust because we were unable to practice outdoors. But I am ready now. In fact, I can’t wait to get back in action,” said Kuldeep. Top-order batsman Shubman Gill was equally pumped up. “I think we all are really desperate (to play) because for a long time we have only been prepping mentally,” he said. Pacers Kamlesh Nagarkoti, Sandeep Warrier, Shivam Mavi and Prasidh Krishna stressed on how important the next few weeks were going to be. “It won’t be an easy year. Playing cricket after being locked up in the house for over five months is going to be quite a different experience. The players will have to be inside a bio bubble throughout the tournament. Even among friends, we have to maintain distance. No hugging, no high-fives,” Prasidh said. “The last four-five months at home have really taught me how important cricket is for me,” Warrier stated. Nagarkoti, who missed the 2018 and 2019 seasons due to injuries, is also raring to go.
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Malinga likely to miss first few games||Veteran Sri Lankan pacer Lasith Malinga is likely to be unavailable for the first few games of Mumbai Indians in the upcoming IPL due to personal reasons. Not travelling now The 36-year-old Malinga will not be travelling to the UAE, where the cash-rich league will be played from September 19 to November 10, as his father has not been keeping well for some time and may require surgery in the coming weeks. The seasoned fast bowler has produced match-winning efforts for both Sri Lanka and his IPL franchise, wants to be with his father. Turning 37 Malinga, who will turn 37 next week, last featured for Sri Lanka in a T20 International during the home series against West Indies in March this year, with his last ODI appearance coming more than a year ago. Dogged by frequent knee injuries in recent times, Malinga did not attend the residential conditioning camps Sri Lanka Cricket organised in June and July. Handed the ball for the final over of last year’s IPL title clash against Chennai Super Kings, Malinga defended eight runs to help Mumbai Indians register a record fourth triumph in the event. Rich haul Malinga, who captained the Sri Lankan T20 World Cup-winning side in 2014, has so far taken 170 wickets in 122 IPL matches at a fine average of 19.8 and an economy rate of 7.14. The Sri Lankan legend has so far finished with a five-for once and four-wicket hauls six times, with five for 13 being his best.
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Khel Ratna for five approved||The Sports Ministry on Friday accepted an unprecedented five recommendations for the country’s highest sporting honour (Khel Ratna), but decided against bestowing the Arjuna Award on former Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna winners Sakshi Malik and Mirabai Chanu, pruning the list to 27. The Dronacharya Awards will be given to 13 individuals, including eight in the lifetime category, while 15 athletes will receive the Dhyan Chand Awards. Six institutions have been recommended for the Rashtriya Khel Protsahan Puruskar. Panjab University has been chosen for the Maulana Abul Kalam Azad Trophy. In a first, the awards will be held virtually on August 29, the National Sports Day, instead of the Rashtrapati Bhavan this year due to COVID-19.
22 August 2020||DUBAI,||Teams check-in to the hotels in the UAE||Defending champion Mumbai Indians, along with Chennai Super Kings (CSK) and Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB), arrived in the UAE on Friday for the event beginning on September 19. All three teams posted their departure photos on social media. The Mahendra Singh Dhoni-led Super Kings had held a brief training camp in Chennai before flying out and was the only team to do so. RCB skipper Virat Kohli, who made his own arrangements to reach Dubai directly from Mumbai following all BCCI SOP, also posted a photo from the team hotel after touching down. CSK and RCB are based in Dubai while Mumbai Indians is camping in Abu Dhabi. The players are not allowed to venture out of their rooms during the six-day isolation period. The players, who were already tested multiple times before departure, will now undergo a six-day isolation period with testing on day 1, 3 and 6. If they clear all the tests, they will be eligible to enter the tournament’s bio-bubble and start training. Subsequently, the players and support staff will be tested every fifth day of the tournament. On Thursday, Kings XI Punjab, Rajasthan Royals and Kolkata Knight Riders became the first set of teams to arrive. Sunrisers Hyderabad and Delhi Capitals will land over the weekend. While the Royals’ squad completed its day 1 testing as per BCCI’s Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) at the airport itself, KXIP went for a repeat test on Friday. The Royals have demarcated the outdoor area which a player cannot use if his next door teammate too is outside. KXIP players can also talk to their immediate neighbour while using the balcony. KKR skipper Dinesh Karthik said lack of extensive training would be a factor in the IPL but the players would give their “all” to make fans proud.
22 August 2020||NEW YORK,||Djokovic comes to New York chasing Federer’s Slam mark||World No. 1 Novak Djokovic says he nearly skipped the US Open, but plans to play the Grand Slam despite COVID-19 concerns in part to chase tennis history. Djokovic, a 17-time Grand Slam singles champion, told the New York Times that trying to catch Roger Federer’s men’s record of 20 Slams was “of course” a major factor in his decision to play the Flushing Meadows fortnight that begins on August 31. “One of the reasons why I keep on playing professional tennis on this level is because I want to reach more heights in the tennis world,” Djokovic told the newspaper. Assurances The 33-year-old Serbian has won five of the past seven men’s singles Slam crowns but came to the New York hardcourts only after assurances from European officials that players returning from the US Open would not face a long quarantine before upcoming European events such as the French Open. “I was very close to not coming,” said Djokovic, who made the final decision less than a week before arriving. “There were a lot of uncertainties.” Djokovic is staying at a rental house in New York while most players are in a hotel as part of protocols to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. “I want to play. I mean, that’s why I’m here,” Djokovic said. “I am personally not afraid of being in a risky, dangerous health situation for myself. If I felt that way, I most likely would not be here.” No Federer and Nadal Federer, 39, is injured and Spain’s Rafael Nadal, 34, is focusing on the upcoming clay season and a potential 13th crown at Roland Garros. Djokovic, who has topped the world rankings for 282 weeks, could overtake Federer’s record of 310 weeks at the top spot by March next year, and  said it was a major goal as well.   I am personally not afraid of being in a risky, dangerous health situation for myself. If I felt that way, I most likely would not be here
22 August 2020||Bengaluru,||A sweet double for Jude Felix||Twenty-six years after he won the Arjuna Award, Jude Felix has added the Dronacharya Award to his impressive resume. With a sweet double under his belt, the former India hockey captain is a content man. “To win the Arjuna as a player, and the Dronacharya as a coach is every sportsperson’s dream. This is reward for all the sacrifices I’ve made,” Felix told The Hindu . Notable achievements Among his notable achievements was serving as assistant coach for the senior India teams that won gold at the 2014 Incheon Asian Games and silver at the 2014 Glasgow Commonwealth Games. A few years later, Felix became head coach of the junior National team. “I was with the senior team, with Terry Walsh as head coach, for a short but successful period. As for my stint with the junior team, I’m proud that I helped in the transition of many players to the senior India side,” Felix said. He also runs the Jude Felix Hockey Academy, a non-profit organisation which promotes the game amongst under-privileged children. But, Felix is not ready to rest on his laurels. “I’m elated, but this is just the beginning. In my time as India player, I was most disappointed that I could not win any big medal. Now I want to set that right by winning medals as coach,” Felix said. Fillip for women’s golf Aditi Ashok is the first woman golfer after Nonita Lall in 1987 to win the Arjuna Award. The 22-year-old Bengaluru golfer stated: “It’s immensely gratifying to be conferred the Arjuna Award, and I’d like to thank the Sports Ministry for this national honour. “Historically, male golfers have won the award more often, so it’s great to be a woman golfer getting this recognition. Hopefully, it will help women’s golf grow in India.”  The Dronacharya Award has been a long time coming for experienced track and field coach Purushotham Rai, who turned 79 a couple of months ago. Rai has coached several international athletes like Ashwini Nachappa, Murali Kuttan, M.K. Asha and G.G. Pramila during his coaching career that started in 1974. Rai joined the DYES here as coach in 1981, before moving to SAI in 1987. He continued to coach at SAI (Southern Centre) until his retirement in 2001. He then continued his coaching career with school and college athletes at the Sree Kanteerava Stadium here until 2015.
22 August 2020||KOLKATA,||Valskis to turn out for JFC this season||Nerijus Valskis, the top-scorer of previous season’s Indian Super League, will be turning out for Jamshedpur FC in the seventh edition of the tournament, scheduled in Goa later this year. The Lithuanian striker, who scored 15 goals for finalist Chennaiyin FC and received the golden boot in the sixth edition, will be reuniting with head coach Owen Coyle who has also moved to JFC to helm the Red Miners this season. The 33-year-old striker, who arrived in ISL from the Israeli Premier League club Hapoel Tel Aviv, has a long professional career and said he will be using his experience to help JFC gift its fans the first silverware. “I hope to work hard towards making JFC Champion of India!,” Valskis said in a statement.
22 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,||India begins brightly||India got off to a splendid start at the online Chess Olympiad on Friday, winning all its three matches. The seventh seed finished the opening day on top of Pool A with six points. India had opened its campaign with a crushing 6-0 victory over the lowly Zimbabwe. It won all its six games, despite deciding to test the bench; skipper Vidit Gujrathi was the only main player to take the field. India’s second-round opponent Vietnam was not to be taken lightly, so except for Viswanathan Anand, the big stars played. It won four of its matches, lost one and drew two for a 4-2 scoreline. The third round saw Anand playing his first game, but was held by Uzbekistan’s Nodiberk Abdusattarov. All the other five players posted victories, though, to make it 5.5-0.5. Second seed China is also on six points, but is second in the group — India’s tie-break score is superior — with another six rounds remaining in the preliminary league.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Williams F1 team sold to US firm||The historic, 43-year-old Williams Formula One team has been bought by US-based investment firm Dorilton Capital, it was announced on Friday. Founded by Frank Williams and Patrick Head, Williams won nine constructors’ titles and seven drivers’ championships, the last coming through Canadian Jacques Villeneuve in 1997.AFP
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen has the final say||In a sensational finish, Magnus Carlsen left Hikaru Nakamura stranded within half a point of victory and went on to win his signature event — the $300,000 Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour Finals — on Thursday. The exhausting victory for Carlsen in the seventh set came after he squandered a 1-0 lead to trail 2-3 when Nakamura won the first blitz game. Carlsen faced a must-win situation to deny Nakamura the title. Hitting back In spite of the mounting pressure, Carlsen hit back to level the match 3-3. In the deciding Armageddon game,. Carlsen chose to play with black pieces. That meant Nakamura needed to win from the white side with five minutes on his clock to Carlsen's four to take the title. Carlsen played solidly and stayed firm to clinch the title. The victory was worth $140,000 for Carlsen while Nakamura earned $80,000 from the world's richest online event.  The result (final): Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Hikaru Nakamura (USA) 4-3 .
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hockey HPD John quits||Things never remain static in Indian hockey for long. While the players have been without competition for more than five months and are likely to remain so till the end of 2020, they will now also be without high performance director David John. With less than a year to go for the re-scheduled Tokyo Olympics, John has cited health and personal reasons to resign. He has written to both Hockey India and Sports Authority of India. Hockey India has accepted his resignation and reiterated health as the official reason for John’s exit. However SAI, the official employer, is yet to decide on the matter. John’s contract had been renewed recently following the Sports Ministry’s decision to extend all foreign coaches’ contracts till September 2021. He had joined in 2016 and this was his second stint, having been with the team as a physiologist in 2011-12. Neither John nor SAI responded to repeated attempts for confirmation. Speculations abound on reasons for the resignation but insiders say his relations with the top management of HI had gradually deteriorated. Interestingly, SAI and the Sports Ministry had refused to either accept Roelant Oltmans’ resignation or get a foreign replacement for him as men’s coach in 2017 despite Hockey India’s insistence. It had led to women’s coach Sjoerd Marijne being made men’s coach and Harendra Singh being given charge of the women. Analytical coach Chris Ciriello and wife Heide had also left a month back citing visa issues and are currently not with the Indian team in Bengaluru. Ciriello, who also doubled as penalty corner coach, is expected to be back but there is no clarity on the issue.
22 August 2020||Chennai,||Thapa, nine others confirm for CFC||Two-time Indian Super League champion Chennaiyin FC has confirmed participation of star midfielder Anirudh Thapa and nine other Indians in the upcoming season. Thapa joined the club as an 18-year-old in 2016. Others with existing contracts going into the 2020-21 season are Thoi Singh, Dhanpal Ganesh, Srinivasan Pandiyan, Edwin Sydney Vanspaul, Vishal Kaith, Lallianzuala Chhangte, Deepak Tangri and Rahim Ali. Abhijit Sarkar is set to return after a successful spell on loan at East Bengal.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Experience of mukti||The Vedas, the puranas, the Srutis, the Itihasas, the Tarka Sastra agamas, etc, speak of the nature of atma swaroopa and all of them concur that it is of the nature of consciousness and eternal bliss. This state is the ultimate goal to be attained by every jivatma, say all the scriptures in one voice, pointed out Sri Mani Dravid Sastrigal in a discourse. So it is for the jivatma to understand that the Satchitananda swaroopa described in Vedanta is also present in the jiva. The atma swaroopa in every jiva is sat, eternally existing, and is also the essence of consciousness, chaitanya swaroopa. It is also of the nature of Suka or happiness since one has preethi towards it. When one knows thus of one’s atma swaroopa by accepting the truth of Vedanta, then the realisation is easy. There will be no hurdles. Only when we do not know that we are Satchitananda swaroopa and also we have understood wrongly, we are not able to accept the Vedanta teaching in this regard. One prominent objection raised is that it is clear that Paramatma swaroopa is all pervading and is Poorna in all respects. How can the jiva swaroopa claim to be so? If I am in a particular location how can I have all pervasiveness? There are so many limitations in my present condition. To counter this argument, the teaching shows that the atma chaitanya is also Poorna because it is the sarva sakshi at all times. Even when the jiva is steeped in worldly matters in earnest, the atma chaitanya is only a sakshi. It is an observer of all and is not associated with samsara. This dhyana of jivatma and Paramatma oneness releases one from samsara immediately and automatically makes one a ‘Brahmavith. This is the state of mukti and of the steady wisdom of one who is satisfied in the self by the self.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 07:40 IST,||Sudoku - August 22, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Pitch perfect||In the first month (of lockdown), there was silence. As journalists, the hundreds of emails we received daily from PR agencies, prodding us towards launches and new collections, trickled down to nothing. Back in March, when economic activity had ground to a halt, promoting any products except health and food essentials seemed tone deaf. Moreover, be it celebrity missteps (“look, I can sweep the floor!”) or bad press faced by companies over their treatment of workers, navigating the early days of the Covid-19 pandemic was a minefield. It was no surprise that public relations budgets were pulled back. “When the pandemic started, almost 100% of our clients asked us for a price break,” says Arjun Sawhney of Delhi-based The Communications Council (TCC), a 19-year-old firm with clients in beauty, luxury, hospitality and home goods. “I took a 30% to 40% revenue hit because... this is a time of survival,” he says. But after a dormant March and April, companies once again turned to PR firms as e-commerce resumed. And the emails returned, with a vengeance. Initial ham-handed efforts to tie products to the pandemic gave way to more focussed pitches (‘Zoom-friendly loungewear’ and ‘Insta Live book launch’). Now with IPL coinciding with Diwali this year, marketers are hoping that pent up consumer demand will provide a much-needed boost to sales. Case in point: an email that dropped last morning for a ‘luxury holiday in Dubai to watch cricket’.  The new ‘digital’ normal  Just as pitches for a product are changing, so is the business. Where earlier an offline event let people experience something new, now the challenge is to recreate that for digital. When designer Masaba Gupta launched her perfume for online retailer Nykaa in early June, she did so via a virtual event with 20 beauty influencers. “We had a week to reach out to these people, deliver the product, conduct online rehearsals and figure out the flow,” says Meghna Shah, of Mumbai-based PR firm Tandem Communications. “It was our first such experience, and gave us the confidence to offer this as a solution to other brands.” Over in Delhi, Archana Jain of PR Pundit, whose clients include automotive, beauty, and FMCG companies, says that luxury brands like Lamborghini and IWC used Augmented Reality (AR) to launch new products. The latter got “writers and influencers on Zoom to download an app” to see what the timepieces would look like on their wrists. A PRCAI (Public Relations Consultants Association of India) survey suggests that the pandemic has led to greater need for PR, especially for social media and digital outreach. “The industry was already seeing a move towards digital in the last couple of years,” notes Nitin Mantri, President of PRCAI and Group CEO of Avian WE. Continued on page 4 Continued from page 1 “Yetthat timing has now accelerated; what would have taken three years has happened in six months.” In fact, PR firms have adapted with alacrity to the new digital normal. “We are working twice as hard for less money,” says Dilip Cherian, co-founder of Perfect Relations, South Asia’s largest image management and public affairs consultancy. Firms that are able to weather the storm in 2020 are the ones who were already attuned to this trend. Four years ago, Sawhney and his partner Sonalee Kumar had formed divisions like TCC Social, to handle social media communication, and TCC Digitech, to design websites and support them through online advertising and search engine optimisation. As businesses scrambled to move from physical to online, these areas saw a huge spurt in activity. Sawhney mentions interior designer Susanne Khan who closed her vast retail space in Mumbai during this time. “Not only are we developing a website, we are also helping her come up with a strategy on what she can retail online,” he says. Pitches are evolving too, to include Instagram and Facebook Lives, Twitter, podcasts, and YouTube multi-media content. As PR Pundit’s Jain says, “All marketing spend is moving to digital.”  Blurring lines  Communicating virtually has other benefits too. Such as accessibility. According to Mantri, when smartphone app Truecaller held an online press briefing in India to launch a new version, the global product head ‘showed’ up, which wouldn’t have happened if it were an in-person event. “There are advantages to being online, as you get a wider spectrum of people,” he says. Agility and content innovation have also become paramount for agencies. Peepul Consulting, for example, derives 25% of its business from celebrity sourcing and styling, and used to have a room full of clothes in their offices to source clothes. “Celebrity dressing for appearances moved to dressing up for a Zoom meeting or a talk, and given how important that was to our business, we decided to set up an automated online virtual sourcing showroom,” says Srimoyi Bhattacharya of Delhi-based Peepul. The platform will debut on September 1, on Shopify, and be accessible by stylists, influencers and celebrities. Pareina Thapar of Delhi-based Longform, who counts Sabyasachi, Rahul Mishra and the hospitality group Olive as clients, “was in a panic in April” but says that her teams are even more busy now. That same month, inspired by the charitable efforts of her clients, she launched Longform Welfare Communications as a pro bono PR service. She helped set up the India Design Fund alongside architect Ashiesh Shah and a few others, partnering with the NGO, United Way (they raised nearly Rs. 1 crore to help workers in the construction and design industries) and also advised the Kareena Kapoor-fronted fashion fundraiser, Baradari India, to support weavers, which has raised about Rs. 50 lakh to date. Thapar points out that as “roles are evolving, the lines are blurring between publicist and brand consultant and marketing”. There’s a growing convergence of brand positioning, purpose-driven messaging, advertising and sales. “What’s happening in lifestyle is that we are playing a role in shaping the brand, it’s not that the product is given to you and you go market it,” she says.  Looking ahead  Another benefit of digital is that outcomes are easier to measure than traditional media. Measuring engagement, reach, click through rates, and even direct sales based on a campaign are quantifiable. “A big part of the business is brand building and positioning but another big part of it is being a sales accelerator for our clients,” says Bhattacharya. “This is where the future of PR lies.” Today it is vital for brands to convey a sense of purpose, which is another reason why, despite a slow economy, agencies say they are attracting new clients. “We are seeing activity pick up from both multi-nationals and Indian clients,” Mantri says. These include fashion, beauty, lifestyle and also education, healthcare and technology. “Every day we get a new enquiry,” says Sawhney of TCC, while Kumar, his partner adds: “The workload has trebled, we have no time left and are stretched thin.” While revenues have yet to stabilise and return to pre-Covid levels, firms seem to be using this time to enhance skills and adapt. As Cherian concludes, “It is like being sent back to school while you are at work.”
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||A slice of country life||Omana amma says she gets impatient when people walk up to her to talk about her videos that have gone viral. “I am uncomfortable with so much of attention. I sometimes lie to them that I am not the one they are referring to,” laughs Omana. And if anyone asks why she looks so serious in the videos, her reply is brusque, “I don’t like smiling when I am working.” In the growing tribe of YouTubers who have shot to fame with their cooking videos showcasing ethnic and traditional cooking is this 66-year-old from Pathanamthitta. She is the face of the YouTube channel, Village Cooking — Kerala (Village Cookings is the Facebook page), launched by siblings, Amjith S and Abhijith S. With four lakh subscribers and 33 million views on YouTube and 10 lakh followers on Facebook, the team is whetting the appetite of viewers. Although the Facebook page was started in 2017, the videos gained traction only when Omana became its face. Shot by the brothers in and around the rural surroundings of their home at picturesque Pothupara, some 15 km away Ranni, the videos come packed with sure-shot ingredients to garner views — fresh produce, greenery, open cooking, vignettes of village life such as the flora and fauna… And there is Omana, clad in a lungi, blouse and thorthu (towel), with her hair tied in a neat bun, a picture of confidence and concentration, when she is at work on the firewood stove. “There are other channels that showcase this food culture, but we wanted ours to stand out. And Omana amma , who is a relative, made all the difference,” says 28-year-old Amjith, a hotel management graduate, who is also into creating websites and content for digital platforms. Stand-out host Amjith says that though Omana was hesitant to do the videos, gradually she got into the groove. “She isn’t your typical host who smiles at the camera and explains everything in detail. Amma is so matter-of-fact that she even sounds curt at times. She just goes about her cooking with no attempt to play to the gallery. It’s this attitude that has won her legions of fans. In fact, she is so restless in real life that she can’t sit idle for even five minutes. It is that briskness that comes across in the videos,” he adds. Viewers gush about the ease with which she works, firom her mpressive skills with the knife to how she uses traditional grinding stones (such as ammikkallu, arakallu and ural ). Her nimble fingers use her knife like an artist’s instrument. Omana says: “I bought it 24 years ago from a vendor. Some other women in the neighbourhood had also bought it then. But theirs got damaged. The blade of my knife is worn down from so many years of use.” Amjith adds, “We are worried about how long it will last!” In over 185 videos, the team has covered a range of commonly-prepared dishes in Kerala households. So there are those very Malayali food for breakfast, vegetarian and non-vegetarian curries, thoran, pickles, snacks and savouries, payasam… “The videos that got the maximum views were the ones on chammanthipodi (roasted coconut chutney powder, 46 million views), pothichoru , and snacks such as Kerala mixture, kuzhalappam…,” Amjith says. Omana has also re-introduced curries she learnt from her late mother, such as thoran with plantain seed or skin of tapioca. “When we were young, tapioca skin used to be dried and stored so that we could use it during Karkkadakam (July-August). We used to cook it with pulses. If someone in the neighbourhood harvested tapioca, they would give us the skin! Banana stem also used to be dried and kept for the lean season. On some days, when there was less of rice, we made up for it with such dishes. Maybe that’s why I am healthy enough to work at this age,” she says. With Onam round the corner, they have planned videos on those curries and pickles that go into the sadya. An episode dedicated to Onasadya too is on the anvil. “Last year, we shot an Onasadya episode in which families from my neighbourhood stepped in to cut vegetables and cook with Omana amma leading them,” Amjith says. “A grand feast was laid out for over 30 people at my home.”    Grand old chef Centenarian Karre Mastnamma from Andhra Pradesh was one of the oldest YouTubers in the world. She became an internet sensation at the age of 105 through her channel, Country Foods
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Go for the||Sunshine kasavu caught in the warp and weft of pure white cotton has been the trademark of Kerala handlooms. The GI-tagged fine mundum-neriyathu with gold kasavu or coloured kara borders, woven by nimble fingers of traditional weavers of Balaramapuram, has a special place in all festive occasions. During Onam, which also happens to be the wedding season, the weaving hub of Balaramapuram, about 230 km from Kochi, is usually bustling with buyers from all across the world. Weaving in Balaramapuram goes back to the era of Balarama Varma (1798 to 1810), ruler of erstwhile Travancore. His Dewan Ummini Thampi settled seven weaver families of the Shalia community from Valliyoor, in Tirunelveli district, in Thiruvananthapuram to weave clothes for the members of the royal family. Eventually, in the memory of the ruler, the place came to be called Balaramapuram. However, this Onam, the 200-year-old weaving tradition of Balaramapuram is hanging by a thread as a result of the pandemic and the ensuing lockdown. “Not a single set has been sold for the last four-five months. Onam is when we have our biggest sale of mundu-neriyathu sets, dhothis and saris, which is around Rs. 10 to 15 lakh in a good year,” says Sudhakaran J, a traditional weaver employing eight women working on pit looms. Taking note of their difficulties, city-based designer Alan Alexander Kaleekal is launching an initiative, Travancore Design Co. to help them sell their products at his store RAHÉL, Thiruvananthapuram, along with his label, KALEEKAL. Usha Balakrishnan of ANKA and Kochi-based Shalini James and Sreejith Jeevan (Rouka) will join him in the next phase where design intervention will take place to reimagine the traditional weaves. As powerlooms and cheap branded products using a mix of synthetic threads invade the scene, the designers fear that the pit looms might be silenced forever if they do not act now. “Balaramapuram weavers produce some of the finest traditional Kerala kasavu fabrics. Their motifs and designs have an identical appearance on both sides of the fabric. It is too precious a legacy to be lost. Our aim is to request each Malayali household to buy at least one Balaramapuram sari or mundum-neriyathu to bring the Onam spirit into the homes of the weavers,” says Alan. Design tweaks The collective plans to procure the finished products from the weavers and sell them through online sales or by appointment at their stores along with their own labels. ANKA has been at the forefront of tweaking the Balaramapuram weaves with fresh designs and a touch of colour to the pristine cottons. Although the pandemic has been a difficult time for them as well, the start of the festival season has ANKA reviving their classical line of ivory-gold and ivory-silver. “We also have a new range that will have a mix of gold and silver kasavu to give the gold a different sheen. Our wedding range has kasavu with fabric woven with counts of 120 and 100,” points out Usha. RAHEL’s curated collection has vibrant Balaramapuram saris and set mundu with kasavu and kara. “Since Thiruvananthapuram had several containment zones, work has just begun for the festival,” says Alan. Shobha Viswanath of Weavers Village has a colourful collection of set mundu and saris with bright and broad karas. “I feel that karas in shades of yellow and bright colours with lines and borders will appeal to a clientèle looking for traditional wear that is trendy too. This is in addition to the sets with gold and silver kasavu borders,” she says. Premium collection Karalkada, perhaps the oldest brand in Kerala selling Balarampuram weaves, is aiming at the wedding and festival season. The kasavu with puliyilakkara (motif of tamarind leaf) is one of the specialities of Balaramapuram and Karalkada has a premium collection of those. In the meantime, Kasavukada, with branches all over Kerala, is highlighting their bespoke weaves for bridal wear. Hailing from a weaver family himself, Nandu VS, managing partner of Kasavukada, says proudly that although many of their outlets were closed due to the lockdown, they were still weaving on the other days during this trying period. Their USP is a ‘Thali’ collection that is aimed at the wedding market. “It is pure zari and costs between Rs. 30,000 and Rs. 60,000,” says Nandu. He says the weavers have moved to places like Peringamala, Manchavilakam and so on in Neyyattinkara as Balarampuram had transformed from a weaving village to a centre of trade. As the countdown to Thiruvonam begins, designers, weavers’ collectives and retailers assert that unless the weaving industry adapts to the changes and they get a helping hand soon, the proud legacy of Balaramapuram might fade away. Shalini says that if weavers are willing to adapt to designers and work with them, it would not be difficult to find new customers. “Without any skill upgrade or loom upgrade, they can bring in these changes in designs that will usher in a new product profile,” says the designer. Sunil Sethi, president of Fashion Design Council of India, has offered to buy the stocks from the beleaguered weavers of Balaramapuram. Speaking on the phone, he says: “I consider weaving an art and it is important to support every art and craft of India.” He feels that the younger generation, even when they may not follow the family tradition of weaving, must be made digitally savvy to help their families to reach out to the global market. “Innovative use of the same textile can also be done, for which it is imperative for designers to work with the weavers and find ways of adapting the weaves for modern lifestyles.”    The collective plans to procure the finished products from the weavers and sell them online or by appointment at their boutiques along with their own labels   Warp and woof of it Warping is the process of converting the hank yarn into a linear form to give the required length on the loom. Huge drums are used for the process.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The Onakodi edit||This year Onam has arrived quietly sans the usual fanfare. Designers, in keeping with the mood, have gone minimal with their Onam collections. “The usual large gatherings, during Onam, will be a no-no due to the pandemic — social isolation and physical distancing. Celebrations will be smaller, so our Onam collection too is a reflection of that mood,” says Reshma Binu, of Label M designers. Most of the collections for Onam pivot on traditional Kerala fabric. The current situation has designers thinking and working differently, reflecting on times. Designer Sreejith Jeevan has curated a collection of Kerala handloom saris, woven by Palakkad-based weavers co-operative Oodum Paavum. Kodi Edit, by Rouka, is a collection of 18-20-odd saris and dupattas. Also part of the collection are saris those that he designed for Care For Chendamangalam (C4C). “The saris are traditional, but with quirk factor and detailing,” Jeevan says. He is known for his work with Kerala handloom and especially saris aimed at giving the garment and the craft a contemporary element. He is also planning a range of garments with the kasavu fabric for Onam. Seamstress’ Onam collection is an ode to the spirit of English Mariyum, one of the first Muslim girls from Thalassery to go to a convent school in her time. The jackets in the collection, inspired by Mariyum’s embroidered mulmul jackets, can be paired with saris and also jeans. The collection includes handloom saris. It also includes mundu, for men. “This Onam, when the mood is generally low, let this be a tale of hope,” says Rasmi Poudval, co-founder Seamstress. Simplicity is the mood of this festive season, unlike last year. Label M garments and saris are known for heavy embroidery, surface embellishments and simple drapes. “Just dresses and kurtas, on Kerala fabric. We are keeping it simple, nothing heavy, if at all some light zari work to add a little bit of shine,” says Reshma. She adds that it is not just the pandemic. The series of disasters that the State has been through this last month makes for a sombre Onam. Aanya’s Onam collection, Karaonam, is a nod to that time before Chingam dawns and the difficult month of Karkidakam bids adieu. She sticks to the overriding ‘keeping it simple’ theme as well. The collection comprises a range of garments and saris made entirely of fabric loomed at Kuthampally. “We have used every bit of fabric even the borders for detailing so that we don’t waste any fabric,” says Sujatha Shenoy, founder. The rules of living may have changed, but what is Onam without kodi? ( Inputs by Anasuya Menon )
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Wild flowers||The sun-coloured jamanthis (marigold) are being replaced by crimson chethi (ixora); the little purple globes of vadamalli (gomphrena) are making way for the mixed hues of kongini poo (lantana). With kattumulla (wild jasmine), tulsi  (basil), chemparathy (hibiscus) and kolambi poo (golden trumpet vine) making a comeback, pookkalams this Onam are going native. The pandemic-imposed restrictions have prompted Malayalis to turn to their backyards for a creative pookkalam this year. Over the past three decades, the season has come to be marked by flowers from neighbouring States. As Pookkalam competitions became the norm, offices and institutions bought flowers in bulk. Even the humble home pookkalams began to be filled with oleanders, asters, marigolds and bachelor’s buttons that came from Tamil Nadu and Bangalore. However, there was a time when the wild flowers that carpeted waysides and hills were the harbinger of Onam in Kerala. Poet-lyricist Jayageetha reminisces her childhood in Kollam: “Dew drops glistened on the flowers as we plucked them from branches or picked them from earth still wet from the rain. The pookkalam had to be made before we rushed to school. So gathering the flowers was done as soon as it was daybreak,” she recalls. Back to the basics This year, it is a chance to go back to the basics, says businessman Balram Menon, who discovered a variety of wild flowers on his cycling track in Kanjiramattom, Kochi. Along with his seven-year-old son Ram, he started plucking them. “We feel it is safer to make use of the local flowers for the pookkalam this time,” says Balram. Parvathy Vinod from Thiruvananthapuram too will have a completely local floral carpet this year. “My cousins and sisters live close by and so my kids will gather the flowers from everyone’s garden,” she says. The flower markets therefore wear a gloomy air. An average shop in Chala in Thiruvananthapuram, one of the biggest domestic markets for flowers in Kerala, sold flowers worth Rs. 6 to Rs. 7 lakh last year. During the 10 days of Onam, sales went up from 25 kg to nearly 200-250 kg on the penultimate day of Onam. “This year, we have ordered lesser quantities of flowers. With social distancing in force and all festivities cancelled, the demand for flowers is bound to be much less,” says Sashidharan Nair, secretary of the Flower Merchants’ Association in Chala. Flowers at Chala usually arrive from Thovalai, Dindigul, Rayakottai and Madurai in Tamil Nadu; Hosur and Bengaluru in Karnataka. “Corporate and educational institutions have migrated to digital pookkalam  contests,” says Surendran KG of Gopi’s Flower Mart in Paravur. “So, there is very little expectation,” he adds. Business has reduced to 20% of the usual, says Radhakrishnan, owner of Atham Flowers, a flower shop at Patturaikkal, Thrissur. The month of Chingam is also a time for weddings. “With COVID-19 protocols in place, we have got very few orders,” says N S Prakash, who has been running a flower stall in Ernakulam for the past 27 years. In pre-COVID times, he sold 5,000 lotus flowers a day. Now, the sale has come down to 100 flowers a day. While the lotuses came from Nagercoil in ten sacks, containing 500 flowers each, every day, the ixora and tulsi came from Tiruchi and Madurai. The flower industry has been struggling since the 2018 flood, says Joy Alexander, managing director of Flower Depot on TD Road, Kochi, which has been in the business for the past 35 years. “Kerala had a market for Rs. 5 crore, which has now come down to a Rs. 5 lakh,” he says. ( Inputs: Saraswathy Nagarajan, Priyadershini S )   When masks bloom   Social entrepreneur Lakshmi Menon has made a COVID-19 inspired pookkalam this year. “We cut PPE scrap into shreds and dyed it in fabric paint. Even the Onathappan is made with scrap,” she says adding that the recycled pookkalam is reusable.    Thumba tale   Legend has it that the flowers of Thumba (Leucas aspera) were the favourite of King Mahabali. So no pookalam can do without these flowers. “In many households in Palakkad, on the day of Thiruvonam, the flowers of Thumba are used to make pooada. Ada is made of rice flour and it is stuffed with the flowers of Thumba and slices of nendran banana,” says writer-director Kalidas Puthumana.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Now a payasam cupcake||And you thought Onam cuisine was only about tradition. Think again. There’s a fresh contemporary range of Onam flavours packed as baked confections.      Payasam cupcake, shakaravaratty (jaggery confection) bottled dessert, vilayicha ethakka (ripened banana)  tart. Welcome to artisanal food as traditional flavours go contemporary this Onam Hobbyists Mariya Mohan Manjooran and Annu George have utilised the COVID-19 lockdown to innovate and create an artisanal line of desserts for the traditional festival of Onam. Maria with a flair for decor and Annu with a talent for baking have been creating customised hampers for special occasions. “As food truly connects and communicates love people have been asking us to customise food hampers, which they send as gifts on special occasions, ” says Annu. “Every bite of the payasam cupcake will remind you of the semiya payasam ,” says Annu sharing the elements that go into it: kismis , cardamom, vermicelli and flour. The dessert jar, a layered pudding in a glass bottle, with a cake base made with jaggery, rock candy and ginger is topped with syrup and cream. A crunchy topping completes the dessert.  Ethakka tarts encase a gooey mash of sautéed naadan ethakka garnished with coconut crush. The hampers are decorated with stock Onam motifs: the traditional kasavu , marigold flowers and banana leaves. Priced at Rs. 2000 they are available only in Kochi. (C ontact: 95623 60505 )    Kollam based sisters Anna and Aniya George began baking in 2012 “inspired by my mom and aunts”, and set up Jacob Bakes in 2019. They have come up with themed designer cakes and cupcakes for Onam. Their Onam basket comprises marigold flower ( jamanthi ) cupcakes and an athapookalam cake. “Just as creating an athapookalam (flower carpet) is time consuming, it took hours to make one on the cake too. Each marigold petal is hand piped,” says Anna who is a student of medicine. Aniya is studying agriculture in Tamil Nadu. The cake hamper is priced at Rs. 900 and the cake at Rs. 1700. ( Contact:94464 88076)
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Onasadya on wheels||“We have orders for 2,000 litres of payasam for Thiruvonam, (August 31), despite the pandemic,” says Ajay Kumar, partner at Mattancherry’s Vijaylakshmi Caterers. The company, which was founded in 1978 by Vijayaraghavan Menon and his wife Jayalakshmi has brought in many changes this year. “We have set up two kitchens to enable social distancing while preparing food,” says Ajay. Despite the prevailing social crisis, he says that they have received a good response for their Onasadya. “Most office functions and club parties have been cancelled but every one is having a small celebration at home. We have prepared family Onam kits that have 20 items which include two payasams. These can be collected from five collection points across the city. The kit is priced at Rs. 1,000,” says Ajay ( Contact:0484 2226779 ). This year Poornasree Caterering has designed a special sadya box, which will have rice, sambar, rasam, thoran, avial, pachadi, kalan, kootucurry, three types of pickle, papadam, and two payasams, all packed neatly in a cardboard box. “This a branded sadya, a gift box. This is compact, less messy and easy to transport. Otherwise the containers and packaging gets very unwieldy,” says Sunil Thampan, who came up with idea. The sadya, for five, costs Rs. 1,100 (Contact:7994711601).    Quarantine catering  Sukrutham Catering will roll out its Onam sadya as usual this year. Complete with two payasams, the sadya menu will remain the same, says S K Subramanian, the founder. For over the past 12 years, they have been catering Onasadya and orders are expected despite the pandemic, Subramanian adds. The catering service, which has another branch called Sopanam, also caters daily breakfast, lunch and dinner. Sopanam has also been catering to people in quarantine, because of COVID-19. “We have a number of elderly customers who depend on our food every day. The Onasadya will be delivered to their homes,” says Subramanian. Other customers can pick up the sadya from Sukrutham’s office in Valanjambalam. Coupons for the same will be available at the office till August 26. (Contact:9446207410).
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Onam: The amazing feeling of togetherness||The euphoria that the harvest festival called Onam instills in the minds of Malayalis is perhaps unmatched. Every Malayali celebrates Onam and it is a spectacular occasion of communal harmony. The festival brings back memories of the good old times when King Mahabali ruled this blessed land. It is believed that the much loved ruler comes to visit his subjects during this period every year and Keralites give a rousing welcome to the erstwhile ruler in a traditional manner. The floral carpet called pookkalam adorns the courtyard of every home in Kerala during the season. The sadya with an assortment of delicious dishes, the gifts ranging from garments or Onappudava and the various games that are played during the season are all symbols of celebration. It’s during the time of Onam that all the members in the family make it a point to come together and the harvest festival is being celebrated with great enthusiasm and joy. Like every year, this year too the festivities have started already in a grand way and it is the time for all in this land to go on a nostalgic trail, remembering that era of prosperity, honesty and happiness that existed during the time of King Mahabali. Onam is an incessant passion that is celebrated by Malayalis wherever they are, in any corner of the world. Malayalis make it a point to celebrate Onam in style and the festivities start right from Atham. The elders give attractive gifts to the younger members of the family. The celebrations of Keralites living abroad are mostly elaborate, with a sense of nostalgia and an undying love for their motherland. Even while they strive hard to keep up with the pace of the fast changing world, traditional flavor looms large during the Onam season. The mention of the sumptuous Onasadya can be a delightful one for any foodie. Colourful and tasty dishes of different varieties line up on a fresh plantain leaf that makes Onasadya extremely delicious. The sweet payasam adds to the taste of the dishes in a fantastic way. Of course, with the changing lifestyle patterns and convenience, many Malayalis prefer to order their Onasadya from the catering groups, nowadays. The bookings are done days in advance. The dishes are conveniently delivered in easy to carry cans. The hotels and restaurants include lots of traditional dishes to their menu cards during the Onam season. Of late, Onam has become one of the biggest shopping seasons and various brands, which includes even the International ones, make it a point to announce fabulous gifts, freebies, discounts, prizes and other attractive offers for the customers. From garments, electronic and home appliances to jewelry and automobiles, everything is sold in huge numbers during this fabulous shopping season. The excitement is on, as Kerala gets ready for a grand festive season. This year too, Malayalis are gearing up with great fanfare and gaiety to celebrate Onam. It’s more of an emotional occasion as everyone comes together with a feeling of oneness. It’s the time to feel privileged that you were born in this beautiful land, called Kerala. Come, let’s all celebrate Onam!
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The one-stop curry shop||Sunil Thampan has had an idea for almost four years — a one-stop curry shop, exclusively for sadya dishes. Kalan, sambar, thoran, avial, payasam, pickle, papadam... everything that goes on a sadya leaf is available, all year around not only Onam or Vishu. His father the late K Hari Thampan ventured into catering, in 1967, after learning under the legendary Neelakanda Iyer, chief cook of the Cochin Royal Family. Lockdown, the time and the resources at hand gave him the time to explore this option and in July, 2020, set up Curry World in Tripunithura. “If you suddenly have guests over or have to organise a function at home and are not able to prepare a sadya... the items are available here. The response has been so good that we are opening another branch in Panampilly Nagar on August 23,” says Thampan. Only sadya dishes are available, including poppadum, pickle and payasam but no rice. The dishes are priced between Rs. 150-200 per litre and the payasam from Rs. 250-300 per litre. Curry World is open from 10.30 am to 2.30 pm. There is also the pre-booking option, but it can be picked up without as well. The minimum portion is half a litre, “We don’t insist on large quantities being picked up or fewer dishes. Sometimes families would need just two or three dishes, not the entire sadya. We have catered to that requirement also,” Thampan says. Since catering is their core business, they are able to cater to the demands of the curry shop. This formula works as many people prefer vegetarian fare on a regular basis, and paucity of time leaves little space to prepare an entire sadya at home. Also caterers, pre-booking aside, insist on a minimum order of say 10 sadyas or more. This way, if there are only four people – a sadya can be put together. Although the payasam menu changes daily, there are two types every day. The dishes are prepared in the morning, and if there is high demand for an item or a few items it is quickly replenished, Thampan adds. “We have tested to see how long food prepared in the morning will stay, so we plan our schedule accordingly. If refrigerated, the dishes can stay up to two days,” he says. Home delivery is available for orders above Rs. 500.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||A touch of ivory||Cult Modern  Cult Modern is gearing up for the festive season with a special discount sale of saris and sari blouses by Raw Mango. The collection includes the classics, moderns, day-wear, evening-wear and all-occasion-wear. The range includes Benaras brocades in silk and organza, fine Chanderis, light silks, mashru silk-cottons and many more. Prices have been marked down flat 25% on the full Raw Mango collection. Cult Modern, Parade Ground Corner, Fort Kochi, from August 24-29 (11am-7pm). For Whatsapp or call for appointment: 8547516804 / 7012798512 / 9349156499   Anavila Online  With Onam round the corner, Anavila Misra has put together a collection of ivory, gold and silver linen saris. Anavila Misra reintroduced the sari as mainstream fashion with her eponymous label, Anavila, reviving Indian handicrafts. The au naturel colour palette and silhouettes remain classic trends. Shop online at https://anavila.com/product-category/onam/
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Art reimagined||‘Wet Palette, The Watercolour Group’ will organise an online art exhibition, titled ‘AIR - Art Imagination Reloaded’, on August 25 and 26. Artists from Russia, France, Hong Kong, Turkey, Vietnam and Armenia, will be part of the show, which will be curated by artist Sunil Linus De. Indian artists, who will be showcasing their works are Bijay Biswal, Milind Mullick, Prafull Sawant and Vilas Kulkarni. The virtual exhibition will be aired on the Faceboook page of Wet Palette and on YouTube.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Shop online for Anavila||With Onam round the corner, designer Anavila Misra has put together a collection of ivory, gold and silver linen saris. Misra reintroduced the sari as mainstream fashion with her eponymous label, Anavila, reviving Indian handicrafts. The au naturel colour palette and silhouettes remain classic trends. Shop online at https://anavila.com/   product-category/   onam/
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Onam online||Is Mahabali going to wear a mask this year? What about the tiger dancers of the pulikkali? Find out online. A 10-day virtual ‘Ente Onam’, starting on August 22, will connect over 80 Malayali associations from around the world. “Onam in COVID-19 times is not going to be a dull affair. We are set to connect Malayalis from around the globe to celebrate the festival virtually under one umbrella. This, we hope, will keep people’s morale high during the pandemic,” says Martin Emmanuel, MD, Razzmataazz Events. Competitions like ‘My Little Maveli’, ‘My Baby Tiger’ for Puli Kali, ‘My Onapookkalam’, ‘My Onasadya’, ‘My Onam Song’, ‘My Onam pic’ and a Thiruvathirakkali contest will be held. Participants can prepare for these according to the rules of each competition and post the photos or videos on their Facebook pages or Instagram handles. The best in each category will be published on the website enteonam.com and the winner will be announced from selected entries. Cash and other prizes will be given. For information, visit www.enteonam.com, www.razzevents.com, or visit Razmatazz Events on Facebook and Instagram pages.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Go for the||Sunshine kasavu caught in the warp and weft of pure white cotton has been the trademark of Kerala handlooms. The GI-tagged fine mundum-neriyathu with gold kasavu or coloured kara borders, woven by nimble fingers of traditional weavers of Balaramapuram, has a special place in all festive occasions. During Onam, which also happens to be the wedding season, the weaving hub of Balaramapuram, about 20 km from Thiruvananthapuram, is usually bustling with buyers from all across the world. Weaving in Balaramapuram goes back to the era of Balarama Varma (1798 to 1810), ruler of erstwhile Travancore. His Dewan Ummini Thampi settled seven weaver families of the Shalia community from Valliyoor, in Tirunelveli district, in Thiruvananthapuram to weave clothes for the royal family. Eventually, in the memory of the ruler, the place came to be called Balaramapuram. However, this Onam, the 200-year-old weaving tradition of Balaramapuram is hanging by a thread as a result of the pandemic and the ensuing lockdown. “Not a single set has been sold in the last four-five months. Onam is when we have our biggest sale of mundu-neriyathu sets, dhothis and saris, which is around Rs. 10 to 15 lakh in a good year,” says Sudhakaran J, a traditional weaver employing eight women working on pit looms. Taking note of their difficulties, city-based designer Alan Alexander Kaleekal is launching an initiative, Travancore Design Co. to help them sell their products at his store RAHÉL along with his label, KALEEKAL. Usha Balakrishnan of ANKA and Kochi-based Shalini James (Mantra) and Sreejith Jeevan (Rouka) will join him in the next phase where design intervention will take place to reimagine the traditional weaves. As powerlooms and cheap branded products using a mix of synthetic threads invade the scene, the designers fear that the pit looms might be silenced forever if they do not act now. “Balaramapuram weavers produce some of the finest traditional Kerala kasavu fabrics. Their motifs and designs have an identical appearance on both sides of the fabric. It is too precious a legacy to be lost. Our aim is to request each Malayali household to buy at least one Balaramapuram sari or mundum-neriyathu to bring the Onam spirit into the homes of the weavers,” says Alan. Design tweaks The collective plans to procure products from the weavers and sell them through online sales or by appointment at their stores along with their own labels. ANKA has been at the forefront of tweaking the Balaramapuram weaves with fresh designs and a touch of colour to the pristine cottons. Although the pandemic has been a difficult time for them as well, the start of the festival season has ANKA reviving their classical line of ivory-gold and ivory-silver. “We also have a new range that will have a mix of gold and silver kasavu to give the gold a different sheen. Our wedding range has kasavu with fabric woven with counts of 120 and 100,” points out Usha. RAHÉL’s curated collection has vibrant Balaramapuram saris and set mundu with kasavu and kara. “Since Thiruvananthapuram had several containment zones, work has just begun for the festival,” says Alan. Shobha Viswanath of Weavers Village has a colourful collection of set mundu and saris with bright and broad karas. “I feel that karas in shades of yellow and bright colours with lines and borders will appeal to a clientèle looking for traditional wear that is trendy too. This is in addition to the sets with gold and silver kasavu borders,” she says. Premium collection Karalkada, perhaps the oldest brand in Kerala selling Balarampuram weaves, is aiming at the wedding and festival season. The kasavu with puliyilakkara (motif of tamarind leaf) is one of the specialities of Balaramapuram and Karalkada has a premium collection of those. In the meantime, Kasavukada, with branches all over Kerala, is highlighting their bespoke weaves for bridal wear. Hailing from a weaver family himself, Nandu VS, managing partner of Kasavukada, says proudly that although many of their outlets were closed due to the lockdown, they were still weaving on the other days during this trying period. Their USP is a ‘Thali’ collection that is aimed at the wedding market. “It is pure zari and costs between Rs. 30,000 and Rs. 60,000,” says Nandu. He says the weavers have moved to places like Peringamala, Manchavilakam and so on in Neyyattinkara as Balarampuram had transformed from a weaving village to a centre of trade. As the countdown to Thiruvonam begins, designers, weavers’ collectives and retailers assert that unless the weaving industry adapts to the changes and they get a helping hand soon, the proud legacy of Balaramapuram might fade away. Shalini says that if weavers are willing to adapt to designers and work with them, it would not be difficult to find new customers. “Without any skill upgrade or loom upgrade, they can bring in these changes in designs that will usher in a new product profile,” says the designer. Sunil Sethi, president of Fashion Design Council of India, has offered to buy the stocks from the beleaguered weavers of Balaramapuram. Speaking on the phone, he says: “I consider weaving an art and it is important to support every art and craft of India.” He feels that the younger generation, even when they may not follow the family tradition of weaving, must be made digitally savvy to help their families to reach out to the global market. “Innovative use of the same textile can also be done, for which it is imperative for designers to work with the weavers and find ways of adapting the weaves for modern lifestyles.”    The collective plans to procure the finished products from the weavers and sell them online or by appointment at their boutiques along with their own labels   Warp and woof of it Warping is the process of converting the hank yarn into a linear form to give the required length on the loom. Huge drums are used for the process.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||A slice of country life||Omana amma says she gets impatient when people walk up to her to talk about her videos that have gone viral. “I am uncomfortable with so much of attention. I sometimes lie to them that I am not the one they are referring to,” laughs Omana. And if anyone asks why she looks so serious in the videos, her reply is brusque, “I don’t like smiling when I am working.” In the growing tribe of YouTubers who have shot to fame with their cooking videos showcasing ethnic and traditional cooking is this 66-year-old from Pathanamthitta. She is the face of the YouTube channel, Village Cooking — Kerala (Village Cookings is the Facebook page), launched by siblings, Amjith S and Abhijith S. With four lakh subscribers and 33 million views on YouTube and 10 lakh followers on Facebook, the team is whetting the appetite of viewers. Although the Facebook page was started in 2017, the videos gained traction only when Omana became its face. Shot by the brothers in and around the rural surroundings of their home at picturesque Pothupara, some 15 km away Ranni, the videos come packed with sure-shot ingredients to garner views — fresh produce, greenery, open cooking, vignettes of village life such as flora and fauna… And there is Omana, clad in a lungi, blouse and thorthu (towel), with her hair tied in a neat bun, a picture of confidence and concentration, when she is at work on the firewood stove. “There are other channels that showcase this food culture, but we wanted ours to stand out. Omana amma , who is a relative, made all the difference,” says 28-year-old Amjith, a hotel management graduate, who is also into creating websites and content for digital platforms. Stand-out host Amjith says that though Omana was hesitant to do the videos, gradually she got into the groove. “She isn’t your typical host who smiles at the camera and explains everything in detail. Amma is so matter-of-fact that she even sounds curt at times. She just goes about her cooking with no attempt to play to the gallery. It’s this attitude that has won her legions of fans. In fact, she is so restless in real life that she can’t sit idle for even five minutes. It is that briskness that comes across in the videos,” he adds. Viewers gush about the ease with which she works, firom her impressive skills with the knife to how she uses traditional grinding stones (such as ammikkallu, arakallu and ural ). Her nimble fingers use her knife like an artist’s instrument. Omana says: “I bought it 24 years ago from a vendor. Some other women in the neighbourhood had also bought it then. But theirs got damaged. The blade of my knife is worn down from so many years of use.” Amjith adds, “We are worried about how long it will last!” In over 185 videos, the team has covered a range of commonly-prepared dishes in Kerala households. So there are those very Malayali food for breakfast, vegetarian and non-vegetarian curries, thoran, pickles, snacks and savouries, payasam… “The videos that got the maximum views were the ones on chammanthipodi (roasted coconut chutney powder, 46 million views), pothichoru , and snacks such as Kerala mixture, kuzhalappam…,” Amjith says. Omana has also re-introduced curries she learnt from her late mother, such as thoran with plantain seed or skin of tapioca. “When we were young, tapioca skin used to be dried and stored so that we could use it during Karkkadakam (July-August). We used to cook it with pulses. If someone in the neighbourhood harvested tapioca, they would give us the skin! Banana stem also used to be dried and kept for the lean season. On some days, when there was less of rice, we made up for it with such dishes. Maybe that’s why I am healthy enough to work at this age,” she says. With Onam round the corner, they have planned videos on those curries and pickles that go into the sadya. An episode dedicated to Onasadya too is on the anvil. “Last year, we shot an Onasadya episode in which families from my neighbourhood stepped in to cut vegetables and cook with Omana amma leading them,” Amjith says. “A grand feast was laid out for over 30 people at my home.”
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Big time for small screen||This Onam, there will be no confetti hurled up cheering ‘mass intros’ in movie halls. No larger-than-life cutouts of tinseltown stars to greet jubilant first-day-first-show fans. No sound and fury of mirthful chenda melam and paal abhishekham of silverscreen superstars. It’s all quiet on the box-office front because of the pandemic. As Onam entertainment moves indoors, with television and OTT platforms taking centrestage, it is an unprecedented scenario for film lovers and movie personalities. Even as a couple of flicks have been lined up for direct release on the small screen, actors and filmmakers muse on an Onam without theatre releases. “From the outside, life in tinseltown appears glam and flashy, but the truth is that it is also a matter of bread and butter for many working behind the scenes. These are hard times,” says Tovino Thomas. His Kilometres and Kilometres was set to hit the marquee in March when the pandemic forced closure of theatres. On the bright side, the film is going for a direct TV premiere this Onam. Jeo Baby, director of the film, says the makers are still in talks about finalising a date for the film’s OTT release around the same time. But he outlines the practical hurdles in making the change of plans. “Till now, films have been made keeping the theatre experience in mind, especially sound and visuals. These elements were painstakingly designed by a large crew for my film,” says Jeo. The filmmaker adds that he is nonetheless not disheartened, now that the movie is seeing the light of the day. Netflix debut Another Malayalam movie set for a direct OTT release is debutant director Shamzu Zayba’s Maniyarayile Ashokan, starring Jacob Gregory and Anupama Parameswaran. Produced by Dulquer Salmaan, it will be out on Netflix on August 31. “As the movie was initially shot for theatre release, some technical aspects had to be altered from beginning to end, predominantly the soundscape, since OTT platforms require a different audio format. Thankfully, the final mix was not done, which helped us save much work,” says Shamzu. Apart from changes in colour grading, the film’s duration was truncated, says the director. After the acclaimed Sudani From Nigeria in 2018, filmmaker Zakariya Mohammed’s Halal Love Story with Indrajith Sukumaran in the lead was supposed to come out on Vishu (April) this year. It seems the film now has to pass up an Onam release as well. “The post-production was hit by the lockdown. We resumed it just now after some pandemic restrictions were relaxed. The crew are located in different places and the work is being managed online, but this process takes much longer as it is hard to coordinate on the fine aspects virtually,” says Zakariya. Others speak about how both the film industry and movie buffs will miss out on this festive season. One among them is actor Anna Ben, whose Kappela ,  which had received a positive response, had its theatrical run cut short by the pandemic. “I’m already looking forward to a time when the box-office is open again. Nevertheless, at a time like this, it is of course wiser to be cautious as health comes before entertainment any day,” she says. But Anna, whose two projects have been on pause, is optimistic. “We now know how much we miss the movies. But on the plus side, once everything is back to normal, we will be so movie-hungry that we are going to enjoy cinemas more ravenously,” she adds with a chuckle. Perhaps, one anodyne many need in these dire straits is some quality entertainment to take our minds off all the negativity, a sentiment also echoed by actor Unni Mukundan. “An irony is that when the pandemic struck, what many people relied on were movies and series on online platforms. So entertainment has also been a source of solace or escapism,” he says. Unni Mukundan, whose upcoming film Meppadiyan is set to go on floors soon after the pandemic-induced delay, opines that perhaps it is the “fans” who would miss out the most due to absence of theatre releases. “The ‘mass’ films are tailor-made for them and the fanfare will be sorely missed.” A die-hard movie buff like filmmaker Midhun Manuel Thomas ( Anjaam Paathira ) concurs. After all, the director recollects the time during his younger days when he travelled from his hometown of Kambalakkad in Wayanad to Kozhikode to catch a film first day first show. “I still remember catching the bus at 5.30 am,” he says with a laugh. “The thrill of so-called binge-watching cooled off a few weeks after the lockdown for many. I feel OTT (platforms) will never be a complete substitute for theatres. Because it’s not just about the movie, it is also an occasion for an outing with family,” says Midhun.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Onasadya now on wheels||Onam celebrations may have changed a great deal, but the grand Onasadya, with its mix of flavours, continues to reign supreme on the day of Thiruvonam when the festivities reach a crescendo. The 26-dish (or even more) spread with finger-licking payasams served on banana leaf is perhaps the pièce de résistance of the festival for many. Despite the pandemic, several hotels and caterers are in high spirits and have opened bookings for Onasadya kits. “The Malayalam month of Chingam (August-September) is considered auspicious for many events and hence is a peak season for caterers as sadhya orders for engagements, housewarmings and weddings come. Then there are bulk bookings for Onasadya from offices, businesses, residents’ associations and the like. As everything has been on a standstill mode for over four months, Onam has come as a breather,” says Anilkumar SK a.k.a Kannan of Akshaya Caterers. Considered a pioneer in introducing Onasadya kits in the city 10 years ago, Kannan admits that he had apprehensions about opening bookings for sadya because of the pandemic. “However, Akshaya decided to go ahead after enquiries from our regular clients,” he adds. Typically, a sadya kit is meant for five adults, and about 200 to 600 kits (that is 1,000 to 3,000 sadyas) are sold by the caterers every year. “I am not sure whether we will get more business this time. Customers keep asking us about safety precautions we have taken while cooking and packing. We have assured them that there is no compromise on the State Government’s guidelines. It’s about keeping the business afloat as a number of daily wage labourers are dependent on our enterprise. They are left with litlte work because if a wedding had a headcount of 1,000 during the pre-COVID phase, now, as per the protocol, it has been restricted to 50,” says Rajalakshmy of Anandam Home Caterers. Priya Jayachandran of Mangalya Catering and Events also points out that there is no other option for the caterers but to go ahead in conformation with the guidelines. With hotels and restaurants entering the fray, there is intense competition. Priya adds that while catering units like hers usually serve takeaway sadya kits on Uthradam and Thiruvonam days, there are hotels that provide sadya for five to 10 days. Although most of the catering firms and hotels insist on a minimum order of five, small enterprises have kits for two and three, offering a varying number of payasams. Sweetening the deal Sanal KS, owner of Mother’s Veg Plaza, which has a sadya spread 365 days of the year, says that since only takeaways are possible this Onam, they have increased the number of payasams in each kit. “Last year, we served 10 payasams for the sadya served in the hotel, while takeaway kits had two. But there will be five payasams this year. It’s a question of survival for us,” says Sanal. With few takers for dine in, high-end hotels and boutique restaurants have also announced sadya packages, with takeaway and home delivery options available. “We have never given sadyas as takeaways. So all arrangements are in place to make it a grand culinary experience. In addition, payasams will be available in bulk, including varieties of pradhaman (ada, kadala, unniyappam, banana and dates), Ambalappuzha paal payasam and tender coconut payasam,” says Sashi Jacob, vice-president (food & beverages), The Muthoot Skychef & Villa Maya. Hilton Garden Inn will serve sadya on all the 10 days of the festival, starting August 22. “We are giving discount for family packs. There will also be attractions such as beetroot payasam and jackfruit payasam,” says Sougata Ghosh, manager (food & beverages). Meanwhile, challenges are many in the new scenario. Constant temperature checks, sanitising of hands, use of masks and gloves and social distancing are mandatory in the kitchen and packing area. “A lot is at stake for all caterers as we invest a lot during the season. The total expense for containers to pack the sadya alone come to around Rs. 3.5 lakh. Then there is the rent for the auditorium or hall we book to pack the dishes,” says Kannan. Safe delivery Social distancing has to be ensured at collection points, says Kannan, adding that his staff members will deliver the kit to the customer’s vehicle. While Anandam has three delivery points this year, Mangalya has given a timeslot for each customer to collect the kits. Rise in prices of vegetables and bananas are also a cause of worry. “Plantain leaves are generally expensive during this time,” adds Priya with rates going up to Rs. 10 per leaf. However, all of them hope that the sadya continues to attract families. Nirmal Kumar, managing partner of BIG Kitchen, says they have gone all out promoting their sadya this time. “We have introduced digital code for contactless delivery,” he says. “Last year, it was a low-key affair and we sold just under 200 kits. But this time, our target is 500-750 kits, with three payasams and more curries.”
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Wild flowers from the wayside||The sun-coloured jamanthis (marigold) are being replaced by crimson chethi (ixoras); the little purple globes of vadamalli (gomphrena) are making way for the mixed hues of kongini poo (lantana). With kattumulla (wild jasmine), powdery pink flowers of thotta vadi (touch me not), tulsi  (basil), chemparathy (hibiscus), orangish-red of Krishnakireedam ) (pagoda flowers) and kolambi poo (golden trumpet vine) making a comeback, pookkalams this Onam are going native. The pandemic-imposed restrictions have made Malayalis turn to their backyards for a creative pookkalam this year. For a few decades now, flowers bought from the market have gone into the pookkalams of the modern Malayali, who had little time to go out plucking flowers from the garden. There was a time when wild flowers that carpeted waysides and hills were the harbinger of Onam in Kerala. Poet-lyricist MR Jayageetha reminisces her childhood in Kollam: “Dew drops glistened on the flowers as we plucked them from branches or picked them from the earth that was still wet from the rain the previous night. The pookkalam had to be made before we rushed to school. So gathering the flowers was done as soon as it was daybreak,” she recalls. However, by the late noughties, the season came to be marked by the flowers that came in from neighbouring States.  Pookkalam competitions became a norm and offices and institutions bought flowers in bulk. Even the humble home pookkalams began to be filled with oleanders, asters, marigolds and bachelor’s buttons that came from Tamil Nadu and Bangalore. This year, it is a chance to go back to the basics, says businessman Balram Menon, who discovered a variety of wild flowers on his cycling track in Kanjiramattom, Kochi. Along with his seven-year-old son Ram, he started plucking them. “We feel it is safer to make use of the local flowers for the pookkalam this time, instead of buying those that come from Tamil Nadu and other places,” says Balram. Parvathy Vinod from Thiruvananthapuram too will have a completely local floral carpet this year. “My cousins and sisters live close by and so my kids will gather the flowers from everyone’s garden to make the pookkalam . Last year, we had done the same, but had bought some flowers on the last day. But this year, it will all be home-grown,” she says. Low mood in the markets The flower markets therefore wear a gloomy air. An average shop in Chala in Thiruvananthapuram, one of the biggest domestic markets for flowers in Kerala, sold flowers worth Rs. 6 to Rs. 7 lakh last year. During the 10 days of Onam, sales went up from 25 kg to nearly 200-250 kg on the penultimate day of Onam. “This year, we have ordered lesser quantities of flowers. With social distancing in force and all festivities cancelled, the demand for flowers is bound to be much less,” says Sashidharan Nair, secretary of the Flower Merchants’ Association in Chala. The flowers at Chala usually come in from Thovalai, Dindigul, Rayakottai and Madurai in Tamil Nadu; Hosur and Bengaluru in Karnataka. “Corporate and educational institutions have migrated to digital pookkalam  contests,” says Surendran KG of Gopi’s Flower Mart in Paravur. “So, there is very little expectation,” he adds. Business has reduced to 20% of the usual, says Radhakrishnan, owner of Atham Flowers, a flower shop at Patturaikkal, Thrissur. The only flowers that are being sold, though few in number, are marigold and bur flower, he adds, as they are used to make garlands. The pandemic has not affected the cost of the flowers, a kilo of marigold costs Rs. 60, says another flower seller in Thrissur. The month of Chingam is also a time for weddings. “With COVID-19 protocols in place, we have got very few orders,” says N S Prakash, who has been running a flower stall in Ernakulam for the past 27 years. “With most centres of worship still closed to devotees, business has come crashing down for vendors like me,” he says. In pre-COVID-19 times, he would sell 5,000 lotus flowers a day and now, the sale has come down to 100 flowers a day. The flower industry has been struggling since the 2018 flood, says Joy Alexander, the managing director of Flower Depot, Kochi, which has been in the business for the past 35 years. Joy has two farms in Bengaluru, which have incurred a loss of Rs. 35 lakh this year. “In addition to losses due to floods, the industry was also facing a threat from the inexpensive, artificial flowers imported from China,” Joy says. Old normal For those who grew up in the seventies and eighties, however, this is how their Onams were. The flowers were sourced from household gardens or the commons in villages. “It did not really matter where you picked the flowers from. Since the harvest would be over by the time of Onam, fields and waysides would be covered with small blooms. However, buying flowers was unheard of in those days,” says blogger Manjusha Pisharody, a resident of Mumbai who hails from Palakkad.  (With inputs from Saraswathy Nagarajan, Priyadershini S)
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Click and shop||Joncy Ann has her hands full as she is busy frying fish, baking chicken and cooking Biriyani for a virtual flea market. An engineer-turned entrepreneur, the mom of three is now showcasing her culinary skills. With a range of pocket-friendly products, many exhibitions support women entrepreneurs selling snacks, bakes, trinkets, clothes, artworks, home linen and so on. This year, the lockdown came as a rude shock to them as all the scheduled fairs had to be cancelled. Then, Mamtha Pillai, an entrepreneur herself, came up with the idea of an online flea market for products sold by women. “Women entrepreneurs were at a loose end. Some of them had placed orders for saris and dresses while the others had made or bought stocks for this season. The flea market came as a relief and our sales for Aadi (conducted online in the first week of August) boosted our morale,” says Mamtha. While the Malayalam month of Chingam was kicked off with a sale of Kanchipuram saris, another day was set aside for traditional Kerala wear. The Onam sale begins today (August 22) and will be on till August 26. Saris, dress materials, snacks and savouries, desserts, healthcare products, home décor articles, baby products and more are up for the picking. “Each day is set aside for a specific product, beginning with clothing and jewellery,” says Mamtha. August 23 has been earmarked for food. “In addition to payasams and homemade snacks like avalose podi and fries, there will be cakes and other desserts,” Mamta adds. Traditional treats Excited about showcasing her collection, 58-year-old Geetha Sreeram, a homemaker from Valiyasala agraharam says “This is my first venture as an entrepreneur. My children and grandchildren persuaded me to do this.” She will be selling gothambunda, poruvilanga, elayada and sarkkara aval , besides home-made curry powders such as sambar powder, curry leaves powder and chutney powder. Vijayam Ramachandran has handmade jewellery made by her under her banner, Trinkets. While health and beauty care items will be sold on the third day, home linen and gardening products will be showcased on the fourth day of the fête. Masks, washable diapers and other miscellaneous goods will be available on the final day. Some vendors will be continuing the sale till August 31, Mamtha adds. “There is a lot of enthusiasm among the vendors. Those who post pre-recorded and live videos get more online customers when compared to those who upload only photos,” she observes. App-based home delivery is available within the city. For those outside Thiruvananthapuram, buys will be delivered via the postal department or courier service.  Check out the Facebook page Trivandrum Flea Market — Onam 2020
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Songs for Ganesha||Bombay Jayashri singing soulfully with her son, Amrith Ramnath, and Sudha Ragunathan’s melodious voice are not the only attractions of a new album of devotionals ‘Shri Gananaatha’, composed by playback singer and composer Srinivas. With six albums and a couple of slokas, the album is dedicated to Vinayaka, the remover of obstacles. Each number is scored in a different raga and sung by a leading musician such as Sudha Ragunathan, Madhu Balakrishnan, Vijay Prakash, Manoo and Srinivas himself. Musical influences “Most of us recorded in our homes. We did not even see each other. The opportunity to compose the lyrics written by Vaarashri came out of the blue and I was happy to do it. The entire work was completed in 10 days,” says Srinivas speaking on phone from Chennai. He adds: “I have put in all my earliest musical influences into this album. The music I heard at the Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple, the Kalyani raga that is played in the temple….whatever I remembered. I requested the nadaswaram player to play that in ‘Yaaanai Mugame’, sung by Madhu.” ‘Prabho Sri Gananatha’, sung by Srinivas, is in the Hindustani morning raga Bhatiyar. Jayashri’s song is suffused with the melody of Sopanasangeetham, in a mix of Kamboji and Reetigowla. ‘Thiruvilayaadal’ in raga Pilu has been rendered by Haricharan with nadaswaram by Mylai Karthikeyan, and Vijayprakash has sung ‘Vinayaka Ennapugendra’. Sudha can be heard in ‘Veda Vilasane’, scored in Thodi raga. Vinayaka Chathurthi is being celebrated today in Kerala. All the songs are available on Spotify.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Delightfully gooey||The pandemic-induced lockdown gave a chance for many wannabe entrepreneurs to hone their skills. Sreeveena S, a software engineer, is among them. Her calling card has been home-made chakkavaratti , the jam-like preserve prepared from ripe jackfruit. “The dessert has been my favourite and I relish the long process of making it at home. Now that I am working from home, I had extra hours on my hands to do something that I enjoy. Jackfruit season was at its peak during April and that’s when I thought of making chakkavaratti on a large scale. When I posted what Imade on social media platforms, especially on the woman’s group Her Trivandrum and Eat At Trivandrum, the response was so overwhelming that I decided to continue making the preserve till the end of the jackfruit season,” says the 30-year-old, a resident of Manacaud in the capital city. Although she had sold homemade snacks and sweets during last year’s Deepavali, this is her first full-fledged attempt at being a home cook! “I realised that chakkavaratti evokes nostalgia for many Keralites. I had a customer living in a house surrounded by jackfruit trees. But she is unable to make chakkavaratti that requires long hours of stirring as the fruit pulp and the jaggery melt into each other in generous amounts of ghee,” Sreeveena says. Her mother, Seethalekshmy, lends a helping hand with cutting and cooking and they make it twice a week, usually on Thursdays and Saturdays. Fruity flavours Then varikka, Chembarathi varikka, Unda varikka and Vella varikka are the varieties she commonly uses. “A dealer from Kollam has been supplying the fruits on a weekly basis. The last batch of the fruit has already arrived,” she says. Customised varatti is also available. “There are customers who don’t like chukku (dried ginger) and cardamom in the preparation and so I avoid it. Some of my customers wanted me to replace organic jaggery with palm jaggery,” she adds. With a shelf life of six months, the gooey varatti can also be used as bread spread or to make payasam, elayappam, unniyappam and the like. It is available in 250g, 500g and one kg and above packs. Contact: 8075210871
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Star show||This Onam, Asianet telecasts a series of programmes tailor-made for the festive occasion. A highlight is ‘Lalonam Nallonam’, a series of performances featuring actor Mohanlal. Apart from the play Lankalakshmi spearheaded by the actor, a concert, ‘Anthakshari’, brings together leading singers such as Sithara Krishnakumar, Sachin Warrier, Arya Dhayal and actor Prayaga Martin. A dance performance features some known names in Malayalam cinema. The telefilm Avarodoppam Aliyum Achayanum , an investigative thriller and featuring television and film stars, will be premiered on one of the days. ‘Onappooram’ moves up close with television serial actors, while ‘Coronam’ is a comedy. Feast of films Another highlight is the direct TV premiere of Tovino Thomas-starrer Kilometres and Kilometres . Other films to be shown during Onam include Sufiyum Sujathayum , Dulquer Salmaan-starrer Kannum Kannum Kollaiyadithal , Kappela , Penguin , Trance , Tamil horror comedy Petromax , Ponmagal Vandhal among others. ‘Onaruchimelam’, a cookery show, will have film stars as guests.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Pasta Dal Cuore, Gurugram||Ayesha Seksaria has been making pasta for many years now. Having started it as a fun activity to do with her father when she was younger, she now views it as a destressor. “It’s basically an art. There is a lot of kneading, you have to decide what the ravioli should look like and what the filling should be.” Adding that she loves going out to eat and specifically to eat fresh pasta, Ayesha says, “During the lockdown when everything was shut, I realised that not many people in India are making fresh pasta. So I started Pasta Dal Cuore (pasta from the heart in Italian) as a passion project.” Adding that she has been to Italy and took a short course while there, Ayesha says, “The menu changes every month. So if one has tried it already, they have something new to try the next month. The first pasta we did was a mushroom and blue cheese ravioli. This time, we have introduced three cheese, caramelised onion and roasted garlic raviolis.” Since she is also continuing with her job in the fashion industry, she supplies the pasta only on weekends. “I’m doing this on my own. It takes quite some time to get used to making it so I haven’t got around to training anyone yet,” she laughs. While the number of orders vary, Ayesha says, “I think I made about 1,000 raviolis for a special request for Rakhi!”  WhatsApp 9810577069 or find Pasta Dal Cuore on Instagram
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The Onakodi edit||This year Onam has arrived quietly sans the usual fanfare. Designers, in keeping with the mood, have gone minimal with their Onam collections. “The usual large gatherings, during Onam, will be a no-no due to the pandemic — social isolation and physical distancing. Celebrations will be smaller, so our Onam collection too is a reflection of that mood,” says Reshma Binu, of Label M designers. Most of the collections for Onam pivot on traditional Kerala fabric. The current situation has designers thinking and working differently, reflecting on times. Designer Sreejith Jeevan has curated a collection of Kerala handloom saris, woven by Palakkad-based weavers co-operative Oodum Paavum. Kodi Edit, by Rouka, is a collection of 18-20-odd saris and dupattas. Also part of the collection are saris those that he designed for Care For Chendamangalam (C4C). “The saris are traditional, but with quirk factor and detailing,” Jeevan says. He is known for his work with Kerala handloom and especially saris aimed at giving the garment and the craft a contemporary element. He is also planning a range of garments with the kasavu fabric for Onam. Seamstress’ Onam collection is an ode to the spirit of English Mariyum, one of the first Muslim girls from Thalassery to go to a convent school in her time. The jackets in the collection, inspired by Mariyum’s embroidered mulmul jackets, can be paired with saris and also jeans. The collection includes handloom saris. It also includes mundu, for men. “This Onam, when the mood is generally low, let this be a tale of hope,” says Rasmi Poudval, co-founder Seamstress. Simplicity is the mood of this festive season, unlike last year. Label M garments and saris are known for heavy embroidery, surface embellishments and simple drapes. “Just dresses and kurtas, on Kerala fabric. We are keeping it simple, nothing heavy, if at all some light zari work to add a little bit of shine,” says Reshma. She adds that it is not just the pandemic. The series of disasters that the State has been through this last month makes for a sombre Onam. Aanya’s Onam collection, Karaonam, is a nod to that time before Chingam dawns and the difficult month of Karkidakam bids adieu. She sticks to the overriding ‘keeping it simple’ theme as well. The collection comprises a range of garments and saris made entirely of fabric loomed at Kuthampally. “We have used every bit of fabric even the borders for detailing so that we don’t waste any fabric,” says Sujatha Shenoy, founder. The rules of living may have changed, but what is Onam without kodi? ( Inputs by Anasuya Menon )
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||A virtual food tour||With everyone tuning in to the virtual world, Michelin star Chef Garima Arora decided to go with the flow with her food initiative Food Forward India (FFI). A not-for-profit initiative started by the chef behind the Michelin Star restaurant GAA, Bangkok, FFI seeks to prioritise the future of Indian food by exploring it and dispelling myths about the cuisine. The initiative attempts to start a dialogue on foods and ingredients that have been shunned, either because they are not presentable in a five-star set-up or because we choose not to discuss it. A few months into the movement, started early this year, FFI’s search took it to different States of the country. Then the pandemic broke and FFI decided to take the campaign of promoting and exploring food identity virtually calling it Virtual Escapes. The movement now travels virtually across various States of India, highlighting their rural, urban and tribal perspectives through articles, newsletters and a podcast. Says Garima, “Geography is well reflected in the food in all States. In places like Manipur, a variety of leaves, vegetables and fermented produce demand simple cooking techniques — like stews and roasts with fish and meats, making the cuisine stand out as one of the most well-balanced and healthy diets in the world. In parts of Madhya Pradesh, the complexity of dishes around just one ingredient like besan (gram flour) show a different kind of culinary ingenuity that is tied back into produce and what is available within the geography.” Garima says the team looked at Virtual Escapes as a great opportunity to propagate their social media channels as a free-for-all knowledge platform. “Our main goal with Virtual Escapes is to give some of the amazing people we have come to know and find, a chance to introduce themselves and talk about their experiences of home. That sense of belonging and pride comes out in the way they show us their home state and their food culture. We think they deserve a chance to share this with the world. Especially given the international travel bans, we hope that when people travel locally they find these people and look up the businesses we have featured on FFI. We all are struggling to make sense of this situation we are in. This is our way to make sure we help our community out there,” adds Garima. Brass tacks “One State every two weeks,” says Matylda Grzelak, general project manager, Food Forward India, “For this, we are collecting stories and engaging with local people or specialists who can share content to promote the culinary landscape of that State.” FFI’s main feature was conducting on-the-ground research and they still hope to return to it as their main activity. FFI believes it is important to spend time with the people in the State, and try to work out the context for the food culture. Matylda adds, “Since we predominantly rely on documenting and researching food-related knowledge based on our travels, and promotion of local initiatives internationally, we have decided to alter the way we do this and bring it to a ‘contactless dimension’ and slightly less in-depth form that can build up gradually.” Matlyda admits to altering their method of functioning after the lockdown.“The current Virtual Escapes campaign was a major shift. Suddenly, instead of having a crew making films for us, we are analysing data from notes and audio, learning to compile videos of other people, and using their stories and narrations since we are unable to document them ourselves and share our own experiences. From making itineraries and planning events, we are now drafting campaigns and figuring out how to continue to comprehensively explore the urban, rural and tribal areas of states. We raised the tempo to give snippets and sneak peaks into foodscapes of many States — first weekly, then bi-weekly.” Lockdown has been a unique experience, in a different sense, comments Matylda. “Getting over 2,500 followers in four weeks without sponsored ads definitely adds to that,” she says. At the time FFI finished their first Rural Escape and Urban Adda in Telangana in February, COVID-19 was rapidly escalating in Wuhan. During this time, the team was preparing to finish the itinerary. “A trip to Manipur in May was to include a week-long Rural Escape and Urban Adda in Imphal. The team didn’t stop their work, they kept the engagement on by inviting people from Manipur to discuss their food, herbs and local dishes online. As a result, FFI had an engaging session on their FB page that led to interesting food discussion and discoveries.” The overload of information has led them to discover local experts and authentic local foods. It has paradoxically given them a connection with the community, experts and people in India they never had before and would have never achieved otherwise. “This remoteness has made us more connected,” says Matylda.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The return of the chef||Recently when I was thinking of the sad state of affairs in the food business, I received a call from a young chef who used to wield magic with a wok and some sauces. I had met Vaibhav Bhargava at ITC Sheraton’s pan-Asian restaurant (called – someone’s rather imaginative there -- Pan Asia). He was innovative and put together some delightful Oriental dishes. With the hotels mostly shut, and diners staying away from their favourite restaurants, Bhargava has now joined a catering outfit called The Purple Plate. He called to say that he wanted me to try out some of the dishes he had been cooking. The catering service delivers food to Delhi NCR. It offers both Oriental and Indian food and supplies for groups of five, 10 or 15. Orders have to be placed 24 hours in advance (mobile no: 9899775259). It offers a three-course meal (Rs. 5,000 for five people for a vegetarian meal; Rs. 7,000 for five for a non-vegetarian one). Chef Vaibhav is in charge of the Oriental food. The list of starters includes vegetable spring rolls, soya and water chestnut lettuce wraps, sui mai with hot chicken, stir fried prawns in XO sauce and diced Beijing chicken with chillies. The mains include silken tofu with chilli beans, Cantonese style exotic Asian greens, chicken red Thai curry and sliced chicken in Szechuan sauce. The food comes with your choice of noodles or steamed rice. Then there is a salad or dessert (I had a rose petal phirni which was sublime: thick and creamy, and with just the right fragrance and sweetness). I started with the dimsums and enjoyed the chilli chicken sui mai. The vegetables dumplings had a juicy stuffing of shitake mushroom, asparagus, water chestnut, carrots, beans and baby corns and an attractive emerald green casing, which, Chef Bhargava explained, came from a green onion extract. I also had the well flavoured chicken red curry, peppered with tiny eggplants and other vegetables. What I enjoyed the most was the prawn cooked in the hot XO sauce. Plump prawns had been marinated with salt, pepper, egg white and a mix of potato starch and corn flour and then fried. Chef Bhargava sautéd ginger, garlic and onion in a wok, and to this, he added coloured peppers, a nice dash of the XO sauce, Chinese wine and chilli paste. He tossed in the prawns – and the final outcome was a lip-smacking dish, hot but complemented by the sweetness of the prawn and peppers. From the Indian menu, I tried out the mutton rogan josh, and thought the gravy was robust, and the dal, nicely creamy. The menu card tells me that the service also offers a cheese platter -- with five kinds of cheeses (from cheddar to gorgonzola), fruits, nuts, olives and crackers (Rs. 5,500) and a Turkish crisps and dip platter –- beetroot crisps, pita crisps and lavash with beetroot hummus, olive hummus, labneh and baba ganoush (Rs. 4,000). A 24-piece vegetarian sushi platter costs Rs. 3,000; a non-vegetarian platter, Rs. 4,000. Chef Bhargava, who has also trained at the celebrated Noma’s in Copenhagen, says that the menu will change every now and then. “We do customised dishes, too, if guests have any preferences,” he says. “I want to keep highlighting the ingredients as they are the heroes.” Way to go, chef. This is the time for heroes – caped or sautéed. The writer is a seasoned food critic
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||More power to the Kasavu||Gold caught in the warp and weft of pure white cotton has been the trademark of Kerala handlooms. Woven by the nimble fingers of Balaramapuram’s traditional weavers, the GI-tagged fine mundum-neriyathum — with gold Kasavu or colouredkaraborders — has a special place during festivals. During Onam, which also happens to be the wedding season, the weaving hub of Balaramapuram (about 20 km from Thiruvananthapuram) is usually bustling with buyers from across the world. Weaving in this region goes back to the era of Balarama Varma (1798 to 1810), ruler of erstwhile Travancore. His Dewan Ummini Thampi settled seven weaving families (from Tirunelveli district) who were specifically brought to Thiruvananthapuram to weave clothes for the royal family. Eventually, in the memory of the ruler, the place came to be called Balaramapuram. However, this Onam, the town’s 200-year-old weaving tradition is hanging by a thread as a result of the pandemic and the ensuing lockdown. “We haven’t sold a single set in the last few months. Onam is when we have our biggest sale of mundum-neriyathum sets, dhotis and saris, and we usually make enough to sustain ourselves for the rest of the year,” says Suresh Sudhakaran, a traditional weaver employing eight women who work on pit looms. Designers come forward Taking note of their difficulties, Thiruvananthapuram-based designer Alan Alexander Kaleekal is launching an initiative, Travancore Design Co. to help them sell their products at his store, RAHÉL (facebook.com/rahel.travancore/), along with his label, KALEEKAL. Usha Balakrishnan of ANKA (ankafabric.in) and Kochi-based Shalini James (shalinijamesmantra.com) and Sreejith Jeevan of Rouka (shoprouka.com) will join him in the next phase where design interventions will be used to reimagine the traditional weaves. Jeevan, who reinterpreted the Kasavu weave in Chendamangalam last year, is also among a small group of designers behind the Friends of Chendamangalam initiative (set up after the 2018 Kerala floods). This time around, the new collective has been formed to assist the weavers from Balaramapuram. The designers plan to procure the finished products and sell them via online sales or by appointment at their stores (along with their own labels). Kaleekal, whose curated collection has vibrant Balaramapuram saris and a set mundu with Kasavu andkara, says, “These weavers produce some of the finest Kasavu fabrics. Their motifs and designs have an identical appearance on both sides of the fabric — it is too precious a legacy to be lost. We’d like each Malayali household to buy at least one sari or mundum-neriyathum to bring the Onam spirit into the homes of the weavers. Balakrishnan, who has been tweaking the weaves with fresh designs and a touch of colour, has revived her brand’s classic line of ivory-gold and ivory-silver for the festive season. “We have a new range with a mix of gold and silver Kasavu. Our wedding range has Kasavu with fabric woven with counts of 120 and 100,” she says. Also bringing out a colourful collection of set mundu and saris this season is Shobha Viswanath of Weavers Village. “Karasin bright shades like yellow, with lines and borders, will appeal to a clientèle looking for traditional wear that is trendy. We are also giving out matching masks.” Ramping up It’s not just independent designers pitching in, but older brands and chain stores too.  Karalkada, perhaps Kerala’s oldest brand selling Balaramapuram weaves, has a collection for both weddings and the festival season. These are adorned with pulielakara (motif of tamarind leaf) and other specialities of the weave. At Kasavukada (with branches all over the State), the bespoke weave finds place in their bridal range. Hailing from a weaving family himself, managing partner Nandu VS says that although many of their outlets were closed due to the lockdown, the weaving never stopped. Their USP, he says, is a ‘Thali’ collection for the wedding season. “It is pure zari and costs between Rs. 30,000 and Rs. 60,000.” As the countdown to Thiruvonam begins, designers, weavers’ collectives and retailers assert that unless the weaving industry adapts to changes and receives help, the proud legacy of Balaramapuram might fade away. However, James — who also worked with Jeevan on the Chendamangalam initiative — says that if weavers are willing to work with designers, it would not be difficult to find new customers. “Without any skill or loom upgradation, they can bring in these design changes to usher in a new product profile. All we request is the willingness to adapt,” she says.  Sunil V, co-founder, Motherland and creator of Make In India campaign We need to rewrite the narrative for weavers. Instead of projecting them as people who need help, we need to ensure that they, especially the younger generation, see their work as ‘cool’ and feel pride in their legacy. Why can’t we see them as artistes creating magic with threads; as custodians of a legacy that only they know? Instead of making policies for them, encourage them to come up with policies that highlight their craft.”
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Pyjama gn ation: a changing dress code||Since the lockdown began, we’ve had no dearth of options to choose from when it comes to loungewear. Good Earth launched a leisurewear capsule, designer Payal Singhal came out with a selection of kaftans, and Shivan & Narresh have indicated that their upcoming collection, The Wilding ’20s, will lean heavily towards relaxed pieces. Sarah & Sandeep’s latest collection, Sopor, is the latest in this lineup. Known for their detailed and sculptural bespoke menswear, the Mumbai-based label has built a clientele that turns to them for formal and occasionwear. Sandeep Gonsalves, co-founder and creative director of the brand, says that when customer requirements changed in the last few months (thanks to the Covid-19 situation), they took note. While the idea for Sopor came up in March, the process took five months — from ideation to product development and execution to setting up e-commerce. “We wanted to create a multi-utility line in keeping with our brand offerings over the past eight years. Basically, a pyjama set that would not look out of place on a Zoom call,” he explains. With options for both men and women, the collection of robes and pyjamas feature a muted colour palette of beige, navy, maroon and black. With smart collars and defined cuts, the sets can easily be styled as casual outfits post-lockdown. “Our signature geometric patterns make an appearance as [diamond and pinstripe] prints. We also added subtle details like velvet and suede on the collars, keeping with our minimalist aesthetic while giving a lush vibe,” says Gonsalves. They opted for cotton silk and cotton satin fabrics, which are comfortable and drape well. The collection is currently available for sale on their website, even as in-store customers are trickling back in. “We always had a by-appointment shopping experience, so it is not a new experience for us. People are now more interested in our safety processes as much as they are in the garments,” he says. Coming up is a line of accessories: printed eye masks and the all-important face mask, which will be up on the site shortly. They’re also working on slip-ons to wear around the house and a tie-up shrug with geometric detailing that Gonsalves is excited about. “By capitalising on this leisurewear craze and adding our own spin on it, we’re covering the entire spectrum, as demand for occasionwear is lesser than usual,” he concludes.  Starting at Rs. 5,000, Sopor is available on sarahsandeep.com.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||On Space for Giants’ latest collab with Gemfields and Net-a-Porter||This World Elephant Day (August 12), Africa-headquartered conservation charity, Space for Giants, released the story of employee, Sam Karmushu. Growing up on a community-farm in Kenya, amidst grazing livestock and seeing elephants every day, Karmushu’s tale highlighted these vanishing landscapes. “Poaching and loss of habitat have created challenges that require pragmatic solutions, which we’re working to innovatively address,” begins Max Graham, founder and CEO. An example of this ingenuity is their recent partnership with the Africa-focussed mining company, Gemfields. Titled Walk for Giants, the fundraising- and awareness-building campaign for African wildlife conservation kicked off on August 17 with the release of two exclusive capsules: a selection of 44 jewellery pieces from Gemfields and 15 sustainable collections from luxury fashion e-tailer, Net-a-Porter. Rubies in the roses Gemfields’ CEO Sean Gilbertson says the wildlife-themed series features Zambian emeralds and Mozambican rubies set in an assortment of necklaces, bracelets, cufflinks, pendants, etc (Rs. 1,12,127 upwards) across brands. Highlights include designer Sandy Leong’s three-piece offering, which comprises a Sahara Poison Ring crafted with brushed 18k recycled yellow gold. VAK Fine Jewel’s Elephant Pop Ring’s (Rs. 29,18,974) yin-yang design is symbolic of the interdependence of the natural world. “The artisanal, one-of-a-kind handcrafted ring, is designed with two Mozambican non-heated rubies, which are a metaphor for the blood of elephants that’s too often lost to poachers,” says Gilbertson, adding that the launch was rescheduled due to the pandemic. The pieces are available on gemfields.com. Net-a-Porter’s exclusive capsule collections (Rs. 9,567 - Rs. 7,91,194) — with everything from asymmetrical pleated skirts, jumpsuits, leather sandals, jackets, linen sun hats, swimwear, duffel bags, and more — come from high-end brands such as Burberry, 3.1 Phillip Lim, Brunello Cucinelli, Chantecaille as well as emerging designers such as Hereu, Fisch and Bassike. The campaign will culminate in an immersive conservation journey along an ancient elephant migration corridor later this year.  Funds from the initiative are intended to support Space for Giants’ frontline conservation work across nine African countries — Angola, Botswana, Gabon, Kenya, Mozambique, Namibia, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe. “Proceeds will go towards supporting rangers and law enforcement personnel with training, critical equipment and operational support, construction of electrified fences around smallholder farms, etc,” says Graham, who founded the organisation in 2011, adding, “It is our objective to demonstrate to the fashion industry that a unit of consumption can be converted to a unit of conservation. This is not only good for conservation but is critical for business in an increasingly environmentally conscious marketplace.”
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Shaken, not slurred||‘Elango,’ I slump at my favourite bar, ‘make mine a pandemic-special. Whatever everyone’s on. And avoid the Corona beer, I’m sick already. Of the puns.’ He fixes me a screwdriver. I drink - and drink – and drink. There’s no high in this highball glass. ‘It’s all orange. No vodka,’ I object. ‘That’s the corporate special,’ he says. ‘It’s a ScrewedOver . It’s when you realise what your org’s been doing to you all along. The pointless travel, endless workhours. I can add some midnight oil, if you’ve gotten used to the taste.’ The woman to my left says, ‘Try this. A classic Manhaten . Vermouth. Ver-big-mouth. Too much talk, that’s the problem. The boss-man. The politico-man. The medico-man. The wifi-man. Promises to fix it all – and nothing!’ I drink to that. ‘Have a Meragharita ,’ the man to my right says. ‘It’s why we land up in the bar. When thegharbecomes office-school-gym-shop, you need the Tequila.’ ‘With love from the bar then,’ Elango pushes a copper mug at him. ‘Here’s a special. A Maskow Mule . It’s just like the Moscow Mule (the drink not the man), but it comes with a free mask and straw to drink out of. Cleverly designed so you can suck in but not breathe out the vodka fumes. It’s like being in Maskowian Vodka chamber.’ The man does a bottoms-up, on his glass and off his stool, and passes out for a happy hour. I have what he had. I’m feeling lighter and happier too. Happy Hour Prost! ‘There’s great demand for the Sangriazer . Sangria and sanitizer. No virus survives that!’ Elango suggests. But obviously! Who wants to waste alcohol on your shands – hands. I hug Elango. I hug the man on the floor. ‘Keep your social distance!’ warns the woman as I lurch towards her. ‘Make mine a Bloody Meanie , Elango,’ she shouts. ‘In honour of every idiot who doesn’t social-distance or wear a mask.’ She’s baying for blood, this one, but Elango keeps it to tomato juice. A new guy stumbles onto the stool next to me. He’s shivering, he says, ‘Am I shivering? Someone sneezed in the corner. I stepped on spit. I passed a woman with a mask under her nose. Have you got a thermometer, oximeter, portable oxygen cylinder?’ Elango makes his Mojittero with more-jito and more white rum. More happiness! Viruses and other invisibles are out of sight now. Punny! ‘ Punny Colada , Elango!’ I holler. ‘Let’s raise one to all Covidian puns.’ Bar closing time. Elango’s slipping me a Singasnore Sling . I’s slo sleepy now, I’s s’hardly sing, sling, slung. Elango sis spouring a gin and scherry brandy and slaying, ‘Sleep and you’ll wake up in 2021 to realise this whole scare has been a bad dream.’ Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||the digest||Ganesh Chaturthi specials Asthe festival season starts with Ganesh Chaturthi today, Tribe Amrapali has launched a collection of Ganesha-inspired silver jewellery. Every piece of this collection features handmade paintings or handcrafted figures and symbols of the Indian god of new beginnings. Rings, earrings, pendants and statement pieces available, starting from Rs. 1,730. In stores and online at tribeamrapali.com.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Gentlemen of Our Times: A dusty roll of canvases belonging to the late Indian Modernist Francis Newton Souza, travelled to Israel from New York 18 years ago. Now, in the midst of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, its journey has ended — at his grandson Solomon Souza’s Jerusalem studio. The 27-year-old painter, widely known for his street art and graffiti, has used them in a series of oil on canvas, as an homage to his grandfather. The series is a hat-tip to Francis’ 1955 paintings,Six Gentlemen of Our Times, which showed the busts of six men in suits, their faces weirdly contorted. “[My grandfather’s works show] disgust and anger at the greed of the business world. Now, these current times are making people act in certain ways...” says Solomon. Find out more @thehindu.com.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The Injiri edit||Homegrown textile brand Injiri is out with their latest line of saris, in a collection called Teej. Designer Chinar Farooqui has crafted the new range with mulberry silk and has woven the saris using two textiles:jamdaniandbandhini.Each version of the drape has vibrant, contrasting shades such as bottle green, red and black, among others, juxtaposed with geometric prints and traditionalbandhanitextiles. The blouses are designed in muted yellow, pink and off-white. From Rs. 18,000 onwards on injiri.co.in
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Do like Ollie||If your kids are tired of online school and staring at a sceen for entertainment, sign them up for Ollie’s Summer Camp, an initiative by ITC Hotels and Welcomhotel. Named after the Olive Ridley turtle, the week-long virtual camp includes interactive yoga classes, no-heat cooking, painting, home gardening, and more. Pre-registration not required; free videos are now available on @ITCHotels and @welcomhotel on Facebook and Instagram. The in-house Ollie’s Corner at properties across India will soon open their doors we are told.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Best foot forward||The CAI Store, a homegrown womens footwear brand, has collaborated with fashion influencer Aashna Shroff to bring out a capsule collection of strappy sandals and sliders featuring jute accents. From Rs. 1,400 to Rs. 2,999 on thecaistore.com. Noida-based brand Oceedee — known for their stylish stillettos — has launched a home edit of earth-toned sliders made of Napa leather keeping in mind the new normal. With subtle orange and white accents, the line of 12 designs are priced from Rs. 2,499 to Rs. 2,999 on oceedee.com.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||US Open: Even as coronavirus cases continue to soar across the country, the final Grand Slam of the year is slated to take place from August 31. Defending champions Rafael Nadal and Bianca Andreescu have dropped out citing safety concerns. However, the organisers are happy with the lineup, which includes Serena Williams in the women’s competition and seven out of the top 10 male players.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||All for art||American-born photographer Waswo X Waswo’s latest work, titled ‘We Are Always Working’, features his signature sepia photographs, hand painted by Udaipur-based photo hand colourist Rajesh Soni. At Gallery Latitude 28, New Delhi, from August 28 to September 28. Details: latitude28.com. This weekend, artistes dabbling in everything from spoken word, dance, theatre, music and magic join in ArtAlone Together. The day-long online festival takes place on August 23, 10 am to 11 pm. Rs. 200 on Zoom. Details: offbeatccu.com
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Forever summer||At Collage in Chennai, designer Rajesh Pratap Singh brings his latest line, A Fluorescent Summer. The white outfits feature neon thread details at the seams, polka and bird embroideries and woven stripes. Till August 31. From Rs. 7,250 onwards.28291443 Multi-designer lifestyle and luxury boutique Evoluzione has launched their e-commerce portal with clothing and accessories for men and women, as well as their Evo edits, and a section with gourmet foods coming up. On evoluzionestyle.com.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||History and music||The India International Centre in New Delhi is hosting a series of online exhibitions and talks. Till August 23, there is a virtual walkthrough of Rome, led by by Caterina Brazzi Castracane, historian and author. An exhibit of photos by Ajit Rana, titledDiverse Asia, features scenes from Bali, Hong Kong and more. On iicdelhi.nic.in. On NCPA’s Facebook page, music writer Narendra Kusnur hosts a live Jazz discussion every Friday at 5.30 pm. It aims to help both novice and seasoned fans develop a deeper understanding of the genre.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Earlier this week, comedian Vir Das sat down for a Zoom conversation withThe Hindu’s Vaishna Roy to talk about his new special,Inside Out. Compiled from over 30 virtual shows, he interacts with a global audience, finding common ground in the midst of a pandemic. Proceeds from the show — which will stream on his website for Rs. 30 per view — will be directed to four different charities. Das also spoke about the impact of political jokes, Kamala Harris, his minimalist approach to travel and more. On weekend.thehindu.com
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Pyjama gn ation: a changing dress code||Since the lockdown began, we’ve had no dearth of options to choose from when it comes to loungewear. Good Earth launched a leisurewear capsule, designer Payal Singhal came out with a selection of kaftans, and Shivan & Narresh have indicated that their upcoming collection, The Wilding ’20s, will lean heavily towards relaxed pieces. Sarah & Sandeep’s latest collection, Sopor, is the latest in this lineup. Known for their detailed and sculptural bespoke menswear, the Mumbai-based label has built a clientele that turns to them for formal and occasionwear. Sandeep Gonsalves, co-founder and creative director of the brand, says that when customer requirements changed in the last few months (thanks to the Covid-19 situation), they took note. While the idea for Sopor came up in March, the process took five months — from ideation to product development and execution to setting up e-commerce. “We wanted to create a multi-utility line in keeping with our brand offerings over the past eight years. Basically, a pyjama set that would not look out of place on a Zoom call,” he explains. With options for both men and women, the collection of robes and pyjamas feature a muted colour palette of beige, navy, maroon and black. With smart collars and defined cuts, the sets can easily be styled as casual outfits post-lockdown. “Our signature geometric patterns make an appearance as [diamond and pinstripe] prints. We also added subtle details like velvet and suede on the collars, keeping with our minimalist aesthetic while giving a lush vibe,” says Gonsalves. They opted for cotton silk and cotton satin fabrics, which are comfortable and drape well. The collection is currently available for sale on their website, even as in-store customers are trickling back in. “We always had a by-appointment shopping experience, so it is not a new experience for us. People are now more interested in our safety processes as much as they are in the garments,” he says. Coming up is a line of accessories: printed eye masks and the all-important face mask, which will be up on the site shortly. They’re also working on slip-ons to wear around the house and a tie-up shrug with geometric detailing that Gonsalves is excited about. “By capitalising on this leisurewear craze and adding our own spin on it, we’re covering the entire spectrum, as demand for occasionwear is lesser than usual,” he concludes.  Starting at Rs. 5,000, Sopor is available on sarahsandeep.com.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||More power to the Kasavu||Gold caught in the warp and weft of pure white cotton has been the trademark of Kerala handlooms. Woven by the nimble fingers of Balaramapuram’s traditional weavers, the GI-tagged fine mundum-neriyathum — with gold Kasavu or colouredkaraborders — has a special place during festivals. During Onam, which also happens to be the wedding season, the weaving hub of Balaramapuram (about 20 km from Thiruvananthapuram) is usually bustling with buyers from across the world. Weaving in this region goes back to the era of Balarama Varma (1798 to 1810), ruler of erstwhile Travancore. His Dewan Ummini Thampi settled seven weaving families (from Tirunelveli district) who were specifically brought to Thiruvananthapuram to weave clothes for the royal family. Eventually, in the memory of the ruler, the place came to be called Balaramapuram. However, this Onam, the town’s 200-year-old weaving tradition is hanging by a thread as a result of the pandemic and the ensuing lockdown. “We haven’t sold a single set in the last few months. Onam is when we have our biggest sale of mundum-neriyathum sets, dhotis and saris, and we usually make enough to sustain ourselves for the rest of the year,” says Suresh Sudhakaran, a traditional weaver employing eight women who work on pit looms. Designers come forward Taking note of their difficulties, Thiruvananthapuram-based designer Alan Alexander Kaleekal is launching an initiative, Travancore Design Co. to help them sell their products at his store, RAHÉL (facebook.com/rahel.travancore/), along with his label, KALEEKAL. Usha Balakrishnan of ANKA (ankafabric.in) and Kochi-based Shalini James (shalinijamesmantra.com) and Sreejith Jeevan of Rouka (shoprouka.com) will join him in the next phase where design interventions will be used to reimagine the traditional weaves. Jeevan, who reinterpreted the Kasavu weave in Chendamangalam last year, is also among a small group of designers behind the Friends of Chendamangalam initiative (set up after the 2018 Kerala floods). This time around, the new collective has been formed to assist the weavers from Balaramapuram. The designers plan to procure the finished products and sell them via online sales or by appointment at their stores (along with their own labels). Kaleekal, whose curated collection has vibrant Balaramapuram saris and a set mundu with Kasavu andkara, says, “These weavers produce some of the finest Kasavu fabrics. Their motifs and designs have an identical appearance on both sides of the fabric — it is too precious a legacy to be lost. We’d like each Malayali household to buy at least one sari or mundum-neriyathum to bring the Onam spirit into the homes of the weavers. Balakrishnan, who has been tweaking the weaves with fresh designs and a touch of colour, has revived her brand’s classic line of ivory-gold and ivory-silver for the festive season. “We have a new range with a mix of gold and silver Kasavu. Our wedding range has Kasavu with fabric woven with counts of 120 and 100,” she says. Also bringing out a colourful collection of set mundu and saris this season is Shobha Viswanath of Weavers Village. “Karasin bright shades like yellow, with lines and borders, will appeal to a clientèle looking for traditional wear that is trendy. We are also giving out matching masks.” Ramping up It’s not just independent designers pitching in, but older brands and chain stores too.  Karalkada, perhaps Kerala’s oldest brand selling Balaramapuram weaves, has a collection for both weddings and the festival season. These are adorned with pulielakara (motif of tamarind leaf) and other specialities of the weave. At Kasavukada (with branches all over the State), the bespoke weave finds place in their bridal range. Hailing from a weaving family himself, managing partner Nandu VS says that although many of their outlets were closed due to the lockdown, the weaving never stopped. Their USP, he says, is a ‘Thali’ collection for the wedding season. “It is pure zari and costs between Rs. 30,000 and Rs. 60,000.” As the countdown to Thiruvonam begins, designers, weavers’ collectives and retailers assert that unless the weaving industry adapts to changes and receives help, the proud legacy of Balaramapuram might fade away. However, James — who also worked with Jeevan on the Chendamangalam initiative — says that if weavers are willing to work with designers, it would not be difficult to find new customers. “Without any skill or loom upgradation, they can bring in these design changes to usher in a new product profile. All we request is the willingness to adapt,” she says.  Sunil V, co-founder, Motherland and creator of Make In India campaign We need to rewrite the narrative for weavers. Instead of projecting them as people who need help, we need to ensure that they, especially the younger generation, see their work as ‘cool’ and feel pride in their legacy. Why can’t we see them as artistes creating magic with threads; as custodians of a legacy that only they know? Instead of making policies for them, encourage them to come up with policies that highlight their craft.”
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||On Space for Giants’ latest collab with Gemfields and Net-a-Porter||This World Elephant Day (August 12), Africa-headquartered conservation charity, Space for Giants, released the story of employee, Sam Karmushu. Growing up on a community-farm in Kenya, amidst grazing livestock and seeing elephants every day, Karmushu’s tale highlighted these vanishing landscapes. “Poaching and loss of habitat have created challenges that require pragmatic solutions, which we’re working to innovatively address,” begins Max Graham, founder and CEO. An example of this ingenuity is their recent partnership with the Africa-focussed mining company, Gemfields. Titled Walk for Giants, the fundraising- and awareness-building campaign for African wildlife conservation kicked off on August 17 with the release of two exclusive capsules: a selection of 44 jewellery pieces from Gemfields and 15 sustainable collections from luxury fashion e-tailer, Net-a-Porter. Rubies in the roses Gemfields’ CEO Sean Gilbertson says the wildlife-themed series features Zambian emeralds and Mozambican rubies set in an assortment of necklaces, bracelets, cufflinks, pendants, etc (Rs. 1,12,127 upwards) across brands. Highlights include designer Sandy Leong’s three-piece offering, which comprises a Sahara Poison Ring crafted with brushed 18k recycled yellow gold. VAK Fine Jewel’s Elephant Pop Ring’s (Rs. 29,18,974) yin-yang design is symbolic of the interdependence of the natural world. “The artisanal, one-of-a-kind handcrafted ring, is designed with two Mozambican non-heated rubies, which are a metaphor for the blood of elephants that’s too often lost to poachers,” says Gilbertson, adding that the launch was rescheduled due to the pandemic. The pieces are available on gemfields.com. Net-a-Porter’s exclusive capsule collections (Rs. 9,567 - Rs. 7,91,194) — with everything from asymmetrical pleated skirts, jumpsuits, leather sandals, jackets, linen sun hats, swimwear, duffel bags, and more — come from high-end brands such as Burberry, 3.1 Phillip Lim, Brunello Cucinelli, Chantecaille as well as emerging designers such as Hereu, Fisch and Bassike. The campaign will culminate in an immersive conservation journey along an ancient elephant migration corridor later this year.  Funds from the initiative are intended to support Space for Giants’ frontline conservation work across nine African countries — Angola, Botswana, Gabon, Kenya, Mozambique, Namibia, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe. “Proceeds will go towards supporting rangers and law enforcement personnel with training, critical equipment and operational support, construction of electrified fences around smallholder farms, etc,” says Graham, who founded the organisation in 2011, adding, “It is our objective to demonstrate to the fashion industry that a unit of consumption can be converted to a unit of conservation. This is not only good for conservation but is critical for business in an increasingly environmentally conscious marketplace.”
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNU begins registration for new term, asks students to clear dues||Online registration for the monsoon semester at Jawaharlal Nehru University began on Friday with the university allowing students to take provisional registration in view of the prevailing pandemic. Students have been asked to pay all “relevant” backlog, including tuition fee, hostel fee and mess dues, online and submit no dues certificate after the university opens to regularise their registration. The JNU Students’ Union and the JNU Teachers’ Association both called for the postponement of online registration while the students demanded a fee waiver for the lockdown period. The JNUTA said it takes strong exception to the JNU administration’s functioning of the university in which formalities like registration and extracting fees through this from students are prioritised over ensuring that the institution’s responsibilities towards their education are discharged to the fullest extent. It added that the ‘provisional’ nature of the registration is a clear acknowledgement that the administration has not yet been able to create the conditions even on paper for completion of the winter semester of 2020-21, let alone a proper completion. Phased return The JNUTA said that it took exception to the fact that the registration requires all students to clear dues and pay the fees for the monsoon semester of 2020-21 even though access to so many of the facilities for which the fees are charged are being denied to students. The JNUSU said that no student should be left to uncertainty as online learning has been proved exclusionary and discriminatory and students who have opted for offline/blended mode be given the opportunity to finish their semester requirements through phased return to the campus. “Phase-wise return of students should start with prioritising stranded students and those who wish to submit their thesis/dissertation and need to access campus based facilities/resources. This will require the administration to facilitate test facility and isolation centre on campus,” the students said.  The ABVP also took out a demonstration outside the Dean of Students Welfare office demanding the relaxation of hostel fee and miscellaneous charges during the lockdown up till the reopening of campus and hostel facilities. “Many students who had not used the mess facility during the period of lockdown have also been unjustifiably charged with inflated mess bills. Students should not be forced to pay for services that were neither utilised nor rendered to them,” the ABVP said. The JNU VC M. Jagadesh Kumar, tweeting a photo of an empty campus road said: “Online registration process of continuing students at JNU has started today [Friday] and is picking up.” He added that the process for registration was convenient and simple, which the students can do from their place of stay. “Let us follow COVID-19 regulations in letter and spirit to keep ourselves and others safe,” he said.
22 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana has more water than Punjab: Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday expressed the hope that Haryana would see Punjab’s viewpoint on the issue of the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal, given the latter’s critical groundwater situation. Haryana already has more water than Punjab, said Capt. Amarinder, hoping that his Haryana counterpart, Manohar Lal, will look at the issue from a realistic perspective when they meet soon to discuss the matter. Capt. Amarinder, during a Facebook Live session, underlined the need to understand and adhere to international principles on water sharing, as per which all agreements on precious resource have to be reviewed after 25 years, adding that this was what he had told the Union Jal Shakti Minister and the Haryana Chief Minister during his videoconference meeting with them. The Chief Minister further said that he had told the Centre and Haryana that the Eradi Commission was 35 years old and there was need for reassessment of water availability in Punjab, which now has 109 dark blocks as a result of massive detrimental effects on its rivers due to global warning. Capt. Amarinder also ordered imposition of Section 144 to prohibit all gatherings of more than five persons, other than marriage and ‘bhog’ ceremonies, warning of strict action against organisers of such gatherings.  ‘Avoid gatherings’ He appealed to all political parties to avoid any gatherings, including protests. In case of any violation of Section 144, the organisers who are putting people at risk by organising such gatherings or allowing people to gather without masks, will be arrested, he said, warning of total strictness in this matter. The Chief Minister also requested religious and community leaders to ask their followers to follow all restrictions and precautions as imposed and not to violate Section 144, in the interest of the State, which was witnessing an increase in COVID-19 cases.
22 August 2020||New Delhi,||DU teachers protest over pending salary||Teachers of Delhi University formed a human chain to protest the non-payment of salaries and pensions to staff of 12 colleges fully funded by the Delhi government, at Mandi House on Friday. Nearly 150 teachers formed a human chain, protesting against the non-payment for nearly four months, the Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) said. The crisis of inadequate grants in all the 28 Delhi government-funded and aided colleges of DU has persisted for over a year due to the tussle between the university administration and the Delhi government over the issue of formation of governing bodies, the group noted. The insensitive attitude of the Delhi government towards the employees of these colleges has compelled the DUTA to continue its agitation, it said. It also hit out at Deputy Chief Minister over “sweeping charges of corruption” made by him recently and questioned as to why retired employees were being victimised. The inordinate delay in release of adequate grants was causing severe hardships to the staffers, it said. Terming the government’s present stance “callous abdication of its responsibility”, DUTA demanded it to resolve the issue responsibly.
22 August 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Odisha sees heavy rain in August, 5 killed||Heavy rainfall triggered by back-to-back low pressure areas over the Bay of Bengal in August left five persons dead and paddy crop submerged in Odisha. The State government on Friday asked District Collectors to submit damage assessment reports within a week. While two persons were swept away by swirling river waters, two died when wall collapsed on them. While three deaths were reported from Mayurbhanj district, one death each occurred in Balangir and Deogarh districts. The Malkangiri district administration, with the help of fire service personnel, rescued 250 people in the Mathili and Kalimela blocks and shifted them to safer places. The southern district had received 62.5 mm rainfall during the past 24 hours, leading to rainwater submerging small bridges in Kangarukonda, Kanyashram and Koragunda. The Special Relief Commissioner said the Sileru river was overflowing at Mogi Point of the Motu area in Malkangiri district. Although there was no flood threat, rivers were overflowing in Balasore, Kalahandi, Keonjhar, Nabarangpur, Jagatsinghpur and Mayurbhanj districts. Paddy crop was damaged in Khordha, Balaore and Jharsuguda districts. Monsoon rains The Southwest Monsoon entered Odisha on a promising note with 9.3% excess rain recorded in June. In July, the monsoon largely remained absent. A deficit rainfall of 34.9% was recorded during July. But, the monsoon, thanks to low pressure areas over the Bay of Bengal, has been vigorous over the State during August, which registered an excess 45.2% rainfall so far. It has already wiped out the July deficit. As of now, the State has received 1.3% surplus rainfall. Special Relief Commissioner P. K. Jena said yellow and orange warning had been issued for Malkangiri, Koraput, Sundargarh, Keonjhar and Mayurbhanj districts. According to him, a fresh low pressure may to develop over the Bay of Bengal on August 23 which may cause heavy rain.
22 August 2020||JAIPUR,||COVID-19: 5 Rajasthan districts speeding towards full recovery||Five districts in Rajasthan are speeding towards full recovery from the COVID-19 infection, having crossed 90% recuperation rate, while 11 districts have registered a recovery rate of more than 80%. The betterment of health infrastructure in the State has led to the recoveries crossing the 50,000 mark earlier this week. Medical & Health Minister Raghu Sharma said here on Friday that aggressive testing and containment strategies for specific areas had helped the State fight the pandemic, while a special screening campaign had been launched for vulnerable groups, including the people with comorbidities, to prevent deaths. The issue of COVID-19 management and economic impact of the lockdown came up for a debate in the State Assembly on Friday. The House was adjourned thrice amid an uproar over the Opposition BJP’s charges of negligence and heated arguments with the treasury members. The proceedings were later adjourned to Monday. Mr. Sharma said the State’s benchmarks in handling the health crisis included the well-planned Bhilwara model, Bikaner’s three-layer containment strategy and other intensified models. The five districts speeding towards full recovery were Churu (90.2%), Jalore (96.3%), Jhunjhunu (91.4%), Pali (91.2%) and Sirohi (90.6%).  ‘First to impose curbs’ “Rajasthan was the first State to impose lockdown, while the strictness adopted in the beginning helped contain the spread of virus. The teams of paramedical staff have reached almost all areas in the State for conducting health surveys,” Mr. Sharma said. The State government has completed 20 lakh COVID-19 tests, while the mortality rate has reduced to 1.3%. Akhil Arora, Principal Secretary (Medical & Health), said the spike in the number of positive cases was the result of aggressive testing, as the State had achieved the RT-PCR testing capacity of 45,000 per day. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot met the experts here on Wednesday to deliberate on the adherence to health protocol during the pandemic. The experts pointed out that high-flow oxygen for treatment of infection was being arranged in all medical colleges and critical care had been strengthened in the hospitals where serious patients were brought.
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||No salary for months, caretakers of night shelters a worried lot||Basant Praksh (53), a caretaker of a night shelter under Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), has not been paid salary for at least five months. As a result, he has not paid his rent for the past three months. On Tuesday, the owner of his rented accommodation gave him an ultimatum to leave the house. Prakash is among several DUSIB night shelter caretakers who have not received their salaries. For Prakash and others, managing household finances has become a nightmare. “My daughter’s wedding is on September 13. I don’t have money to even pay the rent. My other daughter has epilepsy and I don’t have money for her medicines. What should I do?” a worried Prakash asked. Prakash and his 20-year-old son Tej, who is also a caretaker at a night shelter in east Delhi, said they are owed Rs. 1.5 lakh to Rs. 2 lakh for their work respectively. Prakash said he has been working here since 2018 and his son, since 2019. Their monthly salaries are Rs. 16,000 (approx) and Rs. 7,000 (approx) respectively, as per the minimum wages set by the government. However, their payments have been partial and irregular, alleged Prakash. “For April, May, June and July, I received Rs. 15,000 in my account in the last week of July. Earlier, I was getting irregular payment of Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 5,000 on any day of the month,” he said, adding that he has spoken to his supervisors but they keep stonewalling him. Rajesh Kumar (34) from Kanpur, who works at the shelter in Shahdara, said he has not been paid salary since his joining in January this year. “I was working with another NGO when I was told by a contractor that this night shelter was in a bad shape. I quit that job to come here. I cleaned the shelter but received no salary since my joining. I have got Rs. 5,000 on rakshabandhan,” he added. Rajesh said he had to borrow Rs. 20,000 on interest from a local financier to fund his 6-year-old daughter’s treatment.“I am really worried about repaying the loan,” he said, adding that he stays in the night shelter as he can’t afford an accommodation. Sanju from Seelampur, who works as a caretaker at a shelter in Nand Nagri, said he was last paid in April and has been receiving payments irregularly. “My latest complaint was to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal online, which I had sent in December last year. I have been working as a caretaker for the last five years and ever since the tender has been given to Sadik Masih, the payments have become a huge problem,” he said. Sanju said he had to take a loan of Rs. 6,000 for getting himself enrolled in a master’s course. He is the sole breadwinner of the family of four, including his two sisters and father. ‘Due to lockdown’ Responding to the claims made by the caretakers, chief of Sadik Masih Medical Social Servant Society, Vinay Kumar, said: “We were not receiving money from DUSIB because of lack of funds during the lockdown. Now, we have slowly started receiving some amount and we will be able to pay salaries within a few days,” he said. DUSIB member Bipin Rai said they will look into the matter.
22 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hunt on for fraudster who duped hundreds of lakhs||Hundreds of people gathered outside Govindpuri police station here on Thursday, complaining against a man — who allegedly duped them of several lakhs. The victims demanded action from the police. A video of the ruckus outside the police station surfaced in which one of the victims can be heard saying that she has been conned of a few lakhs by the man. She also claimed that the man had cheated several people of Rs. 40 crore. DCP (South-East) R.P. Meena said the accused — Abdul Salam (30) — from Govindpuri, was running a chit-fund group — Friends Lucky Draw — and he along with his wife Pini, brother Abdul Kalam, Fazluddin and other accomplices collected money from investors. They all are absconding. Mr. Meena said all the members had to pay Rs. 1,000 per month for 15 months and at the end, they were given Rs. 20,000. “The accused also used to pay Rs. 700/month to a member, who used to involve 10 others in the scheme,” he said, adding that a lucky draw was also conducted in which the selected person would get a lump sum amount or gift. The transactions were made in cash. The police launched a manhunt to nab the accused.
22 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Murder charge against ex-DGP||A murder charge was on Friday added against former Punjab Director General of Police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini and other accused in the case relating to disappearance of a man in 1991. Special Public Prosecutor, Advocate Sartej Singh Narula, told The Hindu that the application for adding Section 302 (murder) was moved by the SIT after during the course of investigation evidence was collected, which indicated that offence under Section 302 of IPC was committed.
22 August 2020||New Delhi,||Look into installation of RWHS: NGT||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed a panel to look into a plea seeking installation of rainwater harvesting systems (RWHS) in government buildings here. A Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said: “In view of the fact that this Tribunal has already constituted a committee headed by a former Delhi High Court Judge to go into the issue of RWHS in Delhi, we request the said panel to look into issues raised in this application and include its observation on the subject in its next report.” The directions came when the green panel was hearing a plea moved by petitioner Mahesh Chandra Saxena, seeking directions to install properly designed rainwater harvesting systems as the existing ones in government buildings were not designed properly. The plea had contended that if the present designs continue it could lead to further contamination of underground as various pollutants mix up with the water to be harvested.
22 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||AAP seeks all-party meet on SYL issue||With the Sutlej-Yamuna Link (SYL) canal issue — the focal point of a water-sharing dispute between Punjab and Haryana — yet again at the political centre-stage, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has demanded that Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh immediately convene an all-party meeting. The Shiromani Akali Dal on the other hand has been pressing for a 14-day session of the State Assembly to discuss ‘burning’’ issues including the SYL. The Punjab Assembly session is being convened on August 28 for a day. State AAP chief Bhagwant Mann and Leader of Opposition, Harpal Singh Cheema, in a joint statement said that the Chief Minister should immediately convene a meeting of all political parties to send out a message that Punjab had not a single drop of excess water to share with any other State.
22 August 2020||New Delhi,||DMRC, north body sign MoU for multi-level parking facility||The Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation on Friday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to develop a multi-level car parking facility, proposed to accommodate 3,000 cars, at Nabi Karim. The parking facility, which is to be a part of an integrated station complex at Nabi Karim, will be fully automated. “While an interchange facility for the Janakpuri West-RK Ashram Marg metro corridor and the proposed Inderlok-Indraprastha corridor of Phase IV will come up underground, a six-storey car parking facility along with a three-storey commercial complex will be constructed above the station structure,” said DMRC officials. DMRC spokesperson Anuj Dayal said: “The metro station shall consist of four underground levels and on the surface, the building shall have a formation of ground floor plus eight floors. Above the surface, three floors shall be used for commercial purposes and six shall be utilised for parking.” North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash said: “This ultra-modern project would be a milestone project for the North DMC. Residents of the walled city will get the benefit of this project after its completion and the project will also speed up the development work of old Delhi.” Located at the Shahi Idgah Road in Sadar Bazar, the project will cover over 25,000 square metres. “As per initial proposal submitted by the DMRC, construction of underground metro station was to be completed by January 2023 and in the meantime inviting bid and finalization of concessionaire for the construction of multi-level car parking and commercial space above ground will be completed,” said officials.
22 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana’s fresh curbs to check virus spread||Amid a surge in COVID-19 cases in Haryana, State Home Minster Anil Vij on Friday announced that all offices and shops, except those providing essential services, will remain closed on every Saturday and Sunday till further orders. “All offices and shops except essential will remain closed in Haryana on every Saturday and Sunday due to #COVID-19,” Mr. Vij said in a tweet. Later, a government order by Haryana State Disaster Management Authority said that to contain further spread, all offices (both public and private) and shops, except those dealing with essential services, would remain closed on Saturday and Sunday throughout Haryana.  No transport ban An official spokesperson said that the order will have no effect on public and private transport and on exams being conducted by Haryana Public Service Commission and Haryana Staff Selection Commission.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Shaken, not slurred||‘Elango,’ I slump at my favourite bar, ‘make mine a pandemic-special. Whatever everyone’s on. And avoid the Corona beer, I’m sick already. Of the puns.’ He fixes me a screwdriver. I drink - and drink – and drink. There’s no high in this highball glass. ‘It’s all orange. No vodka,’ I object. ‘That’s the corporate special,’ he says. ‘It’s a ScrewedOver . It’s when you realise what your org’s been doing to you all along. The pointless travel, endless workhours. I can add some midnight oil, if you’ve gotten used to the taste.’ The woman to my left says, ‘Try this. A classic Manhaten . Vermouth. Ver-big-mouth. Too much talk, that’s the problem. The boss-man. The politico-man. The medico-man. The wifi-man. Promises to fix it all – and nothing!’ I drink to that. ‘Have a Meragharita ,’ the man to my right says. ‘It’s why we land up in the bar. When thegharbecomes office-school-gym-shop, you need the Tequila.’ ‘With love from the bar then,’ Elango pushes a copper mug at him. ‘Here’s a special. A Maskow Mule . It’s just like the Moscow Mule (the drink not the man), but it comes with a free mask and straw to drink out of. Cleverly designed so you can suck in but not breathe out the vodka fumes. It’s like being in Maskowian Vodka chamber.’ The man does a bottoms-up, on his glass and off his stool, and passes out for a happy hour. I have what he had. I’m feeling lighter and happier too. Happy Hour Prost! ‘There’s great demand for the Sangriazer . Sangria and sanitizer. No virus survives that!’ Elango suggests. But obviously! Who wants to waste alcohol on your shands – hands. I hug Elango. I hug the man on the floor. ‘Keep your social distance!’ warns the woman as I lurch towards her. ‘Make mine a Bloody Meanie , Elango,’ she shouts. ‘In honour of every idiot who doesn’t social-distance or wear a mask.’ She’s baying for blood, this one, but Elango keeps it to tomato juice. A new guy stumbles onto the stool next to me. He’s shivering, he says, ‘Am I shivering? Someone sneezed in the corner. I stepped on spit. I passed a woman with a mask under her nose. Have you got a thermometer, oximeter, portable oxygen cylinder?’ Elango makes his Mojittero with more-jito and more white rum. More happiness! Viruses and other invisibles are out of sight now. Punny! ‘ Punny Colada , Elango!’ I holler. ‘Let’s raise one to all Covidian puns.’ Bar closing time. Elango’s slipping me a Singasnore Sling . I’s slo sleepy now, I’s s’hardly sing, sling, slung. Elango sis spouring a gin and scherry brandy and slaying, ‘Sleep and you’ll wake up in 2021 to realise this whole scare has been a bad dream.’ Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy, pokes her nose into our perfect lives.
22 August 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- BJP SC brief||The BJP on Friday said it welcomed the decision of the Supreme Court, which declared sealing by the Monitoring Committee unjustifiable, in addition to asking the three municipal corporations to take necessary action for the de-sealing process. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said that 6,000 residential properties would get the benefit of de-sealing out of approximately 10,000 sealed properties after the decision of the Supreme Court. North East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari alleged the problem of sealing in Delhi had persisted for the last 10-12 years due to “arbitrariness.”
22 August 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- DU brief||Entrance tests to various postgraduate and a few undergraduate courses of Delhi University will be held between September 6 and September 11, said the National Testing Agency (NTA) on Thursday. Schedules for the same have been uploaded on the university’s website. Other details such as centres, timing, availability of admit cards and roll numbers will be intimated 15 days before the start of the exam, the NTA added.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||Gentlemen of Our Times: A dusty roll of canvases belonging to the late Indian Modernist Francis Newton Souza, travelled to Israel from New York 18 years ago. Now, in the midst of the coronavirus-induced lockdown, its journey has ended — at his grandson Solomon Souza’s Jerusalem studio. The 27-year-old painter, widely known for his street art and graffiti, has used them in a series of oil on canvas, as an homage to his grandfather. The series is a hat-tip to Francis’ 1955 paintings,Six Gentlemen of Our Times, which showed the busts of six men in suits, their faces weirdly contorted. “[My grandfather’s works show] disgust and anger at the greed of the business world. Now, these current times are making people act in certain ways...” says Solomon. Find out more @thehindu.com.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The Injiri edit||Homegrown textile brand Injiri is out with their latest line of saris, in a collection called Teej. Designer Chinar Farooqui has crafted the new range with mulberry silk and has woven the saris using two textiles:jamdaniandbandhini.Each version of the drape has vibrant, contrasting shades such as bottle green, red and black, among others, juxtaposed with geometric prints and traditionalbandhanitextiles. The blouses are designed in muted yellow, pink and off-white. From Rs. 18,000 onwards on injiri.co.in
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Do like Ollie||If your kids are tired of online school and staring at a sceen for entertainment, sign them up for Ollie’s Summer Camp, an initiative by ITC Hotels and Welcomhotel. Named after the Olive Ridley turtle, the week-long virtual camp includes interactive yoga classes, no-heat cooking, painting, home gardening, and more. Pre-registration not required; free videos are now available on @ITCHotels and @welcomhotel on Facebook and Instagram. The in-house Ollie’s Corner at properties across India will soon open their doors we are told.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Best foot forward||The CAI Store, a homegrown womens footwear brand, has collaborated with fashion influencer Aashna Shroff to bring out a capsule collection of strappy sandals and sliders featuring jute accents. From Rs. 1,400 to Rs. 2,999 on thecaistore.com. Noida-based brand Oceedee — known for their stylish stillettos — has launched a home edit of earth-toned sliders made of Napa leather keeping in mind the new normal. With subtle orange and white accents, the line of 12 designs are priced from Rs. 2,499 to Rs. 2,999 on oceedee.com.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||US Open: Even as coronavirus cases continue to soar across the country, the final Grand Slam of the year is slated to take place from August 31. Defending champions Rafael Nadal and Bianca Andreescu have dropped out citing safety concerns. However, the organisers are happy with the lineup, which includes Serena Williams in the women’s competition and seven out of the top 10 male players.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||All for art||American-born photographer Waswo X Waswo’s latest work, titled ‘We Are Always Working’, features his signature sepia photographs, hand painted by Udaipur-based photo hand colourist Rajesh Soni. At Gallery Latitude 28, New Delhi, from August 28 to September 28. Details: latitude28.com. This weekend, artistes dabbling in everything from spoken word, dance, theatre, music and magic join in ArtAlone Together. The day-long online festival takes place on August 23, 10 am to 11 pm. Rs. 200 on Zoom. Details: offbeatccu.com
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Forever summer||At Collage in Chennai, designer Rajesh Pratap Singh brings his latest line, A Fluorescent Summer. The white outfits feature neon thread details at the seams, polka and bird embroideries and woven stripes. Till August 31. From Rs. 7,250 onwards.28291443 Multi-designer lifestyle and luxury boutique Evoluzione has launched their e-commerce portal with clothing and accessories for men and women, as well as their Evo edits, and a section with gourmet foods coming up. On evoluzionestyle.com.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||History and music||The India International Centre in New Delhi is hosting a series of online exhibitions and talks. Till August 23, there is a virtual walkthrough of Rome, led by by Caterina Brazzi Castracane, historian and author. An exhibit of photos by Ajit Rana, titledDiverse Asia, features scenes from Bali, Hong Kong and more. On iicdelhi.nic.in. On NCPA’s Facebook page, music writer Narendra Kusnur hosts a live Jazz discussion every Friday at 5.30 pm. It aims to help both novice and seasoned fans develop a deeper understanding of the genre.
22 August 2020||August 22 2020 00:00 IST,||#LockdownWithWeekend||Earlier this week, comedian Vir Das sat down for a Zoom conversation withThe Hindu’s Vaishna Roy to talk about his new special,Inside Out. Compiled from over 30 virtual shows, he interacts with a global audience, finding common ground in the midst of a pandemic. Proceeds from the show — which will stream on his website for Rs. 30 per view — will be directed to four different charities. Das also spoke about the impact of political jokes, Kamala Harris, his minimalist approach to travel and more. On weekend.thehindu.com
