22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||8 Opposition MPs suspended from RS for ‘unruly behaviour’||The Rajya Sabha on Monday suspended eight Opposition MPs for their “unruly” behaviour with Deputy Chairman Harivansh on Sunday during the debate and voting on two farm sector Bills. Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu also rejected the Opposition’s no-confidence motion against the Deputy Chairman, saying the notice was not in proper format. However, the suspended MPs refused to leave the House and the day’s proceedings saw repeated disruptions and adjournments. After four adjournments, Vice-Chairman Bhubaneswar Kalita adjourned the House till 9 a.m. on Tuesday. Speaking on the events of Sunday after the completion of Zero Hour and special mentions, Mr. Naidu said the incidents were unfortunate and the image of Parliament had been “tarnished”. He said some members had entered the well of the House, thrown papers, broken microphones and abused Mr. Harivansh while the two Bills were being discussed. He added that the Deputy Chairman had been physically threatened. “It pained me a lot because what happened yesterday in the House is unfortunate, unacceptable and condemnable,” Mr. Naidu said, adding that the members had also violated COVID-19-related protocols. He said the Deputy Chairman would have called for voting, which was the demand of the protesting MPs, had the House been in order. Mr. Naidu also rejected the Opposition’s notice of no-confidence against Mr. Harivansh for not allowing a division of votes. Stating that he had received a letter from Leader of the Opposition, Ghulam Nabi Azad, and 46 other MPs, Mr. Naidu said the no-confidence notice was not in the proper format, and the 14 day-notice period was not followed as the session is set to end on October 1. The government then moved a motion for the suspension of eight MPs — Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen of the Trinamool Congress; Sanjay Singh of the Aam Aadmi Party, Congress’s Rajeev Satav, Syed Nazir Hussain and Ripun Bora; and K.K. Ragesh and Elamaram Kareem of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) — which was passed by voice vote. Later, addressing a press conference to put forth the government’s view on the developments in the Rajya Sabha, Union Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad said the suspended MPs had violated Rule 256 of the general rules of procedure by not leaving the House after being suspended.
22 September 2020||MADURAI,||Madurai district geared up to face Northeast Monsoon: Minister||Madurai district is gearing up to face any adverse impact of Northeast Monsoon to safeguard the people, according to Minister for Revenue R.B. Udhayakumar. Inspecting the state of preparedness of Fire and Rescue Services personnel to protect the people from cyclone and floods here on Monday, Mr. Udhayakumar said that Northeast Monsoon provided 60% water requirement for drinking and agricultural purposes of the State. The district administration would now have to double the number of rehabilitation centres to accommodate flood and cyclone-affected people as social distancing had to be maintained in the centres. All zonal-level officials from different departments were keeping a close vigil ahead of the onset of the monsoon, he added. Madurai district administration had identified 27 areas, including 15 spots in Madurai city, which were vulnerable to floods. Among them, nine spots – Munichalai, Anna Thoppu, Anna Nagar, Bibikulam, Tallakulam, Sellur, Vandiyur, Thathaneri, Iravathanallur – had been provided with retaining walls to avoid flooding, Collector T.G. Vinay said. A total of 417 first responders had been kept ready. Besides, 64 departmental staff had also been given training. A total of 117 teams – 33 early warning teams, 33 relief and rescue teams, 33 restoration teams and 18 shelter and food teams – were ready. Meanwhile, Fire and Rescue services personnel demonstrated various types of life buoys people could make with available household articles for use during floods. District Fire Officer S. Kalyanakumar said people could use pots, bubble top water cans, kerosene cans as life buoys. Besides, they could also use thermocol, plantain trees and cooking gas cylinders to keep themselves afloat in flood waters. The department also displayed its inflatable boats, emergency lighting system, generators and various cutting equipment used to rescue people. “We have three inflatable boats at Tallakulam, Madurai and Anupanadi stations. High power motor pumps were also available,” said Mr. Kalyanakumar.  The district administration will have to double the number of rehabilitation centres to accommodate people with social distancing R.B. Udhayakumar Minister for Revenue
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Boy falls into 100 ft well, rescued||A nine-year-old boy from Sedapalayam, near Tiruppur, had a miraculous escape on Monday after he accidentally fell into a 100-foot-open open well which had a venomous snake inside. Jovin, son of Xavier from Villamarathottam near Sedapalayam, was rescued by the Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Palladam fire station. According to the fire and rescue services, the well had a step at a dept of 85 feet where a peahen had laid eggs. Boys in the locality found that a snake, Russell’s viper, was trying to feed on the eggs and they stood on the edge of the well to watch it on Monday afternoon. Jovin accidentally fell into the well which had about 10 feet of water. The boy managed to climb on to one side of the step at 85 feet, away from the snake. Fire and rescue services personnel from Palladam station led by fire officer P. Suresh Kumar rushed to the spot. Leading fireman K. Thangavel climbed down the well using ropes and rescued the boy who had minor injuries. The snake was left inside the well.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. unveils 2.6% hike in wheat MSP amid protests||In the earliest announcement of minimum support prices in at least a decade, Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar told the Lok Sabha that the Cabinet had approved MSP hikes for six crops, including a 2.6% increase in the rate for wheat. Last year, MSP for wheat had seen a 4.6% increase. This comes amid vehement protests by farmers, who fear that the new agricultural marketing reforms would result in the phasing out of MSP and public procurement. The MSP is the rate at which the government purchases crops from farmers, and is based on a calculation of at least one and a half times the cost of production incurred by farmers.  The MSP for wheat will be increased by 2.6% or Rs. 50 per quintal to Rs. 1,975 per quintal for the upcoming rabi or winter crop season, according to the decision taken by the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs on Monday. The MSP rates were also hiked for five other winter crops — barley, gram, masur dal, safflower, and rapeseed and mustard. For more than a decade, MSPs for the rabi season have been announced in October or November, as winter planting begins.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,||One more COVID-19 testing facility likely at Chennai airport||The Airports Authority of India may soon set up one more COVID-19 testing facility at Chennai airport for arriving passengers. A leading private hospital’s facility may be installed on the airport premises later this week or early next week with staff for collecting samples of passengers who may want to get tested. For many months now, Health Department staff have been collecting samples from international passengers landing in the city. But now, any international passenger who arrives in Chennai will need to produce a certificate that indicates he tested negative for COVID-19 and this should have been done 96 hours before arrival. Officials of AAI said they have been making arrangements for this facility now. “The Health Department staff are anyway present to collect samples for any passenger who has to get tested on arrival,” an official said. “There has been a discussion to set up another testing facility too here. It could be useful when a passenger comes with a certificate that is old or happens to come without one. In some flights, there are a few passengers whose test report shows it has exceeded the 96-hour time limit and they can get it done here. We need an isolation room for such passengers and are in the process of setting it up now,” the official said. There are passengers who come to Chennai airport for transit and if they need a certificate and want to have themselves tested, it can be helpful, officials said. Right now, all international air passengers arriving here will need an e-pass. But airlines recently pointed out an issue, saying these passengers had international mobile phone numbers and hence don’t get the OTP. “So, we have suggested that instead of phone numbers, the option of e-mail ID may be given henceforth to do away with this issue,” he added.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Our final motive was to trigger violent riots’||The Delhi Police Special Cell in its chargesheet number 59  against Jamia Millia Islamia student Safoora Zargar has claimed that the Jamia Coordination Committee (JCC), of which she was the media coordinator, was involved in a larger conspiracy to trigger “violent riots, give anti-CAA protests a secular colour and portray it as a students’ movement”. Ms. Zargar’s ‘Disclosure Statements’ submitted in the court, however, has “refused to sign” written across all pages. In the alleged statement, it is written that Ms. Zargar was a part of several protests, including the one at Jamia against fee hike. It is also stated that she was not a part of the protest which broke out on December 15 last year, but started an indefinite protest. The document allegedly quotes Ms. Zargar as saying that a WhatsApp group was formed, deleted and again created because of “unwanted infiltration” and social media accounts on Instagram, Twitter and Facebook were also created. Ms. Zargar was three mon-ths pregnant when she was arrested in April on conspiracy charges over the north-east Delhi riots. Later, she was charged under Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. She is currently out on bail. ‘Riots plan’ “It was decided to mask the real conspirators & communal conspiracy and to give anti CAA protest a Secular Colour & to portray it as a Student Movement also involving women… We knew that due to inconvenience caused by Chakka Jams at different sites trouble would be caused to Hindu communities living in those areas who will definitely protest against it and it will, finally result in violent riots between Hindu and Muslims which was our final motive (sic),” Ms. Zargar was quoted as saying in the statement that she refused to sign. The document also claims that the JCC started “planning the riots in January-end” . “I deleted my whatsapp account and other data relating to JCC/protest/riots from my mobile phone which could prove my involvement in communal riots and also my links with other conspirators,” the document claims in Ms. Zargar’s “disclosure”. Another Jamia student Meeran Haider is quoted as saying that he was involved in the December 15 violence at the university and also set a bus ablaze. His alleged disclosure statement states that he knew Khalid Saifi, who was earlier with the Aam Aadmi Party, and that he and Mr. Saifi went for Punjab elections together.
22 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Police Seva app to provide 87 services||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday launched the AP Police Seva App, which will provide 87 services of the Police Department. The app is intended to bridge the gap between the police and the public by taking the services to their doorstep through technology. “The app with 12 modules on women’s safety, 15 modules on cyber safety and six on road safety besides other services is a step towards achieving citizen-friendly policing,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said after the launch at his camp office at Tadepalli. “This app will minimise visitors to stations and public should treat Police Department as a service wing than a force,” the Chief Minister said. Emergency help Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharita said public could register complaints, check FIR status and e-challans, file applications for passports, licences and no-objection certificates through the app. Further, it would also aid people during road accidents by alerting the nearest police station, providing information about and directions to the nearest hospitals, blood banks and pharmacies. Besides, updated information on missing persons and unidentified bodies would be disseminated, she said. “The launch of the app is a great achievement. The department is improving its services by leveraging technology. The achievement of 37 awards at national level shows the utilisation of technology,” Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang said. Additional DG (Law and Order) Ravi Shankar Ayyanar and DIG (Technical Services) G. Pala Raju were among those present. About 46,000 police personnel from about 1,000 locations across the State participated in the programme online.
22 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Session cut short over rising COVID-19 cases||With more than 60 legislators, including half a dozen Ministers, testing positive for COVID-19 and under quarantine, the monsoon session of the State legislature which was scheduled to end on September 30, will end on September 26. A meeting of the Business Advisory Committee, called by Speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri, decided to cut short the session from the scheduled eight days to six days, owing to the rising number of COVID-19 cases, particularly among legislators. The Opposition too agreed to the decision. How many Bills? With the State government proposing to table many Bills, including the controversial amendments related to the land reforms Act and APMC Act, the committee asked Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy, former Minister and Congress member Krishna Byre Gowda, and the Speaker to decide the number of Bills and subjects of the Bills to be tabled in the House. Speaking to presspersons before the commencement of the session, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said the session would be curtailed for a couple of days and some important Bills would be tabled and approval of the legislature would be sought. Parliament too had decided to curtail the session owing to the rising number of COVID-19 cases among MPs, the Chief minister pointed out. Sources said that session would be held from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. till Saturday.  Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan and Ministers Basavaraj Bommai, K Gopalaiah, Byrathi Basavaraj, Prabhu Chavan, Shashikala Jolle, and Shivaram Hebbar are under quarantine. A good number of MLAs of BJP, Congress, and JD (S) abstained from the first day of the session on Monday. However, senior-most member Shamanur Shivashankarappa attended the session.
22 September 2020||Pune,||At 32,007, State hits new peak of recoveries||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 recoveries exceeded its case surge for the fourth consecutive day as 32,007 patients were discharged on Monday. This is the highest single-day recovery figure till date. A relatively low surge of 15,738 new cases was reported, taking the total case tally to 12,24,380, of which 2,74,623 are active. The total recoveries till date has now risen to 9,16,318. As many as 344 new deaths pushed the total death toll to 33,015. However, the low spike has to be viewed in the context of just 40,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours as opposed to the daily average of nearly 90,000 samples. “Of a total of 59,12,258 laboratory samples tested thus far, 12,24,380 (20.71%) have returned positive. The State’s recovery rate has risen to 74.84%,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate is currently 2.7%. Pune reported more than 2,000 cases to take its total case tally to 2,63,715. The district reported 42 deaths to take its death toll to 5,306. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases in the district had now exceeded 43,000. Mumbai reported 1,837 cases to take its total case tally to 1,86,276, of which 26,858 are active. With 36 more fatalities, the city’s death toll has risen to 8,505. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported five deaths as its toll rose to 1,743. Nearly 600 new cases saw its tally cross the 62,000 mark. Navi Mumbai recorded six deaths and 369 cases to take its death toll to 819 and tally to 36,497. Nagpur district reported an alarming 72 new deaths, taking its total death toll to 1,748. A big jump of more than 1,000 cases took the district’s case tally to 65,331, of which 18,491 are active. In western Maharashtra, Kolhapur reported a surge of more than 900 cases and eight deaths as its total tally surged to 38,455.
22 September 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata calls for united protest by all parties||Calling for united protest by all Opposition parties against the two agriculture Bills, West Bengal Chief Minister on Monday announced a statewide protest. “We express full support to the protest in Delhi by different Opposition parties. From tomorrow we will launch a sustained protest in the State against the Bills. I appeal to everyone in the country to protest against this development,” she said at a press conference at the Secretariat. The Chief Minister announced that Trinamool Congress women’s wing will hold a protest on Tuesday in front of Gandhi Statue on Mayo Road, followed by protests by students on Wednesday at the same venue and the party’s farmer’s association on Thursday. “Today all Opposition parties have come together on the issue of farmers and tomorrow we will do so on the issue of workers,” she said. Ms Banerjee said that her party is willing to stand in the last row in the united fight against the Centre on issues relating to farmers and workers. “Why are all the powers of the State government being usurped by the Centre? The Centre is elected and the State governments are also elected,” she said. Accusing the Bharatiya Janata Party ( BJP) of running a “fascist government” at the Centre Ms. Banerjee said if anyone protests against the Centre then cases of riots are slapped against them. Referring to leaders like CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury and Swaraj party leader Yogendra Yadav who have recently been linked to Delhi riots Ms. Banerjee said that she might have differences with such parties but the Centre cannot file cases against leaders for opposing its policies. Ms. Banerjee also spoke to the suspended MPs from different political parties who were protesting in Parliament against the development. Earlier in the day describing the suspension of eight MPS in Rajya Sabha as unfortunate she said that the development was “reflective of this autocratic Govt’s mindset that doesn’t respect democratic norms & principles”. “We won’t bow down & we’ll fight this fascist Govt in Parliament & on the streets. #BJPKilledDemocracy,” she said on social media. Ms Banerjee also added that the MPs were fighting to protect the interest of farmers. Trinamool Congress youth wing president and MP Abhishek Banerjee said tha what happened in the Rajya Sabha “is an absolute contempt of Parliamentary proceedings” .
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Uncertainty over resumption of land registration in State continues||Uncertainty prevails over the time by which land registrations are likely to be resumed in the State. The officials of the Stamps and Registration department appeared clueless when asked about the possible date of resumption of registrations. “We have absolutely no idea as to when the services will be resumed,” a senior official said. The development comes in the light of holidays declared for all the registration and sub-registrar offices under the provisions of the Registration Act, 1908 which came into effect from September 8 and the government asserted that the holidays would continue till further notice. The orders were issued ahead of the passage of the new Revenue Acts in the State Legislature. The government said, in its orders, that there was need for bringing in processes and technical applications with respect to registration of property documents to provide quality services to the people and hence, the stoppage of registrations. Subsequently, the Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act, 2002 was passed by the Legislature with a major focus on deploying IT mechanisms to prevent human interface to the extent possible and thereby, avoid scope for corruption at different levels. Senior officials said since the new Acts passed recently clearly demarcated the roles of the sub-registrar and tahsildar at the grassroots level, operational guidelines should accordingly be issued for them to effectively administer the provisions of the Acts. “Tahsildars, for instance, have been designated as joint sub-registrars and they should have training,” a senior official told The Hindu.  Since tahsildars are empowered to register agricultural lands and properties, they should be aware of the processes that should be adopted for registering such lands. “Some amount of training will give them hands-on experience in handling these matters,” the official said. The Bill, the Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act, 2002, is reportedly sent to Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan after it was passed by the Legislature. The operational guidelines would be prepared once the Governor gives her assent to the legislation and this may take some time. Meanwhile, officials in the Stamps and Registration department said registrations came to a grinding halt after the announcement of holidays by the government. “The revenue on an average was around Rs. 25 crore last financial year. But, the impact of COVID coupled with the holidays brought the process to a grinding halt thereby affecting the revenue,” a senior official said. “This is not a loss, it is only a deferment as the parties will have to register their properties once the process starts,” he said.
22 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State sees lowest single-day spike in 2 months||The State reported 6,235 new coronavirus infections during the last 24 hours ending Monday morning, which is the lowest single-day tally in the last two months. Since July 28, the daily infection count was not less than 6,500 as the daily positivity rate varied between 11% and 17%. Also, the number of deaths reported in the past day was the lowest nearly in the past two months. As many as 51 deaths were reported, taking the toll to 5,410. With the new infections, the tally has increased to 6,31,749 even as 10,502 patients recovered during 24 hours, taking the recovery rate to 87.35%. In total, 5,51,821 patients have been recovered till date, taking the active cases to 74,518. The death rate remains at 0.86%.  Positivity rate As many as 56,569 samples were tested in 24 hours, with a positivity rate of 11.02%. Overall, 51,60,700 samples have been tested till date, with the positivity rate of 12.24%. Meanwhile, East Godavari continued to report more than 1,000 new cases, the biggest single-day spike among the districts. Three districts reported less than 200 cases in the last 24 hours. Krishna reported the highest number of deaths, despite witnessing the lowest number of single-day spike. The new cases and deaths of teh district are as follows: East Godavari (1262 and 4), West Godavari (962 and 4), Prakasam (841 and 2), Guntur (532 and 4), Anantapur (505 and 5), Nellore (401 and 4), Vizianagaram (395 and 0), Chittoor (362 and 7), Srikakulam (283 and 1), Kadapa (219 and 2), Kurnool (190 and 3), Visakhpatnam (150 and 6) and Krishna (133 and 9). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (87,769), West Godavari (58,708), Chittoor (55,215), Kurnool (54,219), Anantapur (53,342), Guntur (49,978), Nellore (48,128), Visakhapatnam (47,000), Prakasam (42,536), Kadapa (39,750), Srikakulam (36,227), Vizianagaram (31,819) and Krishna (24,163). Recovery rate Recovery rate in Kurnool and Anantapur has reached 94%, the highest among the districts. Both the districts have now less than 6% cases active. Nellore’s recovery rate stood at 93%, followed by Kadapa and Visakhapatnam (90%). Recovery rates of other districts are as follows: West Godavari (88%), Krishna (87%), Chittoor (86%), Guntur (86%), East Godavari (86%), Srikakulam (85%), Vizianagaram (78%) and Prakasam (73%).
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Fewer cases due to lower testing in TS||Just 55% of the usual number of COVID-19 tests were conducted in Telangana on Sunday leading to detection of fewer cases. From September 14, around 55,000 samples are being put to test per day. However, on Sunday, only 31,095 samples were put to test, of which only 1,302 were found to be positive. With this, the total number of cases stands at 1,72,608. Results of 1,205 samples are awaited. Nine more COVID-19 patients died taking the toll to 1,042. The new cases include 266 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, 102 from Karimnagar, 98 in Rangareddy, 92 in Siddipet, and 70 from Nalgonda. The total number of tests crossed 25 lakh on Sunday. A total of 25,19,315 samples have been put to test so far and 1,72,608 tested positive for the virus. Of those, 2,9636 are active cases while 1,41,930 have recovered. The recovery rate in the State is 82.22%, according to the media bulletin issued by the Health department. In the 45 government hospitals, 3,994 oxygen beds and 479 ICU beds were vacant on September 20. In case of the 223 private hospitals, 1,518 oxygen beds and 743 ICU beds were available.
22 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||NIA detains two for suspected terror links||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday detained two passengers who landed at the international airport here from Riyadh in Saudi Arabia. The NIA is yet to issue a formal press release on the identity of the detained persons or the reason for their custody. State police sources tentatively identified the detainees as Shuhaib of Pappinessery in Kannur. The other, they said, was Muhammad Gul Nawaz, a resident of Uttar Pradesh. Lookout notice The NIA had issued a lookout notice for Shuhaib as part of its investigation into the Bengaluru blast. Nawaz was reportedly wanted in connection with an anti-hawala probe. The NIA has taken them to Kochi for production before its special court there.
22 September 2020||Pune,||Dhangars demand quota||The Dhangar community staged a demonstration in Parbhani district in the Marathwada region on Monday, seeking fulfilment of their long-pending demand to be included in the Scheduled Tribes (ST) category. “While the community has staged rallies from time to time, the State government has not taken any concrete stance on including us in the ST category. Despite presenting Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray with a list of our 10 most important demands, no action has been forthcoming thus far,” said BJP MLC Gopichand Padalkar, a Dhangar leader. He said the community’s youth were seething with discontent and warned of intensifying the agitation if the government failed to respond to the community’s long-pending demands. Prakash Shendge, who heads the Maharashtra State Dhangar Welfare Association, said all political parties have used the community as a football to suit their votebank. The community, included in the Vimukta Jati and the Nomadic Tribes category, is seeking higher quota inclusion in the ST list. Dhangar leaders contend that while their community brethren, called ‘Dhangad’ in other parts of the country, are availing themselves of the ST benefits, those in Maharashtra are denied the same perks owing to a long-standing typographical error in the name. Meanwhile, a shutdown was observed in Solapur district on Monday as activists of the Sakal Maratha Samaj — an umbrella outfit of Maratha groups — staged protests across the district.
22 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Rs. 3,300-cr. Central loan for power sector in State||The Centre has announced a Rs. 3,300-crore loan to Andhra Pradesh as part of the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan for the implementation of various schemes pertaining to the power sector. Union Minister for Power and New & Renewable Energy R.K. Singh asked the officials to release the loan at the earliest, a release said on Monday. Mr. Singh consented to extend the credit facility to the State during the deliberations with Energy Secretary N. Srikant and AP-Genco Managing Director G. Sai Prasad in New Delhi on Monday. Direct Benefit Transfer Mr. Singh was all praise for Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for showing the way to other States by introducing the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) in the free power scheme.
22 September 2020||Mumbai,||‘No question of material in sealed cover in my court’||Justice Gautam Patel of the Bombay High Court refused to accept any document in a sealed envelope saying, “At least in my court there is no question — and there will never be a question — of anything being done in a sealed cover.” The High Court was hearing a bunch of 63 commercial arbitration petitions through videoconferencing on September 18. All petitioners claimed that Anugrah Stock And Broking Private Limited caused them extensive financial loss thro-ugh unauthorised trades. Advocate Rohan Cama, appearing for Anugrah, presented some additional material in a sealed cover, which was not made available to the court. Rejecting the sealed envelope, Justice Patel said, “Anything that I can see, all parties before me are entitled to see. This is the only method that I know of to ensure an open and transparent decision-making process. Those details will, therefore, need to be set on affidavit. I am also making it clear that it is not possible for any party to unilaterally decide to put material in a sealed cover.” ‘No gag orders’ He went on to say, “Mr. Cama expresses an apprehension that this material will find its way into the press. That is not my concern. The fourth estate will do its job and I will do mine. I decide matters before me on the basis of the papers filed in court, not newspapers... I cannot and will not curtail the rights of the free press at the instance of this or that party. There will be no gag orders here.”
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Farmers take to the streets||
22 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Mala Ghat road closed temporarily||The Udupi district administration on Monday ordered the temporary closure of the Mala-Kudremukh Ghat Road (National Highway 169) connecting Karkala with Sringeri and Kudremukh for two days. A temporary magisterial order issued by the Deputy Commissioner of Udupi said that the ghat section had been witnessing landslips and tree falls since Saturday night due to heavy rain. A vehicle was damaged in a tree fall on Sunday, he said. However, no one was injured, he added. Since it was raining and there were chances of fresh landslips and tree falls, the road would be closed till Tuesday midnight, he said. The ghat road is a crucial link between Chikkamagaluru district and Udupi-Dakshina Kannada districts.  The ghat section has been witnessing landslips and tree falls due to heavy rain
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||MPs launch indefinite sit-in||The eight Opposition Rajya Sabha members suspended on Monday began an indefinite sit-in within Parliament, even as 15 non-NDA parties appealed to President Ram Nath Kovind not to give assent to the two farm Bills passed in the Upper House on Sunday. The Opposition leaders will be marching to the President’s House on Tuesday.page 9
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Need of 21st century: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted on Monday that the farm sector reform Bills passed by Parliament were the need of 21st century India. He said that the minimum support price mechanism would continue. Attacking critics of the Bill, he said, “Some people are protesting against these reform Bills because control of farmers has slipped away from their hands.”page 9
22 September 2020||Mumbai,||Building collapse kills 13 in Bhiwandi||Thirteen persons, including seven minors, died after a portion of a three-storey building in Bhiwandi, near Mumbai, collapsed in the early hours of Monday. Many occupants were trapped in the debris, a Thane Municipal Corporation official said. Twenty people were rescued. Gilani Building at the Patel compound near Bhiwandi’s Dhamankar Naka collapsed around 3.15 a.m. on Monday. A witness said local residents rushed to the spot immediately and helped pull out some persons from the debris. A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) rushed to the spot for rescue related work. At the time of writing this report, the team had managed to rescue 20 residents, including a 4-year-old boy, Ubed Quraishi. NDRF Director General S. N. Pradhan said a canine squad had been used to search persons trapped in the debris. Thane district Guardian Minister Eknath Shinde announced Rs. 5 lakh aid to the families of the deceased. He said 102 “dangerous buildings” in the powerloom town had already been evacuated. The local civic body had served two notices on the owner and residents, declaring the structure dangerous and asking them to vacate the building. According to the police complaint filed against the building’s owner Sayyad Ahmad Gilani by the Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation (BNMC), the building housed 40 rooms. It was built 30-35 years ago. “A survey to identify structurally dangerous buildings was undertaken in January 2020. It was found that slab and column of the building were weakened while cracks were developed at the walls. On February 26, 2020, a notice was served to the owner and residents asking them to vacate the building. As they did not receive it, another notice asking them to vacate it within 24 hours was again served on April 23, 2020,” stated the police complaint.
22 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Flood losses pegged at over Rs. 9,400 crore||In the midst of floods, the State government has revised the estimate of losses caused due to rains and floods this monsoon to Rs. 9,440.8 crore. The amount is likely to go up as several areas were affected by floods last week.
22 September 2020||Bengaluru,||HC orders PIL plea to monitor cases against MPs||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday suo motu ordered initiation of a PIL petition to monitor the progress of trial of criminal cases pending before the special court set up in 2018 to exclusively deal with the cases related to former and present MPs, MLAs, and MLCs in the State.
22 September 2020||MYSURU/HASSAN,||Kodagu, parts of SK see no respite from rain||While rains receded in north and coastal Karnataka, there was no respite in Kodagu and parts of south interior Karnataka on Monday where life continued to be affected as low-lying areas were submerged. Kodagu, Shivamogga, Hassan and Chikkamagaluru received 74 mm of rainfall from September 14 to 20.
22 September 2020||Kolkata,||bengal cases||West Bengal on Monday recorded 3,165 new COVID-19 cases of infections and 62 deaths. While the case tally in the State rose to 2,28,302, the total number of fatalities increased to 4,421. The active cases increased to 24,898 and the discharge rate is 87.16%. Of the 62 deaths on Monday, Kolkata recorded 19 taking the number of deaths in the city to 1,600. North 24 Parganas accounted for seven deaths taking the toll in the district to 988. With seven more deaths in Howrah the toll in the district increased to 504. Kolkata recorded 528 new cases taking the total to 50,655. North 24 Parganas recorded 515 new cases taking the total case numbers to 45,707. Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee cancelled a scheduled trip to north Bengal. The north Bengal districts, which has seen a steady rise in cases, are likely to receive heavy rainfall over the next few days. Meanwhile, the number of passengers taking Kolkata Metro is steadily increasing with 47,000 people availing the services on Monday. Around 20,000 people had used the Metro last week when it resumed services.
22 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,||Three injured as tree falls on house||Three people were injured when an eucalyptus tree fell on top of a house in VC Colony in Udhagamandalam following heavy winds accompanied by rain on Monday. Personnel from fire and rescue services rescued them and rushed them to hospital where they are undergoing treatment.
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||Virus cases fall below 3K in Delhi as testing drops||As many as 2,548 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the Capital in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 2,49,259, said a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The number of tests, as per Monday’s bulle-tin, was 42% less than the average of the last three days.
22 September 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram schools reopen with few students||Schools in Gurugram opened to a lukewarm response from the students on Monday. The poor turnout was in sharp contrast to a survey by the Haryana Education Department claiming that 84% and 73% parents were willing to send their wards to government and private schools respectively.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Unchecked digital media a threat, Centre tells SC||An unchecked digital media is capable of spreading “venomous hatred, terror and violence”, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Monday. It can tarnish reputations of institutions and individuals. In fact, the digital media has already done all of this, the government told the court.
22 September 2020||Belagavi,||Discharged patients exceed fresh cases||The total number of patients discharged from designated COVID-19 hospitals and Covid Care Centres was higher than the number of fresh cases reported across North Karnataka on Monday. There were 1,235 discharged patients against 894 fresh cases in the region. Officials also recorded 21 COVID-19 related deaths. The highest number of discharged patients was in Belagavi where 441 persons were sent home. This was followed by Dharwad with 237, Haveri 180, Bagalkot 154 and Vijayapura 90. Uttara Kannada had the least number of discharged patients at 21. The highest number of fresh cases, 180, were reported in Uttara Kannada. It was followed by Belagavi with 171 cases, Dharwad 130, Bagalkot 123, Haveri 103 and Vijayapura with 102.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Class 10, 12 exams for private candidates begin||The supplementary board examinations for private candidates of Classes 10 and 12 began across Tamil Nadu on Monday with the language paper. The SSLC examination, which was scheduled to be held in March, was postponed owing to the COVID-19 pandemic.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. registers 5,344 fresh cases and 60 deaths||Tamil Nadu recorded 5,344 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 60 deaths on Monday. This took the State’s overall case count to 5,47,337 and the toll to 8,871. Chennai accounted for 982 cases, Coimbatore 648 and Salem 295. In the past 24 hours, 80,672 samples were tested, taking the total figure to 65,55,328.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Charging stations planned in six cities||The State government has informed the National Green Tribunal that it will set up electric vehicle charging stations in Chennai, Coimbatore, Tiruchi, Madurai, Salem and Tirunelveli, and also provide charging points for the vehicles at parking lots in government offices.
22 September 2020||Pune,||Modi govt. misleading farmers: Raju Shetti||Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana chief Raju Shetti on Monday said the Centre is misleading farmers on the benefits of contract farming by passing the contentious farm Bills in Parliament. He said, “The passing of the Bills is an attempt by the government to corporatise farming. The Centre is trying to shirk its responsibility of giving farmers the minimum support price by pushing it on corporate houses.”He said corporate firms are not bound to guarantee farmers fair prices for their produce.
22 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Red alert in Raigad||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday issued a red alert in Raigad, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Pune, Kolhapur and Satara districts in the State. While the rest of districts are likely to face heavy rainfall on Tuesday, Raigad might also witness thunderstorms. With a low pressure area forming over northwest Bay of Bengal, people residing near rivers and in areas prone to landslides in Raigad district have been advised to move to safer places and not venture outside on Tuesday. Raina Assainar
22 September 2020||Vijayawada,||21brief2||Classes were conducted for IX, X and Intermediate students as schools and educational institutions were reopened on Monday across the State, after remaining closed for six months in the wake of the pandemic. However, the attendance was poor on day one.
22 September 2020||Vijayawada,||21brief3||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has directed Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney and Director-General of Police Gautam Sawang to submit an Action Taken Report (ATR) to it within four weeks with regard to the complaint lodged by APCC president S. Sailajanath.
22 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Telangana testing level drops by almost half||Kerala’s routine daily testing for COVID-19 dropped by over 22,000 samples on Monday, while cases also dropped drastically to 2,910 from about 4,500 recorded during the past four days. The State had been registering between 4500-4,700 cases. The number of samples tested was 25,848. Patients currently being treated for COVID-19 in various hospitals stood at 39,285. Another 18 deaths were added to the State’s 553 cumulative fatalities. The figure had been steadily climbing for one-and-a-half months as the epidemic curve rose. Seven deaths were reported from Malappuram, four from Thiruvananthapuram and three each from Kannur and Palakkad. Thiruvananthapuram reported 533 cases, of which all except five were locally transmitted. The district also had the highest number of active cases at 7,147. Telangana’s testing level dropped by nearly half, and only 55% of the usual number of tests were conducted on Sunday. From September 14, around 55,000 samples were tested per day. On Sunday, only 31,095 samples were tested, of which 1,302 were positive. Nine more COVID-19 patients died. The 1,302 cases included 266 from Greater Hyderabad, 102 from Karimnagar, 98 in Rangareddy, 92 in Siddipet, and 70 from Nalgonda. Of the total, 29,636 were active cases, the media bulletin issued by the Health department said. Andhra Pradesh reported 6,235 new coronavirus infections on Monday, the lowest single-day tally in two months. Since July 28, the daily infection count was not less than 6,500 and the daily positivity rate varied between 11% and 17%. Also, the number of deaths reported in the past day was the lowest in nearly two months, at 51. The positivity rate for 56,569 more samples tested, was 11.02%.  There were 7,339 new cases in Karnataka on Monday. The State also reported 122 deaths. Of the 95,335 active cases, 809 patients were in intensive care units. The Health and Family Welfare department said 42,691 tests were conducted on Monday, with rapid antigen tests accounting for 11,154. Tamil Nadu recorded 5,344 new cases of COVID-19 and 60 deaths on Monday. This took the total case count to 5,47,337 and toll to 8,871. Of the fresh cases, 982 persons tested positive in Chennai, while Coimbatore’s daily count surged to 648. There were 295 cases in Salem, 219 cases in Chengalpattu and 212 in Tiruvallur, while Erode reported 201 cases. As of date, a total of 46,495 persons were under treatment in the State. In the last 24 hours, 80,672 samples were tested in the State. This took the total number of samples tested till date to 65,55,328.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||Suspended MPs stay put in protest||Eight Opposition Rajya Sabha members suspended by the House earlier on Monday have begun an indefinite sit-in protest within Parliament, even as 15 non-NDA parties have appealed to President Ram Nath Kovind not to give assent to the two farm Bills passed in the Upper House on Sunday. The Opposition leaders will be marching to the President’s House on Tuesday. In the resolution, the parties citing Article 111 and Article 90 of the Constitution, have argued that the passage of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 was flawed on many accounts. The joint resolution states that the issue raised by the Opposition parties strike at the very backbone of the Indian Republic — the community of farmers. “On an issue like this, majoritarian, insensitive and uncaring governance has no role and all stakeholders have to listen, absorb, imbibe and thereafter act with humility,” the resolution notes. It then goes on to raise, several question on the process followed to pass the bill, including denial of vote and not taking sense of the House before extending it beyond the scheduled time of 1 p.m. It also raised question on lack of quorum. ‘Rammed through’ It accused the government of “ramming legislation down the throat of disagreeing parliamentarians without allowing it to be tested freely and fairly by vote by division”. The signatories include the Congress, Trinamool Congress, DMK, Shiv Sena, TRS, Samajwadi Party, AAP, CPI(M), CPI, RJD and IUML. The Biju Janata Dal (BJD), which had asked for the Bills to be sent to a select committee for further scrutiny, has not signed the petition and neither has the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP). The Shiromani Akali Dal, which was initially planning to sign the memorandum, backed out at the last minute because it is still part of the NDA. Soon after Rajya Sabha was adjourned for the day a little after noon, members of the Opposition marched to the Gandhi Statue on the Parliament premises, carrying placards reading “Democracy murdered”, “We will fight for the farmers” and held a silent protest. Derek O’Brien (Trinamool Congress), Sanjay Singh (AAP), Rajeev Satav (Congress), Syed Naseer Hussain(Congress), Ripun Bora (Congress), K.K. Ragesh (CPI(M)), Elamaram Kareem (CPI(M)) and Dola Sen (TMC) remained seated in a night-long dharna. Lawmakers from all the parties that had signed the memorandum to the President were also present.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||India, China begin 6th round of talks||India cannot meet China half way in the disengagement process as India has to maintain troops for protection of territory, an official source said as the sixth round of Corps Commander-level talks on Monday morning aimed at ending the five month long standoff along the disputed boundary in Ladakh. The talks were still ongoing at the time of going to print. MEA presence The talks began around 9 a.m. on the Chinese side at Moldo, a defence source said. The Indian side is led by Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh, 14 Corps Commander who was accompanied by Lt. Gen. P.G.K. Menon, set to take over as the 14 Corps Commander in October. The Chinese side is led by Maj. Gen. Lin Liu, South Xinjiang military commander. For the first time, Naveen Srivastava, Joint Secretary handling East Asia division in the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), is part of the Indian delegation. Mr. Srivastava has been part of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) talks between India-China border affairs and holding talks with the Chinese side during the ongoing standoff. It cannot be mutual disengagement as China has moved inside Indian side at several locations, a second official explained on India’s stand of disengagement. China must also strictly follow the five-point consensus decided by the two foreign ministers in Moscow on September 10, the first official stated. The Indian delegation also includes two Major Generals, four Brigadiers and Inspector General Deepam Seth from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the official said. Time-bound withdrawal According to official sources, India’s agenda at the talks is that China must withdraw from all friction points with a timeline on de-induction of mechanised and motorised divisions. Also, withdrawal of Chinese forces from Depsang to Pangong Tso and free and unhindered access to Indian forces to all patrol points. India’s demand is also for strict adherence to laid down protocols on troop strength on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “Not just disengagement but also de-induction,” the official added. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said in Parliament last week that China has mobilised a large number of troops and armaments along the LAC as well as in the depth areas in violation of the 1993 and 1996 border agreements and there are several friction areas in Eastern Ladakh including Gogra, Kongka La and north and south banks of the Pangong Tso.
22 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Four die in rain-related incidents in Kerala||Four persons died in rain-related incidents in the State as central and northern districts recorded widespread rainfall through Sunday night and Monday. Two persons died in separate incidents in Kasaragod district. A 37-year-old resident of Madhur panchayat, Chandrasekhar, died after falling into a water-filled pit in a field on Sunday night. K. Sudhan, 50-year-old from Chervathur village, died after falling off a check-dam. In Thiruvananthapuram, a 61-year-old fisherman died after a fishing boat carrying six capsized in the coastal waters off Thumba. He was identified as Abraham Kora, hailing from Thumba. The other crew members escaped unhurt. The boat had reportedly set out to sea ignoring a 48-hour ban on fishing imposed by the district administration following a rough seas alert. The body of a man who had gone missing on Friday while bathing in a stream in Malappuram district was recovered on Monday. He was identified as Jitheesh, 28. Fire and Rescue Service personnel have also launched a search for another man who had reportedly jumped into the Bharathapuzha on Monday. Strong winds caused extensive damage at Varantharappilly, Karikkulam, Vettingappadam and Vadanthole in Thrissur. Spillway shutters of the Peechi and Chimmini dams were opened on Monday. The Peringalkuthu and Parambikkulam dams were opened on Sunday. In Palakkad, shutters of the Malampuzha and Pothundi dams were opened on Sunday and that of the Walayar dam on Monday morning. Three of the four shutters of the Banasura Sagar dam in Wayanad were lifted further on Monday. In Kannur, 23 families have been relocated following heavy rain. Five relief camps have been opened in the district. Crops in 354.936 hectares were damaged in Kasaragod. Nine rescued In Idukki district, nine people who fell off a country-made raft after it got caught in strong river currents were rescued by local people. The incident occurred at Kurathikudi. The raft was carrying five children, three women and a man. They fell into the water when they attempted to rescue one of the passengers who fell overboard. But all of them managed to hold on to the raft. The State had recorded heavy rainfall over the weekend under the influence of a low pressure area that formed in the Bay of Bengal. By Monday, the intensity of rainfall had lessened. Forecast Isolated heavy rainfall has been forecast in Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur, and Kasaragod on Tuesday. Rainfall is expected to taper off from Wednesday. Fishermen have been advised not to venture out to sea as strong winds are likely along the Kerala coast. The Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services has issued a high wave alert for the Kerala coast.
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||Congress to launch nationwide stir||The Congress has announced nationwide protests from September 24 against the Narendra Modi government’s three farm legislations aimed at liberalising the agriculture sector, after a meeting of the general secretaries and State in-charges called at the party headquarters on Monday. “Congress party is leading an agitation against the government for passing this anti-farmer, anti-people laws, throwing all the conventions and the rules of the Rajya Sabha aside,” senior party leader A.K. Antony told presspersons. The agitation will go on till November 14, which is also the birth anniversary of the first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru. Congress general secretary (organisation) K.C. Vengopal said that Monday’s was the first physical meeting of the party office-bearers during the COVID-19 pandemic and that it was called under directions from party president Sonia Gandhi and former party president Rahul Gandhi. “We will begin with press conferences in each State. All State units will deliver memorandum to their respective Governors after marching to the Raj Bhavans. October 2 will be marked as ‘Save Farmers and Farm Labourers Day’. On October 10, State-level Kisaan Sammelans will be held. We will also have a signature campaign that will end on November 14.” The government may be able muzzle the voice of MPs inside Parliament, but it can’t do so outside Parliament, Mr. Venugopal said. The party will also submit a memorandum against the farm laws to President Ram Nath Kovind. Congress leader Ahmed Patel pointed out that the two laws would not only impact the farmers, but also the beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act. “The public food distribution system, minimum support price and government’s food procurement system are all interrelated. This will have far-reaching consequences,” he said.
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||Amid Oppn. concerns, Lok Sabha passes FCRA Bill||The Lok Sabha passed the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2020, on Monday, even as the Opposition raised concerns that the legislation may be used to target political opponents and religious minorities. Minister of State for Home Nityanand Rai, who introduced the Bill on behalf of Union Home Minister Amit Shah, defended making Aadhaar a mandatory identification document for all the office-bearers of an NGO or an association seeking foreign donations. He said the 2018 Supreme Court order allowed the government to make a separate law in areas where Aadhaar card is required. “A law can be brought to make Aadhaar mandatory. Why some functionaries can hide their identity,” Mr. Rai asked. Salary cap Supriya Sule of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) attacked the government on limiting administrative expenses drawn from foreign donations to 20% as against the current 50%. “I request the Central government to stop bulldozing people who do good work. There may be a bad apple among the NGOs, but there are a hundred others doing good work,” Ms. Sule said. Gaurav Gogoi of the Congress said the Bill aimed at curbing political dissent and due to the 20% cap, many NGOs will shut shop and many people will become jobless. Mr. Rai justified the amendment to cut administrative expenses saying many NGOs use the donations for personal use. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, leader of the Congress party in the Lok Sabha, also said there is a political agenda behind the legislation. “On one hand the government invites foreign funds, but when such funds come for educational and charitable purposes, it is prevented... Your intention is to exempt PM CARES Fund from scrutiny,” Mr. Chowdhury said. Responding to the charge that the Bill would hit the funds being received by educational institutions run by the Christian community, Mr. Rai said the government is not against any religion. “This Bill is to ensure that the money being contributed from abroad is not misused”.
22 September 2020||Bengaluru,||E-Lok Adalat: 1.15 lakh cases settled||The first State-level mega e-Lok Adalat held on September 19 resulted in amicable settlement of a record 1.15 lakh cases on a single day leading to reduction of 5.5% of the total 19.69 lakh cases that were pending before the taluk, the district and the High Court in the State. A total of Rs. 330.3 crore has been awarded as compensation or settlement amount by resolving various motor vehicle accident claims cases, land acquisition cases, and other civil cases using videoconference as a mode for conducting the adalats. Meanwhile, a sum of Rs. 27.33 crore has been collected for the State exchequer by closing several minor criminal cases that involved payment of fine by the alleged violators.  ‘National record’ Justice Aravind Kumar, judge of the Karnataka High Court and executive chairperson of the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority, told mediapersons on Monday that the mega e-Lok Adalat created a national history as the it had decided the highest number of cases on a single day through virtual mode. Interestingly, Justice Kumar said that several compoundable criminal cases, including those related to failure to wear masks as per COVID-19 norms, were put to rest as violators decided to end the cases by paying penalty as against waiting for two to three years for disposal of the cases before regular courts. He appreciated the role of print and electronic media for giving publicity on conduct of the e-Lok Adalat while pointing out that around 30% of the total cases taken up for settlement were a result of publicity in the media as litigants approach the KSLSA based on media reports. The e-Lok Adalat, conducted by setting up 875 Benches across the districts, had brought to an amicable end not only to 1,07,617 litigations that were pending in various courts but has also settled 7,383 pre-litigation cases. As many as 1.07 lakh have been settled in the e-Lok Adalat of the 2.18 lakh cases, identified for settlement out of the total 16.67 lakh cases pending in taluk and district courts. Total compensation paid in these civil cases is around Rs. 325 crore. Similarly, the e-Lok Adalat conducted by the High Court resolved 925 cases of the 1,325 cases identified out of the total pending 3.01 lakh cases. Of the around 12,000 pre-litigation cases identified for settlement, 7,383 cases have been settled resulting in disbursement of around Rs. 12 crore as compensation. The highest number of around 16,000 pending cases were settled in e-Lok Adalat held in Bengaluru Urban district reducing 5.5% of the total pending cases of around 2.95 lakh.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,||‘T.N. economy may get to pre-COVID level soon’||There are indications that Tamil Nadu’s economy may return to the pre-COVID-19 level in a couple of months but the State may have to increase its spending to create more jobs at this time, former Reserve Bank of India Governor C. Rangarajan said on Monday. Mr. Rangarajan submitted a 250-page report of a high-level committee that he headed to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami at the Secretariat on Monday.  Assessment It assessed the immediate and medium-term impact of the pandemic on the State’s economy. The committee has made a number of recommendations to tackle the economic fallout of the pandemic and the lockdowns. It recommended extension of relief measures, like free rations, beyond November. Growth projection “We have assessed the economic conditions of the State. One of the assessments is that in 2020-21, the growth...will be 1.71%. Another assessment shows that there might be a fall,” he told journalists. Mr. Rangarajan said that there were indications from the GST collections, fuel taxes and electricity consumption that the State’s economy was now returning to the pre-COVID-19 levels. “Also, rural areas have an employment guarantee scheme. We have recommended to the State government to bring in such a scheme for the urban areas as well at this time. There is also a fund of Rs. 3,200 crore for the welfare of construction workers. This has to be spent immediately within the ambit of the guidelines that was issued by the Supreme Court. The government also has to spend another Rs. 10,000 crore so that jobs are generated,” he said. Spending With expenses on medical treatment and sanitation rising during the pandemic, the State government should look at spending another Rs. 5,000 crore for healthcare, he said. “This year, revenues will go down and expenses will go up. Fiscal deficit will be high,” he said. The assessment committee also suggested that “the State government through the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation increase the capital outlay to Rs. 1,000 crore so that it can provide long-term loans. The government may also set up an industrial township, industrial parks and provide one portion of these to small enterprises and also create a credit guarantee scheme for small enterprises.” T.N. CM’s reaction At a meeting with Mr. Rangarajan, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said that the government would consider the committee’s recommendations and take action to ensure the growth of Tamil Nadu. “We have assessed the economic conditions of the State. One of the assessments is that in 2020-21, the growth...will be 1.71%. Another assessment shows that there might be a fall,” he told journalists. Mr. Rangarajan said there were indications from the GST collections, fuel taxes and electricity consumption that the State’s economy was now returning to the pre-COVID-19 levels. “Also, rural areas have an employment guarantee scheme. We have recommended to the State government to bring in such a scheme for urban areas as well at this time. There is also a fund of Rs. 3,200 crore for the welfare of construction workers. This has to be spent immediately within the ambit of the guidelines issued by the Supreme Court. The government also has to spend another Rs. 10,000 crore so that jobs are generated,” he said. With expenses on medical treatment and sanitation rising during the pandemic, the State should look at spending another Rs. 5,000 crore for healthcare. “This year, revenues will go down and expenses will go up. Fiscal deficit will be high,” he said. The Committee also suggested that “the government through the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation increase the capital outlay to Rs. 1,000 crore so that it can provide long-term loans. The government may also set up an industrial township, industrial parks and provide one portion of these to small enterprises and also create a credit guarantee scheme for small enterprises.”  The committee has made a number of recommendations to tackle the economic fallout of the pandemic and the lockdowns.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Over 90,000 COVID-19 recoveries for third day||India has reported more than 90,000 COVID-19 recoveries for the third day in succession on Monday, with 93,356 patients having been discharged in the last 24 hours, the Union Health Ministry said, adding that 79% of the new recoveries are from 10 States/Union Territories. 19% of world total “The total recovered cases are close to 44 lakh [43,96,399] and India tops the global figure of total recoveries. It accounts for more than 19% of the world total,” said a release. According to the Health Ministry, a total of 86,961 new cases have been reported in the last 24 hours with Maharashtra contributing more than 20,000 cases and Andhra Pradesh more than 8,000. “As many as 1,130 deaths have been registered in the past 24 hours and 10 States/Union Territories account for 86% of the deaths. Maharashtra reported 455 deaths followed by Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh with 101 and 94 deaths, respectively,” said the Ministry. Meanwhile, the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association (FORDA) has written to the Health Ministry stating that medical postgraduate students will like to get a deferral for the deadline for thesis submission until the pandemic is under control. “This will relieve the PG students from unnecessary stress and anxiety,” the Federation said. FORDA has noted that postgraduate (M.D/M.S) qualification in any speciality includes research and scientific learning along with acquiring the necessary theoretical as well as practical skills. Lost time “These students devote considerable time to research a topic of interest and publish their findings in the form of thesis but because of the pandemic thesis-related works have suffered considerably due to lack of study subjects for the selected topics and regular COVID duties. The deadline for submission of thesis in most of the States is approaching and this is a matter of grave concern,” the federation said. “Data collection, analysis, compilation, drawing conclusion and printing the final thesis require a lot of time, hard work and attention to details, which is next to impossible in the existing scenario. PG students of multiple States are currently lagging behind in their research work and have also given representations regarding the same to their respective universities,” the federation added.
22 September 2020||KOCHI,||Navy’s first women airborne tacticians||Sub Lt. Kumudini Tyagi and Sub Lt. Riti Singh will be the first women airborne tacticians (combatants) in the country who will operate from the deck of warships. They passed the Indian Navy’s Observer Course from the Southern Naval Command, Kochi, on Monday. They will operate helicopters on board the ships, an area where men officers have reigned so far. Both are B.ech holders in computer science and were commissioned into the Navy in 2018. Women were hitherto restricted to operating fixed-wing aircraft that operate from land. Sub Lt. Singh, who hails from Hyderabad, is the third generation member from her family to serve the armed forces. Her grandfather was in the Army and her father in the Navy. “It was my dream to don the white uniform. Personnel of the naval aviation wing are the eyes and ears of the Navy,” she said. For Sub Lt. Tyagi hails from Ghaziabad. “I was motivated to join the naval aviation wing on hearing of the death of woman officer Lt. Kiran Shekhawat in 2015 in an accident involving a naval aircraft. That Navy personnel work on the land, air and water was a challenge I wanted to take up,” she said. Two other officers Two other women officers, Sub Lt. Afnan Sheikh and Sub Lt. Kreeshma R., too passed out. They would operate fixed-wing aircraft of the Navy, a domain where women already operate. The four women officers were part of a batch of 20 Navy and Coast Guard personnel who passed out on Monday. Earlier, Rear Admiral Antony George, Chief Staff Officer, Training, of the Southern Naval Command was the chief guest at the ‘Award of Wings’ to the officers’ Observer Course.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC quashes NLSIU’s law aptitude test||The Supreme Court on Monday quashed the admission of students under the National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT) 2020 conducted by the National Law School India University (NLSIU) in Bengaluru amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The court had allowed the conduct of the NLAT but had ordered the university to freeze declaration of results. Over 23,000 of the scheduled 78,000 aspirants had taken the online exam that was held on September 12 together with a re-test two days later amid reports of widespread malpractices and leakage of questions. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan quashed the notice and press release issued by the NLSIU on the conduct of the NLAT on September 3 and 4, respectively. All students will now appear for the Common Law Aptitude Test (CLAT) scheduled for September 28 for admissions to 22 premier national law schools, including NLSIU, across the country. “Thousands of the students who aspire to have a career in law look forward to the CLAT as a prestigious test and the CLAT has proved its usefulness and utility in this country. Students look forward to the consortium for providing correct and fair assessment of the merits,” the court observed. The consortium will hold CLAT-2020, “taking all precautions and care for health of the students after following the Standard Operating Procedures [SOPs] of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Ministry of Human Resource Development.” The CLAT results should be declared at the earliest so that the courses can start by mid-October. ‘A victory’ “This is a victory for over 70,000 law aspirants across the country. With this judgment, disadvantaged students who could not afford the technical requirements for the NLAT will get a fair chance through CLAT marks for a seat in the NLSIU,” advocate Vipin Nair, who appeared for the petitioner, former NLSIU Vice-Chancellor R. Venkat Rao, reacted to the judgment. The consortium has been asked to restore NLSIU Vice-Chancellor Sudhir Krishnaswamy as its secretary-treasurer “keeping in mind that the scheduled exam of CLAT-2020 on September 28 is not hampered in any manner.” The court did not intervene in the allegations of malpractices that allegedly occurred during the NLAT exam. It restrained itself to saying that the NLSIU should have “taken all necessary precautions to avoid any malpractices and cheating in the examination.” It noted that the varsity has already filed a complaint with the cybercell of the police. It said when the CLAT could not be held online, the NLSIU had no business holding the NLAT that way as it could not to have ensured transparency, fairness and integrity. Varsity autonomy The court dismissed the NLSIU’s submission that the by-laws of the consortium were only in the nature of a contract and there was no need to adhere to them if they affected the university’s autonomy. “Every institution maintains its autonomy as per the statute governing, the obligation to maintain core value of the Consortium in no manner affects the autonomy of the member university. The core values of the Consortium aim to enhance the prestige and content of legal education,” the court held. It declared that the by-laws of the consortium are binding on its members. “The by-laws under which members are required to admit the students in their law universities on the basis of the CLAT for UG and PG law courses are binding on the members. By-laws, although, are non-statutory but they have been framed with the aim and object to be followed by its members,” the court held. The court refused the argument by the NLSIU that it conducted the NLAT to prevent a “zero year.” “Universities are not powerless to modify their academic calendar looking to the pandemic. The academic year 2020-21 is not a normal year in which universities are expected to carry on their teaching and other activities in normal mode and manner. The NLSIU could have very well found out ways and means to start the academic undergraduate law course even if it starts in mid-October 2020 after conduct of the CLAT,” the verdict reasoned. The court said the NLSIU should have consulted its academic council before issuing the NLAT exam notification.
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||Data on cause of farmer suicides untenable: govt.||The Centre informed the Rajya Sabha on Monday that due to some limitations, collating national data on the causes of farmers’ suicides was untenable. Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy said in a written reply in Rajya Sabha that as informed by the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), many State governments and Union Territories had reported “nil” data on suicides by farmers, cultivators and agricultural labourers after several validations, “even while reporting suicides in other professions”.  ‘Due to limitation’ “Due to this limitation, national data on causes of suicide in the farming sector was untenable and not published separately,” Mr. Reddy said. Congress member P.L. Punia had sought to know whether the NCRB has done away with enlisting causes for farmers’ suicides and if so, what were the reasons. The NCRB recently published the annual ‘Accidental Deaths and Suicides’ report for 2019, where it said that 10,281 farmers committed suicide in the year 2019.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||A woman to put Rafale through its paces||A woman fighter pilot is expected to soon join the No. 17 Golden Arrows squadron of the Indian Air Force (IAF) flying the recently inducted Rafale fighter jets, a defence source said on Monday. The officer has been trained on the MiG-21 fighters and is currently undergoing conversion training to fly the Rafale, it has been learnt. Last week, the government informed Parliament that there were 10 women officer fighter pilots in the Indian Air Force since the stream was opened up for women in 2016. Early this month, the IAF formally inducted five Rafale fighter jets into service at Ambala. A second batch of four Rafales are likely to arrive in India in October. Amid ongoing tensions on the disputed boundary in Ladakh, the Rafale jets, which arrived in India at the end of July and were inducted on September 10, have been flying familiarisation sorties over Leh. They have not been deployed in Leh but are flying familiarisation sorties over Leh as they are doing in other areas, a second defence source said. ‘Fully operational’ At the Rafale jets’ induction ceremony, the Chief of Air Staff, Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria, had said that the ceremony also marked their “full operational induction” and that “they are good to go and deliver”. The Rafales have also undergone intense combat training with other aircraft, and also firing of advanced weaponry since their arrival, he had stated.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Unchecked digital media a threat: Centre||An unchecked digital media is capable of spreading “venomous hatred,” terror and violence, the Centre told the Supreme Court on Monday. It can tarnish reputations of institutions and individuals. In fact, the digital media has already done all of this, the government told the court. The court should first train its attention on digital media, it said. ‘Wide reach’ “It is the need of the hour that the court start first with ‘web-based digital media’ which includes ‘web magazines’ and ‘web-based news channels’ and ‘web-based newspapers’. They not only have a very wide reach but are completely uncontrolled,” the government’s 89-page affidavit said. A three-judge Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud had asked the government for suggestions to improve the self-regulatory mechanism for electronic media. The government replied, asking the court to instead focus on digital media rather than mainstream ones. The court’s move had come in the aftermath of an injunction ordered on Sudarshan TV’s ‘Bindas Bol’ programme. This show had accused Muslims of “infiltrating” the civil services with the help of funding from terror-linked organisations abroad. On Monday, Justice Chandrachud said the court was “very concerned about the balance between free speech in the media and the right of dignity of a community.” The judge asked the lawyers to lead arguments on whether the court could order a blanket injunction of a programme or should restrict itself to only those portions which hurt a community. ‘Chilling effect’ Advocate Saideepak J., appearing for an intervenor, said the court should spare a thought about the “chilling effect” on free speech before it flexes its powers of injunction. Advocate Vishnu Shankar Jain, for Sudarshan TV, urged the court to lift the injunction on Bindas Bol. He said the show, in his perception, met the requirements of the Programme Code under the Cable TV Act and required no change of tone in its next episodes.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHi,||Pak. action on 26/11 under the scanner||As a plenary session of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) prepares to make a final decision on Pakistan’s “grey list” status at a meeting from October 21 to 23, Islamabad’s actions against 26/11 attackers will be under the scanner as part of a 27-point action list it has been handed to complete, sources said. Last week, a meeting of the Asia Pacific Joint Group (APJG) of the FATF reviewed actions taken by Islamabad against terror-financing and money laundering. The group, comprising the U.S., U.K, France, Germany, China, India, Australia, New Zealand and Japan, last year recommended that Pakistan would stay on the grey list or “jurisdiction under increased monitoring” as the grey list is known. The sources said while Pakistan had made “some progress” on the 27-point action plan, it is “likely” to be retained on the grey list. However, the sources added that Pakistan was unlikely to be downgraded to a black list at present as had been speculated, due to several countries including China, “who tried their best to support Pakistan’s poor performance” at the APJG. Beijing’s backing On Thursday, China’s outgoing Ambassador to Pakistan Yao Jing said the October meeting of the FATF would “go well” for Pakistan, according to a readout of his farewell call on Pakistan’s Economic Adviser Abdul Hafeez Shaikh in Islamabad. Subsequently on Sunday, Pakistan’s Minister for Industries & Production Hammad Azhar said he “hopes” Pakistan will be taken off the grey list soon, and that dealing with the FATF’s requirements and boosting tax revenues are the government’s two biggest economic priorities at present. Islamabad has also been very vocal on the need to work on FATF requirements, where it had been cleared on 14 of 27 points at last count, and has pushed a slew of FATF-related bills through its Parliament, tightened strictures on designated terrorists like Zaki Ur Rehman Lakhvi and Dawood Ibrahim, while maintaining it is abiding by UNSC sanctions against groups like the LeT, JeM, Al Qaeda, ISIS and others. A government official dismissed the actions, pointing out that ahead of each FATF review, Pakistan’s security agencies carry out arrests, seizures and display action against terrorists to evade black-listing. The official cited a case in which an anti-terrorism court in Pakistan convicted three key figures linked to the Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) and the associated Al-Hamd Trust on August 28. However, the court let off Abdul Rahman Makki — second-in-command of the LeT’s political arm Jamaat-ud Dawah (JuD) — with only 18 months of jail and a small fine, purportedly stating that he was the general secretary and, therefore, did not have any decision-making powers.  Another official pointed out that despite having received evidence of his role in the 26/11 Mumbai attacks, the Pakistani establishment had not taken any strong action against Sajid Mir. LeT operations chief Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi, who was granted bail about five years ago, is untraceable, along with his son-in-law Yusuf Muzammil, who was also involved in the Mumbai attacks. “LeT chief Hafiz Saeed, who has already been convicted and sentenced to 11 years of jail, is not even behind bars. According to Pakistani agencies, his whereabouts are not known,” said the official.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Jeweller robbed||A jewellery shop was looted at gunpoint and the miscreants made away with 3.5 kg of gold ornaments worth nearly Rs. 1.5 crore on Sunday night. Two youth, both wearing masks and one of them was also wearing a helmet, walked into Vinod Bankers and Jewellers near BEL Circle, Jalahalli on Outer Ring Road on Sunday night and asked for a gold chain. They later expressed interest in buying a gold ring too. When the unsuspecting jeweller Rahul Jain went to the safe to get the rings, the duo followed him brandishing a pistol. They threatened to kill him if he screamed for help. “They bound his hands and plastered his mouth, snatched the key of the safe and looted nearly 3.5 kg of gold ornaments, before fleeing. It took nearly an hour for Rahul Jain to free himself and call the police,” said a police officer. Dharmender Kumar Meena, DCP (North), said that Rahul Jain has identified one of the two customers. He had come to the shop on August 20, ordered a gold chain and paid an advance of Rs. 1,000. When he walked in on Sunday, he claimed to have come to take delivery of the gold chain. “We have the name, but it will mostly be fake,” said DCP Meena. Police have recovered footage from CCTV cameras in the shop for both August 20 and Sunday, which has given them leads to work on. “The robbery seems well planned. The August 20 visit seems to be purely for a recce,” he added.
22 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Bhadrachalam police step up vigil on border||The Bhadrachalam sub-divisional police have tightened vigil along the volatile inter-State border with Chhattisgarh to pre-empt any trouble during the CPI (Maoist) Foundation Week, which began on Monday. In coordination with CRPF personnel, the police have ramped up anti-Maoist operations in the far flung tribal pockets of Charla and Dummugudem mandals to prevent attempts, if any, by the ultras to unleash violence targeting roads and vital installations coinciding with the Maoist Foundation Week. Bomb disposal squads have been deployed in Charla to carry out road checking operations in the forest fringe areas located near the strife-ridden parts of south Bastar division of Chhattisgarh. Vigil has been mounted in the areas surrounding the Taliperu reservoir in Charla mandal in the wake of blasting of a portion of the Pedamidisileru-Tippapuram road by the rebels on September 7. The police unearthed three landmines allegedly planted by the ultras abutting the Kaliveru-Tegada main road in the same mandal on Saturday. Three Maoists were killed in two separate "encounters" in Gundala and Charla mandals earlier this month.
22 September 2020||Patna,||Reforms are the road to 21st century India: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the farm reform Bills passed in Parliament were “historic” and the road to 21st century India. Mr. Modi was inaugurating and laying the foundation for nine road projects and high-speed optical fiber Internet services worth several thousand crores through videoconference in Bihar. Earlier agriculture laws had chained farmers and middlemen were taking advantage of the archaic laws, he said. But now, through the reforms, new freedom had been given to the farmers who would have more options to sell their produce. “They can sell their produce either in the local mandis [markets] or beyond,” said Mr. Modi. “Farmers are selling potatoes and their mustard produce at 20-25% higher price in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and other States,” he said. “Some people are protesting against these reform Bills because control of farmers has slipped away from their hands,” he said. “These people [those opposing the farm Bills] are also misleading farmers on MSP [minimum support price]... But I want to make it clear that MSP will continue to function like earlier... On MSP our government has done that much of work which has not been done earlier,” said Mr. Modi. “These are the same people who kept sitting for years under the recommendations of the Swaminathan committee on MSP.” This was Mr. Modi’s fifth foundation-laying programme in poll-bound Bihar. On September 23, he is scheduled to address the sixth and last such function.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Govt. announces 2.6% hike in wheat MSP||For more than a decade, MSPs for the rabi season have been announced in October or November, as winter planting begins. However, this year’s MSP announcement comes just a day after Parliament cleared two controversial Bills, which will facilitate contract farming and the sale of agricultural produce outside the notified Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) mandis where most procurement takes place. “While the Congress is telling the entire country that the MSP and APMC will be removed after the passing of the agricultural reform Bills, this Cabinet decision is a proof from the government that they will remain,” Mr. Tomar told Lok Sabha. Opposition parties and a range of farmers groups, including those affiliated to the RSS, have warned that the new legislation will result in a dilution of the MSP regime and government procurement. They are demanding that the government include a legal guarantee for MSP to ensure that neither public nor private buyers pay less than MSP rates, whether sales take place within or outside mandis. In actual fact, only a small percentage of farmers are able to sell to government at MSP rates, although Mr. Tomar claimed that procurement has shot up in both quantity and value terms under the BJP government.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Building collapse kills 13 in Bhiwandi||Gilani Building at the Patel compound near Bhiwandi’s Dhamankar Naka collapsed around 3.15 a.m. on Monday. A witness said local residents rushed to the spot immediately and helped pull out some persons from the debris. A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) rushed to the spot for rescue related work. At the time of writing this report, the team had managed to rescue 20 residents, including a 4-year-old boy Ubed Quraishi. Thane district Guardian Minister Eknath Shinde announced Rs. 5 lakh aid to the families of the deceased. He said 102 “dangerous buildings” in the powerloom town had already been evacuated. The local civic body had served two notices on the owner and residents, declaring the structure dangerous and asking them to vacate the building. According to the police complaint filed against the building’s owner Sayyad Ahmad Gilani by the Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation, the building housed 40 rooms. “A survey to identify structurally dangerous buildings was undertaken in January 2020... On February 26, 2020, a notice was served to the owner and residents asking them to vacate the building. As they did not receive it, another notice asking them to vacate it within 24 hours was again served on April 23, 2020,” stated the police complaint. Two civic officials have been suspended in connection with the collapse and a case has been registered against the building owner, an official said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed anguish over the loss of lives. “Saddened by the building collapse in Bhiwandi, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying for a quick recovery of those injured. Rescue operations are underway and all possible assistance is being provided to the affected,” he tweeted. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray too expressed anguish over the incident and directed the authorities for efficient rescue work. Power supply to the locality was snapped as a precautionary measure, an official said, adding that the injured had been admitted to local hospitals. ( Inputs from PTI )
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||8 MPs suspended from RS for ‘unruly behaviour’||The motion moved by Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs V. Muraleedharan sought to suspend the eight MPs for “unruly behaviour especially with the Chair and their gross disorderly conduct in violation of the rules and etiquette of Rajya Sabha thereby bringing disrepute to this august house and causing insult to the Office of the Hon’ble Deputy Chairman” for one week or the remainder of the current part of the session. Speaking to reporters, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the Opposition MPs who continued to stay in the House after being suspended “do not have trust in institutions”. In his press conference, Mr. Ravi Shankar Prasad responded to the Opposition’s claim that the Deputy Chairman did not allow voting on their resolutions to the send the two farm Bills to a select committee on Sunday, and said Mr. Harivansh had asked the MPs to go back to their seats so that a division can take place “13 times”. Instead, he said, the conduct of the MPs was “shameful” as they broke mics and tore the rule book. While the Opposition claimed the ruling party did not have the numbers, Mr. Prasad said: “We have a clear majority in the Rajya Sabha. Out of the members present, 110 were clearly supporting the Bills and only 72 were opposing”. He said the people of Bihar, where Mr. Harivansh is elected from, would “give a reply” to the Opposition parties, particularly the Congress and RJD, for the way he was treated in the House. Mr. Prasad’s statement comes at a time that the Bihar Assembly elections are around the corner. “Opposition parties will have to answer in Bihar...We won't make this a political issue,” he said.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Revised ‘domestic’ tender for 44 Vande Bharat trains issued||The Railways on Monday floated a revised tender for 44 Vande Bharat train sets, increasing the requirement for indigenous content to 75%. The Railways said this was now a domestic tender and only companies registered in India could apply and would have to quote in Indian rupee. The earlier “global tender”, for which CRRC Pioneer Electric, in which China’s CRRC is a joint partner, was among the six bidders, was cancelled last month to “maintain transparency”.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Balance right to protest with right to movement’||The Supreme Court on Monday said the right to protest needs to be balanced with the right to movement of the public. A Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul was hearing a petition filed over seven months ago to shift the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protestors of Shaheen Bagh, most of them mothers and their children, to an alternative site as they had been “blocking” public movement and causing traffic snarls. The protestors were later removed by the police on March 24 with the outbreak of the pandemic and the resultant lockdown. The protestors had at the time written to Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde against the “forcible and vindictive removal of the protest site” by the Delhi Police. The letter did not come up for discussion during the hearing. Instead, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the right to protest, like any other right, was not “absolute”. Justice Kaul said in a parliamentary democracy the avenue of debate was first the Parliament. In addition, the peaceful protests can be held. The court has reserved for orders on the point of balancing right to protest with right to public movement. The petitioner, advocate Amit Sahni, said though the reason for the petition — the blockage of the main road by Shaheen Bagh protestors — has become infructuous, the court should pass specific orders that “in future, protests should not hinder public movement”.
22 September 2020||Srinagar,||Soldier injured in encounter in Budgam||One soldier was injured in an ongoing encounter in central Kashmir’s Budgam on Monday evening. Militants carried out two attacks on security forces in Srinagar and Anantnag districts but no loss of life was reported. An official said a soldier was injured in Budgam’s Charar-i-Sharif in a gunfight, which erupted immediately after the security forces cordoned off a residential area where suspected militants were hiding. “The injured soldier was shifted to the Army 92 Base Hospital. The operation to flush out the militants is on,” an official said.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Collecting data on migrant workers from States: govt.||A week after the Labour and Employment Ministry informed the Lok Sabha that there was no data available of the number of migrant workers who died during the lockdown, the Ministry told the Rajya Sabha on Monday that it was collecting the data from States and Union Territories. Labour Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar had informed Lok Sabha that 1.04 crore migrant workers had returned to their home States during the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown. The government had faced flak over the lack of data on the number of deaths and job losses of migrant workers during the lockdown. In response to a question in the Rajya Sabha about the number of migrant workers who travelled on foot and lost their lives, the number of road accidents leading to deaths of the migrant workers going home and relief measures for the victims’ families, Mr. Gangwar said in a written reply: “Data is being collected from the States/UTs”. He also provided with the latest data of the number of migrant workers who had returned to their States, revising it to 1.06 crore.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Samruddhi’ scheme launched||The Department of Social Welfare launched Samruddhi, a scheme that focuses on entrepreneurship model where applicants will be entitled to set up a retail outlet after training process that will be provided by the franchiser. With over 170 operational outlets, Samruddhi is making its way to becoming a flagship initiative, said a release. With a seed fund of Rs. 10 lakh, the department provides the complete business set up and support enabling the beneficiary to take off without any financial hurdles. Arogya Organic, an outlet of one of the beneficiaries, was launched by Parashuram Shinnalkar, MD, Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Development Corporation.
22 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Committees in place for temple||A five-member administrative committee and a three-member advisory committee for the Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple are in place as per a Supreme Court directive. The advisory committee is headed by former High Court judge N. Krishnan Nair and has former Additional Chief Secretary T. Balakrishnan and Chartered Accountant Lekshmi Narayan from Bengalaru as members. The administrative panel is headed by District Judge K. Babu and has P.K. Madhavan Nair as State representative, Avittom Thirunal Aditya Varma as Kowdiar Palace representative, and Tharananallur Parameswaran Namboodiripad, the temple Tantri, as member.
22 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Church row remains unresolved||An attempt by the State government to mediate between the Orthodox and Jacobite factions of the Malankara Church to end their protracted and often aggressive feud over the administration of parishes in Kerala seemed to have made little headway at a meeting called by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday to cobble together a peace formula acceptable to both sides. The Supreme Court (SC) on July 3, 2017 ordered that the disputed churches be governed by the 1934 constitution of the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church. The Jacobite faction has since resisted the takeover of the churches where both factions claim stakes by the various district administrations to be handed over to the Orthodox faction, resulting in law andorder issues in several parishes and deepening the rift between the groups. The government sometime back formed a Cabinet subcommittee headed by Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan to resolve or at least mitigate the conflict between the two. However, the measures appeared to be merely a stopgap given the development on Monday. Separate meeting Mr. Vijayan met the Jacobite delegation first. The delegation reportedly requested the government to promulgate an Ordinance to circumvent the SC order. Church trustee C.K. Shajee and secretary Peter K. Elias, who were part of the Jacobite delegation, expressed satisfaction with the “assurance” given to them by the government. The Chief Minister met the Orthodox faction second. Its spokesperson said the Orthodox delegation requested the government to abide by the SC order and pointed out that the ruling forbade the government from resorting to executive or legislative action to circumvent the judgment. The Orthodox faction reminded the government of its constitutional obligation to implement the SC order. It also assured the Chief Minister that no parishioner would face expulsion or discrimination in the Church in the name of the SC order. The administration was yet to make an official statement on the outcome of the meeting with either of the factions. An official said the government was fixed on a peaceful solution acceptable to both parties. The administration has kept the door open for more talks, he said. Metropolitans Thomas Mar Themotheos, Kuriakose Mar Theophilos, and Geevarghese Mar Kurilos represented the Jacobite side. Gabriel Mar Gregorios, Thomas Mar Athanasius, and Yuhanon Mar Diascoros represented the Orthodox faction.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Parliament passes Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code Bill||The Lok Sabha on Monday passed the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, which provides that insolvency proceedings against defaulting companies will not be initiated for at least six months starting from March 25. It was earlier passed by the Rajya Sabha. Responding to the issues raised by the members during the discussion, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said the Code was not a recovery law. The creditors, including MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises), had several other options to recover their claims. The proposed amendments, brought in the form of an Ordinance on June 5, suspended the application of three provisions to prevent any company, stressed due to the COVID-19 situation, from being pushed into insolvency proceedings. A proviso for further extension of six months has also been given. The initial six-month period would end on September 24, she said. Comparing the performance, Ms. Sitharaman said the recovery rate under the Code was 42.5%, while under Lok Adalat (2018-19), the figure was 5.3%; DRT proceedings had led to 3.5% recovery and under the SARFAESI Act, 14.5% of the dues were recovered. Initiating the debate, Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhary said the proposed amendments had a lot of grey areas, leaving loopholes for large debtors. The worst casualty would be the MSME sector, which employed 1.2 million people and catered to large corporates.
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||Farmers groups call for Bharat Bandh||RSS-affiliated farmers groups are still demanding amendments to provide a legal guarantee to minimum support prices (MSP), although they will not join in plans for nationwide protests against the new agriculture reform Bills. A wide coalition of farmers groups from across the country have called for a mass protest and Bharat bandh on September 25 to oppose the legislation. “We welcome the one India, one market that has been introduced by this new law, but we still want our demand for MSP guarantee to be included,” said Mohini Mohan Mishra, a general secretary with the Bhartiya Kisan Sangh, which is affiliated to the RSS. “The Bills may have been passed by Parliament, but that does not stop the government from bringing in an amendment or even another law,” said Ashwani Mahajan, co-convenor of the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, which is also affiliated to the RSS.
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||Attempt to ‘silence’ MPs: Left parties||Five Left parties came together to condemn the attempts to “silence” the Opposition during the monsoon session in the Rajya Sabha. In a joint press statement, the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India (Marxist-Leninist), Revolutionary Socialist Party and All India Forward Bloc said that they would support the all India protest against the farm Bills on September 25. “The Left parties strongly condemn the manner in which all parliamentary procedures and norms have been thrown to the winds by this BJP government,” it said.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC urges govt. to support sex workers||The Supreme Court on Monday urged the Centre and State governments to make immediate provisions for monetary sustenance, supply of food and basic amenities to sex workers amid the pandemic without insisting on identity documents such as ration cards. “They are are under severe distress now, something urgent has to be done. This deals with the survival of lakhs of people... You (Centre and State governments) should do something without waiting for our directions,” a three-judge Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao said. The Bench said relief measures should not be restricted to only those who approach authorities for help. An effort should be made to reach out to them, the court indicated. “See whether from your end you can give some directions under the Disaster Management Act...” Justice Rao addressed Additional Solicitor General R.S. Suri, appearing for the Centre. The Bench said that authorities may consider taking similiar steps for granting relief to sex workers as were taken for helping the transgender community amid COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown. The court scheduled the case for next week, asking the States to come ready with their proposals to take care of the community. Oldest collective The Durbar Mahila Samanway Committee, the country’s oldest collective of sex workers, had approached the Supreme Court for support amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The collective said sex workers were entitled to live with dignity with access to food, shelter and social protection. It said the pandemic has ravaged their lives and livelihoods and left the community impoverished. The collective is a party to proceedings in which a panel was set up to improve the living conditions of the community. One of the recommendations, which won the court’s approval was to provide them with ration cards, voter ID and bank accounts.  Tough times However, the statement said these documents have not been issued to them in compliance with the 2011 recommendation. It said with no government identity documents and no earnings, the national lockdown since March has been especially tough on the community. Many in the community are single mothers unable to afford an education for their children in the current scenario. Attempts to secure alternative livelihoods have failed due to social stigma, the collective said.
22 September 2020||Washington DC,||UN faces crisis without reforms: Modi||In his message to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the signing of the United Nations Charter and the adoption of a Commemorative Declaration, Prime Minister Narendra Modi praised the UN but said the institution faced a “crisis of confidence” without major reforms. The Prime Minister delivered his address on Monday via a recorded video. The UN has adopted the format due to the pandemic to avoid the customary gathering of world leaders in New York for its annual General Assembly debate. “The Declaration also acknowledges the need for reform of the United Nations itself. We cannot fight today’s challenges with outdated structures. Without comprehensive reforms, the UN faces a crisis of confidence” Mr. Modi said. “For today’s interconnected world, we need a reformed multilateralism that reflects today’s realities, gives voice to all stake holders, addresses contemporary challenges and focuses on human welfare.” The Prime Minister also said the “world was a better place” because of the U.N. He recognised those who had worked for peace under the U.N flag including U.N peacekeepers and noted India’s contribution to peacekeeping. Yet, the U.N.’s original mission remained incomplete, he said. Mr. Modi will again address the General Assembly on Saturday as part of the general debate. The speech is particularly significant this year as India will begin an elected, non-permanent, two-year term on the United Nations Security Council starting January 2021.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army chief seeks report on SW Command||Following a difference of opinion on functioning in the South Western Command between the Army Commander and the Chief of Staff, Army chief General Manoj Naravane has nominated a senior Lieutenant General to look into the issue and submit a detailed report, an Army source said on Monday. “There were some differences on some aspects of functioning and both the officers wrote to the Army chief seeking clarity,” a defence source said. There were differences of opinion between the two senior officers on the role, charter and duties of various appointments within the Command headquarters. The nominated officer will submit a detailed report to the Army chief recommending measures to streamline the functioning of the Command headquarters, the source said. The South Western Command headquartered in Jaipur is tasked with safeguarding the border from Rajasthan to Punjab.
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||RGIA reconnects to Qatar||GMR led Hyderabad International Airport is re-connected with Doha, Qatar, weekly twice every Saturday and Sunday. Qatar Airways resumed its operations from September 13. Hyderabad International Airport in addition has resumed services to United Arab Emirates (UAE) as well with the resumption of Etihad Airways between Hyderabad and Abu Dhabi, the capital city of the UAE. The connectivity recommenced from Sept. 20 and is available thrice a week, every Thursday, Friday and Sunday. International carriers like Emirates, Fly Dubai and Air Arabia have already reconnected UAE, an official spokesman said on Monday. Passengers can book tickets for these services through the airline websites, as per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Govt. of India. All passengers will have to adhere to COVID-19 safety guidelines. “We are extremely pleased to resume flights to Hyderabad, especially in this distinct case of an air bubble between the two countries,” said Area Sales Manager, South Asia sub-continent, Qatar Airways, Karthik Viswanathan.
22 September 2020||Ariyalur,TAMIL NADU||New govt. arts college to come up in Jayamkondam||A new government arts and science college would begin functioning at Jayamkondam from this academic year. The college would temporarily function from the Government Girls High School in Jayamkondam before buildings are constructed for the institution, Government Chief Whip Thamarai S. Rajendran said here recently. Mr. Rajendran, who inspected the facilities available at the school along with Collector D. Rathna and Jayakamondam MLA J. K. N. Ramajayalingam, said that the government has sanctioned a new arts and science to enable more students to pursue higher education in the backward Ariyalur district. The college would function from this academic year itself and would have an intake of 60 seats each in B.A.Tamil, B.A. English and B. Com and 40 seats each in B.Sc. Mathematics and B.Sc. Computer Science. The site for the new college would be identified and buildings would be constructed soon, he said.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Flood threat looms over suburbs||Residents in the southern suburbs say the monsoon preparedness of local bodies is not as efficient as that of the Greater Chennai Corporation. Floods have become an annual feature in Pallavaram, Chromepet, Chitlapakkam, Medavakkam, Selaiyur, Tambaram and Mudichur, and residents blame it on poor maintenance of storm drains and sewer network (wherever available). There are complaints that although the State government makes tall claims of flood prevention work being taken up ahead of the monsoon with storm drains cleaned and canals desilted, the reality is different with rainwater mixed with sewage entering the houses. Sewage overflow The residents of Jain Nagar Extension, Nemillichery High Road, Balasubramaniam Street, Mettu Street, Maruthi Street, Karikalan Street and Arul Murugan Nandavanam Nagar, under Pallavaram Municipality, last year faced hardship due to sewage overflow caused by damage to cement pipes. While the Pallavaram Municipality planned to replace the cement pipes with metal ones, the work is yet to be taken up. Social activist V. Santhanam, citing the flooding of a portion of GST Road near Chromepet during heavy rain on July 28, said Pallavaram Municipality should coordinate with the State Highways Department and Southern Railway to clear the culvert to prevent floods this year. Nehru Nagar, AGS Colony, and New Colony 16th Street saw sewage mixed rainwater entering houses, he said. Residents’ welfare associations say that staff shortage, coupled with insufficient funds, had become the bane of local bodies. This is one of the main reasons for their demand to include all areas located between Guindy and Tambaram under the purview of the Greater Chennai Corporation. P. Damodaran, an office-bearer of the Mudichur Residents’ Welfare Association, wanted the State government to set up an integrated sewage pumping station and sewage network similar to the Vengadamangalam dump yard for pumping out treated water from various areas of the southern suburbs. Mr. Damodaran said the absence of a sewer network in several localities forced the residents to let out domestic waste water into the “open” storm drains, leading to flooding during the monsoon season. Officials deny charges Refuting these allegations, senior officials of Pallavaram Municipality said work of cleaning canals and culverts, even those belonging to the Highways and Water Resources Departments, were carried out as part of monsoon preparations. He said clearing of storm drains and canals had been carried out near G.S.T. Road, MIT Gate, Kattabomman Nagar, Nehru Nagar and New Colony, for a length of 50 km.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 5,344 cases, 60 deaths||Tamil Nadu recorded 5,344 fresh cases of COVID-19 and 60 associated deaths on Monday. This took the State’s case count to 5,47,337, and the toll to 8,871. Of the fresh cases, 982 persons tested positive for the infection in Chennai, while Coimbatore’s daily count surged to 648. There were 295 cases in Salem, 219 in Chengalpattu, 212 in Tiruvallur and 201 in Erode. As of date, a total of 46,495 persons are undergoing treatment in the State. Of this, 9,871 are in Chennai, while Coimbatore has 4,475 active cases. As many as 5,492 persons were discharged after treatment on Monday, taking the total figure to 4,91,971. Of the 60 persons who succumbed to the infection — 31 in government hospitals and 29 in private facilities — 16 died in Chennai, six each in Chengalpattu and Coimbatore, and four each in Kancheepuram, Thanjavur and Vellore. Among the deceased was a 29-year-old man from Kancheepuram who had tested positive for COVID-19 on September 14. He had primary hyperoxaluria and chronic kidney disease, and was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on September 12 with complaints of fever and breathing difficulty. He died on September 21 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Eight of the deceased were in their 40s. They included two persons who had no co-morbidities — a 44-year-old woman from Coimbatore who died on September 21 due to bilateral pneumonitis with respiratory failure, and a 49-year-old man from Vellore who died on September 19 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. 100-plus cases Eleven districts had 100-plus cases. Among them were Tiruppur (161), Cuddalore (153), Vellore (139), Thanjavur (136) and Namakkal (130). The Nilgiris reported 122 new cases. As many as 153 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Monday. The total number of cases now stands at 18,301, and deaths 197.  In the last 24 hours, 80,672 samples were tested across the State, taking the total figure to 65,55,328.  As of date, a total of 46,495 persons are undergoing treatment in the State, including 9,871 in Chennai
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to set up electric vehicle charging stations in six cities||The Tamil Nadu government has informed the National Green Tribunal that it will set up Electric Vehicle charging stations in Chennai, Coimbatore, Tiruchi, Madurai, Salem and Tirunelveli and provide charging points for the vehicles in government office parking slots. The charging stations will also be set up on NHAI and State Highways and EV related and charging infrastructure manufacturing industries in the State will be provided 100% exemption on electricity tax till December 31, 2025. Exemption Stamp duty exemption will also be given for purchase of land to set up such industries, the government said while submitting its reply in a case at the NGT. The government submitted that it plans to promote conversion of all auto rickshaws to electric vehicles in the six major cities within the next 10 years and extend it to other cities and towns gradually. It will also support conversion of all taxis in these six cities into Electric Vehicles and introduce 1,000 EV buses every year. Apart from this, private operators and educational institutions too will be encouraged to transition to EV buses, it submitted. The vision of the government is to attract Rs. 50,000 crore investment in EV manufacturing, providing infrastructure for charging, shared mobility, recycle and reuse batteries and dispose of the rejected batteries in an environment friendly manner, it said. “At present, after the announcement of the e-Vehicle policy, many new companies have started manufacturing and dealing with EVs by which the public have started to know the importance and by which they are sure that only Electric Vehicles s will be the future automobile on the roads,” it further said. The Tamil Nadu government also told the the National Green Tribunal that Indian Oil Corporation has come up with a new project making available Compressed Bio Gas (CBG) in Salem and Namakkal districts for use in automobiles.“ Rural economy Being a green gas and also environment friendly, it promotes rural economy and development contributing to nation’s growth. Permission will be granted for conversion of petrol driven vehicles to CBG,” the government said.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kancheepuram police nab 20 gangsters in Goa||A special police team from Kancheepuram rounded up 20 gangsters — including those from Delhi, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur, Chennai and Cuddalore, in Goa while they were attending a birthday party on Friday. The police said those arrested included “A Plus” category gangsters. Arumugam from Delhi; Dinesh, the driver of Sridhar Dhanapal; notorious extortionist Thyagu; Surendran from Cuddalore, and Sethupathy from Red Hills were among those arrested. Most of them have six or seven cases, including those of murder, against them, the police said. According to the police, a businessman in Kancheepuram district had been getting extortion calls and he lodged a complaint. When the police conducted an inquiry, they found that the calls were coming from Calangute, Goa. Further investigations revealed that Dinesh and Thyagu were behind these crimes. Special team A special team was formed by B. Shamoondeshwari, DIG, Kancheepuram range, and Superintendent of Police D. Shanmugapriya to nab the accused. “Dinesh and his gang members had gone there a few days ago to celebrate his birthday. Arumugam from Delhi is from Dinesh’s gang and he was asked to come to Goa so that he can communicate in Hindi and get things done. After the birthday party on September 19, when everyone went to sleep, we nabbed them. Most of them had been absconding after coming out on bail,” said a senior police officer. Further investigation is on to find out if they were planning any major crime at the get together.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Slow network sends Madras varsity students into a tizzy||The first day of final year/end semester exams for students of the University of Madras on Monday was marred by technical glitches. Around 60,000 students are expected to take exams each day for the next four days. Candidates said they could not download the question paper in the allotted one hour. A B.Com student said she lost one hour trying to download the question paper. Her teacher later sent her a link through WhatsApp. A Home Sciences student from a college in Chromepet said the linkhttp://exam.unom.ac.in/unomonlineexam/ UnomOnlineExam/logindid not open at the allotted hour. Later, his college forwarded the question paper to him. His father said there had been glitches even during mock tests held two days ago. The university decided to hold online exams, following instructions from the State government and the University Grants Commission in accordance with the COVID-19 safety protocol. Students could log in from their home and take the test. ‘It was chaos’ The Principal of an affiliated college in the southern suburbs said it was chaos in the morning when students panicked after the website did not open for over an hour. “As chief superintendents we are allowed to open the website 10 minutes in advance and we downloaded it. I wish they had given us prior intimation. Last-minute chaos could have been avoided. In the afternoon, students could not upload their papers and 90% of students preferred to submit the answer sheets at their college,” she said. At the T. Nagar post office, many B.Com students said they could not post the answer sheets in the Kodambakkam or Teynampet post offices as registered postal service counters were closed at 3 p.m. All of them were sent the question papers by their college professor, they said. Easy paper The students said the Marketing and Banking Services paper was easy. They could choose to answer seven questions of the 12 questions, instead of 10. Most of them said had the exams been held soon after the university closed for the pandemic, they would have done better. The students who had to take the tests in the evening sessions decided to send the answer sheets by post, instead of waiting for the site to open, the Principal of another affiliated college said. University Registrar M. Srinivasan said the problem lay with BSNL, whose network slowed down significantly at the crucial hour. When the university held mock tests two days ago, the website had received 24 lakh hits, he pointed out. “The principals of all colleges had been given access to the question papers. We had access to the papers on the physical server only till 10.30 a.m. after which we moved it to cloud space. Once we move it to cloud space, the traffic can be managed,” he said. During the mock test, the students had been given instructions. By 10.45 a.m., the students had contacted the colleges and received the question papers, he said. The official said the students had one hour to download the question paper and could have waited for some time. “The university had two 200 MBPS lines for the purpose. One was dedicated to B.Com alone,” he added.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M researchers use nano-coated magnesium alloy to mend fractures||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) have developed a nano-coated magnesium alloy to repair bone fractures in rabbits. The team is now exploring if the same method can be used to repair bones in others, including humans. Magnesium is the fourth abundant metal in the body and is known to accelerate healing of bones. Magnesium’s biocompatibility and biodegradability also makes it difficult to use in bone repair. Mukesh Doble, professor in the Department of Biotechnology, led the team, comprising post-doctoral research associate Govindaraj Perumal; Boopalan Ramasamy from Christian Medical College; A. Maya Nandkumar from Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology; D. Sivaraman of Sathyabama Institute of Science and Technology and R. Selvaraj from the Bioscience Research Foundation. Their research was published in the journal Nanomedicine and a patent has been filed. Mr. Doble said bones of the arm, leg and thigh are the long bones, and while small fractures can be treated with plates and rods segmental, defects such as fractures more than 5 cm take a longer time to heal and need support. At present, titanium is used but it does not degrade and leads to stress shielding as it has mechanical strength much more than the bone, he said. Magnesium, on the other hand, can degrade slowly and is reabsorbed. Its mechanical properties are closer to that of the bone. However, the problem is that magnesium degrades fast. To slow down the degradation and match it to the growth of the new bone, it is coated with a slowly degrading polymer. The researchers developed and used AZ31 alloy of magnesium to develop the mesh cage implants, and coated it with the polycaprolactone and nano-hydroxyapatite. This mesh was used to heal the bone defect in the femur of rabbits.
22 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Strong online presence no guarantee for electoral success: Udhayanidhi||At a time when smaller political outfits are using social media in a big way to build a narrative against the Dravidian majors, DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin feels a strong online presence alone would not translate into electoral success . “The electoral outcomes in the 2019 Parliamentary election is an example of this – several smaller parties that had a strong presence on social media failed to take a meaningful share of votes,” he said. Incidentally, much of the political discourse online is dominated by youngsters. Asked if the DMK’s recently-launched online membership drive ‘ Ellorum Nammudan ’ (everyone with us) was not an attempt to attract youngsters into the party fold, he told The Hindu in a written response that the intention of the campaign was to provide a platform for people whose ideologies and beliefs align with the DMK.  On the DMK facing severe criticism from smaller parties, Mr. Udhayanidhi said these parties want to push for a change but have unfortunately been unable to develop strong values and ideological foundations. “The truth is that in the process of development of a democratic nation, the natural course of action is for people to take control. One of the results of such a strong desire for change is the establishment or joining of a new party. However, parties that remain… have been the ones that have seen challenges and fought for their values and ideologies,” he felt. “Our ideology is something that has been set in stone for decades now, and a little criticism [that the DMK is ‘anti-Hindu’] by parties that are small, new, or irrelevant is not going to suddenly give us an identity complex,” he said. “We have repeatedly been portrayed as a party that is against Hindus and the Hindi language. Neither are we against the language nor the religion. What we are against is superstition, fundamentalist belief, discrimination and the imposition of a language on us,” Mr. Udhayanidhi noted. According to him, the ruling AIADMK is baselessly accusing the DMK of being responsible for introduction of the NEET during the erstwhile UPA regime. “We have clarified this multiple times, and have remained firm that forcing NEET upon students is unconstitutional. Kalaignar [former Chief Minister M.Karunanidhi], in fact, abolished entrance tests for professional courses and introduced a single window system by enacting legislation and got Presidential assent for it. Even former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa followed in Kalaignar’s footsteps. However, things clearly changed after her demise and the current AIADMK government has silently nodded its head in favour of NEET,” he charged.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tirupati umbrellas leave city sans fanfare||Umbrellas meant for the annual Tirupati Brahmotsavam left the city without much fanfare on Sunday evening and Monday morning by van. This year, the organisers — the Hindu Dharmartha Samithi (HDS) and the Tirupati Umbrella Charities (TUC) — chose to keep the event low-key due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Usually, they are taken to Tirumala on foot with thousands of devotees lining the route from Chennai till the State border. Many would offer arati to the umbrellas and large groups would accompany the umbrellas that are supposed to represent Lord Adi Seshan. S. Varadharajulu, trustee of the TUC, said this time they found it difficult to find materials, including the white teak wood meant for the poles. “We didn’t get labourers to stitch the patterns on the insides. It took us five months to finish the umbrellas instead of the usual two months,” he said. HDS trustee R.R. Gopalji said that it was the practice to send two auspicious things from Tamil Nadu for the Brahmotsavam. Garlands adorned by Sri Andal would be sent from Srivilliputhur. The umbrellas would go from Chennai. “This time due to restrictions, we chose to conduct the various pujas and send them in vehicles,” he said.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Supplementary board exams begin||The supplementary board examinations for Classes 12 and 10 began across Tamil Nadu on Monday with the language paper. Following the cancellation of the SSLC examination, which was to have been held in March, owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, all Class 10 students who had registered themselves for the examination through schools were declared promoted by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. They were given mark-sheets based on their half-yearly and quarterly examinations. Around 10,000 private candidates had registered themselves for the Class 10 examination, and are writing the examination now. The examination will go on till September 26. The Class 12 supplementary examination will go on till September 28. Disability rights activists and parents of candidates with disabilities had raised concerns ahead of the examination. As many as 1,410 candidates with disabilities had registered themselves for the Class 10 examination as private candidates. Concerns were voiced about their safety since it would be tough for them to follow physical distancing norms while writing the examination with the help of scribes and to wear a mask for over three hours. On Sunday, the Madras High Court refused to stay the conduct of the examination. The State government informed the court that all the candidates with disabilities and their scribes had tested negative for COVID-19. Vaishnavi Jayakumar, member, Disability Rights Alliance (DRA), said several candidates with disabilities were allotted centres in special schools. “The Commissionerate for Welfare of the Differently Abled had coordinated with parents, candidates and school administrators... On the first day, the only issue flagged by the parents who had accompanied the candidates was that they had to wait outside the centres for around 4 hours,” she said. In case of any concerns, the candidates and parents had been asked to reach out through the government helpline for the disabled at 1800 4250 111 or at 97007 99993 for persons with speech and hearing impairments to reach out through sign language via WhatsApp and video calls.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Business remains lean for retailers at Metro stations||Retail outlets at Chennai Metro Rail stations which reopened recently after months of lockdown are witnessing lean business. They have indicated that it would take a few months for normalcy to be restored. A few brands are yet to reopen shops. They are waiting for the number of commuters to increase. Retailers are upset that they were not given any concession or waiver during the lockdown. In Chennai Metro Rail’s network of 45 km with 32 stations, several retail outlets and restaurants, including Chai Kings, Adyar Ananda Bhavan, Frankie, Dilkush and Madras Coffee House, have sprung up in the past few years. As the number of people using the Metro reached an average of 1.15 lakh a day, business was looking up for quite a few players. But everything came to a grinding halt in the last week of March, owing to the lockdown imposed to contain COVID-19. According to officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL), as services have restarted, they have permitted these restaurants and retail outlets to function. “But they have to strictly ensure that physical distancing and other safety measures are followed. When we are practising such norms in the trains and at stations, they would apply to these outlets too,” an official said. While most of the outlets are functional, a few are yet to reopen as they are waiting for ridership to improve, sources said. K.T. Srinivasa Raja, managing director of Adyar Ananda Bhavan Sweets India Pvt. Ltd. that owns the A2B chain of restaurants, said business at metro stations had slightly improved, compared with a week ago. “We have opened all our outlets. Apart from metro commuters, we have other people walking in here. So our business has reached 50% of the pre-COVID levels,” he said. Not enough income Another retailer who reopened business at the start of the year said they were hardly making a few hundreds of rupees post-lockdown. “We will wait for another week and if the footfall does not increase, we will have to close our premises temporarily. Else, I would have to shell out for electricity and other costs.” The founder of a co-working space said they had re-worked their pricing to attract more walk-ins. Jahabar Sadique, CEO of Chai Kings, said all their outlets were operational and business had reached 40%-50% of pre-COVID levels. “Our Thirumangalam and Airport outlets are doing well as non-metro commuters are also coming in.” Most retailers said people had cut down on the time they spend at retail outlets. “They want to get on the train and leave. They are not standing around any more,” said another food outlet owner, who is yet to reopen his shops. He said Metro Rail could have given some concessions to retailers. “We need to pay rent, electricity and other costs. With no footfalls, it does not make business sense,” he said. Retailers said it would take another 3-6 months for business to get back to the pre-COVID levels.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Many patients are symptomatic but test negative, say doctors||Many government doctors on COVID-19 duty are coming across a significant number of patients who are symptomatic but tested negative. In such patients, the CT chest findings are suggestive of COVID-19; hence, they are treated as COVID-19 patients but are not included in the official figures, doctors say. Inquiries with government doctors in many parts of the State, including Chennai, Tiruchi and Madurai, showed that a significant percentage of patients fall in this category: swab negative, typical COVID-19 findings in CT scan and clinical features. A cross-section of doctors said that at a number of government hospitals, at least 30%-40% of patients were in this category and were treated in wards for persons with suspected COVID-19 symptoms. They said various factors were at play, including the lifting of swabs, the specificity of RT-PCR test and viral load. “We are actually seeing a lot of such patients. In 30%-40% of patients, the swabs return negative, but the clinical features and CT findings are suggestive of COVID-19,” said a doctor at Government Omandurar Medical College Hospital. At Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), a doctor said 30% patients were COVID-19 negative but had CT findings. “These patients had the clinical features of COVID-19. This segment of patients need to be analysed,” he said. Another doctor added, “Nowadays, we are seeing more symptomatic patients but they tested negative for COVID-19. The wards are full too.” A ward for persons with suspected COVID-19 symptoms was recently established at RGGGH. Several such patients are admitted to Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital too. “Any test will have specificity. False negatives are common. It is not possible to have a one test-based diagnosis. So, to corroborate, we look at the symptoms, do a CT/X-ray and a COVID panel for patients and treat them as COVID-19 patients,” a senior doctor said. A few senior government doctors said there was a possibility of 25% false negative and false positive with RT-PCR testing. “It is left to the discretion of the treating physician when it comes to CT findings,” one of them noted. “Around 2%-3% of patients test negative for COVID-19 but have clear CT findings. RT-PCR tests have 85% sensitivity and false negatives are common. When we have patients with CT findings, we treat them as COVID-19 positive. However, they will come under the category of persons with suspected symptoms of COVID-19. As per ICMR guidelines, only those whose swab returns positive for COVID-19 are to be counted,” a senior hospital authority said.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||50,212 violations of COVID-19 norms recorded||More than two weeks since violations of COVID-19 prevention norms were made compoundable offences by the government under the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, a total of 50,212 violations have been recorded and Rs. 1.06 crore in fines imposed in the State, Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan said on Monday. Conducting inspections in Tiruvallur district, primarily to reinforce the importance of wearing masks and maintaining physical distancing, he said the government’s intention was not to impose fines on the people. So far, Rs. 1,06,90,975 had been collected as fines. Violation of quarantine measures and physical distancing, non-wearing of masks and spitting in public places can be fined. “Doctors, nurses and paramedical personnel have an appeal to the public. They want us to sensitise the public. People have a responsibility. They need to wear masks and maintain physical distancing in public places, including at bus stands, markets and places of worship, and while attending marriages and funerals,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said. At the Tiruvallur bus stand and vegetable market, officials launched a campaign to educate the people on the importance of wearing masks. Collector Mageswari Ravikumar was present during the inspection. While COVID-19 cases were stabilising in certain districts, it was important to stay extremely careful. “Cases are surging in a few districts, such as Coimbatore, Salem and Cuddalore, that had a low number of cases earlier. In districts that had high figures earlier and are consistently recording lesser cases, there is a tendency to take the disease casually, not wear masks and maintain physical distancing,” he said. Mr. Radhakrishnan later visited the government hospital and the COVID-19 Care Centre at Tiruttani and interacted with patients and healthcare providers in the COVID-19 ward of Tiruvallur Government Medical College Hospital. “In Tiruttani town, many people were not using masks at all. Doctors, nurses and paramedical personnel are risking their lives for the people. In these tough circumstances, they are appealing to the public not to flout norms,” he said.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Boy dies after accidental strangulation at home||A 11-year-old boy, Balaji, died of strangulation after the rope tied to a cloth cradle got entangled around his neck at his home on Thangal Street, Ramapuram, on Sunday. According to the police, a cloth cradle was set up in his house for his uncle’s nine-month-old baby. Balaji used to play on it regularly. On Sunday, his parents had gone to a nearby shop and he was alone at home. As there was some problem with water supply, a woman living on the floor above Balaji's house came down to turn the valve on. She saw Balaji lying unconscious, with the rope entangled around his neck and his knees on the floor. With the help of her husband, she cut the rope and rushed him to a private hospital, where he was declared dead on arrival. The Royala Nagar police have registered a case, and investigation is on.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK member petitions HC on bylaws||An AIADMK member has moved the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Election Commission (EC) to inquire whether the party was being administered in accordance with its bylaws or not. The petitioner, S. Surya Moorthi of Dindigul district, wanted the EC to find out whether various appointments made by party coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami were legally valid or not. He wanted the EC to issue necessary guidelines to the party, depending upon the outcome of the inquiry to be conducted as per court orders. Until the disposal of his main writ petition, he also sought an interim direction restraining the coordinator, the co-coordinator as well as presidium chairman E. Madhusudhanan from making any fresh appointment to party posts. According to the litigant, the EC was empowered to inquire into such issues and de-register parties that do not follow their own constitution and indulge in undemocratic means while appointing members to significant posts. He claimed that Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami had handed over various positions to “their supporters and kith and kin and only to those whom they need”. The party workers had faced discrimination, he alleged. Mr. Moorthi said that ever since the death of former AIADMK general secretary Jayalalithaa, there was no single charismatic leader who could steer the party. Unilateral functioning of the Ministers had led to confusion, he added.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK, allies to hold demonstration against farm bills on September 28||The DMK and its allies will hold a demonstration across the State on September 28 to urge the Centre to withdraw the three agriculture related legislations and to condemn the ruling AIADMK for its support to the BJP government on the issue. A meeting of alliance parties chaired by DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday alleged that the agriculture model proposed by the BJP government had already failed in Bihar. “It seeks to impose the same model in Tamil Nadu,” said a resolution adopted at the meeting. The meeting alleged that the legislation — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 — would prevent procurement from farmers and subsequently pave way for “death of food security”. The meeting felt that the first Act would take away the rights of commerce and trade from the State governments. “The legislation is against the federal structure of the county and will roll out red carpet for the corporate sector,” a resolution said. The parties also said the legislation would allow the corporate companies to keep the food stock without limit and it would result in hoarding. “The laws are against the interests of farmers as well as consumers,” the resolution said.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Consent given for T.N. to borrow Rs. 9,627 cr. more’||The Union Ministry of Finance has given its consent to Tamil Nadu borrowing an additional 0.5% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP), amounting to Rs. 9,627 crore, for the financial year 2020-21, Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur said in a written reply to a question in the Rajya Sabha. Mr. Thakur was responding to DMK MP P. Wilson’s query whether the Union government had received any request from the Tamil Nadu government for the sanctioning of special grant funds to fight COVID-19. “The Union government has received a request from the Tamil Nadu government for special grant of Rs. 1 lakh crore to all the States, including an amount of Rs. 9,000 crore to Tamil Nadu,” he said in his reply, and pointed out that the States have been allowed to undertake additional borrowing for the financial year 2020-21 as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan package. The Centre has increased the net borrowing limits of State governments for FY2020-21 to 5% of GSDP from 3% previously. However, only a 0.5% increase is unconditional and the rest is subject to conditions. To Mr. Wilson’s query whether the Ministry of Finance had sanctioned and disbursed Rs. 6,600 crore to the Tamil Nadu government during the COVID-19 period for buying medical equipment and accessories, Mr. Thakur answered in the negative. However, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has released Rs. 559.88 crore to T.N.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CIBA develops bacteriophage for shrimp farms||Bacterial diseases remain a major threat to the shrimp industry, often causing a huge economic loss to the hatchery owners. Now, the Chennai-based Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture (CIBA) has developed a bacteriophage-based product that will target and kill only disease-causing bacteria without harming the other micro-organisms. “This product is effective in bio-control of the bacterial diseases in shrimp hatchery settings, which would help produce quality shrimp seeds, free from antibiotics,” said S. V. Alavandi, principal scientist and head of the Aquatic Animal Health and Environment Division of the CIBA, which developed the new-generation technology. The ‘phage prophylaxis and therapy’, developed by the institute, is based on bacteriophages, which are viruses that kill only specific disease-causing bacteria and act as therapeutic agents in controlling bacterial infections.  CIBA Director K.K. Vijayan said the product comprised a “cocktail of phages”, which could neutralise a wide range of pathogenic bacteria-causing diseases. The CIBA signed a MoU with Ramesh Kumar Dhanakoti, CEO, Salem Microbes Pvt. Ltd., Salem, to transfer the technology. P.K. Patil, principal scientist, Technology Management Unit of the CIBA, facilitated technology transfer of technology and filing of patents.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Banks cannot deny copy of statements to borrowers’||The Debts Recovery Tribunal, Chennai, has ruled that banks cannot deny copy of account statements to customers even in cases where the borrower has discharged the debt or defaulted. “Every customer of a bank is entitled to have copies of their statement of account(s) from the banker and the bank is under contractual obligation to furnish it. Maybe the bank is entitled to charge for the copies but it cannot deny the right to have a copy by virtue of the contract of lending entered between the bank and the customer,” said N.V. Badarinath, presiding officer, Debts Recovery Tribunal-I, Chennai, in his order. The verdict was in the case of NPT Offset Press Pvt. Ltd., an MSME, and the State Bank of India. As per court records, the Debts Recovery Tribunal had directed NPT Offset to pay Rs. 16.35 crore due to SBI. Later, both the parties agreed for a one-time settlement for about Rs. 2.62 crore. NPT Offset had then moved the tribunal, seeking to acquire its bank statements. The tribunal rejected the bank’s plea that the firm was precluded from demanding copies of its account statements having accepted the one-time settlement. When a borrower had accepted and complied with the one-time settlement scheme promoted by the bank, it could not be said that the borrower was debarred from asking for their account statements, it said.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5 officers promoted to Chief Secretary grade||Five senior IAS officers from the 1990 batch have been promoted to the Chief Secretary grade by the State government. The officers are: Vibhu Nayar, K. Phanindra Reddy, M. Saikumar, P. Sivasankaran and T.S. Jawahar, according to a government order issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ayodhya temple bell brought to city||A bell, weighing 613 kg, meant for the Ram temple in Ayodhya and cast in Nagercoil, was brought to Anna Nagar here on Monday. Funded by NGO Legal Rights Council, India, the bell began its journey from Rameswaram on September 17, said K. Muraleedharan, BJP district president. The bell will travel 4,552 km by road to Ayodhya. Council chief C.V. Madhankumar said, “We have made idols of Sri Rama, Sita, Lakshmana, Hanuman and Lord Ganesha to be presented to the temple.”
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madras Management Association wins award||Madras Management Association (MMA) has won the award for “Best Management Association in India” for 2019-20. The award was presented by president of All-India Management Association (AIMA) Sanjay Kirloskar during an online event on Monday, as part of AIMA’s 47th National Management Convention. MMA topped the category by winning the most votes, an official release said. “This is for the 11th time in a row MMA has won the award,” it said. The release quoted Group Captain R. Vijayakumar (retired), executive director of MMA, as saying that it was undoubtedly a moment of immense pride for all in the association.
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM flags off mobile fair price shops||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami flagged off seven Amma Mobile Fair Price Shops to expand the State’s efforts to distribute rations at consumers’ doorsteps. The State plans to operate 3,501 such mobile fair price shops at a cost of Rs. 9.66 crore. The scheme has been already implemented in 277 villages and 54 streets in Chennai through 48 mobile fair price shops, a press release said. Mr. Palaniswami also launched a scheme to provide upgraded nutritious rice in Tiruchi. He also flagged off 13 electric autorickshaws.
22 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees surplus SW monsoon rainfall||With nine days to go for the end of the South-West monsoon season, Coimbatore has received surplus rainfall. As of September 21, Coimbatore has received 269 mm rainfall, which is well above 195 mm average (1970 – 2019) for the season that starts in June and ends by September. The surplus happened this month as the district had received 113.5 mm rainfall in the last 20 days. The district had received 22.5 mm in June, 83.5 mm in July and 49.5 mm in August. During the current monsoon season, the district has also seen 24 rainy days, which is again higher than the average rainy days -17. A day with over 2.5 mm rainfall is accounted as a rainy day. Last year, too, the district had received surplus rainfall – 308.1 mm, with most of it coming in August – 221.3. The prediction for the remaining monsoon season is that the district will receive 30 – 40 mm rainfall to take the rainfall received past the 300 mm mark, says S.P. Ramanathan, Professor and Head, Agro Climate Research Centre, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. The impact of the good SW Monsoon rainfall will reflect in good turmeric, paddy and maize production as it will help in soil preparation for the rabi season, he adds. The good rainfall on Sunday and early Monday saw the water level in the Siruvani Reservoir touch the 44.61 feet mark. The full reservoir level is 49.50 feet. Sources in the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board said that the reservoir catchment had received 105 mm rainfall in the 24 hours that ended 8 a.m. Monday and the Siruvani foothills 45 mm for the same period. With the water level inching up, the board has started supplying more than 100 million litres a day to the city and a few wayside habitations. In the district, Chinnakalar received the highest rainfall on Sunday – 102 mm followed by Sholayar - 93 mm, Cincona – 87 mm, and the Parambikulam Aliyar Project areas of Valparai – 54 mm, Valparai taluk – 52 mm and Pollachi - 28 mm. Coimbatore South, TNAU and airport received six mm, 15 mm and 1.3 mm respectively. The incessant rainfall saw low-lying areas and underpasses in the city inundated. The Coimbatore Corporation had to run motors to flush out stagnated water to facilitate movement of vehicles on Monday morning.
22 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||7,000-plus people tested every day in Coimbatore district: Velumani||Over 7,000 persons are being tested every day in the district for COVID-19, Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani said here on Monday, after flagging off 20 sample lifting vehicles at Sundakkamuthur. Each of the vehicles would have a lab technician to lift samples, a nurse and medical assistant to collect samples and do basic screening. This was aimed at quickly lifting samples, identifying positive persons, transporting them to a hospital or COVID-19 care centre or placing them in home quarantine and identifying their contacts. With the district getting 12 emergency response vehicles to transport positive cases, it now had a total of 53 vehicles for this purpose, he said. Thus far, the administration had conducted 10,810 fever clinics, screened 11.63 lakh people and lifted swab samples from 3.27 lakh people. At present, 3,838 people were under COVID-19 treatment in the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and other government and private hospitals. A press release quoting the Minister said people need not panic. All that they needed to do was to follow the safety guidelines issued by the State Government.
22 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||INS Agrani celebrates 55th anniversary||Indian Naval Station (INS) Agrani, the leadership training establishment of the Indian Navy based at Red Fields in Coimbatore, celebrated its 55th anniversary at the naval base here on September 18. Commodore Ashok Rai, Commanding Officer of INS Agrani, launched the celebrations by cutting the anniversary cake along with the youngest sailor of the base and a representative of the civilian staff. Speaking on the occasion, the Commanding Officer traced the origin of the unit to the time when the erstwhile Petty Officer's Leadership School, INS Varakkal, was shifted from West Hill in Kozhikode to the present campus at Red Fields and subsequently commissioned as INS Agrani on September 18, 1965.
22 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||High water level pushes elephant herd to a small forest patch||Around 30 wild elephants have been forced to remain in a forest patch of 2,080 hectare named Pethikuttai of Sirumugai forest range of Coimbatore Forest Division for more than six months as they are unable to move to the lower portions of the Nilgiris eastern slope due to high levels of water in Bhavani Sagar reservoir. The small landscape lacks adequate fodder for the foraging needs of the giant family consisting of mostly females, calves and sub-adults. Though Bhavani Sagar dam is situated in Erode district, its water spread area stretches upto 20 km covering portions of Sirumugai forest range in Coimbatore district. Pethikuttai reserve forest of Coimbatore Division and Vilamnundy reserve forest of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) in Erode district are separated from the Nilgiris eastern slope when water level in the reservoir increases. According to District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh, the water level in the reservoir has now crossed 100 feet. The area surrounding the reservoir is an important junction for elephants as herds from Wayanad, Bandipur, the Nilgiris, STR, Biligiri Rangaswamy Temple Tiger Reserve arrive or return between February and June every year. Many herds visit Pethikuttai reserve forests as part of the annual grazing from March to June, after which they return to their respective habitats. “The elephants prefer to stay in Pethikuttai in the dry season due to availability of water in the reservoir. But the habitat is not very suitable to support elephants during summer as the vegetation is dry. The vegetation in the southern and eastern banks of the reservoir is scrub jungle,” he said. According to the Forest Department, around 30 elephants that are now camping in Pethikuttai were forced to remain in the area as they did not move to the Nilgiris eastern slope by swimming around 90 metres across the reservoir. With seven out of the 20 elephants died in Coimbatore Forest Division, the Forest Department suspects that the casualties could be directly linked to the limited availability of fodder during summer. Mr. Venkatesh said that the Department is currently studying forest area, vegetation and habitat assessments, health of elephants, paths available in the forest, assessment of water level and analysis of water samples from the reservoir. With the assistance of the WWF India, 30 camera traps have been fixed to monitor the elephant population. Elephant trackers from Anamalai Tiger Reserve were also deployed to study the herd and identify whether any individual had health issues. The Department is also using drones periodically to assess the general status of elephants in Pethikuttai.
22 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for stealing jewellery, cash||Coimbatore City Police have arrested two persons who allegedly stole Rs. 30 lakh in cash and 10 sovereigns of jewellery from a house earlier this month. M. Ganesh Kumar (34) from Mangalakarai near Karamadai and B. Prasad Raja (27) from Aruppukottai in Virudhunagar were arrested by a special team of the Saravanampatti police on Sunday. The police recovered Rs. 16.57 lakh and 5.5 sovereigns of jewellery from them. Police said the accused confessed that they had spent Rs. 13.43 lakh lavishly. According to the police, the two men broke into the house of K. Duraisamy at Chitra Nagar near Saravanampatti after all the occupants had left for Keeranatham around 4 a.m. on September 4 to attend a wedding. As for the cash that was stolen, Mr. Duraisamy had got it by selling a property recently. The police said Kumar, who was involved in more than 20 crimes including burglaries and motorcycle theft, befriended Raja in the Coimbatore Central Prison where the latter was lodged in a case related to possession and sale of marijuana. They were released from the prison three months ago. The duo came under the surveillance of the police after the investigation team collected details of persons who were recently released from prisons. The police said they arrested the two on Sunday. Kumar and Raja were produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.
22 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Villagers told about importance of adult education||The 105 Rapid Action Force (RAF) battalion of the Central Reserve Police Force based at Mahalingapuram, near Vellalore, organised a civic action programme at Pattnam village near Ondipudur on September 18. Commandant B. Jayakrishnan with troops of B Company of 105 RAF organised the event, which was presided over by panchayat president Gomati Selvakumar. As part of the event, awareness was created about the importance of adult education among the villagers. A drawing competition on themes of water conservation and communal harmony was organised for school students. The team organised a training programme on candle and soap making for villagers. Awareness was created among the villagers about the Fit India Movement and they were motivated by explaining the benefits of regular running and walking. Physically challenged persons also participated in the programmes which were organised by maintaining precautions against COVID-19. Vriksharopan certificates and cash prizes were given to the winners of competitions.
22 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Camp elephant of ATR dies||Kalpana, a camp elephant attached to the Kozhikamuthi elephant camp of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR), died on Monday. The elephant, aged 41, was ailing for the last two months due to age related factors, said the Forest Department. The elephant was weak and unable to stand for the last several days. However, the elephant’s condition deteriorated and it died on Monday. Senior officials of the Forest Department, staff of Kozhikamuthi camp and the mahout paid respects to the deceased elephant. Kumki returns to ATR Suyambu, one of the two kumkis that were stationed at Chadivayal elephant camp of Coimbatore Forest Division, was taken back to its mother camp at Kozhikamuthi on Monday.
22 September 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Give us space inside bus stand: small vendors’ plea to Dindigul Corporation||Demanding space in the bus stand, around 150 vendors resorted to a sit-in stir on the Corporation premises on Monday. Since the bus stand was established in 1982, the vendors said, they had been functioning there. However, citing the pandemic, the government announced a lockdown and, subsequently, civic authorities too closed down the shops from March-end. Since then, they had been living with the ration rice distributed by the government. The loans taken from usurers had risen to its peak. Hence, the civic authorities must permit them to operate inside the bus stand. Echoing their plea, cadre from CPI(M), CPI, CITU and AIDWA said when the government had relaxed restrictions and issued a series of guidelines to the public to prevent spread of viral infection, it would be a great relief to the vendors if they were allowed inside the bus stand. The vendors had petitioned the Collector, Corporation Commissioner and others since last month, but there was no response. Though the civic authorities orally promised to allow them inside the bus stand from September 21, there was no official word. Hence, the vendors resorted to an agitation, which irked the authorities. On Monday, a wordy altercation between officials and the Communist party functionaries snowballed into uneasy calm on the premises and police had to be pressed in. When reporters contacted Commissioner Senthil Murugan, he said after the pandemic surfaced, the bus stand was closed to vendors. Only from August, licenced shopkeepers were allowed to reopen their outlets in the bus stand with a number of restrictions and guidelines. “The civic authorities had the responsibility to prevent the Covid-19 virus from spreading and also protect the citizens,” he said. Hence, under the present circumstances, it would not be possible to give permission to the vendors inside the bus stand to run their businesses, the civic body chief added. Upset over the announcement, the vendors, particularly women selling flowers, said they were fighting for their survival. CPI(M) town secretary Azad, Janaki from AIDWA, CITU district president K. Prabakaran and vendors association secretary Pichaimuthu said they would intensify the agitation as the officials had misled them.
22 September 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||One held under Goondas Act||Collector M Vijayalakshmi on Monday directed the police to detain G Rajmohan, 40, of Chettiapatti village under Dindigul Taluk police under the Goondas Act. According to a press note, the police had tightened enforcement against those who indulged in sand mining. The accused was arrested on September 10 while he was smuggling sand in a tractor. Subsequent review showed that the accused was a habitual offender and, hence, SP Ravali Priya recommended to the Collector for detention under the Goondas Act.
22 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for preparing fake appointment order||A 36-year-old man who prepared a fake appointment order for the post of office assistant at a government school was arrested by the police here on Monday. On September 1, a 29-year-old man produced an appointment order to the headmistress of Railway Colony Government Higher Secondary School at Kollampalayam and sought permission to join duty. Fake signature The letter was signed by Chief Education Officer R. Balamurali and it mentioned the salary and other details. But, the headmistress found the signature of the CEO to be fake. When she contacted the District Education Office, she was told that no such order was issued. The letter was handed over to Mr. Balamurali who confirmed that the order was fake. Duped of Rs. 3 lakh Inquiries revealed that an unidentified person approached the man stating that a vacancy existed at the school and the job would be confirmed once he paid Rs. 3 lakh upfront and another Rs. 4 lakh after joining duty. The man said he got the “order” after paying Rs. 3 lakh. Complaint lodged Mr. Balamurali lodged a complaint with the police who arrested Sivakumar of Aval Poondurai for preparing the fake order.
22 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Sri Lankan national held with fake passport||A 36-year-old Sri Lankan national who was staying at the refugee camp at Arachalur in the district with a fake passport was arrested by the Q Branch CID of the Tamil Nadu police here on Monday. Sources said the Q Branch sleuths occasionally inspected the camps across the State to verify details of suspect persons and to also monitor them. During recent inspections at refugee camps at Madurai and Tiruchi, the sleuths found a few refugees with fake passports and identity cards. Inquiries with them revealed that a woman at the camp in Erode district was in possession of a fake passport. Based on the information, sleuths from the Erode Q Branch inspected the camp at Arachalur and found the woman, Pradheepa, with a fake passport and identity card. She was arrested.
22 September 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Supplementary exams begin in Erode||Over 4,200 students appeared for the supplementary exams for Classes X, XII and Diploma in Elementary Education (DEE) examinations that began in the district here on Monday. The exams were held at Erode, Bhavani, Gobichettipalayam, Sathyamangalam and Perundurai where workers carried out disinfection before the start of examination. Officials at the Education Department said the exams would conclude on October 7. Scribes were also appointed to assist the differently-abled students, they added. All the standard operating procedures issued by the State government for conducting the exams were followed, they added.
22 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Power supply will be disrupted in the following areas:  Market electric line, 2 p.m. to 5 p.m., September 22 :  Nehru Street, Sakthi Road, Masjid Street, Kuppakadu, Brindha Street, Palanimalai Street, Ottukara Chinnaiya Street, Krishnan Street, A.B.T. Road, K.A.A.S. Nagar, Marapalam, Mosikeeranar Street, Madhava Krishna Street, Cauvery Road, R.K.V. Road, Indira Nagar, Janaki Ammal Layout, Kandasamy Street, Periya Mariamman Kovil Street, Pavaadai Street, Periyanna Street, Kalaimagal Kalvi Nilayam, Vamalai Street, Meenatchi Sundaranar Road, Perumal Street and market areas.  Kavindapadi sub-station , 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. on September 24 : Kavindapadi, Kolathupalayam, Odathurai, Pethampalayam, Ellispettai, Singanallur, Perundalaiyur, Vellankovil, Appakudal, Krishnapuram, Dharmapuri, K. Pudur, Marappampalayam, Ayyampalayam, Velampalayam, Chandirapuram, Perumapalayam, Thannachipatti, Pandiyampalayam, Kunjaramadai, Odamedu, Karukkampalayam, Kannadipudur, Manickavalasu, Ayyanvalasu, Manipuram, Viralimedu, Thangamedu, Sevacoundanur, Alandur, Kavundampalayam, Kuttipalayam and Serayampalayam.
22 September 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Transgenders in Krishnagiri seek house site pattas||If COVID-19 derailed the lives of those in the mainstream of the society, those inhabiting the margins of the society were worse hit. Eighty transgenders led by Vidaigal Thirunangaigal Koottamaippu , an organisation run by and for transgenders, arrived at the Collectorate on Monday seeking house site pattas. Housing has been the biggest challenge for transgenders, says Samundeswari, a transgender working with Vidaigal. Recounting how transgenders are forced to shell out double the amount as rents, wherever house-owners are forthcoming to let out house, Samundeswari says COVID-19 had taken away the ability of transgenders to keep up with their rent payment. “If a family of four is let out a house for Rs. 2,000, four transgenders are let out the same house for Rs. 4,000 or Rs. 6,000. “After the pandemic, a lot of us are unable to pay rents. It has been our long-pending demand that the government provide us housing sites. May be in a year or two, under some scheme they could help us build a house. But now a patta will help us to even erect a thatched roof sheds to live,” she says. There are over 350 transgenders in Hosur, Thally, Kelamangalam, Rayakottai and Shoolagiri. “Without housing, eking out a livelihood is far more difficult. Only a few managed to get jobs. But majority depend on collections from shops and sex work. After COVID-19, these sources of income have stopped, pushing transgenders into poverty,” says Samundeswari. Earlier, a team of 80 transgenders met District Collector Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy and their petition was forwarded to District Revenue Officer (DRO) Shanti. “District Collector has assured us help. The DRO had asked us to meet the Revenue Divisional Officer with necessary documents. We hope the administration will fulfil our demand,” says Samundeswari.
22 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||No COVID-19 cases in 17 Madurai wards||Thirteen wards, which had 10 or above COVID-19 active cases as on September 20, accounted for nearly 38% of the total active cases within Madurai Corporation limits, according to data obtained from the civic body. As many as 17 wards are COVID-19-free. The data shows that the total active cases within the Corporation as on September 20 was 449. There has been a steady dip in active cases in the past few weeks and subsequently 17 wards have no COVID-19 positive cases. Zone 4 has the highest number of COVID-19-free wards which include Subramaniapuram, Thennagaram, Madura Baskaradass Nagar and Veerakaliamman Koil area. COVID-19-free wards in other zones include Vandiyur, Keerathurai, Villapuram and Sappani Koil area. City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan said that despite the civic body continuing to conduct around 2,000 tests every day, the positivity rate was lower. “This can be attributed to aggressive testing and early treatment of COVID-19 patients, carried out when the cases were high in the city. It can also be noticed that there is a dip in the number of new COVID-19 positive cases reported across the State,” he said. Among the 100 wards, Mathichiyam has 13, the highest number of active cases. A Corporation official said that many frontline workers from Government Rajaji Hospital, who tested positive, were notified under Mathichiyam ward. “There are less positive cases of people with influenza-like-illness symptoms identified in the ward through fever camps,” he said. Apart from Mathichiyam, wards such as Anaiyur, Visalakshipuram, Uthangudi, Kannanendal, Chinna Anuppanadi, Avaniapuram, Ponmeni and Palanganatham were among the 13 wards with 10 or more active cases. Despite a dip in cases, people must wear face masks and strictly follow other safety precautions, said Dr. Kumaraguruparan. “Also, those who display any COVID-19 symptom must get themselves tested,” he said.
22 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Fine collection up after lockdown relaxation||Ever since relaxation of lockdown norms were introduced this month, there has been a rise in collection of fines from violators in Madurai. Teams of flying squads are monitoring whether people are wearing face masks and following physical distancing norms. An official from one such team said there were 10 flying squads with four personnel each, including a Tahsildar and a police personnel. “Revenue officials used to levy fines on violators under the Disaster Management Act. But, recently, the State government issued an order delegating the Public Health department to slap fines. Henceforth, the Corporation and Public Health departments will be in charge of the exercise,” he said. From May till date, fine of Rs. 1.5 crore had been collected. An average of 600 to 800 people were found violating the rules on a daily basis since September 1, he said. A police personnel from a flying squad team said though people were being urged to wear face masks through announcements on public address system, many residents, shopkeepers in particular, seldom heed to the plea. “When we slapped fines on errant shopkeepers at Pondy Bazaar along RMS Road, their association took umbrage. Sometimes it is hard to communicate the message that people need to wear the mask for their good. Till such time we get a vaccine against COVID-19, only masks and hand washing can help,” he said. Su. Venkatesan, Madurai MP, said the situation is much better than what was witnessed in June and July when people ventured outside without wearing a mask. “Though the situation is slightly better, the message has not reached the rural areas properly,” he said. Collector T. G. Vinay said that after a recent review meeting with officials from various departments, intensified vigilance has been decided upon to improve the streak of gains accrued in terms of low COVID-19 positive cases. “The police department has also submitted a proposal to scan areas using closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras to find out large-scale flouting of norms. A close watch is also kept on major markets. The police and local body officials have been asked to step up vigilance,” he said.
22 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Court staff seek anticipatory bail||Two court staff attached to the District Munsif cum Judicial Magistrate Court, Kadaladi in Ramanathapuram district, have filed petitions seeking anticipatory bail before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday, after they were booked for the alleged theft of liquor bottles that were kept in the court property room. The case of the prosecution was that a total of 78 bottles that were seized and kept in the court’s property room were stolen by four court staff, including petitioners Kandasamy and Murugan. They were booked under Section 380 of the Indian Penal Code (Theft in dwelling house). Hearing the plea of the two petitioners who denied the allegations levelled against them, Justice V. Bharathidasan adjourned the hearing to September 23.
22 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai gets one more AC bus shelter||Madurai North MLA V.V. Rajan Chellappa, along with Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan, inaugurated an air-conditioned bus shelter in front of COVID-19 speciality wing of Government Rajaji Hospital here on Monday. The bus shelter was constructed at a cost of Rs. 10 lakh allocated from the MLA Development Constituency fund. It can seat up to 15 people. The city already has a similar facility in front of Tamukkam grounds. The MLA also inaugurated two reverse osmosis (RO) plants installed through the Constituency Development fund. The plants cost Rs. 12.60 lakh each. One was installed at Jawaharpuram and the next on Muniyandikoil Street. Each plant can process up to 1,000 litres of borewell water in an hour, a Corporation release said .
22 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Missing watchman found dead in well||In a twist to the man missing case reported in Vadipatti police station following the disappearance of watchman S. Ganesan, 55, of a TASMAC shop where liquor bottles were burgled on Saturday night, his body was found in a nearby well on Monday. A gang had drilled a hole on the wall of the shop located on Semminipatti-Kutladampatti road and laid hands on 10 liquor bottles. Night watchman Ganesan was also missing. Following a complaint lodged by shop supervisor N. Nandakumar, Vadipatti police had registered a case of burglary and man missing. Meanwhile, the body of Ganesan was found floating in a well on Monday morning. Police said the culprits had tied his hands with adhesive tapes and gagged his mouth. The police suspect that the burglars could have killed Ganesan who could have offered resistance to the burglary attempt. The villagers of Kachaikatti staged a protest demanding the immediate arrest of those involved in the murder. Senior police officials pacified the agitators with the promise of bringing the culprits to book.
22 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Notice to State, UGC, MKU||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday ordered notice to the State government, UGC and Madurai Kamaraj University in a PIL petition that challenged the conduct of final semester examinations. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam ordered notices in the PIL petition filed by R. Murali, former Principal of Madura College, who also served as the Academic Council, Senate and Syndicate member of the university. He challenged the mode of conduct of the examinations. The petitioner said the State had passed an order to conduct final semester examinations to various colleges through online, offline or by blending both online and offline modes. Permission was granted to the university to conduct the exam only through online mode. Under these circumstances, the university issued a notification for the conduct of the examination by adopting the online mode. The students after writing the test in an A4 size paper were asked to take a photo of the same and send it to the university through WhatsApp. This was not online mode and credibility of the exam was at stake. Parents were asked by the university to act as supervisors. This was a mockery of the system. The case was adjourned to October 15.
22 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘PM Kisan Scheme scam: State took proper steps ’||The State government had taken steps to address irregularities in disbursal of funds under PM Kisan scheme, BJP State president L. Murugan said here on Monday. Speaking at a press meet, he said the State government had suspended officers, sealed computer centres where irregularities took place and recovered some of the funds. “The government has made some moves towards addressing the issue and we are hoping for continued cooperation. Currently, 41 lakh farmers in the State have benefited under the scheme and we are hoping to cover more.” Explaining the passing of the Farmer’s Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday through voice vote, he said it would be beneficial to farmers. Middlemen would no longer be able to fix prices which will not be highly volatile. The State government introduced Farmers’ Market years ago so that farmers could directly gain from the sales of their goods. “This move by the Centre would create a global marketplace and promote sales online, thus opening the doors for farmers to sell across the country by themselves. It will be highly beneficial to the public also as the process would be transparent,” he said regarding the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill. Farmers could also directly tie up with corporate companies to engage in areas such as food processing and cold storage.
22 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to lay a walkway along pond||Members of Kalai Nagar Extension Residents’ Welfare Association have petitioned Madurai Corporation to lay a pathway along Kosakulam oorani so that residents can have a walk along the pond.With so sign of Anaiyur drinking water project taking off, the residents rely on the pond for rainwater harvesting so that groundwater level could be improved, said Kumaraguruparan, general secretary of the Association.
22 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||briefly||There will be power shutdown in the following areas between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. on September 22, as Tangedco plans to undertake maintenance work at its Sholavandan substation: Sholavandan, Thachampathu, Tiruvedagam, Melakkal, Kachirairuppu, Narayanapuram, Oothukuli, Thenkarai, Mullipallam, Mannadimangalam, Kadupatti, Irumpaadi, Alankottaram, Rishabam and Rayapuram, Nagari Industries and surrounding areas, according to a press release issued by the Tangedco.
22 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CM in Madurai||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami arrived here from Chennai on Monday evening. He was welcomed by party cadre and various Ministers from southern districts. After an overnight stay here, the CM would leave for Ramanathapuram where he would review development works and COVID-19 preventive measures on Tuesday morning. He would leave for Chennai in the evening.
22 September 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Wind-shielding Nagapattinam coastline by raising palm trees||The District Rural Development Agency in Nagapattinam district has embarked on a plan to plant palmyra saplings along the over 180-km coastline stretching from Kollidam in the northern side to Vedaranyam in the South. The idea behind raising the saplings along the lengthy stretch is to create a wind shield to protect the interior parts of the region from natural disasters. According to officials, the palm seeds will be planted in five rows. Five rows have been planned along the entire coastal stretch, with two metres separating each row. The initiative envisages planting of 20 lakh saplings under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Scheme, District Collector Praveen P. Nair said. The DRDA has already distributed one lakh seeds each to every Panchayat Union, and more than three lakh seeds have already been planted. Besides the coastal areas, the palm seeds are also be planted along the embankments of the numerous waterbodies in the agrarian district, to prevent soil erosion. According to DRDA officials, growing of drought-resistant palm trees, which have a fibrous root system, brings many benefits to the people. Besides enabling recharge of groundwater, the trees also supports the rural economy through harvest of the products. By-products of 'neera' have medicinal properties and were in high demand. The palm sprouts are also sought after for their nutritious properties. On an average, a Panchayat Union will be entrusted with the responsibility of raising at least one lakh saplings. A few lakh seeds have already been planted in the Vedaranyam-Thalaignayar belt. Earlier this month, the task was initiated by Textiles Minister O. S. Manian in villages in Vedaranyam Panchayat Union. Officials said they were confident that planting of palm seeds in such large numbers ahead of the North East monsoon season would bolster the survival rate.
22 September 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Containment measures intensified in Namakkal following spike in cases||Officials from the Department of Health and the district administration have intensified containment measures in the district following a spike in COVID-19 cases. The district has seen an increase in positive cases over the last two weeks and close to 100 cases were reported each day. On Sunday, 131 cases were reported. According to health officials, majority of the patients had travelled to other districts or were primary contacts of positive persons. Officials said that since many from the district were travelling to Salem and Erode for work, it could have contributed to the spike in cases.  As on Monday, there are 103 containment zones in the district and testing has been increased to identify more number of cases. Officials said that close to 1,500 samples were being collected each day in the district. Apart from Namakkal, samples are also being sent to the testing facilities in Salem and Coimbatore.
22 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry poised to reach testing landmark||Puducherry is poised to reach a COVID-19 testing landmark when it completes testing 10% of its population in the next few days, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said on Monday. Addressing the media, Mr. Rao said the administration had carried out 1,40,107 tests so far. The Health Minister said that in the wake of a video-call with experts from the U.S. and the U.K. on Sunday to discuss the COVID-19 situation in the U.T., the Chief Minister convened a meeting with the Jipmer Director and the Health Director to decide on implementing some of the suggestions. On Monday, Puducherry logged 273 new cases to take the cumulative case load past the 23,000-mark, even as nine more deaths raised the toll to 467. The capital accounted for six deaths, Karaikal one and Yanam two. The patients, including three women, were in the 52-75 years age group. The cumulative death tolls are: Puducherry (398), Karaikal (31) and Yanam (38). The case fatality rate was 2.01% and recovery rate 77.90%, after 509 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said a team of doctors, including an ICMR representative, would analyse every COVID-19 casualty to determine what went wrong and the lessons to be learnt in the event of a death at IGMCRI or Jipmer.
22 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. opts for open market borrowing||The Union Territory of Puducherry has opted for the Centre’s proposal of borrowing from the open market to tide over the GST revenue shortfall during the current financial year. The GST council had put forth options before the States and Union Territories, allowing them to borrow the compensation deficit due to transition to GST regime, coupled with the revenue shortfall due to the economic slowdown triggered by COVID-19. The States and U.T.s were also given the option of borrowing the compensation amount for GST implementation alone, an official said. Accepting the proposal, the CM, however, said it would have been better had the Centre borrowed the money and passed it on to the U.T.
22 September 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||108 ambulance service inaugurated at Killukottai and Parambur||Heeding public request, a 108 ambulance service has been introduced at Killukottai village in the district. Inaugurating the service at Killukottai on Monday, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said the ambulance service would benefit around 26,000 people residing at 12 panchayats including Killukottai, Udayalipatti and Puliyur. Hitherto, the 108 ambulance service used to be operated to Killukottai and its nearby villages from far off areas such as Keeranur, Andakulam and Sengipatti. The introduction of the new ambulance service at Killukottai could be made use of by the villagers for emergency situations such as delivery cases and accidents. The Minister said heeding to the public request steps would be taken to establish a new Government Primary Health Centre at Killukottai. Mr. Vijayabaskar said the State government had been implementing various welfare measures aimed at benefiting the general public. District Collector P. Uma Maheswari and health department officials participated in the event. Mr. Vijayabaskar also inaugurated 108 ambulance service at Parambur village in the district. Speaking on the occasion, the Minister appealed to the public to adhere to the guidelines spelt out by the State government to protect themselves from getting infected with COVID-19. The government had announced relaxations to improve the livelihood of the people, he said while exhorting them to remain cautious by wearing a mask and ensuring personal distancing while venturing out.
22 September 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Convict hands over lost gold chain||A gold chain which was found lying in a petrol bunk run by the Prison Department at Pudukottai Town was retrieved and handed over to its owner by a convict working at the outlet. A senior prison official said a man by name S. Saravanan had come to refuel his two-wheeler when the gold chain worn by him slipped and fell on the ground on Sunday. Without noticing it, Saravanan left the spot. Moments later, one of the convicts by name T. Christhu, working at the fuel outlet, noticed the chain and handed it over to the jail officials deployed at the petrol bunk. The recovery of the lost gold chain was conveyed to the Superintendent of District Jail and Borstal School V. Rukmani Priyadarshini and the chain was kept in safe custody. The official said Saravanan of Kattiyavayal came to the fuel outlet on Monday in search of his gold chain and conveyed the information to the staff. Information regarding the chain was ascertained from Saravanan and the CCTV footage was also checked to establish if he had come on Sunday to fill fuel. After ensuring that the gold chain belonged to Saravanan, it was handed over to him. The official said a good entry was marked in the history ticket of the life convict Christhu.
22 September 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Case booked for organising ‘vadamadu’ without permission||The Keeranur Police in the district has registered a case against few persons in connection with organising ‘vadamadu’, a bull chasing event with a rope tied to the animal, without obtaining permission from the district administration on Sunday. The event at Thiruppur village was said to be organised by some local youth in the morning. A few bulls were brought to the spot for the event with over 200 spectators assembling. Upon receipt of information, police personnel went to the village and stopped the event that was organised on government land without taking any protective measures and trespassing on the land, said police sources. Acting on a complaint lodged by Murugalakshmi, the Village Administrative Officer of Veerakudi village, the Keeranur Police booked a case against more than five persons under IPC sections including 448 (house trespass), 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation) and 289 (negligent conduct with respect to animal) besides under the Cruelty of Animals Act. The accused were yet to be arrested, said police sources.
22 September 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Villagers warned||Following heavy inflow of water from KRS and Kabini dams in Karnataka to Mettur dam, revenue officials have warned villagers venturing into Cauvery river near the upstream of Mettur dam.  According to officials from the Public Works Department, the water level at Mettur dam was 89.92 ft against total scale of 120 feet and the stored capacity at the dam was 52,559 mcft. The inflow of water to the dam was 35,000 cusecs.  Erode Staff Reporter adds:  Meanwhile, water level at Bhavani Sagar Dam is inching close to 101 feet here on Monday evening. The water level stood at 101.87 feet against the full reservoir level of 105 feet.
22 September 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Offenders facing warrants arrested||Offenders facing charges for different offences and non-bailable warrants were arrested by Salem City police in a special drive. According to police, over 50 persons have been arrested in this connection during the drive conducted since Saturday. Police sources said the arrested underwent COVID-19 tests and four of them tested positive.
22 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Murder suspect gives the slip, is COVID-19 positive||A man arrested by the Salem Rural Police in connection with a murder case went missing from the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, where he was under treatment for COVID-19, on Monday. Police said that Naresh Kumar from Omalur was arrested on Saturday in connection with the murder of an elderly woman. He was taken to the government hospital for COVID-19 test and his results returned positive. He was undergoing treatment at the hospital. He went missing on Monday and the hospital authorities alerted the police. Police are on the lookout for him.
22 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Weavers demand extension of moratorium||Weavers from Jalagandapuram and nearby areas here petitioned the District Collector on Monday seeking extension of moratorium for loan repayment. The petitioners said that they had taken loans from private banks for business purposes and were paying EMI on due dates till March this year. They alleged that the COVID-19 lockdown severely hit their business and now banks were threatening them to repay loans. The petitioners requested the district administration to provide them at least one year’s time for repayment of loans.
22 September 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Man hacked to death in Sivakasi||A 53-year-old man, S. Muniyasamy of Rani Anna Colony, was hacked to death near his house in the early hours of Monday. Police said unidentified persons killed him around 5 a.m. A group of persons had stolen pigs reared by Muniyasamy’s younger brother, Solaiappan, following which the victim went to A. Thulukkapatti and berated them. Suspecting that the incident could have led to the murder, Sivakasi Town police picked up some suspects.
22 September 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Andal’s garland taken to Tirupati||Soodi kodutha malai or the garland adorned by Goddess Andal at Srivilliputtur on Monday was taken to Tirupati to decorate Lord Venkateswara of Tirumala during Brahmotsavam. After a special puja to the presiding deity decorated with a silk vastram , a toy parrot and the garland, the adornments were taken to Tirumala. They would adorn Lord Venkateswara during Garuda seva on the fifth day of Brahmotsavam.
22 September 2020||Tenkasi,TAMIL NADU||Courtallam to remain closed||The Courtallam falls in the district will continue to remain closed to the public, said Collector Arun Sundar Dayalan here on Monday. In a press release, the Collector said that following covid-19 pandemic, the government announced the closure of certain institutions in public interest. A number of programmess had been launched to fight the virus since March- end. The government had treated 6,095 patients so far and kept the virus under control. With a view to reviving the economy, the government announced relaxations in the curfew and appealed to the people to follow the guidelines. Under such circumstances, the administration had decided to keep Courtallam out of bounds to visitors with a view to preventing spread of the infection. The Collector appealed to the people to stay indoors and help the official machinery to fight the virus effectively.
22 September 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Distributing face masks for free to promote their use||In an attempt to promote widespread usage of face masks as an essential protective gear against COVID-19 among the masses, members of a Kumbakonam-based spiritual and social service organisation, have started dispensing the face covers free of cost through a couple of shops by them in the town. The free face masks are for taking from boxes placed prominently at a couple of shops selling pooja items and flowers near the Adi Kumbeswarar Temple in Kumbakonam. The shops are run by members of Jothimalai Iraipani Thirukoottam, an organisation of Sivanadiyars (followers of Lord Siva) engaged in spiritual and social service in the delta region, which has taken up a campaign to raise awareness on COVID-19. “While face masks are considered as an important gear to protect ourselves from the novel corona virus, we found that most often people hesitate to spend money to purchase masks. But in our awareness programmes we found that when provided free, people were willing to wear them. Hence, we decided to supply face masks to people through businesses run by our members,” said Thiruvadikudil Swamigal, founder, Jothimalai Iraipani Thirukoottam. So far two of the organisation’s members have started dispensing face masks through boxes kept in their shops so that people can help themselves. More members from places such as Tiruchi and Pudukottai have come forward to do so, he said. The organisation, which has also facilitated donation of about 150 units of blood during the pandemic, has also appealed to the government to make available face masks free of cost to the people in public places. “The government could place such boxes to dispense face masks in public places so that people can use them. Though the government has been supplying masks through the ration shops, not all seem to have got it so far. The government can utilise the money collected from the people as penalties for violations of the standard operating procedure for purchasing the face masks in bulk,” he added.
22 September 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Open more DPCs in Thanjavur, say farmers||Members of the Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam staged a protest in front of the Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation (TNCS) office here on Monday demanding the opening of more direct purchase centres (DPCs) in Thanjavur to procure paddy from farmers. The farmers pointed out that early kuruvai crop was being harvested in many parts of the district and there was an urgent need to take steps to procure the paddy immediately. Only a limited number of DPCs were functioning now and farmers were forced to wait up to a week to sell their paddy at the centres. With sporadic rains, the moisture content of the paddy had increased and farmers were facing much hardship. Senthil Kumar, district president of the association, who led the agitation claimed that paddy was piling up in many DPCs. The TNCSC has so far opened 166 DPCs in the district and about 2,500 tonnes of paddy was being procured in a day. Steps would be taken to open more DPCs to meet the farmers demand, TNCSC sources said.
22 September 2020||THOOTHUKUDI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Impasse ends in Thattarmadam case||The impasse in handing over the body of S. Selvan, 32, who was abducted and murdered by a gang, ended following talks between Thoothukudi Collector Sandeep Nanduri and the victim’s family members on Monday. According to the complaint, Selvan, son of Thanislas of Chinnakudiyuruppu near Sattankulam, was allegedly kidnapped and beaten to death by a gang on September 17 after his family members reportedly refused to sell their land to an AIADMK functionary, Thirumanavel. Selvan’s mother Elizabeth said Thirumanavel connived with Thattarmadam Inspector of Police Harikrishnan and got a number of cases registered against her son to force him to part with the land. On September 17, Selvan was kidnapped and murdered, she said and suspected the role of the Inspector too in the crime. Superintendent of Police Jeyakumar directed the police to register cases of kidnap and murder against six persons including Harikrishnan and Thirumanavel. While Harikrishnan was moved to Armed Reserve Police, the special teams were on the lookout for other suspects. Thirumanavel and Muthukrishnan surrendered before a Saidapet court in Chennai and the Inspector was suspended by DIG of Police (Tirunelveli Range) Praveenkumar Abinapu. When the Collector, accompanied by the SP, visited the family members to convince them to receive the body, they were supported by their relatives and opposition party functionaries led by DMK MLA Anitha Radhakrishnan. The talks, which went on for about an hour, finally ended at a consensus, officials said. The family members finally agreed to receive the body after the government assured employment to one of them (wife of Selvan), arrest of all other accused involved in the case, transfer of the case to CB-CID and a fair and transparent probe. According to the officials, DGP J.K. Tripathi ordered transfer of the case to CB-CID. The State government agreed to give employment to one person in the family of the deceased. Meanwhile, AIADMK party coordinator O. Panneerselvam and co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami in a press note removed Thirumanavel from primary membership of the party. MLA car attacked Some miscreants damaged Mr. Anita Radhakrishnan’s car parked in his house at Thandupatti near Tiruchendur. Police said the MLA’s driver lodged a complaint with Meignanapuram police following which SP Jeyakumar visited the scene of crime. The CCTV camera showed two persons entering the MLA’s house. Within about six hours, the police teams moved to different localities and secured the suspects identified as Jinnah, 27, son of Shahul Hameed of Aliyar Street, Kayalpattinam, and Selvanathan, 41, son of Ganesan of Thandupattu village. Police said they would probe if the two suspects had any role in threatening the DMK MLA as he had steered the agitation in Sattankulam in connection with the death of Selvan. DMK president M.K. Stalin condemned the attack on the MLA’s car by anti-socials and urged the government to step up security, a press release said. Anticipatory bail The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday granted anticipatory bail to T. Bangaru Rajan and T. Peterraj, brothers of T. Selvan. The three brothers had moved the court seeking anticipatory bail after they were booked by Thattarmadam police. Justice V. Bharathidasan granted anticipatory bail to Mr. Bangaru Rajan and Mr. Peterraj and was informed of Selvan’s death. The State also informed the court that the Inspector and the AIADMK functionary were booked for their involvement in the death of Selvan.
22 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Green environment attracts winged visitors||The lush green Tropical Butterfly Conservatory at Srirangam has not only been attracting butterfly species but also winged visitors of different species. The latest bird species to be spotted inside the 27-acre sprawling conservatory sandwiched between the Cauvery and Coleroon river is the Forest Wagtail. Forest Department officials said this was 89th bird species to be recorded inside the conservatory which was thrown open to visitors in November 2015. The Forest Wagtail is a winter visitor that was spotted inside the conservatory on Monday, said V. Muthukrishnan, a Junior Research Fellow engaged by the Forest Department at the conservatory. The green environment coupled with food availability has been attracting various bird species to the conservatory over the years, said Mr.Muthukrishnan. Bird species recorded earlier at the conservatory which has been established on a sprawling reserve forest land includes Black Stork, Mottled wood owl, Booted Eagle, Crested serpent eagle, short toed snake eagle, Bonellis eagle, Indian pitta and Orange headed thrush. A Forest Department official said the conservatory recorded the 114th butterfly species Bush Hopper a couple of days ago. This butterfly species could be found in the western ghats and its adjoining areas. Mr. Muthukrishnan said some of the butterfly species recorded earlier include Southern Birdwing which is the country's second largest butterfly, Canara swift, Peacock Royal, Large oakblue and Common shot silverline. Butterflies are bio-indicators of a healthy eco-system. The steady rise in the butterfly species over the years is an indicator of a good eco-system at the conservatory, said Mr. Muthukrishnan. The conservatory which has an amphitheatre, indoor conservatory, interpretation centre, eco shop, children's park, boating, aroma garden and Nakshatra vanam has been a favourite spot for butterfly enthusiasts and visitors. Until the conservatory was shut for visitors in March due to COVID-19 pandemic, the footfall of visitors had exceeded 11 lakh since late 2015.
22 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Project Shield’ to protect women, children in 5 districts||The Tiruchi Range Police has launched ‘Project Shield’ - a unique initiative aimed at combating crimes against women and children and to create safe and violence-free communities for them in the five districts of Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Karur, Perambalur and Ariyalur. The project would be implemented in collaboration with the International Justice Mission and stakeholders working for the welfare of women and children in Tiruchi range. Ahead of launching the project, the police had analysed five years' data of crimes reported against women and children reported in the five districts and identified 25 to 30 ‘hotspots,’ Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, Z. Annie Vijaya said on Monday. The project was launched by Inspector General of Police, Central Zone, H.M. Jayaram with Superintendent of Police of Perambalur, Tiruchi Rural, Ariyalur, Karur and Pudukottai besides field-level police officers taking part. The law enforcers would involve all stakeholders - government departments and NGOs executing the project. “The Tiruchi Range Police has created a dedicated Facebook account, Twitter and WhatsApp for Project Shield to ascertain feedback and information from the general public regarding the project implementation, their requirements as well as on issues relating to crimes against women and children,” Ms. Annie Vijaya said. There would be convergence and capacity building programmes through the online mode as part of the project by involving experts for the field workers and police personnel who would be involved prior to finalising an action plan for each district. As part of the project, the police in association with the stakeholders would carry out programmes initially at the chosen hotspot areas to create awareness and sensitise the public to the safety of women and children and in an effort to combat crimes against them. The cooperation of local bodies would also be sought. Speedy completion of existing cases and formation of women integrated network groups also form part of the project’s implementation. Besides tracking crimes reported in Tiruchi range, steps would be taken to conduct an end line survey by receiving feedback from the public, police and stakeholders to measure the impact of the project after a few months from each of the five districts.
22 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Palakkarai residents say ‘no’ to micro-composting unit||Residents of Manjanakara Street in Palakkarai have opposed the setting up of a micro- composting unit by the Tiruchi corporation in their locality. The residents submitted a petition to the Corporation Commissioner on Monday demanding his intervention. Around 100 residents of Manjanakara Street, in ward number 24 in Ariyamangalam zone met Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian urging that he cancel the plan of setting up a micro composting site in their locality. The site, which was being planned in a residential area would cause inconvenience and might cause spread of infections, they claimed. M. Velu, a resident said that nearly 500 families, including young children and senior citizens, reside in the locality. “It is a crowded residential area. There is also a school and a temple, where people frequent. The compost yard can become a major health hazard to all of us,” he claimed. The crowded area has led to the spread of many diseases earlier, while recently, many residents have also suffered from COVID-19, M. Velu said. “During such a time, setting up a micro composting yard could spread infection and foul smell,” he said. However, S. Sivasubramanian said that the micro composting yard would help in waste management in the area. “We have planned the unit in that area because of necessity. Micro composting yards are already functioning in residential areas in Woraiyur, Vayalur Road and in other localities in the city. The residents have not raised any such concerns,” he said.
22 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees a dip in cases||The central region on Monday recorded a slight dip in COVID-19 cased with 615 patients testing positive for the viral infection, compared to Sunday's 661. The region recorded seven deaths - four in Thanjavur, two in Tiruchi and one in Perambalur. Of the central districts, Thanjavur recorded the highest number of cases with 136 people testing positive. Among them were two doctors at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, an office assistant at the Melur Primary Healthcare Centre, two employees at the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department in Kumbakonam, a government school headmaster, and an employee of a private hospital. A total of 120 patients tested positive in Tiruvarur, while in Pudukottai, 98 patients tested positive. Patients in both districts were primary contacts and people with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses. In Tiruchi, 80 new cases were recorded, most from existing containment zones. “No new containment zones have been added within city limits for at least a week,” a senior health official said. Meanwhile, 36 patients from the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, and five from the COVID Care Centre were discharged on Monday. In Nagapattinam, 89 patients tested positive. Of them, were contacts of patients who tested positive earlier, antenatal mothers, and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. A total of 54 people tested positive in Karur. Of the 54 were residents from Gandhi Nagar, Kulithalai and Gandhigramam. The patients were admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital for treatment. In Ariyalur, 28 fresh cases were recorded. Two new containment zones were added, further increasing the total number to 38 containment zones in the district. Perambalur, meanwhile, recorded 10 new cases. Of the 10, four hailed from Perambalur, three from Alathur, two from Veppur and one from Veppanthattai blocks.
22 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Process of VC Search Panel formation for BDU initiated in time||This time around, appointment of a new Vice-Chancellor for Bharathidasan University (BDU) may not be delayed as the process of constituting the Search Panel has been initiated in time. In all probability, the university will have a new VC during January, 2021, when the three-year tenure of the incumbent Vice-Chancellor P. Manisankar would come to an end, sources said. In a circular, the university has communicated to the Senate and Syndicate the time frame for choosing their nominees to the VC Search Panel. The government will subsequently name its nominee in the three-member Committee. Once the Search Committee is formed, applications will be called for from eligible candidates - distinguished academicians with a minimum of 10 years of experience as Professor in the university system or 10 years of experience in an equivalent position in a reputed research and / or academic administrative organisation. The VC Search Committee will have its sittings to short-list 10 candidates and recommend three names among them to the Governor. The Governor will, eventually, interview the three candidates and choose the person he deems the best among them. In recent instances, the office of the Governor had cleared the final choice of candidate for VC of State universities within a day of completing the interview process. For at least thrice in the past, formation of the VC Search Committee was delayed by several months, even after the post fell vacant. This time, the Search Committee is expected to be take a final shape within the next few weeks, sources said.
22 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Demand for native cow breeds goes up||Though considered to be low-milk yielding, native cattle breeds, referred to as “nattu pasu” in local parlance, have been in good demand in the market of late. The average milk production of the native breed is said to be only around just two litres a day. However, it costs around Rs. 60,000 -70,000 in the market as more and more people are moving towards having milk from native breeds of cattle. Though cattle shandies in the State are yet to open following their closure due to the pandemic, traders and middlemen regularly visit various villages around Manapparai to buy nattu pasu for their customers. They look for indigenous breeds named after “Manapparai”, “Umbulacheri”, “Kangeyam” and “Burgur”. The growing popularity and demand of milk from native breeds is said to have kindled interest among the affluent to rear them in their houses. “The demand for native cattle breeds has gone up drastically in the recent past. There are affluent urban customers, who are ready to invest Rs. 75,000 for getting just 2 litre of milk produced by nattu pasu,” said Ponnusamy, a cattle trader in Manapparai. He said people, mainly actors, politicians, academicians, businessmen, who have farm houses and home gardens in Chennai, Coimbatore, Kancheepuram, Erode, Tiruppur, Dindigul and other industrial towns and cities have been showing interest to rear nattu pasu for getting high quality milk for their personal use. S. Ganesh Kumar, a veterinarian in Tiruchi, said that the productivity of native breeds was very low. However, some believe that the milk of native breeds has good health benefits than that of exotic species or cross breeds. The demand for milk produced by native breeds was going up especially among affluent people leading to demand for rearing native breeds.
22 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Violation is a costly affair||A week after the revised fines for violation of COVID-19 measures came into force, authorities in the central region have come down heavily on violators. While in Tiruchi city, a total of Rs. 35,000 was collected by the city corporation, in Perambalur,Rs. 53,000 was collected and in Ariyalur, Rs. 1,16,200 has been collected so far. In Tiruchi city, of the penalty collected so far, Rs. 25,000 was from violators not wearing masks. The remaining Rs. 10,000 was collected from shops and other places where personal distancing was not maintained. “The public seems to be aware of the need to follow the norms for their own health. The number of violations have dropped significantly,” Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian said. “While in June and July we had been collecting up to Rs. 1.5 lakh a week, we are collecting less than Rs. 50,000 nowadays,” he said. In Ariyalur, 561 people were penalised and Rs. 1,12,200 as fine was collected as on Monday. Meanwhile, eight people were fined for violating home quarantine norms and containment zones measures. In Perambalur, as on Monday, 229 people were fined by the Department of Public Health amounting to Rs. 46,100, while the police department has so far fined 17 people, collecting Rs. 3,400. Meanwhile, seven people were fined Rs. 500 each for violating personal distance norms.
22 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi reports 98 cases, Kanniyakumari 97||Thoothukudi on Monday reported 98 fresh COVID-19 cases, with which the district’s tally moved up to 12,956. The district also registered discharge of 74 people from hospitals. Kanniyakumari recorded 97 new cases to have a tally of 11,883. There were 104 discharges from hospitals. Eighty-five people – all indigenous cases – tested positive in Madurai, taking the district’s tally to 15,963. The district marked the death of a patient and the discharge of two persons. The district’s toll stands at 379 and the number of active cases at 792. A total of 83 people tested positive in Tirunelveli district, which saw its tally rise to 11,898. The district marked 146 discharges. Tenkasi’s tally went up to 6,861 after 67 fresh cases and 27 discharges were reported. The number of new cases reported in Dindigul district was 65. The district, which has registered a total case count of 8,451, marked discharge of 55 people. Theni had 57 fresh cases to have a tally of 14,277. The hospitals in the district discharged 93 people. With the addition of 41 cases, Sivaganga’s total count of positive cases rose to 4,840. The district witnessed 39 discharges on Monday. Virudhunagar district’s toll rose to 208 with the death of a 45-year-old woman at Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on Sunday. The district recorded 35 fresh cases, which raised its tally to 14,066, and 20 discharges. The number active cases stands at 316. Ramanathapuram accounted for 15 fresh cases, with which its tally reached 5,393. There were 10 discharges from hospitals.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district records highest single day spike of 648 cases||Coimbatore district on Monday witnessed the highest single day spike of COVID-19 cases with 648 persons testing positive for the disease. The district’s tally rose to 26,562. A total of 531 persons were discharged after treatment on Monday. The Health Department on Monday said that six persons died of the disease, raising the toll in the district to 388. The deceased were aged between 41 and 70. A total of 4,475 persons are undergoing treatment. Tiruppur district reported 161 new cases. The district’s tally increased to 6,220 and 1,590 persons are under treatment. According to the Health Department, the district did not report any COVID-19 death on Monday. Salem district reported 295 new cases and three deaths. According to health officials, 288 cases, including 156 in Salem Corporation limits, were indigenous. The deceased were aged 70, 64 and 67. Seven patients had returned from Dharmapuri, Erode, Krishnagiri, Namakkal, Kanchipuram and Kalakuruchi. 130 cases in Namakkal Namakkal district reported 130 cases and one death. The deceased was aged 66. Fourteen patients had returned from Chennai, Salem, Krishnagiri, Coimbatore, Erode and one from Karnataka. Erode reported 201 new cases, taking the districts’ tally to 5,628. A total of 131 persons were discharged on Monday, while 1,144 persons continue to be under treatment. Two persons died, raising the toll in the district to 72. The Nilgiris district reported 122 new cases. The total number of cases so far in the district is 3,090 and 724 people are under treatment. Krishnagiri recorded 92 new cases, taking the total number of active cases to 836. Dharmapuri recorded 89 cases, taking the total number of active cases to 992.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||From dusty Kachakatti to sweaty boxing ring||There used to be a time when M. Pandeeshwari and S. Azhagupandi spent most of their time practising at a make-shift boxing ring in Government High School in Kachakatti near Vadipatti in Madurai district. “When boxing was first introduced in our school, our Physical Education master came to our class and asked if any of us were interested. Until then I had never taken part in this sport but I had participated in running and other athletic activities. It seemed interesting and I joined the coaching that took place after school hours,” says Ms. Pandeeshwari who is presently studying Class 12 at Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Vadipatti. Her peer Ms. Azhagupandi, studying Class 11 at the same school, says when the coaching began for her in Class 9 in the old school, both of them took it lightly. “It was a pleasant distraction from school work and anyway it was new. So I was excited,” she says. But soon boxing became an obsession for the two girls. They went on to win State-level tournaments. Training, however, came to an abrupt halt when they had to move out of Kachakatti to attend higher secondary school. Without a ground, ring, coaches and equipment, the two could not train. They now yearn to get back to boxing. “If they practise properly and regularly, the girls can represent Tamil Nadu at national-level events,” says R. Chandramohan, their former coach and PT teacher at the Kachakatti school. The two are daughters of vendors selling spinach at weekly markets in Madurai. Mr. Chandramohan says prior to their first divisional competition in Madurai in 2016, both the girls could train only for two months. “They practised hard and maintained a healthy diet, thanks in part to the mid-day meal scheme which provided eggs and pulses daily. When the holidays come, they would not eat as much and lag in strength. They needed an extra push. It all paid off when Pandeeshwari won the first place in the divisional tournament. It fired up Azhagupandi too and she qualified the very next year,” he says. Ms. Pandeeshwari was placed third in a State-level tournament in 2016. She says her parents were supportive. Sports runs in the family as her four older brothers are kabadi players. “In Kachakatti, girls rarely travel far to take part in tournaments. But my parents would ask me to go and bring medals. It was a huge boost,” she says. Ms. Azhagupandi says she would spend half-an-hour each morning and an hour in the evening to fight her opponent Ms. Pandeeshwari who says she took inspiration from Tamil film Maan Karate.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man killed in property dispute||A property dispute between two families led to the murder of one Tirumal Setupathi, 26, of Melakkal near Sholavandan on Sunday. Police said that the deceased had questioned about his uncle selling an ancestral property to another family without the consent of other shareholders. Angered over this, S. Murugan, 55, and his sons had reportedly assaulted Tirumal and his father A. Raja, 65, and his younger brother R. Deepan Chakkaravarhti, 35, with knife and logs. Tirumal, who was admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital with stab injuries, died on Monday. Kadupatti police have arrested five persons in this connection.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘T.N. economy may return to pre-COVID level soon’||“We have assessed the economic conditions of the State. One assessment is that in 2020-21, the growth...will be 1.71%. Another assessment shows that there might be a fall,” he said. Mr. Rangarajan said there were indications from GST collections, fuel taxes and electricity consumption that the State’s economy was now returning to the pre-COVID-19 levels. “Rural areas have an employment guarantee scheme. We have recommended that the State government bring in such a scheme for urban areas as well. There is also a fund of Rs. 3,200 crore for the welfare of construction workers. This has to be spent immediately within the ambit of the guidelines issued by the SC. The government also has to spend another Rs. 10,000 crore so that jobs are generated,” he said. With medical and sanitation expenses rising during the pandemic, the State should look at spending another Rs. 5,000 crore for healthcare. “This year, revenues will go down and expenses will go up. Fiscal deficit will be high,” he said. The panel also suggested that “the government, through the Tamil Nadu Industrial Investment Corporation, increase the capital outlay to Rs. 1,000 crore so that it can provide long-term loans. The government may also set up an industrial township, industrial parks and provide one portion of these to small enterprises”. CM Edappadi K. Palaniswami said the government would consider the recommendations and take action.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three injured as tree falls on house in Udhagamandalam||Three people were injured when an eucalyptus tree fell on top of a house in VC Colony here following heavy winds accompanied by rain on Monday. Officials from the fire and rescue services identified the three victims as Madhialagan, 48, and his two sons, Sanjay, 18, and Prasanth, 23. The three persons were sleeping inside their house when an eucalyptus tree near their house uprooted and fell on top of the building early Monday morning. Fire and rescue service personnel, with the help of the forest department and the revenue department, conducted rescue operation and successfully rescued the three and rushed them to hospital where they are currently undergoing treatment. The Nilgiris has received rainfall for three consecutive days, with an average of 26.26 mm of rain being recorded over a 24-hour-period till Monday morning. Heavy rains continued in Devala, Pandalur, Avalanche, Emerald and Upper Bhavani, and five dams in the district were almost at full capacity. Trees uprooted in six places along the Udhagamandalam - Gudalur road, and fire and rescue service personnel spent the entire Monday morning clearing the route for traffic. Power supply was also affected to parts of Udhagamandalam town and surrounding areas since Thursday night. Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya in a statement called on residents to not venture out of their houses due to the threat of trees getting uprooted. Ms. Divya also urged residents to contact the district emergency helpline – 1077, and pass on any information of people continuing to reside in dangerous areas which are under threat from either landslips or tree-falls. She said that 45 teams have been formed to ensure the safety of residents across the Nilgiris and urged people to remain cautious as the heavy winds posed a threat to public safety.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK functionary expelled||The AIADMK on Monday announced the expulsion of A. Thirumanavel, secretary of the party’s traders cell for the Thoothukudi (west) district unit, after the police filed a case against him for the alleged abduction and murder of a youth. Case filed A few days ago, the police booked the case against Thirumanavel and Harikrishnan, an inspector of the Thattarmadam police station in the Sattankulam police sub-division over the incident.  ‘Violated party discipline’ A party release issued by O. Panneerselvam, coordinator-Deputy Chief Minister, and Edappadi K. Palaniswami, co-coordinator- Chief Minister, here on Monday stated that the office-bearer had “violated the party discipline and brought disrepute to the party.”
22 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Gram panchayat, anganwadi workers stage protests||Members of gram panchayat workers union and anganwadi workers union staged protests in Belagavi on Monday. Gram panchayat workers staged a protest in front of the zilla panchayat demanding payment of wages of some full-time and contract workers that were pending since 2017. They said that the government had to pay arrears of over Rs. 390 crore to several thousand gram panchayat workers. The government should pay this on priority, by reducing outlay to other sectors and schemes, they said. They also demanded that these workers be paid pension and given time-bound promotions. They demanded that watermen, bill collectors and computer operators be promoted after amending Cadre and Recruitment rules. Their leaders V.P. Kulkarni and G.M. Jaine Khan addressed the protesters. Anganwadi workers staged their protest in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office, seeking revision of wages and demanding that kindergarten classes be held in anganwadis, instead of in schools. Under the New Education Policy, the government is planning to open kindergarten classes in schools. This should be stopped and pre-school classes should be held in anganwadis. Anganwadis should be allowed to issue transfer certificates to students who want to join first standard. Anganwadi workers should also be given revised wages and social security benefits, they said. Leaders Meenakshi Kotagi, Sutaja Belagaonkar and others were present.  Gram panchayat workers staged a protest in front of the zilla panchayat demanding payment of wages of some full-time and contract workers pending since 2017
22 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Bridge on Doni submerged||Heavy rain in Talikoti and surrounding areas in Vijayapura district led to the submergence of a low-lying bridge on the river Doni. Residents of villages such as Hadaginal, Harnal, Shivapur and Nagur had to take a longer route than usual to reach their destinations. The Hanuman temple in Talikoti was closed as water entered the temple. In other parts of the district, however, there was reduced rainfall and water that was overflowing bridges on Pandharpur Road and Solapur Road receded. However, the police did not allow full resumption of traffic on these bridges. Belagavi and Bagalkot districts received intermittent rain. Farmers saved two youths who were trying to cross a flooded bridge in Ugargol village on Sunday evening. Their motorcycle was caught in the currents and the youths ran behind it to catch it. The farmers sensed that that would risk their lives and rushed to the help of the youths. They then pulled motorcycle to safety and rescued the youths.
22 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||There is a romance to law: Aditya Sondhi||Law is an exciting career option for youth as it offers satisfaction, intellectual exercise and recognition, said Aditya Sondhi, senior advocate and former additional advocate general, on the third day of The Hindu EducationPlus Career Counselling Digital conclave. Dr. Sondhi, who is an alumnus of National Law School of India University, stressed on the fact that being a lawyer is one of the best ways to help those who have suffered injustice. It also offers an opportunity to build and reshape the socio-political fabric of the country, using the legal system. “Law provides a voice to the one who has been treated unfairly by the system.... Lawyers are also leaders who are at the interface of the legal system with other sections of society and governance,” said Dr. Sondhi. He said that being a lawyer is more than a job. “There is a romance to law,” he said. He advised young students not to be fixated on a particular institution while choosing law. “You should realise that you are choosing a profession and a field of study related to that. You are not choosing a particular institute,” he advised. He informed that of the 800 alumni of law schools, only around 4% had joined the Bar in Karnataka. This figure would not be higher in other places, he said. He said the best juniors in his office were of non-law school backgrounds. Taking a range of questions from students, he said that young lawyers, including those from law schools, were in various professions, including social activism, corporate law, in-house legal counsel, and civil services. Some had become entrepreneurs and even authors. He agreed that success was easy for young lawyers with a Godfather or those from families with lawyers. However, there are a large number of first-generation lawyers, he said, citing his own example. “You can do that by converting your disadvantage into an advantage of experiencing everything first hand and developing courage and confidence,” he said.
22 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Flood losses pegged at over Rs. 9,400 cr.||In the midst of floods, the Stategovernment has revised the estimate of losses caused due to rains and floods this monsoon to Rs. 9,440.8 crore. The amount is likely to go up as several areas were affected by floods last week. “At this moment, we are not sure what the total consequences will be,” Revenue Minister R. Ashok told the Legislative Council on Monday. Responding during a discussion on the flood and rain fury in North Karnataka raised by Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil, the Minister said that preparations anticipating heavy rainfall were started a month ago and that had reduced the loss of human and cattle lives. The State, he said, was also in the process of adding more taluks to the “flood-hit” list. On the huge gap between the estimated loss of Rs. 33,000 crore and the relief of Rs. 1,800 crore received by the State from the Centre, Mr. Ashok said that National Disaster Response Fund norms were very old. “I have written letters to the Centre stating that the compensation amount fixed for damage to private properties and lives were too low and that it may not be of help to flood victims. The letter has been referred to the Union Finance Ministry. Even though it may not help during this flood season, if the proposal is accepted it will be of help to all States,” he said. Meanwhile, he said Karnataka was building a permanent complex with community kitchen, medical care centre, and adequate number of bathrooms and toilets to house people displaced in flood-prone areas.
22 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Farmers protest against amendments||Farmers from across Karnataka have begun an indefinite sit-in at Freedom Park in Bengaluru demanding that the State government scrap the recent amendments to Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, and Karnataka APMC Act, 1966. These protests began even as the State government prepared to introduce them as Bills in the ongoing Assembly session. “These ordinances in the State and the recent Agriculture Reforms Bills passed in Parliament arepart of a larger move towards corporatisation of the agriculture sector. The sit-in protest will continue till the demands are met or till the end of the Assembly session,” farmers’ leader Kodihalli Chandrashekhar said. When quizzed about concerns over COVID-19, he said all precautions were being taken to prevent a spread of the infection. “Both the State andUnion governments have misused the pandemic and have brought in long-lasting changes without consulting stakeholders, forcing us to come to the streets,” he said. Farmers’ organisations, supported by a host of Dalit and labour organisations, are mulling a Karnataka Bandh on September 25, the same day that over 250 farmers’ outfits across the country have called for a Bharat Bandh over the recent agriculture reform Bills passed by the Union government. Freedom fighter H.S. Doreswamy, who has also been leading a movement for land rights, said the recent amendments to the land reforms Act undoes the reforms in the State. Yogendra Yadav of Swaraj Abhiyansaid, “APMCs did have some problems. But the present Bill that allows for private mandis is like removing the roof of a house altogether because it was leaking,” he said.
22 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NLSIU to implement judgement in ‘letter and spirit’||The NLSIU, in a statement issued on Monday, said it would implement the judgement and orders of the Supreme Court in “letter and spirit”, and that it would take the necessary steps to welcome the new batch of students. While announcing its decision to hold NLAT 2020, the law school cited the repeated postponement of CLAT 2020, which had “resulted in uncertainty for students, parents and the participating universities”. It follows a trimester system where every academic year is made up of three terms of 90 days, which would be delayed if the admission process was not completed by the end of September. “At a faculty meeting held earlier on Monday, the faculty resolved that the university will do everything possible to respect its founding commitment to a trimester based academic calendar, and maintain the highest academic rigour and standards,” the release stated.
22 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Appeal to confer Bharat Ratna on Urs||Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia Thinkers Forum has appealed to the Centre to confer the Bharat Ratna on former Chief Minister D. Devaraj Urs, posthumously, in letters to the Home Minister, PM, President, V-P, and Governor. Former Supreme Court judge V. Gopala Gowda, writer Baragur Ramachandrappa, former Advocate-General Ravivarma Kumar, chairman of forum B.S. Shivanna, advocate Lakshmi Narayan, writer Banjagere Jayaprakash, advocate S. Ismail Zabiulla, and educationist Bheemanna Meti wrote in the letters.
22 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Leaders spar over funds||Horticulture Minister K.C. Narayana Gowda and Belli Prakash, ruling party MLA from Kadur, almost came to blows outside the Legislative Assembly on Monday over the issue of releasing funds to Kadur constituency. As the Minister walked towards the canteen established for legislators, the MLA questioned him over the delay in releasing funds to his constituency. He allegedly passed unsavoury comments about the Minister’s style of functioning. In response, Mr. Gowda first asked him to wear a mask properly while speaking and then directed him to meet him at his office. When the MLA rushed towards the Minister aggressively, after heated arguments, Congress MLA Satish Jarkiholi, JD(S) MLA Annadani, and Ministers K.S. Eshwarappa and C.T. Ravi intervened and stopped the duo from abusing each other. Then the MLA went inside the Assembly. Mr. Gowda had quit the JD(S) and joined the BJP last year. He was re-elected in the byelection from K.R. Pet constituency.
22 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Closing compensation||The government is considering closing the compensation to be paid to those who have taken a part of money for house damage during last monsoon, but have not started construction. Revenue Minister R. Ashok said 5,779 persons who had taken Rs. 1 lakh had not started work on their homes. “We are thinking of giving notice to such persons and close it [the compensation]. I will hold discussions with the Chief Minister,” he said. So far, 1,895 persons have claimed the full compensation of Rs. 5 lakh. “An amount of Rs. 911 crore has been kept aside for compensation payment. People are not coming forward,” he said.
22 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Will strengthen NDPS Act’||Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J. Madhuswamy on Monday said the government has requested the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) and the Advocate General to prepare a draft to further strengthen the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985. The government is considering abetment and provocation to commit crime under the ambit of the law, he said. The government is awaiting the draft from both the NLSIU and the Advocate General, following which appropriate action will be taken, the Minister told the Legislative Council. He was responding to a suggestion by BJP member Bharathi Shetty to appoint a committee comprising retired judges and advocates to study the existing law and suggest ways to strengthen it. Earlier, referring to the ongoing police investigation into the supply and consumption of drugs, Ms. Shetty said that while the laws have to be made more stringent, action must also be initiated against whoever is found guilty.
22 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2008 blast accused held||The Anti Terror Cell (ATC) of the city police has arrested Shoaib, an accused in the 2008 serial bomb blast case. He has been deported from Dubai and was arrested in Kerala on Monday evening. Another terror accused, wanted for an unrelated case in another State, also flew back with him and was detained by central agencies, sources said.
22 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Treat COVID-19 seriously: ex-CM||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has said that the people infected with COVID-19 have been experiencing social boycott and the disease can be contained only by wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, and using sanitisers.  Speaking in the Assembly on the obituary reference moved by Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri, the Congress leader said, “COVID-19 is a dangerous disease and many leaders have succumbed to it.” Araga Jnanendra of the BJP said that many Accredited Social Health Activists and anganwadi workers had succumbed to COVID-19 while discharging services for the public. He urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to provide financial support to the families of COVID-19 victims.                      Earlier, Mr. Yediyurappa and other members of the House condoled the death of former president Pranab Mukherjee, Rajya Sabha member Ashok Gasti, former Union Minister M.V. Rajasekharan, former Ministers Raja Madangopal Naik and G. Ramakrishna, former MP Raja Rangappa Naik, former MLAs Winnifred Fernandes, C. Guruswamy, and M.J. Appaji Gowda, seer Kesavananda Bharati Swami, writer K.S. Nissar Ahmed, artiste Shyamala G. Bhave, Indian vocalist Pandit Jasraj, Yakshagana artiste Hostota Gajanana Bhat, and the 20 soldiers who were killed in Galwan valley during a skirmish with Chinese troops.
22 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Have not got caste census report: Minister||Minister for Backward Classes Welfare B. Sriramulu on Monday said that the State government had not received the report on the caste census conducted by Karnataka Backward Classes Commission in 2015. Responding to a question by BJP member K.P. Nanjundi on the status of the report, he said former commissionchairman Kantaraju’s term had expired and hence he had not submitted the report to the government. He said the commission had spent Rs. 162.77 crore on the census. Mr. Sriramulu said that since nobody was heading the commission now, the government had not received the report. He also said that he would soon discuss the matter with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and request him to appoint someone so that the report is received.
22 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||BJP workers attempt to assault, threaten police||A group of BJP workers barged into the police station at Arehalli in Belur taluk on Sunday and allegedly attempted to assault policemen, threatening them of dire consequences. The group included the party’s district unit president H.K. Suresh and rowdy-sheeter Madhu Kumar. Following the incident, the police have booked a case naming Madhu Kumar and Bharat Kumar as accused. The name of the party’s district president has not been included. The case was registered based on a complaint filed by woman constable Vani, who was on duty when the incident happened. The Arehalli Police had booked a case against Madhu Kumar in connection with illegal transportation of sand on September 12. He took a group of supporters including H.K. Suresh to question the police on Sunday afternoon. PSI Mahesh was out on official duty. They picked up an argument with ASI Cheluvaraju, obstructing him from his duty. The party workers alleged that the PSI and his staff were targeting workers of the party.
22 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Twin cities see a series of protests amid rain||Amid rain, members of various organisations, including anganwadi workers, farmers and workers, staged their demonstrations in the twin cities of Hubballi and Dharwad on Monday seeking fulfilment of their various demands. They all gathered under the aegis of the Anganwadi Workers Forum, the Raita Krishi Karmikara Sangha, the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) and the Communist Party of India (CPI) to stage their protests in front of the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad. During their protest, anganwadi workers urged the State government to start kindergarten classes in anganwadi centres instead of in primary schools as it would push anganwadi centres to the verge of closure. They said that the move was detrimental to the very existence of the anganwadi centres as people would refrain from sending their children to these centres forcing their closure. And, the closure of anganwadi centres would render lakhs of people, mainly women, jobless. Amendments opposed In another protest in Hubballi, members of the Communist Party of India (CPI) strongly opposed the amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act and other Acts, terming them detrimental to the interests of farmers and the working class. Leading the protest, CPI district office-bearers said that the BJP-led State government was acting at the behest of big corporate and multinational companies. Memorandum In yet another protest in Hubballi, autorickshaw and taxi drivers urged the State government to also consider the case of those autorickshaw and taxi drivers who did not have a vehicle of their own under the financial assistance scheme announced by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. They submitted a memorandum to the taluk officials. Crop relief In Dharwad, farmers from Shirur, led by Mallikarjun Balagoudar, staged a protest demanding the early release of crop relief for kharif and rabi seasons of 2018-19, repair of rural roads and also fresh farm loans. Development sought Residents of Hunasikumari village staged a protest in Dharwad under the aegis of Raita Krishi Karmikara Sangha seeking development activities in their village. They said that they were deprived of basic amenities, including transportation and primary healthcare. As public transport buses were not being run citing bad roads, the administration should immediately get the roads repaired, they demanded. ‘Release wages’ In another protest in Dharwad, workers of various government hostels run by the Social Welfare and Backward Classes Corporation submitted a memorandum seeking the payment of their pending wages. They said that hundreds of workers were facing hardships as the department had not released their wages despite a direction from the State government.
22 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Health activists seek hike in salary||Accredited Social Health Activists under the banner of All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC) staged a protest in Kalaburagi on Monday demanding a minimum monthly wage of Rs. 12,000 and other benefits. The activists said that amid the pandemic, they were risking their lives to combat COVID-19 as they are regularly conducting survey to identify high-risk individuals and those with co-morbidities. They demanded protective gears, including face shields, N95 masks, hand sanitisers and gloves, for all workers as they were visiting containment areas without the optimum protection needed.
22 September 2020||KALABURAGI/HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Look at emerging courses and on upgrading skills, say experts||Disapproving the tendency of parents pressurising their children to take a particular course or children insisting upon going to a particular institution abroad, S. Kumar, executive secretary and CEO of COMEDK, advised them to think beyond popular courses and studying abroad to explore what he called “emerging courses” at home that would cost less and open more opportunities. Speaking at The Hindu EducationPlus Career Counselling Digital Conclave, he said: “Beyond popular courses such as computer science, mechanical engineering, and information technology, go for less-chosen options such as environmental engineering, which is the thing of the future. There are hundreds of programmes that are very less competitive and more lucrative.” Mr. Kumar stated that there were more than 50 emerging courses health sciences alone, such as occupational therapy, physiotherapy, audiology, prosthetic and orthotic engineering. Mr. Kumar advised the students to be realistic while choosing the course and the place of study. “You don’t have to go to the United States or England to make your future. This country has enormous opportunities to offer,” he said. He said Karnataka was a good place for professional learning with industry backing. “Many engineering institutions established in the State have all the support from the industries,” he said.  The world of AI In another session, career consultant and analyst J.P. Gandhi emphasised the need for focusing on upgrading skills and pursuing inter-disciplinary studies in the coming days where artificial intelligence and machine learning are set to gain prominence. Elaborating on how vast the changes would be, he said that while at present around 29% of the work was being done machines and rest by humans, it was estimated to increase to 51% in a couple of years. Teaching, medicine, cooking, and architecture would probably be among the few sectors which cannot be taken over completely by artificial intelligence, he added. “Irrespective of the course that the students would be opting for whether it is engineering, medicine, commerce or humanities, they will have to equip themselves with the right kind of skill sets,” he said. Starting his talk with the engineering courses, he said the field had a huge potential but the focus would be on skill sets. “Your digital skills will be more important than theoretical knowledge in the coming days,” he said. Mr. Gandhi advised the students particularly those pursuing professional courses to start preparing themselves for the job market from the first year of their course or make their plans accordingly. Sponsors The gold sponsors of the event are Hindustan Group of Institutions, Chennai, Insights IAS and Cambridge Institute of Technology. Silver sponsors are Acharya Bangalore B-School, East West, Jnanadarshana IAS, Shaheen Group of Institutions, and the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
22 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Retain Mangaluru complex with SR only’||Notwithstanding South Western Railway’s (SWR) demand with the Railway Board to give effect to the Railway Ministry’s decision to bring Mangaluru Railway Complex under its jurisdiction to enhance operational efficiency, Southern Railway (SR) has urged the board to retain Mangaluru under it as majority of passenger trains operated through here were destined towards Kerala, Tamil Nadu and the North. Responding to Ministry’s query, SR recently said 23 of 31 pairs of passenger trains originating from Mangaluru Central hed towards Kerala and Tamil Nadu. A majority of passenger trains handled at Mangaluru Junction from Kerala/Tamil Nadu were destined towards Konkan Railway (North). Panambur Railway Yard at New Mangalore Port was the major loading point for SR sending freight trains to SWR and SR. Obtaining this communication under RTI, Railway activist Gautam Shetty said since the Board had already decided the merger would enhance operations, an official gazette notification should be issued immediately. The only formality required was a board meeting to issue the same, he said. The board’s letters to SR and KRCL came after A.K. Singh, GM, SWR, told the Ministry that both the Railways were non-cooperative to seamless integration of Railway system of the rest of Karnataka with that of Coastal Karnataka. He urged the Board to notify its earlier decision of merging Mangaluru Complex of SR and Thokur Station of KRCL with SWR since these cater mainly to destinations within Karnataka (SWR). Then Railway Minister Nitish Kumar during his visit to Mangaluru on December 28, 2003, had ordered the merger of Mangaluru Complex with SWR for operational reasons. The Board issued orders saying the merger could happen after the gauge conversion work between Hassan-Mangaluru. Since no gazette notification was issued subsequently, the public as well as people’s representatives were urging the Board to formalise it. Despite Minister of State for Railways Suresh C. Angadi promising Dakshina Kannada MP Nalin Kumar last December that the Ministry would soon issue an official notification, it is yet to happen, said G. Hanumanth Kamath, president of Paschima Karavali Rail Yatri Abhivriddhi Samithi.  Majority of passenger trains handled through Mangaluru are destined towards Kerala, Tamil Nadu and North, SR tells Railway Ministry
22 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rain abates, floods recede in Udupi||Rainfall abated and the subsequent floods which had created havoc in Udupi and Dakshina Kannada districts on Sunday receded on Monday bringing some respite to people. A statement issued by the Udupi district administration said that 1,064 flood-affected persons who were put up in 24 relief camps returned home on Monday. However, 137 flood-affected persons, including 75 women, from 30 villages continued to remain in seven relief camps. It said that 67 houses were found damaged in the district on Monday. Of these, 36 were in Udupi taluk, 14 were in Kaup taluk, eight in Brahmavar, six in Kundapur and three were in Karkala taluk. The statement said that some low-lying areas, especially those on the banks of the rivers in Udupi, Kaup, Karkala and Brahmavar villages, continue to be inundated. Vast tracks of farmland with standing crops continued to be under water. Udupi Additional Deputy Commissioner B. Sadashiva Prabhu told The Hindu that the district administration is assessing the damage to public and private property and also, crop loss. Meanwhile, India Meteorological Department has warned fishermen against sailing out on Tuesday as the weather could be rough. It said that high waves in the range of 3.2 m to 4 m are forecast till 11.30 p.m. on September 22 along the coast. Surface current speeds will vary between 30 cm/sec and 51 cm/sec, it added. According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC), Udupi district received 117 mm rainfall and Dakshina Kannada recorded 69 mm rainfall in 24 hours ended at 8.30 a.m. on Monday. It said that Byndoor taluk recorded 144 mm, Karkala and Kundapur taluks received 124 mm each, Brahmavar and Kaup taluks 102 mm each, Hebri 97 mm and Udupi taluk recorded 87 mm during the period.
22 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Domestic flights being re-introduced||SpiceJet has proposed to re-introduce a direct flight between Mangaluru and Delhi on Tuesday. SG761 will leave Delhi at 10.10 a.m. and reach Mangaluru at 12.35 p.m. and leave here as flight SG762 at 1.10 p.m. to reach Delhi at 3.55 p.m. The flight will operate on Tuesdays and Sundays. The airline will also introduce additional flights to Bengaluru on Wednesdays and Thursdays starting on September 23. This is in addition to a daily flight to Bengaluru. Air India has also re-introduced flights from Mangaluru. It is operating flight services three days a week on Mumbai-Mangaluru-Kochi-Mumbai sector. Flight AI681 will leave Mumbai at 2.45 p.m. to reach here at 4.20 p.m. This flight will leave here for Kochi at 5.20 p.m. IndiGo is operating five flights — two to Bengaluru daily, one to Mumbai four days a week, one daily to Hyderabad and one to Chennai thrice a week.
22 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Will create awareness’||Ganesh Karnik, State spokesperson for the BJP, said on Monday that the party would create awareness among farmers on the three agriculture-related legislation piloted by the Union government. He said the party would get articles written on them by experts and hold press conferences in various districts. If need be, handbills will be distributed at the doorsteps of farmers, he said.
22 September 2020||MYSURU/HASSAN,KARNATAKA||Kodagu, parts of SK see no respite from rain||While rains receded in north and coastal Karnataka, there was no respite in Kodagu and parts of south interior Karnataka on Monday where life continued to be affected as low-lying areas were submerged. Kodagu, Shivamogga, Hassan and Chikkamagaluru received 74 mm of rainfall from September 14 to 20 against the normal of 39 mm for the same period, according to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC). The four districts have received 228 mm of rains for the period of September 1 to 20 against the normal of 114 mm for the same period. Bhagamandala and surrounding regions in Kodagu - the catchment area for the Cauvery - continued to be battered by heavy rain as a result of which the volume of water in the river increased. The district received 64.19 mm of rainfall for the 24 hour period ending 8.30 a.m. on Monday as against 66.75 mm of rain received on Sunday. Bhagamandala that bore the brunt of nature’s fury last month resulting in a major landslip, continued to receive heavy rains for the second consecutive day. The district administration was on its toes for the last 48 hours clearing roads blocked by fallen trees and uprooted electricity poles. The outflow of water from the Harangi reservoir rose to the rate of 11,854 cusecs. The rate of inflow into the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) reservoir in the downstream region also increased during the last 48 hours. The water level in the dam was at 124.52 feet against the full reservoir level (FRL) of 124.8 feet. Similarly, the inflow into the Kabini reservoir in H.D. Kote in Mysuru district was at the rate of 28,906 cusecs and the outflow at 35,000 cusecs. The water level in the reservoir was 2283.09 feet against the FRL of 2,284 feet. Meanwhile, life in parts of Malnad region continued to be hit by heavy rains. Landslips have occurred at Charmadi Ghat, where travellers had a tough time negotiating deep curves. Continuous rainfall also formed many waterfalls along Charmadi Ghat, prompting travellers to take a break for photos. Rivers are flowing in spate and the inflow at the reservoir has been on the rise.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Verdict on NLAT: Students ‘elated’||The Supreme Court’s decision to quash the National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT) 2020 – the separate entrance test conducted by the National Law School of India University, Bengaluru (NLSIU) – has come as a relief to many candidates who attempted the competitive examination earlier this month under extremely stressful circumstances. At the same time, many expressed anger over the fact that they were made to go through the exercise not once but twice after NLSIU held a re-test. The law school announced on September 3 that it would not be following CLAT 2020, but was conducting its own exam. “We were given very short notice. The format was changed to include a shorter duration and fewer questions than the proposed format of CLAT 2020. It was like we were preparing for a test cricket match and all of a sudden asked to play T-20,” said one candidate. Over 23,000 aspirants from across the country took the NLAT on September 12. However, after candidates complained of technical glitches resulting in many unable to take the test, NLSIU conducted a re-test on September 14 for such students. There were also reports of alleged malpractice, inefficient and ineffective proctoring systems. and leak of questions. Candidates said they were fed up and exhausted with entrance exams, and such “unwarranted and unnecessary” actions by an institution could have been avoided with better coordination. “I was familiar with the format of CLAT and was preparing for over a year. Then NLAT was announced all of a sudden, and the format was different. That affected me psychologically. Unfortunately, I could not attempt both the exams,” a student said adding that many of her friends who had not attempted NLAT, would now stand a chance to get into NLSIU. However, a teacher from a private coaching class told The Hindu that a few of their students were unhappy with the decision as they felt they had aced the NLAT. “We had advised all our students not to lose focus on CLAT, as we had anticipated this judgment,” the teacher said. Students to be reimbursed Students will be refunded a portion of tge money they paid to appear for the exam. “They may expect refunds, after a deduction of Rs. 75 as application processing charge, to reach them in the next 9-14 working days,” said NLSIU in a release. Students who applied through NLAT had to pay Rs. 150, while those from SC and ST communities had to pay Rs. 125. “More than the money, the last-minute panic and tension the new test created was difficult,” said one candidate.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Vendors cry foul after CCC at BIEC closed prematurely||Controversy continues to dog the now defunct COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC) at the Bangalore International Exhibition Centre (BIEC), which when it opened on August 15, was touted as the largest centre with state-of-the-art facilities. However a month later, it was shut down. Vendors who provided housekeeping, security personnel, waste management and other infrastructure services said they signed an agreement with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) for a period of three months. They also claimed to have incurred huge losses. “We are exploring the possibility of taking legal recourse. We have also sought an appointment with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to apprise him of our issues,” said a vendor. The vendor said initially they were assured that the CCC would be operational for a minimum of six months, but later, an agreement was signed for three months. “We have submitted bills and are awaiting payment. We have urged the BBMP to consider paying rent for items agreed upon for a minimum of three months,” the vendor said, and added that a letter had been sent to the BBMP Commissioner, who heads the COVID-19 task force. ‘Not heard from them’ BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad claimed he had not received any letter from the vendors. Rajender Kumar Kataria, who heads the task force managing CCC, told The Hindu that with decreasing footfalls to the various facilities, it had been decided to close down the one at BIEC. Many BBMP officials, however, hold a contrary view. They maintained that other CCCs could have been closed and the facility at BIEC retained. But Mr. Kataria claimed those who had tested positive for COVID-19 were not willing to travel to BIEC and preferred to stay in facilities close to their place of residence. Senior officials said the CCC had been stripped bare. Another CCC closed The CCC set up in Sri Sri Ravishankar Ayurveda Hospital has been closed. The other CCCs that have been closed include hostels at Bangalore University, Agriculture University, GKVK and BIEC. According to Rajender Kumar Kataria, who heads the task force managing CCC, there were over 1,400 beds in the six remaining facilities at Haj Bhavan, Ayurveda College, Homoeopathy College, Unani College, Koramangala Indoor Stadium and HAL’s convention centre. Of these, 905 beds were occupied (as on 4 p.m., September 21).
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Validity of Namma Metro smart cards extended||Commuters whose Namma Metro smart cards have been unused since lockdown need not worry as their validity has been extended to 10 years from the last date of top-up. This means that they no longer have to reactivate their smart cards every year. BMRCL said: “On the account of nearly five-and-a-half months of suspension of metro operations due to the pandemic, some of the commuters who could not top-up their cards are experiencing problems due to expiry of the validity of smart cards. To avoid inconvenience to the travelling public, BMRCL has extended the validity period of all the issued smart cards, which was for a one-year period from the last top-up, to 10 years, i.e. September 19, 2030.”
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State recovery over 80%||As many as 7,339 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the State while 9,925 people, who had tested positive, were discharged from hospitals on Monday. With this, the total number of positive cases reported in Karnataka stands at 5.26 lakh, and the number of those discharged at 4.23 lakh. The discharge rate is currently 80.36%. The number of COVID -19 related deaths reported on Monday was 122, taking the total number of deaths in the State to 8,145. In addition, as many as 19 deaths were due to non-COVID-19 reasons. Of the 95,335 active cases in the State, 809 patients are in intensive care units. According to the media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, as many as 42,691 tests were conducted on Monday, with rapid antigen test accounting for 11,154. The rest were RT-PCR and other tests.
22 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Govt. urged to take over defunct Excel Glasses at Pathirappally||Political parties and trade unions have urged the State government to takeover the defunct Excel Glasses factory at Pathirappally. Excel Glasses has remained closed for the past several years. While presenting the State Budget in 2019, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac promised to open a new factory in the place of Excel Glasses in 2020-21. However, the company was recently put up for e-auction on September 25. The auction was originally scheduled for September 15. All India Trade Union Congress leader V. Mohandas said the government should issue an Ordinance and takeover the company. “The government has a responsibility to protect employees of the factory. The government should act immediately to take control of the factory either through acquisition or requisition. Lack of funds should not be made an excuse. It is not practically possible for the government to take part in the e-auction and qualify competing against private parties,” Mr. Mohandas said. District Congress Committee president M. Liju said the government had backtracked from its promise of taking over the company. The government had collaborated with the factory management to cheat the employees. R. Nazar, CPI (M) district secretary and CITU leader, said they had urged the government to take part in the auction.
22 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha clocks 112 cases||The district reported 112 COVID-19 cases and 234 recoveries on Monday. Of the cases, 104 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. Six people from other States and two from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Among the 104 contact cases, 22 were reported from Panavally and 15 from Alappuzha. Rest were from Eramallikkara (7), Arookutty (6), Venmony (4), Kayamkulam (4), Cherthala South (4), Ambalappuzha (3), Cherthala (3), Mannancherry (3), Pulinkunnu (3), two cases each from Cheriyanad, Ezhuppunna, Kodamthuruth, Muthukulam, Punnapra South, Puliyoor, Thrikkunnappuzha, Thuravoor, and Veliyanad and one case each from Aryad, Aroor, Bharanikavu, Chettikulangara, Haripad, Karthikappally, Krishnapuram, Muttar, Mararikulam North, Palamel, Pattanakkad and Thamarakulam.
22 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Archbishop to be laid to rest||The body of Archbishop Mar Joseph Chennoth, Apostolic Nuncio to Japan, who died in Tokyo earlier this month will be laid to rest at St.Thomas Church, Kokkamangalam, near Cherthala, on Tuesday. His body, which was brought to Kochi on Monday, will be taken to his ancestral house at Kokkamangalam on Tuesday morning. Mar Joseph Chennoth became Vatican’s ambassador to Japan in 2011.
22 September 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Farmers demand withdrawal of draft||The Karshaka Jana Samrakshana Samiti, a newly constituted organisation under the United Democratic Front committees in Wayanad and Kozhikode districts, has urged the Ministry of Forests and Environment to withdraw its draft notification to declare eco-sensitive zone around the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary, which share borders with many villages in Wayanad and Kozhikode districts. “If the draft is implemented, it will adversely affect the lives of close to 50,000 farmers living on the fringes of the sanctuary,” said T.Siddique, chairman of the organisation. It would hamper development works in the eco-sensitive zone, he said. All farming activities could be done only with the prior permission of forest department officials, he said. The organisation would stage a standing protest here on September 26 and a one-day fast at Adivaram in Kozhikode district on October 1, he said.
22 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Heavy rain batters Kannur, Kasaragod||Heavy rain continued to wreak havoc in many parts of Kannur district for the third day on Monday. Thalassery, Iritty, Payyanur and Taliparamba were the worst affected areas in the district. Eleven houses were partially destroyed on Monday, while 23 were damaged on Sunday. There are 59 people in the five relief camps opened in the district. A landslip occurred at Vayalalam Anthonymala near Thalassery Kuttimakool. Heavy rain also caused extensive damage to crops in various parts of the district. According to Principal Agricultural Officer P.K. Ramdas, there is an estimated crop loss of Rs. 6.91 crore. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, Chandrasekhar, a resident of Madhur, died after he fell into an open pit in a waterlogged field on Sunday. In another incident, K. Sudhan, a resident of Chervathur, died after he fell from a check dam on Monday. Strong winds partially damaged 12 houses near Adukath Bayal beach. In Pilicode, nearly 60 houses were flooded after the drains at Maliyath Road were clogged. In Wayanad Three of the four shutters of the Banasura Sagar reservoir were lifted further on Monday owing to heavy inflow of water from the catchment areas. District Collector Adeela Abdulla directed people living on the banks of the Panamaram river to be alert. If needed, people should move to safer areas, she said. In Palakkad The shutters of three dams in the district were opened following heavy rain since Saturday. While the shutters of Malampuzha and Pothundi dams were opened on Sunday, those of Walayar dam were raised on Monday morning. Although there was let-up in rain on Monday, the inflow to the reservoirs of Kanhirapuzha, Malampuzha, Shiruvani, Pothundi, Walayar, and Mangalam dams continued. The shutters of Kanhirapuzha and Mangalam dams had been raised. In Thrissur Many houses were damaged and trees uprooted in a whirlwind that lashed the hillside of Varantharappilly in the district on Monday. The spillway shutters of Peechi and Chimmini dams were opened on Monday. The shutters of Peringalkuthu and Parambikkulam dams were opened on Sunday. As water level in Manalippuzha has increased after the release of water from Peechi, people living along the river have been asked to remain vigilant. Water level in Kurumali and Karivannur rivers also increased after the shutters of Chimmini dam were opened.  (With inputs from Kasaragod, Wayanad, Palakkad and Thrissur bureaus)
22 September 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Kannur varsity exams from Sept.29||Kannur University has decided to conduct the remaining university-level undergraduate examinations which had been postponed due to the COVID-19 outbreak. The decision was taken at a meeting Vice Chancellor Gopinath Ravindran and Examination Controller P.J. Vincent had with student representatives and members of the Syndicate. At the subsequent Examination Monitoring Committee meeting, it was decided that the fourth semester regular, supplementary and improvement March-2020 examinations would begin on September 29. A detailed timetable would be published later. After the completion of the exams, steps would be taken to conduct distance education exams as well.
22 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||CPI(M) man injured in explosion at Kannur||One person was injured in an explosion inside a house at Naduvanad, near Mattanur, in Kannur on Sunday midnight. According to the police, houseowner Rajesh, reportedly a CPI(M) worker, was injured in the blast. He has been shifted to the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital. A bomb squad and a forensic team searched the house and recovered crude explosives, apparently meant to catch wild boars, and a few weapons. Two people were taken into custody for questioning. District Congress Committee president Satheesan Pacheni visited the house, following which a scuffle broke out between Congress workers and local people, mostly comprising CPI(M) workers. The local people refused to allow the Congress workers to enter the premises of the house, leading to the altercation. Mr. Pacheni demanded that the “CPI(M) end bomb making in the district.” Strong action The DCC president said the police should take strong action against those who engage in acts that threaten peaceful life.  DCC president Satheesan Pacheni urges CPI(M) to ‘end bomb making in the district.’
22 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Crude bombs hurled at house||Crude bombs were hurled at the house of a CPI(M) leader and the office of the RSS at Thalassery on Sunday. A bomb was hurled at the house of Karayi Surendran, local committee secretary of the CPI(M) at Nettur Edathilambalam, Thalassery, on Sunday night. The gate of the house, lamps and a photo of Sree Narayana Guru were destroyed in the attack. The incident took place after a bomb was hurled at the RSS office here on Sunday morning. The rooftop of the building, windows and bulbs were damaged in the explosion. The police are investigating both cases.
22 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||City to have Intelligent Traffic Management System soon||The city will shortly have an Intelligent Traffic Management System (ITMS) to streamline traffic movement and to aid in rule enforcement. Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) has tied up with the Kerala State Electronics Development Corporation (Keltron) to usher in the Rs. 27-crore project. “Over 75% of the works are over and the system will, in all likelihood, be inaugurated in a fortnight. Keltron will maintain and operate the system for five years. The police and Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) will be the main beneficiaries of the project,” said Jafar Malik, CEO of CSML. The ITMS has two broad elements — traffic management and enforcement. Traffic management pertains to detecting high traffic zones and optimisation of signal controls to ensure smooth movement of vehicles. Traffic enforcement includes detection of offences like jumping red light and speeding. A key project component would be vehicle actuated signals and area traffic control system, to optimise movement of vehicles in available space, especially at junctions. Vehicle movement in busy corridors can be tracked from the control room. The data thus generated will help in planning traffic management measures, if need be, with the help of agencies like NATPAC, Mr. Malik said. Surveillance cameras The initiative will also see installation of traffic surveillance cameras at 35 junctions in the city to keep tab on traffic rule violators and to aid in crime detection. They include 21 cameras at actuated traffic control signal locations. There will also be a red-light violation detection system to automatically capture images of rule violators. In addition, the project will see pelican signals being installed at four junctions. Pedestrians wanting to cross the road will be able to operate the signals. An integrated traffic control centre will be set up at the office of the District Police Chief (city), while MVD personnel will be able to track vehicle movement from a similar facility at the CSML office. An automated e-challan system and signages capable of displaying variable messages — from ambient air quality to police announcements for motorists — too are part of the project. The key benefits of the system are automated rule enforcement, using capabilities like Speed Limit Violation Detection System (SLVD), Red Light Violation Detection System (RLVD) and All Vehicle Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) System. Apart from streamlining traffic flow and reducing accidents, this will result in revenue generation to the State in the form of penalties paid by offenders. Other advantages Other critical advantages include optimising of signal cycle time based on vehicle density and flow, apart from collection of traffic data like average speed, vehicle flow and queue length, which will help in urban and traffic planning, Mr. Malik said. Speaking about the new system, Ernakulam DCP (Traffic, Law and Order) G. Poonguzhali said that police personnel will be able to manage traffic and enforce rules in a better manner, once the system is in place. “On their part, the police have been experimenting with traffic reforms, especially at congested junctions, to lessen waiting time at signals. A police team visited Hyderabad recently to get updated on this,” she said.
22 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Quarry blast exposes chinks in enforcement of safety rules||The blast at a quarry in Illithodu near Malayattoor on Monday has exposed the lack of enforcement of Explosive Rules, 2008 in Ernakulam. The rules state that Executive Magistrates or police officers not below the rank of Sub Inspector should carry out inspections at approved store houses for explosives located within their jurisdiction once in six months in order to ascertain any violation of the rules. The assessment report should be submitted to the District Magistrate concerned or Superintendent of Police or Commissioner with a copy to the licensing authority. The Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation (PESO), which is the licensing authority for use, sale and possession of explosives, has not yet received any such report from enforcement officials concerned on the violations related to the use and storage of high explosives or firecrackers in the district. Of the about 1,600 licensed explosive premises, nearly 200 are located in Ernakulam, according to official estimates. The periodical inspection would have helped in identifying lapses in the use and storage of gelatin sticks and detonators used for blasting in quarries. Each site will have only one approved storage space for explosives constructed in accordance with the specifications provided under the Explosive Rules, 2008 or of a design approved by the Chief Controller of Explosives concerned. The quantity of any kind of explosives kept in the licensed storehouse should not exceed the quantity approved by the licensing authority. The buildings should have efficient lightning conductors designed and set up as per the rules prescribed by the Bureau of Indian Standards. The connections to various parts of earth resistance of the lightning conductor terminal on the building to the earth have to be tested at least once in every year by a qualified electrical engineer or any other person holding a certificate of competency approved by the government. A store house should be constructed at the ground level only, and it should be a single-storey building. The quarry owner has to set up a barbed wire fencing or wall of two metres high and adequate strength along the perimeter of the safety zone, according to the rules.
22 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam records 299 cases||A total of 299 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. Thirteen health workers have tested positive – two staff members at the Ernakulam General Hospital, one at the first-line treatment centre at Mattancherry and another worker at the Muvattupzha General Hospital, five health workers at private hospitals, two workers from the Kozhikode Medical College Hospital who are natives of Ernakulam, and a Mattancherry native who was working at a hospital in Karakonam. Other positive cases of the infection were reported from areas including Kothamangalam, Muvattupuzha, Mulavukad, Fort Kochi, Mattancherry, Vyttila, Thrikkakara, Vengola, Perumbavoor, Aluva, Edathala, Eloor, Kadungalloor, and Kalamassery. Nine persons who had arrived from outside the State have tested positive, while 290 persons acquired the infection through local contact. A total of 297 persons tested negative for the disease, and 3,824 patients are being treated for it. For testing, 989 samples were sent from government facilities and 2,023 samples were private ones. After the Station House Officer (SHO) at the Palarivattom police station tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 late on Sunday, 26 police officers at the station who were on his contact list have gone into quarantine. Since the staff had nearly been halved now, operations have been affected, but the station continues to function with the remaining 27 officers, after a round of disinfection, said an officer at the station. The source of infection of the SHO was still uncertain, he said. 45 employees infected About 45 staff members of a jewellery shop in the city, who were staying together in a building in Ayyappankavu, tested positive for the disease on Sunday, according to Deepak Joy, councillor representing the area. Eight of them had tested positive first, after which all of them were tested for the virus, he said. Most of them had not been moved out of the building yet, since a decision on whether the building itself would be turned into a first-line treatment centre for their care was yet to be made.
22 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Woman offers organs for sale to pay rent, medical bills||Unable to pay rent and medical bills, a 44-year-old woman and her five children set up a shed by the side of the International Container Transshipment Terminal Road in Ernakulam late on Sunday, with a board reading that the woman’s organs were up for sale to fund her children’s medical expenses. Santhi, who had been living in Varapuzha, said that she was unable to pay rent for a few months and was asked to leave the house. They set up a makeshift shed by the side of the road on Sunday evening and spent the night there, before the Mulavukad police took them to the station on Monday morning to get them out of the rain. Her 21-year-old son, Sajith, said that Health Minister K.K. Shylaja had informed the family that the State government would foot their medical expenses, but the family was uncertain if any help would be forthcoming. Three of his siblings had health problems, Sajith said. One of his brothers now needed a surgery after an accident he suffered last year. Medical bills had put the family in debt and forced his mother to place the board offering her organs for sale, Sajith said. The accident had rendered his brother jobless, while he had not been able to find a job himself with the COVID-19 pandemic and associated restrictions. Natives of Malappuram, Santhi and the family had moved to Ernakulam for her daughter’s neurosurgery about nine years ago. After an accident when she was a toddler, the 11-year-old had persistent health issues, Sajith said. Ernakulam Lions Club will foot the family’s rent for the next six months, besides paying the school fees for the two minors in the family. District Collector S. Suhas said that the administration would ascertain if the family was eligible for housing benefits under the LIFE Mission. V.D. Satheesan, MLA representing Paravur, said that his office had earlier helped the family out financially after they had desperately reached out to him.
22 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Koran issue: Customs questions transporters||The Customs Department on Monday questioned the owner and driver of the lorry that had transported the packets containing the Koran addressed to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in Thiruvananthapuram as part of its probe into the evasion of Customs duty by fraudulently claiming exemption. The owner of the lorry claimed that he had no idea about the consignments that landed at the Thiruvananthapuram airport. “We had only collected it from the air cargo complex at the international airport and delivered to the consulate office at Manacaud,” he said. Role of consulate staff The Customs had earlier decided to probe the role of the officials of the consulate in the alleged conspiracy to evade Customs duty. The duty exemption granted to a diplomatic mission is conditional and it remains no longer valid when the conditions are violated, it said. The packages weighing about 4.5 tonnes were handed over to others without paying Customs duty in May. The Customs is looking into 12 instances of exemption granted by the State Protocol Officer to the consulate in 2017.
22 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Collector allays fears on GIFT City project||The Ernakulam district administration has clarified that the proposed Kochi Global Industrial Finance and Trade City (GIFT City) project will adhere to the standards of eco-friendly development based on the criteria fixed by the Indian Green Building Council. District Collector S. Suhas said in a statement here on Monday that a few residents of Ayampuzha had expressed apprehensions about the project. But the fears were ‘unfounded’, he said. “There is no plan to set up factories or units that pollute the environment. No manufacturing industry will be set up. The entire project will be eco-friendly,” said the Collector. Through the project, both the Union government and the State government are planning to bring in Indian and international knowledge-based industries and agencies with a focus on capital market, asset management, insurance sector, legal, accounting and audit management organisations, IT/ITES services, research development, hospitality, convention and entertainment businesses. The project will bring in development and employment opportunities to the area, he said.
22 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Bamboo plantations to be set up||The Kerala State Bamboo Corporation, based in Angamaly, will set up bamboo plantation on five acres soon as part of the efforts to make bamboo more widely available to artisans engaged in making bamboo-based products. Bamboo Corporation Chairman K.J. Jacob said the agency has entered into an understanding with the Aligarh Muslim University campus in Malappuram to use 2.5 acres of the campus land for bamboo cultivation. Similarly, 2.5 acres have been identified in Kannur district for bamboo plantation. The land will be utilised in consultation with the Kerala Forest Research Institute, Peechi, said Mr. Jacob. A bamboo matting unit is expected to be launched in Malayattoor soon even as the corporation is considering setting up a sales point in Kumarakom town.
22 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam count goes up by 195||The district reported 195 new cases of COVID-19 and 243 recoveries on Monday. While 143 patients contracted the infection through contact, others include four persons from other States and eight health workers. Among the patients are Kollam Sub Collector and the results of some staff from the Collectorate are awaited. The health workers who tested positive include seven persons attached to government facilities and an employee of a private hospital in Kollam. The district currently has 22, 085 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 1,70,089. While 3, 238 persons completed home quarantine on Monday, the Health Department has traced 35,654 primary and 6, 471 secondary contacts of the positive cases. At present 17 COVID-19 Firstline Treatment Centres are operating in the district and the number of active cases is 2,909.
22 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||156 positive in Kottayam||As many as 156 people tested positive for SARS COV 2 in Kottayam on Monday Of the fresh cases, 148 contracted the virus through local transmission. With 25 cases, Vazhappally panchayat reported the highest number of cases during the day while Kumarakom followed with 14 cases. Cases were also reported from Changanassery-10, Kottayam-9, Erumely and Paippad. With 150 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 2,754 active cases. Kottayam has so far witnessed 7,792 cases including 5,035 recoveries
22 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Church plans peaceful protest||The administrative committee of St. Mary’s Church at Manarcaud resolved on Monday to launch peaceful protests against a recent order by a sub-court in Kottayam to hand over the parish to the Orthodox faction of the Malankara Church. The decision was taken at a meeting of parish members and the church committee on Sunday. “The church will remain with the holy Antiochian faith forever,” read a statement by the church. The committee refuted the allegations that it had exaggerated the number of the parish members by adding temporary memberships. “The church has been providing temporary membership to those who had to leave their parishes to stay in the limits of the Manarcaud church. Several churches had followed this path in issuing temporary memberships. There is no point in questioning this system,” it said.
22 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Rubber Board to promote self-tapping||With a view to bringing down the cost of production and make rubber farming commercially viable, the Rubber Board has embarked on a campaign to promote self-tapping and low-frequency tapping (LFT) among growers. The programme, which seeks to cover 50,000 farmers, will be launched at 100 field stations in Kerala and Kanyakumari on Tuesday. Union Minister of Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal, Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar, and Chairman and Executive Director of the Rubber Board K.N. Raghavan will address the farmers through the official Facebook page of the agency during the launch.
22 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||376 fresh cases in Kozhikode||Fresh COVID-19 cases saw a decline in Kozhikode on Monday, reportedly owing to lesser number of tests across the State, when 376 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 here. Four deaths were reported from the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Sunday and Monday. According to the District Medical Officer, 318 of the fresh cases were due to local transmission. The source was unknown in 24 cases. Among those who returned from other States and tested positive for the virus, are 14 migrant labourers in Nadapuram. With 419 people recovering from the infection, the number of active cases came down to 3,825. In Malappuram Malappuram saw more number of recoveries than fresh cases on Monday. While 349 people tested positive for the virus, 489 recovered. As many as 300 of the fresh cases were of local transmission. Among the new cases are six health workers. In Palakkad In Palakkad, 167 people tested positive for the virus on Monday, and there were 171 recoveries. As many as 128 of the new patients were infected through local contacts.  In Wayanad A total of 18 people tested positive in Wayanad on Monday. Of them, 13 people were infected through contact. As many as 46 people recovered. In Thrissur A total of 183 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Thrissur on Monday. According to an official release, 179 of them contracted the disease through contact. While 2,852 people are undergoing treatment for the disease in various hospitals in the district, 140 people were discharged. In Kannur In Kannur, a total of 314 people tested positive on Monday. Of the total, 257 people contracted the disease through contact. Thirty-nine people recovered. In Kasaragod As many as 110 people tested positive in Kasaragod on Monday. Of them, 102 were infected through contact. District Medical Officer A.V Ramdas said 177 people were found to be negative on Monday.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Palakkad, Wayanad, Thrissur, Kannur and Kasaragod bureaus)
22 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Referral note mandatory from today||COVID-19-infected people who are not covered under the Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Aarogya Yojana-Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhati (AB PMJAY-KASP) can get its benefits in private hospitals only if they bring a referral letter from a government hospital. This will be implemented from Tuesday. According to Health Department sources, private hospitals empanelled under the health insurance scheme have sought clarification from the government about admitting COVID-19 patients who are not covered under the scheme. Rathan Khelkar, Executive Director, State Health Agency, issued an order on September 16 saying “the claim adjudication process will be more effective with the introduction of a referral letter.” Govt. to bear cost Thus, the government will bear the cost of treatment of non-AB PMJAY-KASP COVID-19-infected persons being referred from a public health facility to a private hospital only if they produce the letter. “Failure to submit this document may result in non-acceptance of the claim request,” the order says. The referral data contain details such as the date on which the person was tested positive for the virus through a swab test. The data also mention if the test was reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) or antigen or others, if the infected person has any co-morbidities along with COVID-19 clinical category depending on the intensity of infection, and the reason for referral. Guidelines for treatment The guidelines issued earlier for COVID treatment in private hospitals say people without government health insurance cover will have to pay as per the rates fixed by those institutions. The government has, however, fixed the rate of treatment for private hospitals empanelled under the AB PMJAY-KASP and institutions where patients are referred to from government hospitals. For general ward, the charge is Rs. 2,300 a day, intensive care unit (ICU) Rs. 6,500, and ICU ventilator Rs. 11,500. This excludes the charge for personal protection equipment kit.
22 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rain subsides, vigil continues in Kozhikode||The District-level Disaster Management Authority in Kozhikode continued its vigil on Monday too, though the rain subsided on the day. Only some interior areas of Thamarassery taluk witnessed heavy rainfall. Unlike the previous day, the water-level did not rise to dangerous levels in the Iruvazhinji, Kuttiyadi, Poonoor, and Cherupuzha rivers. The body of Stechin Mathew, 23, who drowned in the Vilangad river on Sunday, was handed over to relatives after post-mortem on Monday. The Kuttiyadi police conducted the inquest. Revenue Department officials from Vadakara taluk office said the incident was reported to their higher authorities as a rain-related death. The youth had accidentally slipped into the overflowing river, they said. Meanwhile, the crumbling of the retaining walls of river banks was noticed in many locations. Families staying closer to the Kuttiyadi river complained of the issue.
22 September 2020||Mini MuringatheriThrissur,KERALA||KVASU develops vaccine for ‘new duck disease’||Scientists at the Department of Veterinary Microbiology, Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (KVASU), Mannuthy, have developed a vaccine for Riemerellosis, a bacterial disease that causes high mortality in ducks. Riemerellosis causes 5-75% mortality in ducks and more than 50% in ducklings below five weeks. Duck plague and duck pasteurellosis used to be the two common diseases affecting ducks, against which routine vaccination is practised in the State. But many ducks died even after vaccination. During the study, Priya P.M., Associate Professor, and team isolated the causative agent, Riemerella anatipestifer , which causes Riemerellosis. Extensive research work has been carried out on the disease since 2010. Since 2008 After reporting in Wayanad in 2008, Riemerellosis, earlier known as new duck disease, was reported from different parts of the State. The disease led to huge losses to duck farmers in Kuttanad and nearby places during March-April this year. The Animal Husbandry Department sanctioned the project proposal on ‘Laboratory and field trials on oil adjuvant inactivated vaccines for the control of Riemerellosis’ during 2014-16. This was followed by two State-funded projects in 2015-16 and 2016-17. An inactivated vaccine has been developed in the Department of Veterinary Microbiology under the leadership of Dr. Priya. “Due to the similarity of illness, most often, Riemerellosis used to be misdiagnosed as pasteurellosis, a common bacterial disease of ducks. The antibiotic therapy for the affected ducks, which is costly, becomes ineffective once the organism reaches the brain. So, control of disease can be achieved only by vaccine,” she said. Minister for Animal Husbandry K. Raju recently released the vaccine to the Animal Husbandry Department (AHD). Soon, the technology will be transferred to the IAH&VB (Institute of Animal Health and Veterinary Biologicals), Palode, Dr. Priya said.
22 September 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||YC activists burn farm Bills||The Youth Congress protested against the two contentious farm Bills passed by Parliament by burning the Bills at a paddy farm at Mankara near here on Monday. The Youth Congress joined the nationwide protest against the Bills following a call by the All India Congress Committee. KPCC general secretary C. Chandran inaugurated the protest at Mankara paddy farm.
22 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta dams reaching full level||Torrential rain in the district has brought copious inflow to the dams in Pathanamthitta district, all of which are close to attaining the full reservoir level. The authorities on Monday opened three shutters of the Moozhiyar dam under the Kakkad hydroelectric project of the KSEB by 30 cm when the water level in the reservoir reached 192.63 metres. In view of the continuing downpour in its catchment area, authorities are planning to raise each of these shutters by another 30 cm, causing a discharge of 101.49 qmax water per second to the Kakkattaar. District Collector P.B. Noohu has advised people living on the river banks to be cautious. Blue alert Meanwhile, water level in the Kakki-Anathodu reservoir was about to reach 974.91 metres by 5 p.m. during the day as against the maximum water level of 976.41 metres. Considering the heavy rain that is lashing the Sabarimala forests, the authorities have issued a blue alert for the dam and it will be upgraded to orange alert when the water level reaches 975.91 metres. If the water level touches 976.41 metres, red alert will be issued and people living in the lower plains of the district as well as on the banks of the Pampa will be evacuated.
22 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||16 cases in Pathanamthitta||After witnessing a sharp rise in cases over the past several days, the number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Pathanamthitta reported a marked decline on Monday with only 16 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of these, 15 persons contracted the virus through contact. The contact sources of at least three of these cases are yet to be identified. With 115 recoveries, the district currently has 1,192 active cases.
22 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Caseload dips to 533||The capital district’s COVID-19 caseload, which had hovered around 900 during the last few days, fell drastically to 533 as testing dipped on Monday. The death toll increased to 169 with four more deaths being attributed to the disease. The deceased including natives of Nedumangad (73-year-old), Thirumala (82 years), Russelpuram (65 years) and Karikkakom (57 years). Among the new cases, 394 people acquired the infection through local contact, while the source of infection in 103 cases is unknown. Thirty-one health workers were also diagnosed with COVID-19. As many as 27 of those who tested positive were undergoing quarantine. Five people had come from other States. Among the patients 305 were women and 228 were men, with 47 persons aged below 15 years and 86 aged above 60 years. While 387 swab samples were collected, 703 test results were received on the day. The district administration has placed 1,747 people under quarantine on Monday, taking the number of people being monitored as part of the COVID-19 containment measures to 26,587. In a statement, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay has stressed on the need to strictly adhere to the COVID-19 guidelines in work places. The appeal comes amid offices and other work places in the State capital reporting COVID-19 cases in clusters. The City police booked 24 people under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020 for various violations. Eighty five people were fined for failing to wear masks.
22 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cases dip in tune with tests||Kerala’s daily COVID-19 case graph dipped drastically on Monday in proportion to a steep drop in tests done over the weekend. After registering between 4,500 and 4,700 cases consecutively for four days, the number of new COVID-19 cases reported on Monday dropped to 2,910, in proportion to the drop in routine daily testing by over 22,000. The total samples tested in 24 hours were 25,848. The State also recorded the maximum number of recoveries reported in a single day so far, at 3,022. The cumulative COVID-19 case burden of the State is 1,38,631, of which the total recoveries till date have been 98,724. The number of patients currently being treated in hospitals is 39,285. 18 more deaths on list Another 18 deaths were added to the State’s tally, taking the State’s official toll at 553. The figure has been steadily climbing for the past one-and-a-half months in tune with the rising epidemic curve in the State. Seven of these deaths were reported from Malappuram, four from Thiruvananthapuram and three each from Kannur and Palakkad. Of the new cases reported on Monday, 2,741 cases or 94% are locally acquired infections, with the source of infection remaining unknown in 313 cases. These include infections reported in 88 health-care workers, 31 of which are in Thiruvananthapuram, 25 in Kannur and the rest scattered among districts. 533 cases in capital Thiruvananthapuram reported 533 cases, of which all except five are a result of local transmission. The district has the highest number of active cases at 7,147. Kozhikode reported 376 cases, Malappuram 349, Kannur 314, Ernakulam 299, Kollam 195, Thrissur 183, Palakkad 167, Kottayam 156, Alappuzha 112, Kasaragod 110, Idukki 82, Wayanad 18, and Pathanamthitta 16 cases. The number of hotspots is 639.
22 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Guru’s philosophy has guided LDF govt.: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said the teachings of social reformer Sree Narayana Guru remained the strongest bulwark against superstition, misogyny, and pseudoscience that threatened to upend modern society and rational thought. Unveiling a statue of the seer here, Mr. Vijayan said the seer’s teachings had largely insulated Kerala from ill practices. They had helped preserve the historic dividends of religious reformation and social renaissance in the State. His thought and writings had kept the dark ages at bay. Mr Vijayan said the social reformer’s philosophy had guided the Left Democratic Front government. The momentous decision to ordain trained persons from non-Brahmin castes as priests in Devaswom temples was in unity with the Guru’s life and message. Milestone The government opened the doors of the sanctum sanctorum to the so-called lower castes. It was a milestone in social reformation like the temple entry proclamation, he said. Mr Vijayan said the teachings of the Guru were universal and not particular to any one caste. He had prepared the ground for progressive Left movements by exhorting downtrodden sections of society to marshal themselves to gain organisational strength. He taught them to value education above all else and generate wealth through honest industry. “Guru's enduring teachings are a powerful testament to his memory. However, the government wanted a tangible monument for the seer to manifest as a moral beacon for future generations,” he said. Monuments The government would also honour other social reformers with similar monuments, including Chattamby Swamy and Ayyankali. Mayor K. Sreekumar, Law Minister A. K. Balan, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, V. S. Sivakumar, MLA and V. K. Prasanth, MLA, were present.
22 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ryots to protest against farm Bills||Farmer organisations in the State have registered their strong protest against the Centre’s ‘unilateral’ attempts to get the three controversial farm Bills passed in Parliament and announced support for a nationwide protest called by farmer outfits on September 25. The Samyuktha Karshaka Samithi decided on Monday to stage protests outside Central government offices in the State on Friday. At 250 centres Protests would be organised in 250 centres, committee president Sathyan Mokeri and secretary K.N. Balagopal said. The three Bills would destroy the progress made by the country in the agricultural sector, take away minimum support price and push farmers into intense hardship, they said. As a consumer State, Kerala would witness a sharp rise in price of agricultural goods. By allowing contract farming, farmers would be relegated to the position of serfs, the committee said. In suspending the MPs who protested in Parliament, the BJP-led government had adopted an autocratic stance, the committee said. ‘Withdraw Bills’ Meanwhile, the Karshaka Pratirodha Samithi has demanded that the Centre withdraw the ‘anti-farmer’ Bills. They will take away the protection enjoyed by farmers and allow corporates a free run in the agriculture sector. A meeting of the samithi on Monday agreed to support the September 25 protest, samithi State secretary N. Vinod Kumar said.
22 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Medical devices park to come up at Thonnakkal||The Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) is joining hands with the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) to establish a medical devices manufacturing facility at the Life Science Park, Thonnakkal, Thiruvananthapuram. The facility named MedSpark seeks to create a support system for research and development and testing and evaluation of medical devices.  Promoting start-ups It will also provide manufacturing support for the medical devices industry and a technology business incubation centre for promoting start-ups and early stage companies. “MedSpark is envisaged as an opportunity to leverage the existing advantage of the Kerala State in the high-risk medical device manufacture and develop it into the most sought-after destination for setting up the medical device industry in India,” said V.K. Saraswat, NITI-Aayog member and president of the SCTIMST. 5,000 jobs The project, to be funded by the State and Central governments in the initial stages, is expected to generate up to 4,000-5,000 jobs through supporting industries like OEM suppliers, service providers and marketing and post- marketing support activities. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will lay the foundation stone for the Medical Devices Park on Thursday. Industries Minister E.P.Jayarajan will preside over the function.
22 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 225 cr. for Sabarimala roads||The Public Works Department (PWD) will undertake repairs and relaying of roads in six districts leading to Pampa in connection with the forthcoming Mandala-Makaravilakku pilgrimage season at the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple at a cost of Rs. 225 crore. The government has accorded administrative sanction for the works. The funds provided from the exchequer include the budget provision of Rs. 71.79 crore to the PWD subject to the condition that 17 major roads designated by the High Court shall be placed under “output and performance-based long term” seven-year maintenance contract for permanent solution. Maintenance, relaying The roads that are to be taken up include the ones identified by the High Court (Rs. 1,342 lakh), leading roads (Rs. 21,069 lakh) and National Highway stretches (Rs. 108 lakh). The four corridors identified by the High Court for relaying and repairs come to 82.3 km. Three stretches (29.9 km) along National Highway 183 from Kollam to Theni used by the pilgrims from adjoining Tamil Nadu will also be taken up for maintenance and relaying. Forty lead roads from Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Kottayam, and Idukki districts are on the list.
22 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||High test positivity rate in capital district||The capital which has been witnessing a spurt in COVID-19 cases is also experiencing a high test positivity rate (TPR), comparable to major cities of the country. The capital has surpassed cities including Mumbai and Chennai despite such areas recording higher caseload. Considered an indicator to assess the adequacy of testing, TPR (the number of positive cases for every 100 tests) has been on a rapid surge in Thiruvananthapuram since the first week of August. While the rate stood at 11.43% during the first week of August, it rose steadily, touching 12.22% and 12.68% in the next two weeks. After rising to 13.6% in the second week of September, the TPR has now touched 14.03% (from September 12 to 19 when the city recorded 5,211 cases). The Health Department has directed district administrations to raise COVID-19 testing to achieve TPRs of preferably around 2%. Thiruvananthapuram’s TPR is currently higher than that of many cities, including Mumbai (12.12%), Chennai (9.91%) and Kolkata (7.94%). It, however, is less than that of Pune (30.75%), Nagpur (28.37%), Bengaluru (25.26%) and Delhi (14.42%). During the same period, the cases were in Pune (28,993), Delhi (28,830), Bengaluru (24,225), Mumbai (14,547) and Chennai (6,925). Intensive testing While the high positivity rate could indicate the prevalence in the city, Health officials claimed that testing remained higher in the capital while factoring in the population density. They said that testing had been intensive within clusters where most cases had been asymptomatic, validating an Indian Council of Medical Research study that such cases accounted for 80% of the case burden. Such was not the case in other cities where testing was limited to symptomatic people, sources claimed.
22 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||ACP among 15 police personnel infected||Several police officers including an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) were diagnosed with COVID-19 in the city on Monday. While they were all involved in controlling the recent spate of mass demonstrations, some of them had also come in close proximity with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Ministers. D. Suneesh Babu, ACP, Cantonment, who was a regular presence at the recent anti-government protest venues in the capital, is among those who tested positive. Besides tasked with controlling agitations outside the Secretariat, the officer had also led a team that removed MLAs Shafi Parambil and K.S. Sabarinadhan who had staged a sit-in outside the Police Headquarters a few days ago. Arrangements for CM Mr. Babu had also supervised security arrangements for the unveiling of the Sree Narayana Guru statue by the Chief Minister shortly before he was diagnosed with COVID-19. Law Minister A.K. Balan and Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran were also present on the occasion. Others who tested positive on the day included six officials of the Thumba police station where four others had been diagnosed with COVID-19 two days ago. Seven personnel attached to the Special Armed Police (SAP) camp in Peroorkada also tested positive when 50 people were subjected to antigen testing there. They were all involved in handling the recent agitations. DPC in quarantine District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay has gone into quarantine after his personal security officer tested positive. Harshita Attaluri, Inspector General of Police, South Zone, has been given temporary charge of the City police.  Many were involved in countering the recent anti-govt. protests
22 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Haritha Keralam keeps its greening promise||The Haritha Keralam Mission made an ambitious announcement on Environment Day last year — to grow 1,000 ‘pachathuruthu’ (green islets) with the help of local bodies across the State. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic, it has managed to turn around 1,250 plots of unused or poromboke land or surplus land with government departments into mini-forests. The plots range in size from a couple of cents to a few acres, like in Kannur and Palakkad. Although not every local body has come on board yet, there are a few others like the Karavaram grama panchayat here which has managed to grow 46 of these green islets. According to T.N. Seema, executive vice chairperson, Haritha Keralam Mission, the plants and trees are chosen based on the topography of the land and with an aim for biodiversity conservation. School campuses too “Each local body was asked to find suitable land for planting a pachathuruthu in their panchayat or municipality. The government also told us that we can use the unused land with the various government departments with their permission. School campuses have also been used. We also revived many neglected kaavus (sacred groves). The saplings were made available free of cost by the Forest Department. Workers of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) were used for land preparation and planting,” says Ms. Seema. The plants or trees suitable for each area and local varieties that had disappeared over the years were identified. Mangroves In some areas where mangrove forests were found to be more suitable, the pachathuruthu took that form. Exotic and invasive species such as acacia and eucalyptus were completely avoided. Trees ranging from Indian tulip, mango tree, wild jack (anjily), black plum (njaval), neermaruth, tamarind, Indian hog plum, mahagony, neem to medicinal plants such as Malabar nut (Adalodakam) and amla were planted in various plots. Private lands were also used in some places. A local committee has been formed to ensure the upkeep of each of the mini-forests, with people’s representatives, local residents, and youth club members being a part of it. The MGNREGS workers will provide their services for three years.
22 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Faulty antigen test kits to be returned||The Kerala Medical Services Corporation (KMSC) has decided to return the unused antigen rapid test kits it had purchased from Pune-based Mylab Discovery Solutions following complaints from various districts about the quality of the kits. Concerns had been raised by many districts over the quality of some batches of the kits (Pathocatch COVID-19 antigen rapid kits by Mylab) they had been using in the past two weeks as these were giving inconclusive results Health officials said that in some of the batches, the results could not be interpreted as the test and control lines seemed to smudge and blend. This necessitated reconfirmation of positive test results too. Though RT-PCR (real-time polymerase chain reaction) is considered to be the gold standard in COVID-19 testing, given the urgency to increase the number of tests Kerala has been leaning heavily on antigen rapid tests. More than two-thirds of the total tests done in the State are antigen tests now. The Health Department had been using the rapid test kits of a South Korean firm, SD Biosensor (Standard Q COVID-19 Ag test kits), till recently. ICMR approved However, after the test kits from Mylab Solutions was approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the KMSC had purchased one lakh kits from the company too and were distributed to districts. “In about 10-15 % of one of the batches of the antigen kits, interpretation of results was not possible,” official sources said. On Monday, following the government’s directive, the KMSC has written to all districts to return the unused portion of the Mylab test kits. These would be returned to the company. This would not affect the State’s sample testing as ample stocks of other antigen test kits are at its disposal, the KMSC said.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Pelting down||
22 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Release of water from Mid Pennar Reservoir likely||The Irrigation Advisory Board meeting of Anantapur district has been hanging fire for the past several days due to lack of understanding among the people’s representatives over sharing of available water. The district has been reserving 10 tmcft of water for drinking purposes and last two years this quantum was taken from the High Level Canal of the Tungabhradra Dam. Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy suggested at the last IAB meeting in 2019 that 5 tmcft be reserved from the Tungabhadra and another 5 tmcft from Krishna water coming through Hundri Neeva Sujala Sravanthi canal. Dharmavaram, Penukonda, Madakasira and Singanamala are the constituencies, where the farmers too have been very vocal on getting their share of water. Meet put off A cold war is running in the district among the people’s representatives in deciding which canal gets how much and to settle this issue a meeting with district in-charge Minister was scheduled on September 18 in Vijayawada, which got postponed to September 23. With the share of distribution of available water not being finalised, currently all the water is being fed to village tanks. Meanwhile, the Mid Pennar Reservoir dam is nearing its full reservoir level and may necessitate release of water into the Penna river after 12 years. The last time such a situation arose in September 2008. A ‘Dandora’ (announcement) was made on Saturday in Penakacherla, Tarimella, and Rachapall in the downstream villages of MPR Dam to caution the likely inundation due to lifting of gates. If water is released into Penna, it goes into Chagallu Reservoir, which is also surplessing now. As on Monday, 4.1 tmcft is available in MPR Dam against a capacity of 5.2 tmcft. Now the water coming from Tungabhadra can be diverted to Penna Ahobilam Balancing Reservoir (PABR), a drinking water source for Anantapur city that has 11 tmcft capacity, but never stored above 5.1 tmcft. HLC Superintending Engineer Nayakanti Rajasekhar told The Hindu that they asked for reduction of water released from Tungabhadra and the repair of link canal taken up on Wednesday. He hopes TB Dam water can be fed into PABR from Saturday.
22 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kin run from pillar to post to get death certificate||Family members of a construction labourer, who died at the entrance of the Government General Hospital here on July 24, are having to run from pillar to post to get his death certificate. The patient, Raju, hailing from Dharmavaram, had died due to shortness of breath after battling for life for six hours on the GGH premises here, with no one attending to him. On approaching the Anantapur Municipal Corporation for death certificate, the family was told that they had not received any report from the GGH. On enquiring with the GGH, they denied having any such report saying as he was not admitted to the hospital, they did not have any connection with it. On Monday, Raju’s kin visited the District Collector’s office seeking their help to get them the death certificate, through which they could avail the death benefits.
22 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Net centre operator arrested for ‘fraud’||The Tirupati Urban police on Monday arrested an operator of a net centre at Subash Nagar in Tirupati and seized the digital equipment allegedly used for clandestine making of officials’ seals of various government departments. According to the police, on receiving information from the vigilance and enforcement officials, the Tirupati East police raided the Koushik Net Centre at the locality, and took one Siddavatam Ravikumar into custody. He was charged with making of official seals without authorization and resorting to forgery of signatures of certain officials in order to facilitate availing of government schemes by his prospective clientele.
22 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl ‘sexually assaulted’||An alleged sexual assault on a six-year-old girl by a 15-year-old boy at Cherlopalle village of Tirupati rural mandal came to light on Monday. The incident is said to have occurred a few days ago. The parents of the victim approached the area police, after the girl complained off illness. According to the MR Palle police, the girl was lured by the boy of the same locality with some eatables. He took her to an isolated spot and sexually assaulted her. A case was registered and investigation is on.
22 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor hidden in car seized||In a joint operation, the Chowdepalle police and a special party of the Special Enforcement Bureau on Monday seized 250 carton packs of liquor from Karnataka and confiscated a car, besides arresting one person on the outskirts. The accused concealed the liquor in a specially designed cavity attached to the vehicle doors. The police registered a case. Additional SP (SEB) Y. Rishant Reddy told the media that in view of the growing incidence of liquor smuggling across the border, surveillance was mounted at all the check posts along with night patrol.
22 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Task force told to trace contacts in 24 hours||The officials of the COVID-19 task force have intensified the process of detecting primary and secondary contacts in Tirupati and Chittoor municipal corporations and Srikalahasti municipality, which account for close to fifty percent of the total cases, as the tally crossed the 55,000-mark by Monday. With 590 casualties, the district tops the State’s toll and comes third in the tally. This follows the directives of District Medical and Health Officer M. Penchalaiah and District surveillance officer Annareddy Sudarshan, who in a meeting on Monday asked the officials to trace the contacts within 24 hours of surfacing of a new case. This was the only way to curtail the spread of the virus, they said.
22 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||ASI lands in ACB trap||The sleuths of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) from the Tirupati region on Monday allegedly caught red-handed an assistant sub-inspector at Kalikiri police station, V. Damodhar, when he was accepting a bribe of Rs. 10,000 from a complainant. According to the ACB officials, the ASI had demanded the amount from the members of a family of Kalikiri mandal to process the bail plea of a youth in remand in a dowry harassment case. A family member had brought it to the notice of the ACB Deputy SP Allabaksh .
22 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amalapuram locals agree to part with land for new government medical college||Private landowners and farmers of Samanasa panchayat on Friday consented to part with their land for the proposed government medical college in Amalapuram rural mandal of East Godavari district. The State Government has recently sanctioned a government medical college, for which an estimated Rs. 500 crore would be spent in Konaseema area in the district. In the maiden talks held with private land owners and farmers recently, Social Welfare Minister Pinipe Viswaroop and Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha said that a total of 50 acres of land would be required for the medical college. The State Government would offer the package as per the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition and Resettlement Act. “The three-month search for the land has ended as locals from Samanasa and Chintada Garuvu villages have expressed their willingness to part with their land for the medical college. A final round of talks will soon be held to fix the final price for the land to be gathered,” said Mr. Viswaroop. 400-KV sub-station “The site has been finalised for the new medical college at Samanasa panchayat in Amalapuram rural mandal. Further talks will be held with landowners in coming weeks to proceed with the land acquisition. The final financial package is yet to be finalised for the land,” Mr. Lakshmisha told The Hindu . At the same meeting held at the Amalapuram municipal office, Mr. Viswaroop said that the State government has sanctioned a 400-KV capacity power sub-station for Amalapuram Assembly constituency, providing better electricity connectivity for the aqua industry as well as to domestic consumers. “Search is on to identify the 50 acres of land near Amalapuram,” Mr. Viswaroop said. Amalapuram Sub-Collector Himanshu Kaushik and other Revenue officials were present at the talks.
22 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No darshan at Antarvedi temple till September 25||The Endowments Department on Monday extended the restrictions imposed on the darshan of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district till September 25. The week-long restrictions on the darshan for the devotees ended on Monday. However, the Endowments Department officials have decided to extend it till September 25. Meanwhile, the local devotees were allowed to have a darshan for some time on Monday morning. “For some time, we have allowed a few devotees to have darshan on Monday. However, the senior officials have decided to continue the restrictions on the ground that allowing darshan might lead to further spread of the coronavirus ,” temple Executive Officer Yerramsetti Bhadraji said. By Monday, as many as 150 police personnel were deployed at the temple as part of the security arrangements after the chariot burning case. Many of the policemen (about 60) contracted the COVID-19 infection, the temple EO said. “The restriction on darshan at the temple are required to be extended to prevent the further spread of the COVID-19,” added Mr. Bhadraji.
22 September 2020||KIRLAMPUDI (EAST GODAVARI DIST),ANDHRA PRADESH||Mudragada rejects plea to lead Kapu quota movement||Kapu leader Mudragada Padmanabham on Monday rejected the plea by the community representatives from all the 13 districts in the State to withdraw his decision of staying away from the Kapu reservation movement. In July, Mr. Padmanabham quit the movement following criticism from a section of the community. About 50 Kapu leaders met Mr. Padmanabham at his residence here on Monday and appealed to him to lead the movement again. At least three senior Kapu leaders from each district joined the meeting. However, Mr. Padmanabham politely rejected their pleas and promised to continue his friendship with the community leaders. Later, Konaseema Kapu Reservation Movement JAC president Kalavakolanu Tataji said Mr. Padmanabham denied to lead the movement again. “We are planning to conduct a State-level meeting soon to cahalk out the furute course of action for the movement.”
22 September 2020||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||New cases come down to 190 in Kurnool||The number of COVID-19 cases has been on the decline in Kurnool and Anantapur districts for the past one week and on Monday, Kurnool registered just 190 new cases, and Anantapur registered 505 new cases. The number of fatalities in Anantapur district at 451, however, surpassed Kurnool with 447 and the cumulative number of positive cases going up to 54,219 in Kurnool was slightly higher than that of 53,342 in Anantapur district. While five new deaths were recorded in Anantapur in the last 24 hours, three were registered in Kurnool district. Currently, the number of active cases also has seen a drastic fall in Anantapur district with only 2,996 active cases. In Kurnool, 2,868 patients are getting treatment in hospitals and COVID Care Centres.
22 September 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flood situation eases in Nellore district||The SPSR Nellore district administration heaved a sigh of relief as the inflow into the Somasila reservoir dropped by 38,000 cusecs to about 93,000 cusecs on Monday evening. As a precautionary measure, the irrigation authorities let out 85,384 cusecs downstream of the swollen Penna river, maintaining a flood cushion of 4.5 tmcft in the Somasila reservoir which impounded 73.44 tmcft of water. ''We are maintaining a close watch on the situation. The inflow may increase in the next couple of days as Kundu, a tributary of the Penna is still in spate,'' said Somasila Superintending Engineer N. Krishna Rao. People in several villages in Sangam mandal as also colonies in Nellore city close to the Penna river banks including Porlakatta, Jardhan Reddy Colony, Potepalem, Jonawada and Daramadugu, spent sleepless nights as the discharge was of the order of 1.48 lakh cusecs earlier in the day following an inflow of 1.31 lakh cusecs. As many as 1,500 persons were moved to relief camps organised by the officials in the city as flood waters entered their houses in the low-lying areas. Storage increased Meanwhile, the storage in the Kandleru reservoir increased to 40.90 tmcft following an inflow of 10,479 cusecs. The discharge from the reservoir was stepped to 2,210 cusecs, including 1,500 cusecs, to meet the drinking water needs of Chennai metropolis.
22 September 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||FCI gives nod for transporting Nellore paddy to other districts||The Food Corporation of India(FCI) has given its nod for the inter-district transportation and milling of paddy of Edagaru crop in Nellore district. A decision to this effect was taken on Monday by the FCI at the behest of Vice-President M.Venkaiah Naidu whose intervention was sought by farmers who had a bumper crop this year. The Centre had already extended the deadline for paddy procurement till October-end and revised the rabi crop target for the State to 23.37 lakh tonnes. Taking into account various constraints, including the milling capacity and quality of crop, the FCI took the decision after the Vice-President took up the matter raised by the farmers in the district with the Union Secretaries of Agriculture, Food and Public distribution and Home. Meanwhile, State Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy, along with Joint Collector M.N. Harendhira Prasad, visited the Venkatadari Rice Mill at Narayanareddypeta in the city on Monday and held a meeting with the stakeholders. The State Government had sought the Centre’s nod for moving the procured paddy to the districts of Guntur, Prakasam, East Godavari and YSR Kadapa for expeditious milling in the wake of unprecedented production of paddy in the district.
22 September 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active virus cases down to 4,207 in Nellore||Six more persons succumbed to coronavirus in south coastal Andhra Pradesh in the last 24 hours taking the toll in Nellore and Prakasam districts to 426 and 420 respectively. While Nellore reported four deaths and 401 cases, Prakasam registered six deaths and 841 new cases, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Monday night. The cumulative total went up to 92,230 in the two districts. Health officials heaved a sigh of relief as the toll in Prakasam district, which had been rising in double digit each day in the previous week, recorded only two deaths in the last 24 hours. Continuing with the positive trend, the number of patients who recovered was more by about 100 when compared to fresh admissions in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, 1,353 patients, including 401 patients in Nellore district, recovered in the two districts, providing some relief to the health officials who worked overtime to treat the symptomatic cases by providing oxygen and ventilator support. The number of active cases came down to 4,207 in Nellore district as 608 patients won the battle against the disease in the last 24 hours. In Prakasam district, the active cases fell to 10,935 with 745 patients returning home after getting cured of the viral disease. In Prakasam district, 5,282 persons tested negative for the disease. So far, 3.76 lakh persons were subjected to testing.
22 September 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||UGC approves 9 new courses for AKNU||Adikavi Nannaya University (AKNU-Rajamahendravaram) Vice-Chancellor M. Jagannadha Rao on Monday said that the University Grants Commission(UGC) has approved nine new courses to be offered from the academic year 2021-22 under the National Skills Qualifications Framework (NSQF). According to an official release issued by the AKNU on Monday, the nine courses include a Ph.D programme in the field of Industrial Chemistry, four Post Graduate Diploma courses and four certificate courses. The PG Diploma courses would be offered in the subjects of organic chemistry, petrochemicals, pharma industry. The certificate courses would cover the subjects: aquaculture, feed techniques and analysis, English language skills, counselling skills, IT and Internet of Things(IoT). All these courses will be run by the Skill Development Centre on the campus. Speaking to The Hindu, Prof. Jagannadha Rao said: “The UGC has assured us of financial aid to develop infrastructure, such as laboratories, required for some new courses to be offered from next academic year. We will begin the admissions for the courses soon.” AKNU Registrar B. Ganga Rao, Skill Development Centre Co-ordinator B. Jaganmohan Reddy and University UGC Co-ordinator P. Vijaya Nirmala and other teaching staff expressed happiness at the approval.
22 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land acquisition a major hurdle for Bhavanapadu port project||The Bhavanapadu port project is facing many hurdles especially when it comes to land acquisition, despite the State government’s promise of ensuring the best package for the land owners in Santabommali mandal of Srikakulam district. The assurances that the project would usher in a bright future to the entire district appear to be not enough to convince the farmers and others. Several meetings of those who have to part with their land with Ministers at the Collector’s office have failed to yield any result. The project was proposed in 2012, and notification for land acquisition was issued in August 2013. The farmers were up in arms against the government which offered compensation as per the old norms, seeking that it be paid as per the guidelines of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act-2013. The TDP, which came into power in 2014, tried to convince the farmers about the construction of the project by the Adani Group, but in vain. It initially decided to execute the project in 5,000 acres of land, but reduced it later to 2,217 acres. Despite the best efforts of the government, the project failed to make any headway. Project details The YSRCP, after assuming office in 2019, set up Bhavanapaud Port Development Corporation Limited to execute the project. As per the Detailed Project Report (DPR), the new port would be able to handle 9.18 million tonnes of cargo per annum and around Rs. 3,669 crore is needed for its construction. The government has estimated that nearly Rs. 1,200 crore would be spent on land acquisition. Meanwhile, residents of Devunaltada, Marripadu and Bhavanapadu who are facing eviction have been opposing the project. The residents, majority of them fishermen, fear that the project would hit their livelihood. “The residents have been demanding a fishing harbour. The port may create jobs for a section of the locals, but it would deprive thousands of their livelihood,” says CPI(M) leader Bhaviri Krishnamurthy. Socio-economic survey The residents have been urging the government to conduct a socio-economic survey in the villages to be affected by the project. “Around 80% of the reseidents in the villages are dependant on fishing. They have no other livelihood option,” says B. Shanmukhara Rao, a local lader. Some residents are demanding Rs. 55 lakh compensation per acre. But, the officials say that such huge compensation for land was not paid anywhere in India. Meanwhile, Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishnadas, Fisheries Minister Sidiri Appala Raju and Collector J. Nivas have asked the revenue officials to hold meetings with the residents by explaining the benefits of the proposed financial package.
22 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Simha vahanam marks second day of fete at Tirumala||Festivities related to Simha vahanam were observed on Monday, the third day of the annual Brahmotsavams currently under way at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here. The religious proceedings were observed to the processional deity Lord Malayappa mounted atop the golden Simha vahanam at Kalyanotsavam mandapam inside the temple. In the afternoon, the priests for the second consecutive day ceremoniously observed Snapana Thirumanjanam to the deities. Elaborate decoration The deities were adorned with a crown and garlands made up of dry fruits like apricots, pista, cardamom, figs and paddy adding to the grandeur of the festival. The celebrations culminated with ‘Muthyapu Pandiri’ (palanquin of pearls) at night. Cameras installed Meanwhile, the TTD has installed about 42 animal detector cameras at several vital points on the outskirts of the temple town. The increase in the incidents of wild animals foraying into human habitats in the town during the lockdown period wherein the hill temple remained closed for the public for about 80 days has prompted the TTD security and vigilance officials to espouse the digital technology. There were several instances of wild beasts like leopards, bears and wild boars freely loitering on the thoroughfares of the temple town causing anxious moments to authorities. The highly sophisticated cameras alert the security personnel at the central command centre as soon as they detect an animal in their close proximity and also trigger a high-sound alarm to scare away the animals back into the wild. The alert message are also passed on to the night patrolling team enabling them reach the spot immediately. Officials believe that the arrangement will help avoid any kind of human-animal conflict as several guest houses and religious mutts are located on the peripheral areas including the Balaji Nagar locality that houses the local residents.
22 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State urges Centre to sanction Rs. 4,000 crore for Polavaram||Water Resources Minister P. Anil Kumar and MPs P.V. Mithun Reddy, Lavu Krishnadevarayalu and Gorantla Madhav met Union Minister for Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat  in New Delhi on Monday and requested him to sanction nearly Rs. 4,000 crore which the Central government is due to give towards reimbursement of the expenditure incurred by the State on the construction of the Polavaram project. They also apprised Mr. Shekhawat of the projects on the River Krishna that will be beneficial to the Rayalaseema region. Pending project Speaking to the media after the meeting , Mr. Anil Kumar said he had asked the Union Minister to extend financial support to the pending projects and those proposed to be undertaken. He stated that Mr. Shekhawat responded positively to the request and attributed the delay in the release of funds to the crisis precipitated by the coronavirus pandemic. The Minister said the Polavaram project works, including the relief and rehabilitation of a large number of displaced families, were going on at a brisk pace as per the government’s resolve to complete it by the end of 2021. Apex council meeting The Union Minister said the fresh schedule of the apex council meeting would be intimated soon.
22 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Schools in State reopen with fewer students, skeleton staff||Classes were conducted for IX, X and Intermediate students as schools and educational institutions were reopened on Monday across the State, after remaining closed for six months in the wake of the pandemic. However, the attendance was poor on day one. In all, 88,296 schools are functioning in the State, of which 30,489 are upper primary and high schools and the remaining are primary schools. Following the directions of the Centre and the State governments, officials of the School and Higher Education Departments gave nod for conducting classes for ninth, tenth and intermediate students. However, the school managements should obtain consent letters in writing (undertaking) from the parents on sending their wards to the educational institutions. The rule should be followed by all the school and college managements. As regards safety, the managements should sanitize the classrooms, grounds, corridors, water tanks and toilets and arrange dos and don’ts on how to protect oneself from the virus. “The managements should arrange first-aid kits, sanitisers and masks on the school and college premises. Teaching and non-teaching staff should also follow the COVID protocol,” an officer said. Classes were conducted with 50 percent staff and the remaining teachers organised online classes for the students on the first day today.
22 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Capital case: HC tells Chief Secy. to file additional counter||A three-judge bench of the High Court posted the batch of writ petitions related to the AP Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Acts, to October 5 and directed the respondents, including Chief Secretary of the government, to file additional counters by that date. Justices Rakesh Kumar, M. Satyanarayana Murthy and U. Durga Prasad Rao took up the writ pleas numbering over 80. During Monday’s hearing, advocates representing the farmers and other petitioners argued that the Central government was obliged to sort out the issue of ‘three capitals’ and insisted that the proposal was in blatant violation of the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014 and other statutes. Referring to the construction of the State guest house in Visakhapatnam, which the petitioners alleged was a part of shifting of the executive capital, Advocate-General S. Sriram said the guest house had to be built whether or not the capital moved to the port city. Guest house in Vizag Construction of the guest house in Visakhapatnam when status quo is in force amounted to contempt of court and that it warranted appropriate action, the advocates representing the petitioners argued.
22 September 2020||vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||CMRF: CID officials too to probe fraud attempt||The Crime Investigation Department (CID) police will also conduct probe into the alleged fraud attempt in Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) besides the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). “As the nature of the case is a ‘white collar offence’ and related to other States, the CID sleuths have been entrusted with the task of investigating the fake cheques case. The economic offences wing (EOW) will investigate the sensational case,” CID Additional Director-General P.V. Sunil Kumar told The Hindu on Monday. Miscreants maid an attempt to withdraw about Rs. 112 crore from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund by depositing three fake cheques in different banks located at Mangalore, West Bengal and New Delhi, a few days ago. The fraud attempt was detected when officers of the concerned branches verified the genuineness of the cheques submitted by the miscreants with the Velagapudi and Vijayawada branch officers, who confirmed that the cheques were fake. ‘May not be the first case’ Investigation officers suspect that the ‘fake cheques’ issue may not be the first case and similar incidents might have happened earlier. “As a practice, grant from the CMRF will be made to individuals during health and other emergencies. But in this case, the account holders produced the cheques for about Rs. 112 crore disbursed to different firms located in different States. And this led to the doubt about some foul play,” an officer associated wit the investigation said. Employees questioned Meanwhile, the Thullur police visited the Andhra Pradesh Secretariat and questioned the personnel of the Revenue Department and the banks on the fraud attempt. “We visited the bank and asked the executives on when and how they got the information that the fake cheques were produced in other branches of the bank. Similarly, we questioned the officers of the concerned wing at the Secretariat,” said Thullur Deputy Superintendent of Police Y. Srinivas Reddy.
22 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||No whistle-blower should be exploited, NHRC tells govt.||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has directed Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney and Director-General of Police (DGP) Gautam Sawang to submit an Action Taken Report (ATR) to it within four weeks with regard to the complaint lodged by Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) president S. Sailajanath. The NHRC, in a letter to the CS and the DGP on Monday, said that the authorities were also directed to ensure that no whistle-blower or social-political activist be exploited, humiliated or harassed on flimsy grounds. The NHRC said that the APCC president, in his complaint, has alleged that the doctors who raised their voices and publicly spoke about the ground reality of the hospitals in the State, such as little or no availability of PPE kits, masks and sanitisers, and raised voice to improve health services in the State have been slapped cases by the Andhra Pradesh government to harass them. In such a case, APCC vice-president G. Gangadhar, Vijayawada, has been falsely implicated in a case under Section 188 of IPC and Sec.54 and 58 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005. He was issued a notice to appear before CID on August 3. The complainant sought intervention of the NHRC for relief to the activists and to the people who have been suffering and dying with COVID-19 for want of proper medical facilities.
22 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Non-Hindus visiting Tirumala temple must submit declaration’||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Monday insisted that any person belonging to faiths other than Hinduism should submit a self-declaration before having a darshan at the Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala. “Even former president Dr. A.P.J. Abdul Kalam had signed the declaration form before having a darshan at the temple. The rule is sacrosanct and it applies to all non-Hindus,” he told the media here on Monday. The Central government would make a law to refrain the political leaders from talking irresponsibly on the gods and goddesses and other sensitive matters, he said. Taking strong exception to the recent ‘string of attacks on Hindu temples’ in the State, Mr. Veerraju condemned Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) for his comments on Lord Hanuman. He demanded that Mr. Venkateswara Rao must take back his words, which hurt the sentiments of the Hindus. “Police complaints are being lodged against the Minister across the State for making such blasphemous remarks,” he said. A dig at TDP Criticisin N. Chandrababu Naidu, Mr. Veerraju said 30 temples were demolished in Vijayawada during the TDP regime. “Mr. Naidu was responsible for the death of 30 people during the Godavari Pushkaram in 2015. He has no right to talk about dharma,” said Mr. Veerraju.
22 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sajjala takes a dig at Naidu||Government Advisor (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has slammed former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu for opposing decentralised development and using his 'friendly media' to publish negative stories on the day of court hearing. Addressing the media, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said it has been a well-orchestrated plan by Mr. Naidu to get adverse stories published in the media that were close to him. Claiming that the capital city (Amaravati) is not being shifted, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy clarified: “It (the capital) is only being decentralised for balanced development of all regions and to avoid further bifurcation of the State in future.”
22 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM must sign faith form, says TDP leader||TDP senior leader K.S. Jawahar has said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy should take part in the Brahmotasavams at Tirumala temple only if he is willing to sign the declaration of faith form. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy is scheduled to present the ‘Pattu Vastaram’ on behalf of the State government to Lord Venkateswara on the eve of Brahmotsavams on September 23. “The Chief Minister need not to go to the temple if he has no faith in the deity. One of his Cabinet colleagues can take part in the rituals on his behalf,” Mr. Kawahar told the media here on Monday. He alleged that Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) was making objectionable statements, hurting the sentiments of the Hindu devotees.
22 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temple attacks: bid to tarnish image of State govt., say Ministers||Ministers Cherukuvada Sri Ranganatha Raju and Velamapalli Srinivasa Rao have alleged that a conspiracy is on to project the Jagan Mohan Reddy government in bad light by blaming it for the growing attacks on temples. The Ministers visited Visakha Sri Sarada Peetham at China Mushidiwada here on Monday and sought the blessings of the Peetham Head Sri Swaroopanandendra Mahaswamy and the Uttarapeethadhipathi Sri Swatmanandendra Swamy. Later speaking to the media, Mr. Raju and Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that vested interests were indulging in attacks on temples and pranksters were continuing them. The building of a new chariot at Antarvedi would be completed before the temple festival. Saying that it was wrong to link the Chief Minister to a particular community or caste, they wondered why the leaders belonging to Telugu Desam Party (TDP), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Jana Sena Party (JSP) had failed to protest, when several temples were demolished by the Chandrababu Naidu government for the Krishna pushkarams. The temples were not an obstruction for hosting the pushkarams, but were demolished. The YSRCP government has plans to reconstruct them. Some of them would be reconstructed on completion of the flyover work and others would be rebuilt at nearby places. People were aware as to how the Chandrababu Naidu government had demolished them, the Ministers said. “The government is serious on the attacks on temples and will take measures to prevent their recurrence. A confusion was being created in the minds of the public. We will explain to the people on the attempts being made by various parties to politicise the issue. We will not hurt the sentiments of Hindus,” they said. Earlier, the Ministers went round the Peetham complex and offered prayers at various temples on the premises. Chariot model They showed a model of the new chariot, to be constructed at Antarvedi, to the seers. Sri Swaroopanandendra suggested conduct of ‘homam’ and special ‘pujas’ at the temples, where attacks had occurred. The seer also suggested appointment of an ‘Agama Advisory Board’ with pandits to come out with measures needed to regain the confidence of the public. Brahmin Corporation Chairman Malladi Vishnu and Endowments Commissioner Arjuna Rao were present.
22 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 150 cases, lowest in the last 50 days||The district recorded lowest number of COVID-19 positive cases in the last 50 days on Monday. The district recorded just 150 cases on Monday, taking the total number of active cases to 4,306 and total cases since the outbreak of the pandemic to 47,516. In the last 24 hours 272 people who were undergoing treatment at COVID hospitals, COVID Care Centres and in home isolation, were discharged. The district also recorded two deaths taking the total toll to 365. As per District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, this was for the first time in the last 50 days that the daily cases stood below the 200-mark. “This month, the district has been seeing a drop in cases. From averaging around 900 to 1,000 cases per day in August, we are recording around 300 to 400 cases per day. This is significant and if the trend continues for a few more days, we can come to a conclusive theory,” he said. As on Monday, the very active clusters (new) were 31, very active clusters (existing) were 211 and active clusters were 526.
22 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Some private schools reopen for students of Classes IX, X||After almost over six months, some of the schools reopened here on Monday. A few private schools have opened their gates for students of Classes IX and X. “These are not regular classes, but we opened only for students from higher classes who intend to come and clarify their doubts,” said the teacher of a school. All schools remained closed from March 18 and a few of them in the city have partially opened on Monday. “We are allowing only those students who come with a declaration from their parents,” she said. Principal of another school said that based on the COVID-19 protocol, the entire school has been sanitised and the classrooms were cleaned. “We are allowing only 10 to 12 students in a room, as we have to maintain a distance of six-foot between each student. Moreover, it is only doubt clearance classes for a couple of hours,” he said. “We have also spoken to each parent to inform their wards about the COVID-19 protocol and told them to send the students to schools with masks, their own pencils and pens, water bottles and sanitisers,” he said. Some of the schools have kept thermal scanners, sanitisers and spare masks, just in case, a student fails to bring them. Parents have been told not to send their children if they have cough, cold or fever. Some schools including private schools have not started to function and students were sent back, with the assurance that they will be intimated later.
22 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||A merger that changed the Maoist threat perception||In October 2009, then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh had said that Naxalism was the greatest internal security threat to the country. He said this in the wake of number of attacks by the Naxal group or the banned CPI (Maoist). His observations still hold water, as the threat perception and area of operation of the CPI (Maoist) changed with the merger of two major Naxal groups on September 21, 2004. The weeklong formation week of Moaists began in the AOB region and areas controlled by them on Monday. On September 21, 2004, two major left wing extremist groups the Communist Party of India (Marxist–Leninist) People’s War or People’s War Group and the Maoist Communist Centre of India (MCCI) were merged and the Communist Party of India- Maoist or CPI (Maoist) was born. Till then, though the two groups had some links, their areas of operation were located in two different geographical zones. The MCCI led by Prashant Bose operated in Bihar, Jharkhand, Bihar-West Bengal border area and parts of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh, while the PWG led by Muppala Lakshmana Rao alias Ganapathi operated in the southern States of then undivided Andhra Pradesh, Dandakaranya area and parts of Maharashtra. The merger gave the outfits the control of many areas right from Bihar-Nepal border to Andhra Pradesh. “Even as the MCCI and the PWG fought turf wars over differences, the merger gave them pan-India presence and exposure that they always desired. They believed in achieving compact revolutionary zones (CRZ) or liberated zones. They were successful in creating a red corridor and liberated zones from Bihar touching Chhattisgarh to AOB region,” said a senior police officer, who has been engaged in anti-Maoist operations. The idea of Ganapathi, who became the general secretary of the CPI (Maoist), was to create a CRZ in the Central India from Bihar-Nepal border to A.P., thereby creating a linkage with the Communist Party of Nepal and Communist Party of Bhutan-Maoist. Guerilla armies The merger also saw the union of their guerilla armies. The People’s Guerrilla Army (PGA), the armed wing of the MCCI, with over 3,000 cadres merged with the PWG’s People’s Liberation Guerrilla Army (PLGA) with 3,500 cadres . The armed base jumped to over 6,500 cadres and a stockpile of 6,000 arms and ammunition that varied from AK series rifles to SLR and from country-made weapons to Lee Enfield rifles. The naxalite movement, which was launched by Charu Mazumdar in West Bengal in 1969, have been ridden with internal bickering. Founded by Kanai Chatterjee, the MCCI, then called as Dakshin Desh, never aligned with Charu Mazumdar’s ideology, despite sharing similar thoughts and objective . Dakshin Desh was renamed as the MCC in 1975 and it aggressively combined the mass movement with armed struggles under the leadership of Sanjay Dusadh and Pramod Mishra post 1980s. On the other hand, PWG, that was founded by Kondapalli in 1980, believed in the legacy of Charu Majumdar. Special forces The initial success of the Maoists saw the Centre deploying over 10,000 CRPF and BSF personnel in the affected regions. Every affected State now has its own special forces such as Greyhounds in A.P. and Telangana, SOG in Odisha and C-60 in Maharashtra to tackle them. As part of Operation Samdhan and Green Hunt by the security forces, the presence of the Maoists have now shrunk to small pockets of Chhattisgarh, AOB and Dandakaranya. They have been wiped out largely from Telangana, says another police officer. It is learnt that the chinks are emerging between the two groups in the form of reported difference over the leadership and dominance of Andhra-based leaders in the Central Committee. Differences reportedly have cropped up between Nambala Keshava Rao alias Basavaraj and Prashant Bose.
22 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NOCs of Sravan Shipping cancelled||VIsakhapatnam City Police Commissioner has cancelled the NOCs (no objection certificates) issued earlier to Sravan Shipping Services Private Limited for storing ammonium nitrate, at its warehouses located in Mindi, Visakhapatnam. Show-cause notice Earlier, a show-cause notice was served to the company with the clause to respond to the notice within seven days by the Police Commissioner, failing which the NOCs will be revoked ex parte. The notice period was supposed to expire on September 18, and on September 17, the shipping company responded and sought more time citing inconveniences / difficulties on the grounds of widespread COVID-19 pandemic and that the company was working with skeleton staff and even that staff at PESO, Nagpur, were also not coming to the office. The Police Commissioner has cancelled the NOCs citing gross violation of Ammonium Nitrate Rules of 2012, and further delay might hurt the interest of public peace and safety. Earlier, the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEF & CC) had also issued a show cause notice to the firm for cancellation of environmental clearance (EC). It is also learnt that the PESO, Nagpur, has revoked all the licences issued to Sravan Shipping Private Limited on Monday.
22 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag airport sees growth in passenger traffic||Visakhapatnam International Airport has recorded a steady growth in passenger traffic, despite restrictions on the movement of people in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The airport stands first in the operation of flights and passenger traffic when compared to other airports in the State, according to the Andhra Pradesh Air Travellers’ Association (APATA). The passenger statistics for July this year suggest that the Visakhapatnam airport handled more than double the number of passengers handled by Vijayawada airport, more than four times that of Rajamahendravaram airport and a little less than four times by Tirupati airport. In July, the Visakhapatnam airport recorded 42,095 passengers and operations of 318 cargo and 526 flights. The Vijayawada airport handled 20,624 passengers and operation of 227 cargo and 434 flights during the same period, said APATA representatives K. Kumar Raja, O. Naresh Kumar and D.S. Varma. The number of passengers and flights handled by Rajamahendravaram airport in July were 8,699 and 432 respectively, while Tirupati airport handled 11,040 passengers and operation of 228 flights, they said. The APATA leaders said they have brought to the notice of the Visakhapatnam airport Director the issue of overcrowding of the bus from the aircraft point to the exit gate.
22 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rich tributes paid to Gurajada||Rich tributes were paid to Mahakavi Gurajada Appa Rao by various organisations to mark his 158th birth anniversary on Monday . Representatives of the Forum for Development of North Andhra garlanded his statue at RTC Complex Junction. Metropolitan Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao and Additional Commissioner Manazir Jeelani Samoon garlanded a bust of Gurajada.
22 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sadhu Parishat seeks apology from Kodali Nani||AP Sadhu Parishat president Srinivasananda Saraswathi has taken strong exception to the statements of Minister for Civil Supplies Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao (Nani) on the need for followers of other faiths to sign a declaration before entering the Tirumala temple. Addressing a media conference here on Monday, Mr. Srinivasananda said that it was an indication of the scant respect of the present government towards Hindu traditions, that were being followed for ages. He demanded an immediate and unconditional apology from the Minister. The Chief Minister should also respond to the demand and make the Minister tender an apology, failing which Hindu organisations would intensify their protests, he warned.
22 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Charred body of man found||Residents of Srinagar in Gajuwaka were shocked when they found a charred body of a middle-aged man dumped on a roadside, on Monday morning. Police visited the spot and identified the deceased as Narasinga Rao, a truck driver and a native of Nalgonda area of Telangana. An empty petrol bottle was also found near the body. Police are yet to ascertain whether it was a suicide or murder. Locals said the body was found near the scrap shops. Residents of the area alleged that some illegal activities have been taking place near the area for the past few months. Police shifted the body to a morgue for post-mortem. Police said that a case was registered under Section 174 of CrPC (Suspicious Death) and the investigation is on to establish the exact causes of death. Police are scanning the CCTV footage near the crime scene.
22 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Arrangements made for exams’||Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy has said that all arrangements have been completed for the conduct of Degree final semester examinations of AU from September 28 to October 9. He held a virtual meeting with Principals of affiliated colleges on Monday.
22 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||23 smart signals go operational in the city||All the 23 smart signals that were under trial run since September 7, have been regularised and have gone operational from Monday. The signals were erected at various places such as Girijan Bhavan, Jodugullapalem, Pandurangapuram, Coastal Battery, Haritha Lodge, DRM Office, Leelamahal Junction, Port Hospital and other places. ADCP (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana said that the trial run was completed successfully.
22 September 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gurajada remembered||Andhra Pradesh State Cultural Council chairperson Vangapandu Usha and Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal on Monday urged poets and writers to create awareness among the younger generation about the great literary contribution of Mahakavi Gurajada Apparao who had fought against many social evils. On the occasion of the 158th birth anniversary of the great poet, they garlanded the statue of Gurjada. Speaking on the occasion, Ms. Usha said Gurajada continued to have a special place in the Indian history, particularly with his writings. Former Member of Parliament Botcha Jhansi and others said that Gurajada Apparao’s writings would continue to inspire all generations since they were relevant even to the present society. MLC Penumatsa Surynarayana Raju, Bobbili MLA Sambangi Venkata China Appala Naidu, AP State Commission for Protection of Child Rights member Kesali Apparao and others were present. Gurajada Samskritika Samakya general secretary Kapuganti Prakash expressed happiness over the good response to the webinar conducted to discuss Gurajada’s writings on the occasion of the writer’s birth anniversary.
22 September 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Multi-speciality hospital will come up in Parvatipuram, says Minister||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Medical and Health, Family Welfare Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas(Alla Nani) on Monday said that a multi-speciality hospital is coming up soon in Parvatipuram in Vizianagaram district to ensure hassle-free services to those living in far-off places. Reviewing various sites for its construction here and in Palakonda and Sithampet of Srikakulam too, the Minister, accompanied by Deputy Chief Ministers Pamula Pushpa Srivani and Dharmana Krishnadas, said that the government would spend Rs. 49 crore on the project for which foundation stone would be laid within a month.  Minister’s assurance Parvatipuram Integrated Tribal Development Agency Project Officer R. Kurmanath informed the Ministers of the free availability of lands in the tribal belt, who would be the chief beneficiaries of the project. When Vizianagaram District Medical and Health Officer S.V. Ramana Kumari told them the GGH was wanting in better facilities, Mr. Nani assured her that the government would release Rs. 186 crore to upgrade them at par with corporate hospitals. “For the first time, the government is going to establish 16 multi-speciality hospitals and 16 medical colleges in remote areas for the benefit of tribals,” said Mr. Nani. Highlighting the issues of kidney patients in Palasa, Minister for Fisheries Sidiri Appala Raju sought release of more funds to improve facilities at primary health centres in the district. Srikakulam Collector J.Nivas, Sithampet ITDA Project Officer Ch.Sridhar were present.
22 September 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kodali Nani incurs wrath of BJP leaders||Several BJP leaders have come down heavily on Minister for Civil Supplies Kodali Venkateswara Rao who allegedly made derogatory remarks while participating in a TV debate on temples. Senior BJP leader Kusumanchi Subbarao submitted a memorandum to the police seeking action against the Minister for hurting the sentiments of people. Party leaders Attada Ravi Babji and Reddi Narayana Rao offered prayers in Kodandrama Temple and seeking devine’s blessing to fight anti-Hindu elements in society.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 3,300-cr. Central loan for power sector in State||The Union Minister was also appreciative of the steps taken for bringing in a greater degree of transparency and accountability in the power sector. He assured that 30% subsidy would be provided on the 10,000 MW solar power project being undertaken by the State government. This project is aimed at ensuring free power supply to the farm sector. Tenders were invited for it recently. Mr. Srikant explained the precarious financial position of AP DISCOMs and Mr. Singh promised to extend all possible support. The State government had already sanctioned Rs. 17,904 crore in 2019-20 fiscal for clearing the tariff subsidy dues. Amitesh Kumar Sinha, Joint Secretary of Ministry of Power, was present .
22 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||CRPF jawan shoots self with service weapon||A 25-year-old jawan of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service weapon at the base camp of the CRPF’s 151st battalion in neighbouring Bijapur district of Chhattisgarh close to Tippapuram, a border village in Telangana’s Charla mandal, on Sunday night. The deceased jawan was identified as Rupesh, a native of Mansoor Nagar in Uttar Pradesh’s Hardoi district, police said. He allegedly shot himself with his weapon at the base camp late on Sunday night. He sustained a bullet injury and died while being shifted to the Government Area Hospital in Telangana’s temple town of Bhadrachalam, the same night. He was declared dead on arrival at the hospital. His body was sent to Pamedu in Bijapur district in the neighbouring State after post mortem, sources added. Sources said he was depressed over the death of one of his family members recently and his “failure” in his two attempts at the civil police constable recruitment tests in his native State in the last couple of months. (Roshini - Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000)
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Special drive for capping of nalas||Minister for Municipal Administration & Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao has announced a special programme for capping the open storm water drain systems in the city with a cost of Rs. 300 crore. Capping will be taken up for drains less than two metres in width, through construction of box drains, the Minister said while reviewing the impact of heavy downpour in the city for four days. Administrative sanctions for the works will be issued soon, he said. The decision came on heels of two incidents respectively in Neredmet and Saroornagar, where a 12-year-old child and another person were washed away in the drains due to heavy flows during rains. Mr. Rama Rao felt capping was necessary as all the nalas less than two metres in width are in thickly populated areas, posing grave threat to residents. He asked the officials to prepare foolproof plans to complete the programme as soon as possible. Where the nala width is more than two metres, capping will not be possible, and instead fencing will be the only option. Action will be taken as per the guidelines issued by the National Green Tribunal and the Supreme Court. The Minister has issued directions to the GHMC officials to initiate a programme to fence off such nalas. He also instructed the zonal and deputy commissioners to collate information about all the storm water drains in city, in view of the recent expansion of the metropolis. Reviewing the impact of heavy rains in city and other urban local bodies, Mr.Rama Rao has issued instructions for all necessary precautions and also relief measures. With more rains expected in the next two weeks, he directed the senior officials to cancel the leaves of all the employees, and to be on alert on the field. He asked the officials to conduct surprise inspections from time to time. Officials have informed the minister that the city has received rainfall of 54 centimetres in the last 10 days. Attributing the water logging in low lying areas to the intensive showers in a few hours of time, they said 170 teams are working in the city to control the situation. Mr.Rama Rao has asked the officials to identify and demolish buildings on the verge of collapse, and issue safety and security guidelines to private contractors taking up various construction works in the city. Officials have also been instructed to take up the repairing works to fix the roads damaged during the rains. He also asked for the entomology workers to plunge into action, after rains cease, to control mosquito proliferation.
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS assails suspension of 8 MPs in RS||Upping the ante against the BJP-led government at the Centre, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has strongly criticised the suspension eight MPs who staged a protest in the House against the passage of three farmers’ Bills in the Rajya Sabha and participated in a demonstration staged by the suspended MPs and other MPs on the premises of Parliament in New Delhi on Monday. When the government, through the Rajya Sabha Chairman, was citing rules for suspension of the MPs why was it silent on another rule of Parliamentary procedures which would make it mandatory to go for voting on contentious issues when the ruling party had no clear majority. Speaking in New Delhi, the party MPs sought to know how the Bills were passed with voice vote when the ruling BJP had no numbers and even some of its allies were opposing them. Rajya Sabha members from TRS K. Keshava Rao, K.R. Suresh Reddy, J. Santosh Kumar and others participated in the protest staged against suspension of the MPs and the way in which the Bills were passed. Back in Hyderabad, TRS leaders led by Minister for Animal Husbandry, Dairy Development and Fisheries Talasani Srinivas Yadav along with legislators M.S. Prabhakar, Kaleru Venkatesh, Mutha Gopal and Maganti Gopinath alleged that the Centre was making a mockery of democracy by passing three farmers’ Bills in spite of large scale opposition. The Central government was unmindful of even the resignation of a Cabinet Minister from an ally in protest against the Bills, they said. ‘Draconian Bills’ Alleging that passage of the controversial Bills was a conspiracy to handover agriculture to the corporate sector, Mr. Yadav said Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who he said had initiated several pioneering steps for the development of farm sector and welfare of farmers, would lead the farmers’ movement against the draconian Bills, if necessary. They sought to know why the members were not allowed to speak when the BJP was sure about its strength in the Rajya Sabha. They pointed out that Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu, who is also the Chairman of Rajya Sabha, did not chair the session in which the Bills were passed, perhaps he too was against the bills personally. They sought to know in which corner of the country the farming community had celebrated the passage of the three Bills. In contrast, people, particularly farmers, had celebrated in Telangana when the Legislature had passed new revenue Bill recently, they noted.
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Existing dominant COVID strain is infectious, not severe: study||It is important to note that no strain of coronavirus or clade at present has been conclusively shown to be associated with a more severe form of COVID-19 or an increased risk of death, affirmed scientists at the CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) on Sunday. Scientists have analysed more than 2,000 SARS-CoV-2 genomes from India available in the public domain to understand the various strains in circulation. Earlier in June, the scientists’ team had revealed the presence of a distinct virus population among Indians named ‘clade I/A3i’, and is recognised by the presence of four specific variations in their genetic makeup (genomes). At that time, 41% of all Indian SARS-CoV-2 genomes belonged to this clade. Current analysis showed that the proportion of the ‘A3i’ clade has dropped to 18%. “One of the four distinct variations that define the A3i clade is present in a key viral enzyme called RDRP, involved in making new copies of the viral RNA. This variant was predicted to be deleterious or bad for the virus, and if the prediction is indeed correct, we expected A3i clade to slowly disappear with time, and other clades without this variation will prevail. This is exactly what we see now,” says CCMB scientist team leader Divya Tej. Spike protein Decrease in the proportion of ‘A3i’ clade is accompanied by an increase of the ‘A2a’ clade, also referred to as the ‘G’ clade or the ‘20A/B’/C clades in other nomenclatures. Viruses of the ‘A2a’ or the ‘G’ clade carry the ‘D614G’ mutation in their spike protein which is shown to be associated with an increased infectivity. “At present 70% of all Indian as well as global SARS-CoV-2 genomes fall into this clade. As expected for a strain which is more infectious, A2a clade quickly became the dominant clade everywhere. There is no evidence to state that this mutation is clinically a more difficult one. The similarity in viral genome globally should be considered a positive news, because a vaccine or a drug targeting this mutation will work with the same effectiveness all over the world,” said CCMB Director Rakesh K. Mishra, also the co-author of the study. The findings of the study conducted with scientists from CSIR-Institute of Genomics & Integrative Biology (IIGB) as collaborators, are now peer-reviewed and published in the journal Open Forum Infectious Diseases published by the Oxford University Press.
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||94% of patients treated in home isolation, shows survey||A survey of around 2,000 medical tele-consultations in Telangana has revealed that 94% of COVID-19 patients, including 1,500 tested at primary health care centres (PHCs), reported mild disease and underwent treatment in home isolation while less than 6% required hospitalisation. NGO Helping Hand Foundation (HHF), which shared the survey observations with the media and claimed that it is the first grassroots-level survey in connection with the coronavirus pandemic, said the study was carried out between August 15 and September 15. “We tied up with four public health centres at Bandlaguda, Meerpet, Bholakpur and Bible House from where the data of 1,500 cases was analysed. We have seen that a big majority was treated under home isolation and they did well. Another 480 case data was from online consultations and calls from COVID-positive cases in districts,” said Mujtaba Hasan Askari from the HHF. The PHCs covered neighbourhoods such as Prashanth Nagar, Lenin Nagar, Gandhi Nagar, Osman Nagar, HUDA Colony and Ghouse Nagar, among others. Meanwhile, cases from the districts which were analysed included those from Rangareddy (90), Karimnagar (54), Warangal (42), Adilabad (15), Nizamabad (26), Nalgonda (40), Medak (35), Siddipet (24), Mahbubnagar (44), and Khammam (30). The survey observed that there is a need to control stigma associated with COVID-19 patients in villages, and stated that there is a need to bring about awareness of the virus to reduce fear and anxiety.
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||City airport bags coveted accreditation for hygiene standards||GMR-led Hyderabad International Airport has achieved the Airport Council International’s (ACI) Airport Health Accreditation (AHA). The accreditation is the outcome of the rigorous assessment of Hyderabad International Airport on the alignment of its health measures with the ACI Aviation Business Restart and Recovery guidelines and ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organisation) Council Aviation Recovery Task Force recommendations along with industry best practices. Hyderabad is among the first airports in Asia Pacific region to receive this coveted accreditation. The ACI assessment covered the health and safety measures undertaken by GMR Hyderabad International Airport for passengers and staff in all the terminal areas including departures, arrivals and transfers, transportation services, food and beverage services, escalators and elevators, lounges, facilities, baggage claim area etc. The assessment also captured the initiatives that airport took for safety and well-being of employees and stakeholders, an official spokesman said. The airport is steadily seeing an increase in passenger traffic with an average of over 16,000 domestic passengers daily and over 170 domestic air traffic movements daily in August. It has regained its 50 domestic destination out of 55 pre-COVID destinations. Top five destinations in terms of passenger footfall include Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Bangalore and Mumbai. “The ACI Airport Health Accreditation emboldens our commitment and consistent drive towards the safety of passengers and the entire airport community,” said GHIAL CEO Pradeep Panicker. RGIA airport’s key initiatives are contactless self-check-in kiosks, contact-less entry, hygiene stations equipped with contact-less sanitiser dispensers, UV sanitisation tunnel for automatic tray retrieval, digital payments, touch-less elevator, cab sanitisation, etc.
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Biggest reform in farm sector after Green Revolution: BJP||Former president of TS BJP K. Laxman while welcoming the passage of the new farm Bills by the Central government has condemned the manner in which the Opposition had protested inside Parliament. “These Bills are historic and are meant only to facilitate easy sale of farm produce by the farmers across the country without any taxes and putting an end to the middlemen role. It will only make agriculture profitable,” he maintained. At a press conference on Monday, the senior leader claimed this was the biggest farm reform since the Green Revolution in the country and will bring smiles on the farmers faces as it provides them with security and at least 50% profit. The reforms are part of the measures suggested by the Professor Swaminathan Committee appointed by the Congress-led government to improve farmers’ incomes. “The Opposition, including the TRS party, seem to be taking the side of the wheeler-dealers perpetuating the existing fiefdoms instead of standing by the farmers. None of these parties have ensured minimum support price for farmers or could prevent suicide by farmers,” he charged. Turning towards Telangana, Mr. Laxman alleged that hundreds of farmers were forced to take their own lives ever since Telangana Rashtra Samithi came to power with no support from the government. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has been forcing the farmers to grow the crops of the government choice and forgot about providing insurance cover. Even the Centre’s welfare schemes are not implemented here. He along with other Opposition leaders are shedding crocodile tears,” he said. MHA guidelines BJP MLC and city president N. Ramachander Rao urged the TRS government to ensure implementation of MHA guidelines in residential schools and colleges. The TRS government should take measures to implement Central government guidelines of 50% attendance of teaching staff in the residential schools and colleges to prevent spread of COVID-19. Though Intermediate Board and government schools are abiding by the norms, residential schools and colleges have been blatantly violating the norms which may pose danger to the lives of students and as well as teachers, he warned.
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||28k double-bedroom houses to be handed over soon||Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development Talasani Srinivas Yadav has stated that the State government would soon handover about 28,000 double-bedroom houses to selected beneficiaries of the GHMC area. He announced on Monday that of the total 2BHK houses being constructed in and around GHMC, one-lakh units, 90% of the dwelling units would be given to the beneficiaries from GHMC area even if the location of the houses falls outside GHMC area and the remaining 10% would be given to local poor people. He admitted to the fact that most of the one-lakh double-bedroom houses for the GHMC were being built outside the city due to non-availability of land. Speaking to mediapersons, Mr. Yadav ridiculed the opposition argument that the government is building 2BHK houses only to win the GHMC elections. Mr. Yadav sought to know from the Opposition parties, particularly the Congress, as to how any ruling party would speak about one-lakh houses to a city with one-crore population. Giving details on the construction of one-lakh double-bedroom houses for GHMC area poor, the Minister said 8,898 houses are being constructed in 40 locations where the beneficiaries own house sites, and another 91,102 houses are being built in 71 locations where the government has identified land for the purpose. Of the total houses, 632 units at five locations were completed and inaugurated. The government plans to complete 21,940 units at 17 locations by month-end, followed by 22,687 units at 20 locations by October-end, 11,728 units at 8 locations by November-end, 18,092 units at 22 locations by December-end, 7,464 units at 21 locations by the end of March 2021, 2,420 units at 3 locations by June-end next and 15,037 units at 15 locations by next September-end. The Minister said that the total cost of the project to construct one-lakh 2BHK houses is Rs. 9,715 crore.
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Genes identified in water buffaloes to improve productivity||Scientists at CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) have been studying genetics of water buffalo for more than a decade, and created tools for studying genomes of domestic buffalo. Now, they have identified genes which can help improve productivity and health among them. Satish Kumar (now at Central University of Haryana, and earlier at CCMB) and collaborators at the University of Edinburgh have compared the effects of domestication on the genetic makeup (genome) of water buffalo breeds with that of cattle breeds from across the world using the tools for studying the genes. Published in ‘Nature Communications’, the study shows that parts of genomes of both species have evolved similarly in response to domestication. These include genes that are associated with milk yield, disease resistance, stature and birth weight. Both these animals were selectively bred by humans and chosen for traits desirable to humans. The similarities found in their genomes suggest different animals have adapted to domestication in similar ways. “Studies such as this open up ways of finding genes linked with beneficial traits in different species of animals. Genome-editing techniques allow propagating those genes selectively and improve the productivity and health of agricultural animals in low and middle-income countries,” says Prof Kumar. “Millions of agricultural and dairy farmers rely on buffaloes and cattle in India and other Asian countries. With an ever-increasing population the demand for food will only soar. It is important that we find healthier ways for our cattle and buffaloes to cope with it. Choosing the appropriate genes through gene-editing or traditional selective breeding both allow for a very effective way of raising healthier animals,” says CCMB Director Rakesh K. Mishra. The study was funded by the Department of Biotechnology, Government of India, the UK Research and Innovation’s Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council and Centre for Tropical Livestock Genetics and Health.
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS insincere in its opposition to farmers’ Bills: say Congress MPs||Congress MPs from Telangana have alleged that Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has taken to opposing the three controversial farmers’ Bills after sensing large-scale opposition to the new legislation among the farming community across the country, including Telangana. Speaking outside Parliament in New Delhi on Monday, while participating in the protest against suspension of eight Rajya Sabha MPs on the issue, TPCC president and Nalgonda Member of Parliament N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and TPCC working president and Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy pointed out that the TRS MPs did not even seek an opportunity to speak against the Bill in the Lok Sabha although the party president had issued a statement directing the MPs to oppose the Bill. The TRS MPs silence on the Bll in Lok Sabha was part of the party’s tacit understanding with the BJP and the statement by party president and Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao was meant only to play to the gallery. However, after sensing the ground-swell of opposition against the draconian Blls, which they said would take away lands from small and marginal farmers for corporate farming, and after the resignation of Union Minister for Food Processing from Shiromani Akali Dal, an ally of NDA Government led-by BJP at the Centre, the TRS had decided to oppose it vocally, the Congress MPs said.  ‘Lack of sincerity’ However, their lack of sincerity on the issue was exposed again during the Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman’s election when the party did not vote against the NDA candidate. Although the Congress party would welcome any party that would oppose the draconian Bills against the farmers’ interests, they suspect the intent of TRS, the Congress MPs said. Congress party, in collaboration with the farmers’ organisations, would organise agitation across Telangana on September 25 against the “anti-farmer” policies of Modi government and the protests would be held at all district headquarters and Assembly constituencies, the TPCC president and.There was no mention of Minimum Support Price (MSP) to the farmers and no provision has been made to regulate contract farming. He said that the new farm Bills also finished the system of market yards where farmers sell their produce. “It is clear that the new law doesn’t have empowerment, or protection or price assurance for farmers. They are meant to give freedom to companies to do contract farmers, but nothing for farmers.”
22 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Percentage of girls in degree admissions sees sharp decrease||There is a sharp decrease in the percentage of girl students in degree courses this year though their number increased, while the number of boys have increased quite drastically along with the percentage. The first phase of allotment of Degree Online Services Telangana (DOST) revealed that the percentage of girl students increased from 53% last year to 61% now while boys’ admissions increased numbers wise as well as percentage wise. This year 76,173 girl students were allotted seats compared to 65,068 last year. However, their share fell from 61.7% to 53.90%. Number of boys also increased from 40,375 last year to 65,167 now. Commerce was the most popular course with 53,327 (37.73%) students opting for it followed by Physical Science at 35,349 (25.01%), Life Sciences at 29,401 (20.80%) and Arts at 17,508 (12.39%). B.Sc (Data Science) course is newly introduced this year and 2,598 students are allotted in this course. The total allotments are 1,41,340. TSCHE Chairman T. Papi Reddy and DOST Convenor R. Limbadri, who released the allotments said that 1,71,275 candidates applied this year, more than 50,000 students compared to last year. Maximum students used the Aadhaar mobile linked OTP authentication this year while registering and it increased to 51% from 35% last year. About 31% registered through MeeSeva Biometric Authentication while 18% registered through T App Folio Photo Image Authentication. Prof. Limbadri said that 1,53,323 candidates gave web options but only 1,41,340 got admissions. The remaining lost out as they did not exercise enough options. The availability of seats this year is 4,07,390 (3,83,514 in 2019) and 2,66,050 seats now remain vacant after the first phase allotments. Admissions are available in 982 colleges this year that offer 501 courses. From this year students have been given an option to choose courses from across the streams and they have multidisciplinary choices. For example, with the CBCS and bucket system being introduced, the student can choose Mathematics, Chemistry and Computer Science as part of B. Sc course which was not given as an option earlier.
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Protest against illegal construction||CPI city council has led a protest by slum dwellers from Begumpet in front of the GHMC headquarters on Monday, demanding action against the builder who demolished community toilets and is allegedly taking up illegal construction at the location. Slum dwellers from Prakash Nagar, Vaddera Basti and Begumpet participated in the demonstration with placards and slogans. Speaking on the occasion, CPI national executive committee member and former MP Syed Aziz Pasha said the builder pulled down the community toilet complex with ulterior motive of encroaching upon government lands. Under the impact of rock blasting taken up by the builder for foundation of the structure, dwellings of the poor people have been damaged, he said. Mr. Aziz Pasha wanted the GHMC and the State government to respond immediately, stop the illegal construction, construct a new toilet complex for slum dwellers, and ensure payment of compensation for the damaged houses. Party city secretary E.T. Narasima questioned why GHMC officials could not stop the encroachment and destruction of the toilet complex. The cracks developed in the houses could prose grave danger to lives and property of the poor people, he said.
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR takes jibes at BJP on COVID funding||Working president of Telanagana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and Minister for Urban Development, IT and Industries K.T. Rama Rao has taken to social media to take jibes at the State leaders of the BJP, including its MPs. Posting a newspaper clipping alongside the written answer given to a question raised on tackling COVID-19 by Telangana government, including funding by the Centre, by BJP Telangana president and Member of Parliament from Karimnagar Bandi Sanjay Kumar, Mr. Rama Rao said: “TS BJP MP claims that Government of India released a staggering Rs. 7,000 cr to Telangana in the fight against COVID-19. The NDA Government, in response, answered that all they had released to Telangana was Rs. 290 cr! What an absolute shameful distortion and misleading propaganda”. The social media post by Mr. Rama Rao led to a slanging match between the supporters of BJP and TRS, on the same platform. When pointed out by a netizen that Mr. Rama Rao was distorting the facts now since there is a difference between funds released and indirect funds in terms of ration or Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT). However, the comment was matched by replies stating that the BJP MP did not mention about DBTs but only spoke of releasing Rs. 7,000 crore for tackling COVID and that release of funds by the Centre to States for any purpose was not alms but their rightful share. In another post, the TRS working president also criticised the BJP-led NDA Government at the Centre on the three controversial farmers’ Bills. “When Telangana legislature passed the farmer-friendly Revenue Bill last week, there was widespread jubilation and cheer among the farming community across the State. If the passage of farmers’ bills is truly a watershed moment, why is no farmer celebrating and why are NDA allies resigning,” he asked. This post too has attracted response both in support and against TRS’ view on the Bills stating that a majority of opposition against the Bills was without any homework since many leaders leave alone ordinary people don’t know what exactly lies in the Bills and what they mean practically to farmers.
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Agriculture Minister flays new legislations||Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy has strongly objected to three farmers’ Bills passed by Parliament stating that they had the potential to take both the farming community and the farm produce into the control of the corporate sector in the absence lack of government control on the farm produce. In a statement, the Minister said on Monday that once implemented the new Bills (Acts) would reduce agriculture production market committee into non-entities as they would not have any say even in the event of dispute between farmers and corporate companies. Stating that over 92% farmers in Telangana were small and marginal landholders, the Minister said without any provision of minimum support price in the new legislation, the farmers would be at perennial loss. The Bills would also mean price rise since they would allow traders to hoard the commodities and increase the prices indiscriminately. Coupled with Electricity (Amendment) Bill, the new legislation would sound a death knell for the farming community.
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘TS offers potential to grow more oil palm’||Telangana has the potential to become one of the largest oil palm cultivators in the country due to availability of fertile land and favourable conditions that exist for growing the crop, a leader of the oil palm industry said. From the present 45,000 acres, across four districts, where oil palm is grown, there is a potential to increase the cultivable land for the edible oil crop in the State to 7 lakh acres, said Sanjay Goenka, President of Oil Palm Developers and Processors Association and MD and CEO of 3F Oil Palm. Noting that the State has identified 25 districts, including the four, with potential to grow oil palm, he said multiple irrigation projects have contributed to improved conditions making Telangana a prominent state for oil palm plantation and processing activities. Bringing more land under oil palm cultivation would not only help meet Telangana’s current edible oil requirement, which is around four lakh tonnes per annum, but also supply to other states. At present, oil palm is grown in Nalgonda, Suryapet, Khammam, Bhadradri districts. It is cultivated on about 45,000 acres, leading to production of 30,000 tonnes of crude palm oil. In a release, Mr. Goenka said Telangana is well poised to leverage the opportunity due to its pro-farmer policies such as Rythu Bandhu, growth in irrigation facilities, availability of water, free and quality power supply round the clock.
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Banks lost Rs. 4k cr. due to fraudulent loan accounts’||Advocate General B.S. Prasad on Monday told the Telangana High Court that State Bank of India lost nearly Rs. 1,500 crore due to fraudulent loan accounts. If losses incurred by other banks are included, the total money lost by all banks put together would be around Rs. 4,000 crore, he said. Appearing for SBI in a writ petition filed by BS Company and its owner Rajesh Agarwal, the AG said the petitioner need not be given an opportunity afresh for hearing before declaring his loan account as a fraudulent one. Rajesh Agarwal and others filed petitions in HC seeking to declare the RBI circular relating to fraud loan accounts as arbitrary. According to Mr. Prasad, the RBI had issued a master circular along with certain directions. The AG said persons who had taken the bank for a ride need not be given an opportunity under principles of natural justice. The RBI circular asked all the banks to verify such accounts. If sufficient evidence was there, those accounts should be declared fraudulent, the direction from RBI said, according to AG. RBI counsel Nalin Kumar said that he would present objective and goals of the RBI circular to the court on Tuesday. Supreme Court senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi presented arguments challenging validity of the circular. The pleas would be heard again on Tuesday.
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Organs of brain-dead labourer donated||Heart, lungs, and other organs were harvested from a Mahabubnagar youth who was declared brain dead after an accident last week. Kumar Vislavath, who has studied till the intermediate level, used to work as a daily wage worker. On September 18, he met with an accident while riding a two-wheeler. He was initially taken to a private hospital and later admitted to a corporate hospital in Kondapur as Kumar suffered from a severe head injury and was in need of better treatment. Around 26 hours of treatment later, the neurophysician declared him brain dead. Upon counselling by Jeevandan coordinators, Kumar’s mother Maru and brother Rajesh consented to donate his organs. Heart, lungs, liver, kidneys and corneas harvested from him were donated to patients in need of the organs.
22 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Body retrieved from Saroornagar lake||After a 16-hour long search operation, the body of Naveen Kumar, an electrician, who was swept away in overflowing Saroornagar lake on Sunday night, was fished out on Monday afternoon. Seven teams from the National Disaster Response Force and Disaster Response Team of the GHMC , along with Saroornagar police launched the search operation, in less than an hour after he was washed away. The incident took place around 7 p.m. on Sunday and his body was retrieved by 3 p.m. on Monday.    Meanwhile, parents of 12-year-old Sumedha Kapurai who was washed away in an open nala in Deen Dayala Nagar in Malkajgiri on Thursday evening, alleged that negligence of Municipal Administration and Urban Development Department, GHMC and the elected representatives concerned led to the death of their daughter. Complaint lodged In a complaint lodged in Neredmet police station, Sumedha's mother Sukanya Kapuria, stated that for the past several years, locals have lodged several complaints to GHMC officials regarding the damanaged nala in their area. "We also gave representations to KT Rama Rao, Bonthu Rammohan, local corporator for rectification of nala, but none have responded. Their negillance resulted in the death of my daughter," she alleged. A pregnant woman too fell in the nala recently, but luckily she survived, Ms. Kapuria said.
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘State govt. taking back 8k acres assigned land for Pharma City’||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka has alleged that the State government is acting like a land broker in the matter of land acquisition for Pharma City by snatching it from the poor to give it to multinational companies. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, he said instead of distributing land to the landless dalit families at three acres per family as promised in 2014, the TRS government is snatching the assigned land given to dalit communities by the previous governments in the name of Pharma City. A total of nearly 8,000 acres of assigned lands were taken back from dalit, tribal and other small and marginal farmers for the project, he alleged. Although one could support the government acts of land acquisition for public interests – for projects such as Srisailam and Nagarjunsagar or industrial units of BHEL and ECIL, taking lands for highly-polluting pharmaceutical companies is a crime, he said. Giving village-wise details of assigned lands being taken back, Mr. Vikramarka said they are being resumed in villages - Medipally - 1,848 acres, Nanaknagar - 92 acres, Thatiparthi - 752 acres, Kurumidda - 1,229 acres, Mucherla - 2,387 acres, Mirkhanpet - 1,083 acres and Pyramguda - 515 acres. Besides, another 8,000 acres lands of other small and marginal farmers are being acquired forcibly at six of the seven villages, the CLP leader said, and sought to know whether statehood for Telangana was achieved for social justice or for giving away lands to multinational companies. By paying Rs. 8 lakh per acre to farmers, the government plans to sell the land at Rs. 1.5 crore per acre, he alleged. 2BHK houses On the double-bedroom houses, the CLP leader said against the statement of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in the Assembly that 2.6 lakh houses would be built in GHMC limits, the government had so far constructed only 3,428 houses. Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav had shown only 3,428 houses out of one-lakh houses promised by another Minister K.T. Rama Rao. He also criticised TRS for removing the 2016 GHMC election manifesto from its website.
22 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS leader held for assaulting woman||Serilingampally TRS corporator Ragam Nagender Yadav, 53, who was accused of physically abusing a woman on the night of September 12, has been arrested by Cyberbad police on Saturday. However, the arrest was announced only on Monday evening. On September 13, the victim, a fashion designer from Nallagandla, lodged a complaint with the police stating while she was returning home, she noticed a car the accused parked beside her on the road. “As there was no space to pass other vehicles, I requested the security people to inform the car owner to take the car aside and give side to the other vehicles to pass smoothly,” she told the police. “When security informed Yadav, he came out of his house and took his car to a side after a heated argument with me and my family members. After a few minutes, he came to our villa again and picked up a quarrel with me,” the victim said. While the victim’s sister was recording the whole incident on her phone, the TRS corporator pushed the woman and slapped her. Based on her complaint, a case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Yadav, who was arrested and remanded to judicial custody.
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Case against miscreants||A criminal case has been filed against a few miscreants who tried to obstruct and attack GHMC staff when they tried to remove encroachments in Hafizpet on Monday. Staff from the Enforcement, Vigilance and Disaster Management (EVDM) wing led by Assistant Engineer Rohith Reddy were clearing a few sheds built on government land in Gopalrao Nagar of Miyapur, when they were attacked by a group of people.
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Clearance sought for reopening of sports complexes||Top brass of Sports Authority of Telangana State (SATS) has written to higher authorities in the State government seeking direction regarding the re-opening of sports complexes across the State. A meeting of senior officials of SATS on Monday discussed more on the proposed Sports Policy seeking suggestions from within the SATS to be submitted before the Cabinet Sub-committee headed by Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud. “There was not much of discussion about the reopening of the stadia since the subject has already been referred to the higher-ups. So, only when we get the clearance, another meeting will be convened to finalise the modalities and Standard Operating Procedures,” a senior official informed. Even as the Centre made it clear that sports facilities can start functioning from September 21, the sporting fraternity in the State will have to wait further before a clear picture emerges.
22 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||‘Siddipet most suited for seed crop’||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that Siddipet district was most suited area in the State for cultivation of seed and all efforts would be put in place for encouraging this programme. Seed cultivation and processing must be completed before the agricultural season begins. In a meeting held with agriculture, seed certification and seed production companies officials here on Monday, Mr. Harish Rao the conditions are conducive for seed production with abundant availability of irrigation facilities. “We have every advantage of better irrigation, healthy soils, being close to Hyderabad, connectivity, Horticulture University and Forest Research Centre. Let us make best use of them and take up seed production in one lakh acres,” he said, adding that farmers should be convinced to take up seed production. He felt that this will be win-win situation for both farmers and seed production companies. The Minister has also suggested a field visit for farmers.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Tungabhadra likely to flow above normal||With the steady increase of inflows into Tungabhadra dam at Hospet in Karnataka following extremely heavy rainfall in the Upper Tungabhadra Sub-Basin for the second day in a row, the Central Water Commission (CWC) has forecast rise in water level in the river at Mantralayam above normal flood situation level by Tuesday morning. As on Monday evening, level of the river flow at Mantralayam was 308.33 metres against the warning level of 310 metres, which the CWC indicated would be crossed (310.2 metres) by Tuesday morning. It is expected to rise further towards the warning level of 312 metres as extremely heavy rainfall of 26.8 cm was recorded in the Agumbe area, the major catchment of Tungabhadra, during the 24-hour period till 8.30 a.m. on Monday. On the previous day, it was 22.4 cm. According to a bulletin of the CWC, river Tungabhadra was flowing in severe flood situation at Honnali in Davanagere district of Karnataka. “Due to it, increase in inflows are expected in Singatluru Barrage and Tungabhadra dam. As part of pre-depletion, the storage in Tungabhadra reservoir is brought down to 94.65 tmcft on Monday evening against its capacity of 100.86 tmcft by discharging about 96,000 cusecs water against the inflows of over 23,600 cusecs,” flood monitoring officials stated. On the other hand, the inflows into Almatti and Narayanpur dams are forecast to rise beyond 60,000 cusecs and 81,200 cusecs, respectively, by Tuesday morning. Heavy flood of over 2 lakh cusecs was continuing into Jurala, with major supplementation from Bhima, and the inflows into Srisailam were over 3.1 lakh cusecs. The authorities at Jurala, Srisailam, Nagarjunasagar, Pulichintala and Prakasam Barrage were maintaining inflows and outflows equally with the forecast of increase in flows from the Upper Krishna and Upper Bhima Sub-Basins too. The met department has forecast extremely heavy rain in Central Mahrashtra — Pune, Satara and Kolhapur districts, the catchment areas of a few tributaries of Krishna. Godavari Basin Heavy rainfall in the catchment areas of Mula, Manjlegaon, Siddeshwar, Jaikwadi and Yeldari dams in Maharashtra and forecast of extremely heavy rains in Nasik district, the inflows into Sriramsagar and Yellampally dams in Telangana is likley to go up. Accordingly, there would be increase in water levels in Godavari from Kaleshwaram and downstream with the help of heavy rains forecast for tributaries Indravathi and Wainganga-Wardha (Pranahitha). Meanwhile, water storage in Singur crossed 18.2 tmc ft on Monday evening against its capacity of 29.9 tmc ft.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Instigated youth who then killed man’||In the chargesheet submitted by Delhi Police Special Cell in FIR Number 59 under sections of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain’s alleged confession statement details how he collected bottles, acid and petrol, and allowed his house to be used during the February riots in north-east Delhi. In the alleged confession, Mr. Hussain claimed he met Kapil Mishra in 2015 when the latter was with AAP and also met activist “Khalid Saifi in AAP office”. Mr. Hussain claimed Mr. Saifi “had a good hold in AAP” due to which he had asked the activist to get him an MLA ticket but he could not get it. In 2017, Mr. Hussain got the councillor ticket and won from Nehru Vihar. “Saifi told me now that you have both money and power... we will use it against Hindus and for our community,” the police quoted Mr. Hussain in the documents. It also allegedly stated that Mr. Hussain met former Jawaharlal Nehru University student Umar Khalid on January 8 in Popular Front of India (PFI) office and that he was told by Mr. Saifi that the PFI will fund “our fight against the Hindus”. Mr. Hussain is quoted as saying that Mr. Saifi told him that his house is the tallest in the area and has space that can be used. “I was tasked to slowly collect empty glass bottles, stones, petrol and acid, which can be used when the time comes… A few days later, Saifi told me about Trump’s (Donald) visit and that we will do something big which will shake the government… I started collecting empty glass bottles from rag pickers, started getting stones from nearby construction sites on the pretext of cleanliness… I asked rag pickers to bring acid on the pretext of cleaning the terrace,” Mr. Hussain is quoted as saying.  The former AAP leader allegedly stated that he called several people on February 24 and let them inside the house  through a small shutter on the ground floor. Later in the night, Mr. Hussain hid in one Iliyas Hakim’s house and sent his wife and kids to his father’s house, he is quoted as saying. On February 25, Mr. Hussain claimed he collected several Muslim youth and instigated them. “They caught hold of a Hindu man and attacked him with sticks, rods and knives on my orders and then asked them to dump his body in a drain,” he is quoted as saying. In the document, Mr. Hussain is quoted as saying that he used Rs. 1.5 crore from his companies for the riots. “So this money cannot be traced, I managed the entries and transactions in the accounts and collected cash,” the document quoted Mr. Hussain. Mr. Hussain’s statement also mentions a meeting at Al-Hind Nursing Home in the presence of owner M.A. Anwar regarding instigating Muslims against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. ‘Inadmissible evidence’ “Any statement attributed to Mr. Saifi by the police is inadmissible evidence. It can neither be used by the prosecution to enhance its case nor can it be used to prove the culpability of Mr. Saifi. By and large confessional statements are recorded by the police to suit their case. This is no different unless there is any independent evidence to corroborate any of the averments made in the confessional statement. The same is without any value or merit,” said senior advocate Rebecca John, who has appeared for Mr. Saifi.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Was tasked with getting arms’||In the alleged disclosure statement of United Against Hate member Khalid Saifi, it is claimed that he had met controversial Indian Islamic preacher Zakir Naik in 2019 during his visits to “propagate Muslim religion”. “I had visited Malaysia, Turkey, Singapore etc. to propagate Muslim religion in 2019. In Malaysia, I had met Zakir Naik, who is banned in India,” he is quoted as saying. Facebook page Mr. Saifi, in the statement, is claimed to have said that he started an NGO with a friend by the name of New Education Welfare Society for which an account in a private bank is running and that he withdrew Rs. 1 lakh in the beginning of February for protests. “Some funds were given to me by the Popular Front of India about which I’ve already told you,” he is quoted. The document claimed that Mr. Saifi has stated that he knew former JNU student Umar Khalid since 2017 after which the two of them started a Facebook page by the name of United Against Hate. The two often discussed how the current government is anti-Muslim and after abrogation of Article 370 and 35A in Jammu and Kashmir and Babri Masjid verdict, the anger grew and after the Citizenship Act came into effect, the hatred increased, the statement quotes Mr. Saifi. Apart from Swaraj India’s Yogendra Yadav, advocate Prashant Bhushan, the document mentioned senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid as one of the members who delivered provocative speeches during the protests. The alleged disclosure claimed that Mr. Saifi was tasked to arrange for arms and ammunition. “For this (arms) purpose and to give some money to Tahir bhai (Tahir Hussain), I was given money by PFI’s Danish at their office in Shaheen Bagh,” he was quoted as saying adding that “Tahir bhai” was tasked to arrange for weapons and instigate the riots and his house was chosen because people from both communities reside around it. Mr. Saifi is quoted as saying that the weapon recovered from one Aftab - who was arrested along with him and Ishrat Jahan – was provided by Mr. Saifi and that he had bought the country-made pistol from Meerut from one Sarfaraz for Rs. 5,000. “I had also bought five country-made pistols for Rs. 25,000 which I had taken from Ishrat Jahan”.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Court extends scribe’s custody in espionage case||A Delhi court on Monday extended by seven days the custodial interrogation of freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma, arrested in an espionage case under the Official Secrets Act. He was produced before Metropolitan Magistrate Pawan Singh Rajawat and the investigators said his further custodial interrogation was necessary since he has to be confronted with two of his associates: a Chinese woman and a Nepalese man, whose police custody was also extended till September 28. The police submitted that they have written to the Ministry of Defence to ascertain the custodian of the classified documents that were allegedly recovered from Mr. Sharma, and they have to confront him with digital documents recovered from his devices. A reply is awaited from the Ministry, added the police. Senior advocate Adish Aggarwala, who is representing the journalist, said Delhi Police was engaging in delay tactics. As per the police, they recovered the documents on September 14 and during six days of custody they could have approached the Defence Ministry, but the police deliberately delayed it, said the lawyer. The bail application will be heard on September 28. Meanwhile, Press Club of India (PCI) president Anand K. Sahay said: “We are astounded to hear of the arrest of Mr. Sharma, a well-known independent journalist of long standing and a member of the PCI. This is on account of the dubious track record of the Special Branch. More generally also, the record of Delhi Police is hardly a shining one”. “On the basis of the statement of the police released to the media, we have no hesitation in saying that the police action is high-handed and may be inspired by obscure or questionable considerations,” he added. ‘Preposterous arrests’ “Of late, Delhi Police, including Special Branch, has made preposterous arrests under the lawless law called Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, in which the word of the government is enough to keep an innocent person behind bars for long periods. These have happened in matters relating to anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests and the carefully designed communal killings in the so-called February 2020 riots in north-east Delhi,” the PCI stated. Mr. Sharma’s arrest also appears mind-boggling as he wrote on strategic affairs and may well have accessed routinely over-classified information on the Internet that is in the public domain, said the organisation. Mr. Sahay also talked about the wrongful arrests in 2002 of Iftikhar Gilani, a senior journalist with Kashmir Times; and a Delhi journalist who wrote for Iran’s official news agency. Both journalists were subsequently released after the cases turned out to be bogus, the PCI stated.
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||DU council opposes withholding of funds||Various matters dealing with funding to colleges, online examinations, admissions and ad hoc teachers among others were raised at an Executive Council meeting of Delhi University held on Monday. EC members said that they strongly opposed the withholding of funds by the Delhi government, pointing out that the irregular release of funds for the last one year had halted developmental work. According to EC member Rajesh Jha, the university administration reported that it had sought time with the L-G, CM and the Deputy CM but it had not gotten an appointment with any of them. In response to this, the Delhi government said that the V-C had not sought any meeting with the CM or Dy. CM and added that despite repeated letters to him to discuss the issue, the V-C did not meet Mr. Sisodia or respond to the letters. It added that if the V-C is willing, he is welcome to discuss the issue in the next two to three days.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amend dates of entrance exams: JNUSU||The Jawaharlal Nehru Union students’ union wrote to the National Testing Agency (NTA) director over dates for the conduct of the JNU entrance examination saying that the dates clash with the UGC NET exams. The JNUSU said that the clash of dates would make it impossible for students to take both the examinations. The NTA has announced that the computer-based examination will be conducted between October 5 and 8 at various centres across the country. The JNUSU also added that the dates have been announced just 15 days prior to the actual test. “While the pandemic rages on and spreads and the transportation facilities are uncertain, this period is insufficient for students to plan their travel. Also, opportunity must be granted to students to change their centres before announcement of the schedule,” the students said. They added that final semesters of many universities are happening on these dates. The JNUSU requested that students be given an advance notice so that they have sufficient time to prepare .
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||Man held for targeting, duping upcoming models||A 37-year-old man was arrested for allegedly creating fake profiles on social media and targeting upcoming models by deceiving them on the pretext of giving them lead roles in web series. He used to collect their objectionable photographs, the police said on Monday. The accused has been identified as Mam Chand, a resident of Sultanpuri. A 17-year-old girl lodged a complaint alleging that she was contacted by one Rashi Goel on social media. Goel introduced herself as a model, the police said.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Prof. Apoorvanand tutored students, ‘discloses’ Narwal||In the alleged five-page disclosure statement of Pinjra Tod member Natasha Narwal it is stated that Delhi University Professor Apoorvanand called a few students to his residence and allegedly tutored them on what to say in case they were arrested. On the last page of the statement is written ‘accused refused to sign’. “On 5/6 April, 2020, I and Devangana visited house of Prof. Apoorvanand at DU… Danish, Suhail, Shahdab and Gulfisha also came. The prof. told them they have done a great job and in case of arrest they do not have to disclose his name or any other member involved in planning. He also briefed all on what to say in case of arrest and said we all have to say the same story regarding our role in protests, which led to riots,” the document quoted her. The document also quoted Ms. Narwal as saying that the prof. had informed them in mid-January that JCC members were planning riots in the “garb of protests and while the face of the protests should be peaceful, the ulterior motive should be riots”. First step will be anti-CAA stir, second road block and third riots, Ms. Narwal is claimed to have said in a statement she refused to sign.
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||HC to hear DU teachers’ plea seeking salary on Thursday||The High Court on Monday posted for September 24, the hearing on a plea by Delhi University teachers seeking direction to the colleges, affiliated to the varsity and funded by the Delhi government, to release their salaries .
22 September 2020||Bhopal,||Virus shuts therapy centres in Bhopal||After years of speech therapy, 12-year-old Shubhana, an autistic child, was elated to hear herself utter simple sentences on her own for the first time — “Mummy, I want food; Can you please switch on the TV?; Shopkeeper uncle, please give me a biscuit packet.” But a two-month disruption in therapy, caused by the lockdown, has regressed her speech dramatically. Only her mother can grasp the disjointed mumble now. And Ms. Shubhana, whose grandmother survived the 1984 gas tragedy here, no longer enjoys hanging out with neighbourhood friends: ‘Shah Rukh Khan’ and ‘Dhanno’, tethered goats she practised speech with and confided in. “It will take her at least six months to a year to return to the same level,” said Nousheen Khan, speech therapist, guiding her mother with breathing and oral motor exercises and sentence-repetition techniques. As centres for the disabled remain shut, continuing therapies for children born with disabilities, whose parents or grandparents survived the tragedy and those affected by poisoned water bodies due to unscientific disposal of chemical waste by the pesticide plant, have been hit. Autistic children are more restless and irritable now, while those with cerebral palsy have regained muscle tightness, say experts. “Until normalcy returns, we can only make sure their condition doesn’t worsen,” said Suryaprakash Singh, special educator with Chingari Trust, catering to 1,067 such children. Now, five teams of four therapists each head to different parts of old Bhopal at 10.30 a.m., covering at least 30-35 children every day. The therapists also guide parents and monitor progress. “But in the absence of teachers, she refuses to exercise,” rued Ms. Shubhana’s mother Ruksana. Meanwhile, Anwar Jahan feels helpless for her son Mohammed Yasir, severely autistic, increasingly restless now. “When therapists guide them, it’s different,” said Ms. Jahan. “I left him alone, for three-four hours. That has impacted him.” Having spastic cerebral palsy, seven-year-old Mubashira opens her mouth, eyes closed, as her legs are extended and folded from the knees. “The tightness in limbs has increased,” said physiotherapist Rishi Shukla.
22 September 2020||Bhopal,||Strictly abide by COVID-19 protocol: HC||The Gwalior Bench of the Madhya Pradesh High Court has directed political workers and State government officials to abide by the COVID-19 protocol prescribed for regulating congregations. A Division Bench of Justices Sheel Nagu and Rajeev Kumar Shrivastava on September 18 expected the protocol to be “strictly abided by” at least until the next date of hearing of a public interest litigation filed by lawyer Ashish Pratap Singh. The court observed law, whether statutory or in the shape of executive instructions, deserved respect and obedience, “as much from a common man as from a leader, a political functionary and even the head of State.” The Justices said they were reminded of the maxim “Be you ever so high, the Law is above you.” The petitioner had prayed for a direction to the State government to restrain political parties from organising public functions, in view of the byelection pending to 28 Assembly seats, 16 in the Gwalior-Chambal region. Further, he sought action under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The court appointed three lawyers as amicus curiae, tasked with reporting to the court any breach of the order so the case could be taken up at an earlier date.
22 September 2020||Mumbai,||NCP: strongly oppose passage of farm Bills||Facing allegations of discreetly joining hands with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to pass the farm Bills by staging a walkout in the Rajya Sabha, the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) on Monday rushed into firefighting mode, claiming that reports of its complicity are false and misleading. “Some media reports stating that the NCP supported the passage of the farm Bills are false and misleading. We demanded the formation of a select committee to discuss the Bills further. We strongly oppose the way in which the Bills were passed,” said senior NCP leader and Rajya Sabha MP Praful Patel. NCP State president Jayant Patil said the Bills have limited the rights of the agricultural produce market committee (APMC). “We have no opposition if the farmers receive benefits from selling their produce outside APMCs. But the NCP firmly believes that farmers must continue to get protection under APMCs,” he said. Mr. Patil added that his party stands with farmers and in case any modifications are made to laws, they should be in favour of farmers. “Therefore, it is wrong to say that the NCP supported the government on this issue,” he said. On contract farming, Mr. Patil said farmers in Maharashtra are already exporting bananas and mangoes. “Farmers here are already sending their products to the outside world. This issue mainly concerns farmers in Punjab and Haryana. Contract farming is being seriously opposed to the extent that one of the constituents of the NDA is planning to quit the alliance,” he said. The Shiv Sena has also come under scanner over its unclear stand on the farm Bills. While the party supported the Bills in the Lok Sabha, it raised objections in the Rajya Sabha.
22 September 2020||Mumbai,||Maratha quota: State files plea before larger SC Bench||The Maharashtra government on Monday filed a petition in the Supreme Court to vacate its stay on the implementation of the quota for the Maratha community in jobs and education. Last week, the apex court referred the case to a larger Bench to decide on its constitutional validity. “We have moved the Supreme Court. This is a judicial process and we have taken the first step. On behalf of the State government, I appeal to all those who are protesting, to show restraint as not a single party or State government is against their demands,” said Public Works Department Minister Ashok Chavan, who heads the Cabinet sub-committee on Maratha reservation. He said Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray will address the community’s concerns in a day or two. “Admissions and recruitments have been halted due to the stay. We have highlighted these issues in our petition,” said Mr. Chavan. The minister said the State Assembly had unanimously passed the Bill to provide reservation to the Marathas. “There are no two voices over this. But we have to follow the judicial process,” he said. NCP State president and Irrigation Minister Jayant Patil said the committee set up by the State government is taking into consideration the opinions of law experts on how to go ahead with the legal battle.
22 September 2020||Mumbai,||HC dismisses BJP leader’s plea for LoP post in BMC||The Bombay High Court on Monday dismissed a plea filed by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) corporator from Mulund East, Prabhakar Shinde, seeking appointment as the Leader of the Opposition (LoP) in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). A Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and Madhav Jamdar was hearing a petition filed by Mr. Shinde, through senior advocate Birendra Saraf, which challenged Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar’s decision to appoint Congress leader Ravi Raja as the LoP. On February 28, Ms. Pednerkar turned down BJP Mumbai president Mangal Lodha requested to appoint Mr. Shinde as LoP. The petition said, “Though the BJP earlier decided not to be active in the Opposition, due to changed political equations, it has now decided to discharge the role of an effective and active Opposition party. What is relevant is that BJP now seeks to do so.” The court, however, said, “There is no occasion to consider any pre- or post-poll alliance.” It recorded, “The BJP was admittedly not willing to discharge the obligations and duties of the office of the Leader of Opposition at the relevant time.”
22 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||APMC traders to meet on September 27||As many as 306 agriculture produce market committee (APMC) traders will attend a virtual meeting on September 27 to plan an indefinite protest next month over the passage of farm Bills in Parliament. The decision was taken at a meeting held under the aegis of the Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry and Trade (CAMIT) and the Federation of Association of Traders, Pune, on Monday. Mohan Gurnani, chairman of CAMIT, said, “A larger virtual meeting of all 306 APMC traders will decide the future course of action to protest against the injustice meted out through the passage of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill.” He said all attendees felt the Bill was discriminatory. “There are two options to protest: stop payment of market fee and close the market till a solution is found,” Mr. Gurnani said.
22 September 2020||Pune,||Modi govt. misleading farmers: Raju Shetti||Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) chief Raju Shetti on Monday said the Narendra Modi government is misleading farmers on the benefits of contract farming by passing the contentious farm Bills in Parliament. He said, “The passing of the Bills in the Rajya Sabha is an attempt by the government to corporatise farming. The Centre is trying to shirk its responsibility of giving farmers the minimum support price (MSP) by pushing it on corporate houses.” He said corporate firms are not bound to guarantee farmers fair prices for their produce. “There is no provision in these Bills as to how our farmers are going to be guaranteed fair prices. They will end up at the mercy of big corporate entities and powerful middlemen once these Bills become law,” said Mr. Shetti, who is a former two-time MP from Hatkanangale in Kolhapur. Mr. Shetti said the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) is planning to sever ties with the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) as their deep discontentment among farmers over the Bills.“A party like the SAD with origins in the rural hinterland is contemplating exiting the NDA. This shows how much opposition there is to these bills in rural areas,” he said. The SSS and the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) are among major farmer organisations in Maharashtra that will be participating in the all-India bandh called by the Akhil Bhartiya Kisan Samanvay Samiti on September 25. The SSS will also be launching a State-wide campaign, Kisaan bachao, Corporate hatao (Save farmers, eliminate corporates). “We will be intensifying this campaign in stages,” Mr. Shetti told The Hindu from Kolhapur. Dr. Ajit Nawale, State general secretary, AIKS, said the Centre’s actions are fundamentally ‘anti-farmer’ and the passage of the Bills is a “betrayal of farmers and the agriculture sector”. He said, “We agree that corruption within agricultural produce market committees (APMC) must be stopped and there should be a competitive environment outside them. However, if farmers have grievances within APMC, then we have to take recourse to solve them. But no such alternative exists in this corporate model offered by the Central government.”
22 September 2020||Pune,||Media should focus on constructive agenda building processes: N. Ram||Remarking that media can participate in virtuous and peaceful agenda-building processes to help produce democratic and progressive outcomes, eminent journalist and director of The Hindu Publishing Group (THG), N. Ram, cautioned against baneful trends of hyper-nationalism and chauvinism pervading the media. “The media does not do agenda setting. That is too tall a claim. But it can participate in virtuous, peaceful, helpful agenda-building processes to produce democratic and progressive outcomes. And what could be more democratic and constructive than the pursuit of peace,” said Mr. Ram, speaking at the inaugural session of the second national conference on media and journalism held virtually by the Pune-based Maharashtra Institute of Technology-World Peace University (MIT-WPU). He further said there was a perception in India and across the globe that there had been a deterioration in the performance of media, while stressing the need for journalism to rise above superficiality and dilettantism. “In different parts of the world, why are people losing trust in journalism? At least there is the perception that there’s been a deterioration in the performance of the media. This is being actively debated in journalism schools in western countries,” Mr. Ram observed. Remarking that truth was deeper than merely getting into facts, Mr. Ram said that facts must never be allowed to get in way of truth, citing veteran journalist James Cameron’s 1974 book An Indian Summer . Stating that delivering news with responsibility was the need of the hour, Mr. Ram expressed concern at the rising levels of intolerance in the country. “Toleration levels have gone down and the law does not apply equally as is evident in the lynching of innocent members of the minority community and the Delhi riots. The role of the media has to be looked at carefully in such incidents,” he said. A number of prominent dignitaries from academia, the media and politics participated in the discussion.
22 September 2020||Washington,||Trump to pick SC nominee by Saturday||President Donald Trump said on Monday he will nominate a replacement for the late Ruth Bader Ginsburg on the Supreme Court at the end of this week and insisted that the Senate should vote before the coming election. “I will announce it either Friday or Saturday and then the work begins, but hopefully it won’t be too much work,” Mr. Trump told Fox News. He said he wants to wait until after memorial services are over. This will be Mr. Trump’s third nominee for the top court since his 2016 election win, giving him the chance to cement a conservative-leaning majority on the panel for many years to come. Mr. Trump rejected arguments that the Senate — controlled by his Republican party — should wait to vote on the nominee until after the November 3 presidential election, where he faces Democrat Joe Biden. “The final vote should be taken before the election. We have plenty of time for that,” Mr. Trump said. With Ginsburg’s death last week, the constitutional court was left with only eight judges, raising the possibility of a 4-4 split in rulings just as the country enters what is widely predicted to be a close and contentious election. “We don’t want to have a tie,” Mr. Trump said. Trump’s shortlist He confirmed that two women — Judge Amy Coney Barrett and Judge Barbara Lagoa — feature prominently on his short list, noting that Ms. Lagoa is a Hispanic-American from the vital electoral state of Florida. Ms. Lagoa is “excellent, she’s Hispanic, she’s a terrific woman,” he said. “We love Florida.” Mr. Trump dismissed reports that Ginsburg’s dying wish, delivered to her granddaughter, was that her seat not be filled before a new President was sworn in. “I don’t know she said that,” he said, suggesting the statement was “written out” by Democratic leaders. “That came out of the wind.”
22 September 2020||COLOMBO/NEW DELHI,||Modi-Rajapaksa virtual summit on Sept. 26||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold discussions with his Sri Lankan counterpart Mahinda Rajapaksa on September 26 in India’s first virtual summit in the neighbourhood, even as Colombo awaits New Delhi’s decision on its request for a debt moratorium and an additional currency swap. “Yes, the meeting is confirmed,” Rohan Weliwita, media secretary to Mr. Rajapaksa, told The Hindu on Monday. The meeting will come two days after a scheduled virtual meeting of Foreign Ministers of the two countries, along with other regional counterparts, at the SAARC foreign ministers’ forum on September 24. The virtual summit is the first official interaction between the leaders after they met in New Delhi in February this year. They have since spoken at least twice over the telephone, though. Mr. Rajapaksa’s request at the February meeting for a debt moratorium of three years from New Delhi, to help Sri Lanka manage its fragile economy, is pending, as is Sri Lankan President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s request to Mr. Modi — during a telephone call in May — for a “special” $1.1-billion currency swap facility. Official sources in Colombo said both are “being discussed”, while in July, the Reserve Bank of India signed a $400 million swap facility with Sri Lanka’s Central Bank. Following Sri Lanka’s August general elections, the Rajapaksas have consolidated political power with an impressive two-thirds in Parliament. However, they face one of the nation’s biggest economic challenges yet, with the global pandemic only heightening it. Sri Lanka is due to repay outstanding loans amounting to nearly $3 billion this year, including a non-negotiable $1 billion sovereign bond maturing next month. While the official agenda of the ‘virtual summit’ is not known, issues of bilateral interest, including development projects and cooperation in the response to COVID-19, are likely talking points. In particular, the leaders are expected to discuss the contentious East Container Terminal project at the Colombo Port, which India agreed to jointly develop with Japan and Colombo, signing a Memorandum of Cooperation with the former government. However, the Rajapaksa administration is yet to give the proposal a thumbs up, after worker unions and nationalist groups protested “foreign involvement” in their “national assets”. While those resisting the move recognise that over 70% of the transhipment business at the terminal — located near the China-backed ‘Port City’ in Colombo — comes from India, they are wary of the Adani group’s reported interest in the deal. 13th Amendment Sri Lanka’s Tamil polity will keenly follow the summit to see if Colombo’s commitment to implement the 13th Amendment — which devolves power to the provinces — is discussed, as some in the Rajapaksa administration, including prominent Ministers, are consistently calling for the abolition of provincial councils that were created following the Indo-Lanka Accord of 1987. Following the global pandemic, India held its virtual summit in June, with the aim of continuing diplomatic engagement with its partners. The first summit between Mr. Modi and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison saw nine agreements emerge, while the two countries issued a joint declaration on a ‘Shared Vision for Maritime Cooperation in the Indo-Pacific.’ India and Japan were expected to hold a summit early this month, but that did not happen in the wake of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s resignation.
22 September 2020||Washington,||‘World faces a surplus of multilateral challenges’||Speaking at the UN’s 75th anniversary commemoration, Secretary-General António Guterres said the world had a surplus of multilateral challenges but not enough multilateral answers to these. “Never in modern history have we gone so many years without a military confrontation between the major powers, this is a great achievement of which member states can be proud and which we must always strive to preserve,” Mr. Guterres said. Greatest challenge He added that much remained to be done, however. He called gender inequality the “greatest single challenge for human rights” globally. Biodiversity “collapsing”, hatred that was engendering geopolitical tensions and increasing the threat from nuclear weapons, were among the challenges the Secretary-General listed. “And the COVID-19 pandemic as laid bare the world's fragilities. We can only address them together today. We have a surplus of multilateral challenges and the deficit of multilateral solutions,” Mr. Gutteres said. On Monday morning, the 193 members of the UN adopted a commemorative declaration, marking 75 years since the victors of the Second World War met in San Francisco to bring the organisation into being. The UN charter was signed on June 26, 1945 . The UN itself was established later that year, in October when enough signatory countries had ratified it. The UN75 Declaration resolves to take action on a range of subjects from digital cooperation to reform of the UN. Through the first half of this year, Qatar and Sweden, co-facilitated the crafting of Monday’s declaration –which involved disagreements and protracted negotiationson wording and substance. At one point, India and the Five Eyes (the U.K., New Zealand, Australia, Canada and the U.S.) had together objected to a phrase on the grounds that it was influenced by Chinese Communist Party language. Real action In a televised message, Chinese president Xi Jinping used phrases that have been problematic before for other member states — such as those around common objectives and the down-ranking of human rights in the scheme of global challenges. “The UN must focus on real action. It should aim at problem solving as it advances, security, development and human rights in parallel. The issue of development should be highlighted in the global macro framework,” Mr. Xi said. U.S. President Donald Trump was expected to deliver a video message on Monday morning but instead the U.S.’s Deputy Ambassador to the UN, Cherith Norman Chalet, delivered remarks on the country’s behalf. ‘Resistant to reform’ Ms. Chalet praised the UN for its achievements but also said the U.N had been resistant to reform and vulnerable to autocratic regimes – presumably a reference to China. “The United Nations has for too long been resistant to meaningful reform, too often lacking in transparency, and too vulnerable to the agenda of autocratic regimes and dictatorships. New threats also require new agility from the UN, threats that include theft of intellectual property and efforts to undermine internet freedom,” Ms. Chalet said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to deliver a recorded video message later in the day.
22 September 2020||Beijing,||Support for Taiwan independence doomed to fail: China||China ramped up its rhetoric over Taiwan on Monday, describing any support for its independence as “doomed to fail”, and threatened retaliation against U.S. diplomatic visits to the island. Taiwan has been ruled separately from China since the end of a civil war in 1949, but Beijing considers the island part of its territory awaiting reunification. The island is a flashpoint with Washington, which promises military support to the elected government and has sent two envoys to Taipei in as many months. At a press briefing on Monday, the Foreign Ministry said that the envoys’ visits were a “political provocation” and threatened retaliation. “China will take appropriate countermeasures, including targeting relevant individuals,” said Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin, without elaborating. He warned that the U.S. actions will “further damage the cooperation” between the U.S. and China. Mr. Wang added that any support for Taiwan’s independence is “doomed to fail”. Washington switched diplomatic recognition to Beijing in 1979. Beijing rejects any recognition of Taiwan . Washington’s increased outreach to Taiwan under President Donald Trump is among sore points with Beijing as the countries clash over issues, including trade, security and the pandemic. The U.S. Undersecretary of State for economic growth, energy and the environment Keith Krach wrapped up a trip to Taiwan at the weekend, following on the heels of a trip by U.S. health chief Alex Azar in August. Meanwhile, Taiwan said it scrambled fighters and deployed anti-missile systems on Monday after Chinese military jets entered its air defence zone for the fourth time in five days.
22 September 2020||Islamabad,||Pak. Opposition to start nationwide agitation||Half a dozen major Pakistani opposition parties have joined forces to denounce the military, which they accuse of meddling in politics and rigging the 2018 elections to bring Prime Minister Imran Khan to power. The six parties and some smaller groups signed a statement on Sunday announcing the creation of the Pakistan Democratic Movement to begin nationwide agitation, possibly culminating in a January march in Islamabad. “The (military) establishment should stop every kind of interference in politics forthwith,” said the statement, which accuses Mr. Khan of failing on multiple counts, from the economy to foreign policy.
22 September 2020||Sydney,||Hundreds of whales stranded in Australia||At least twenty-five whales have died and scientists are trying to rescue 250 more that are stranded in a remote bay on the Australian island of Tasmania, officials said on Monday. Tasmania’s environment department said the whales had become stuck on a sandbar in Macquarie Harbour, on the island’s rugged and sparsely populated west coast. Nic Deka, who is managing the incident response, said two large pods were stranded on sandbars a few hundred metres apart inside the harbour. “They are in water but it’s very difficult to see how many of those whales are deceased or what condition they’re in,” he told reporters in the nearby town of Strahan. They are believed to be pilot whales but officials are yet to confirm the species. Mass whale strandings occur often in Tasmania, but the large numbers involved present a daunting rescue prospect.
22 September 2020||Gaborone,||Bacteria behind deaths of 330 Botswana elephants||Toxins in water produced by cyanobacteria killed more than 300 elephants in Botswana this year, officials said on Monday, announcing the result of an investigation into the deaths which had baffled and alarmed conservationists. Cyanobacteria are microscopic organisms common in water and sometimes found in soil. Not all produce toxins but scientists say toxic ones are occurring more frequently as climate change drives up global temperatures. Cyril Taolo, deputy director of the Department of Wildlife and National Parks, told a news conference the number of dead elephants had risen to 330, from 281 reported in July. Why not other animals? The department’s principal veterinary officer Mmadi Reuben told the news conference: “Our latest tests have detected cyanobacterial neurotoxins to be the cause of deaths. These are bacteria found in water.“However we have many questions still to be answered such as why the elephants only and why that area only? We have a number of hypotheses we are investigating.” Other animals in the Okavango Panhandle region appeared unharmed. Climate change Some cyanobacterial blooms can harm people and animals and scientists are concerned about their potential impact as climate change leads to warmer water temperatures, which many cyanobacteria prefer. Southern Africa’s temperatures are rising at twice the global average, according to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. “It amounts to having the right conditions, in the right time, in the right place and these species will proliferate,”said Professor Patricia Glibert, who has studied cyanobacteria.
22 September 2020||Jerusalem,||Israel to extradite sex crime accused||An Israeli court ruled on Monday after years of legal wrangling that an ultra-Orthodox Jewish former school principal, suspected of dozens of cases of sexual abuse of her pupils in Australia, can be extradited to face trial. The ruling delighted her alleged victims as “a victory for justice”, although some steps remain in the extradition process as well as a possible appeal. The Jerusalem district court, which in May determined Malka Leifer was mentally fit to stand trial, said in its ruling that “the defendant can be extradited to Australia for the crimes attributed to her in the extradition request”. Leifer, who was not in court on Monday but took part by videoconference, is accused of child sex abuse while she was a teacher and principal at an ultra-Orthodox school in Melbourne, where she had emigrated from Israel.
22 September 2020||TOKYO,||Japan's Suga holds 1st phone talks with Trump as leader||Japan’s Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga held his first talks with U.S. President Donald Trump since he took office, a diplomatic phone call that was one of his first as the country’s leader.AP
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Interpreting the India-China conversations||The ground situation in Eastern Ladakh shows little change; other than that, towards the end of August, India effectively thwarted an attempt by China to alter the status quo and take control of areas on the South Bank of the Pangong Tso. China’s reaction was sharp, accusing the Indian Army of having “undermined the consensus reached” at the diplomatic and military talks. Several thousand troops of the People’s Liberation Army, in the meantime, remain mobilised across the entire region.  Blunt exchanges In the first statement made in Parliament (on September 15) on the situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh lambasted China, stating that China was attempting to unilaterally alter the status quo , and that while India wanted to peacefully resolve the ongoing military confrontation, it was fully prepared to deal with any situation. China immediately rebutted the charge, blaming India for “violating” existing border agreements, and alleging that India bore responsibility for the recent situation. China observed that the most important task for India is to disengage on the ground as soon as possible, and take concrete action to ease the situation.  Earlier, on the sidelines of the Russia, India, China Trilateral meeting (RIC) in Moscow in early September, the Indian and Chinese Defence and Foreign Ministers had met to try and sort out matters. Mr. Rajnath Singh met his Chinese counterpart, Gen. Wei Fenghe on September 4, while the Indian and Chinese Foreign Ministers (S. Jaishankar-Wang Yi) held a meeting on September 10. Given the precarious military situation in Eastern Ladakh, both meetings had been invested with considerable significance.  According to reports, Mr. Rajnath Singh, in his meeting, did not mince matters, putting the blame entirely on the PLA for its “aggressive actions and behaviour” in seeking to “unilaterally alter the status quo” in violation of all bilateral agreements. According to Xinhua, Gen. Wei is believed to have said “China’s territory cannot be lost and the Chinese military is fully determined, capable and confident to safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity”. The blunt exchanges between the Defence Ministers did little to assuage ongoing concerns.  There was considerably great anticipation about a possible breakthrough during the September 10 meeting. On the eve of the talks, India’s External Affairs Minister had even been quoted as saying that the situation called for “deep conversation between the two sides at the political level”, and India and China “needed to find an accommodation”.  More illusion What emerged from the talks, however, fell well short of expectations. Some preferred to see in the outcome an illusion of forward movement where none existed. The ‘Five Point Consensus’ limited itself to urging the two sides to take guidance from “the consensus of their leaders on developing India-China relations, including not allowing differences to become disputes”. The remaining points were confined to urging both sides to abide by all existing agreements and protocols on China-India boundary affairs and maintain peace and tranquillity; avoid any action that could escalate matters; reiterated the importance of the Special Representative Mechanism to maintain communications; and calling for the continuance of meetings of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on India-China Border Affairs (WMCC). Work to conclude new Confidence-Building Measures to maintain and enhance border peace and tranquillity were shelved, to be considered after the situation eases. Neither the Joint Statement, (nor the respective notes issued subsequently) specifically or obliquely mentioned a return to “the status quo” or to positions prior to the stand-off.  Confirmation of the wide divergence in views existing between the two sides were to be found in the contents of the separate notes circulated by the two sides following the meeting. China, for instance, claimed that the Indian side “does not consider relations to be dependent on the settlement of the boundary question”. This, according to the Indian side, was very different from what the Indian External Affairs Minister had said at the meeting. The Chinese side was again dismissive of the tensions prevailing in India, claiming that the “Indian side believes that China’s policy towards India has not changed”. It, thereafter, goes on to pontificate that what China and India need now is cooperation not confrontation, mutual trust and not suspicion. It is evident that for China, despite all that had happened, and the ongoing tensions, it was “business as usual”, ignoring the huge trust deficit that existed between the two countries.  Strategic thought It is tempting to view the Jaishankar-Wang Yi interaction, as reflecting implicitly the contrasting strategic thought processes that are to be found in Kautilya’s Arthashastra and Sun Tzu’s The Art of War. The two Foreign Ministers seem — separately and in their own way — to reflect the influence exerted on their thinking by these two texts; on how to deal with paradoxes and on the prosecution of seemingly contradictory approaches to ensure success. While restraint and moderation, as well as a balanced attitude to the use of force, are recurring themes in both texts, there are clear divergences when it comes to methodologies to be employed. For Sun Tzu, strategic positioning is critical to obtain a strategic advantage. All warfare, according to Sun Tzu is based on deception, and deceiving the opponent. While Kautilya emphasises the significance of both power and morality, Sun Tzu seeks to subdue the enemy without fighting and resorting to attacking the enemy’s strategy as the best option. For generations, China’s leaders have imbibed and adhered to Sun Tzu’s maxims, and Wang Yi seemed to have employed this tactic.  In the extant circumstances, the dilemma that India’s External Affairs Minister probably faced was how best to achieve a modus vivendi , without compromising India’s position and foreclosing all options with China, short of war. Unlike his opposite number, Mr. Jaishankar was possibly a prisoner of a separate set of beliefs, for in his own words, the challenge India faced is to “manage a more powerful neighbour while ensuring its own rise”. To him, the bottom line for the relationship seemed clear: peace and tranquillity must prevail on the border, if progress made in the last three decades was not to be jeopardised. One could well ponder over the fact whether this dictated his approach during the two-hour-long discussion with his Chinese counterpart, in which the most conspicuous omission was the lack of any mention of restoration of the status quo as of April, as the starting point for any new round of diplomatic negotiations.  Dealing with China Understanding Chinese motives are difficult at any time. At present under Chinese President Xi Jinping, it has become still more convoluted. Driven by his notion of the “Community with a shared future for Mankind” Mr. Xi’s, and Chinese intent today, is to achieve great power status, and still more to ensure acknowledgement of its status by other countries. Unstated, but obvious, is that countries such as India should accommodate China’s rise, and not cavil at this or pose a challenge to it.  Increasing resort to confrontational politics, in substance as well as in style, aggravates this situation further. Combined with constant references to superior capabilities, it creates a psychological impact on China’s thinking, viz. , an exaggerated respect for their own strengths — including military — and a willingness to go to any extent to ensure its self-respect. Defusing tensions demands patient diplomacy, but it is not a character trait that Mr. Xi demonstrates. Even less, he shows a willingness to moderate ambition or take a step backward.  New Delhi must reach out India needs a carefully drawn-up plan as also an effective strategy to deny Beijing its immediate objectives, including its determination to establish regional dominance. In this context, India must reach out to its neighbours, and even countries beyond, warning them about falling into the trap of allowing alluring prospects of both economic cooperation and military support for the maintenance of peace, to cloud their thinking. It might well be the case that the current regime in China may be manufacturing crises to play to a domestic audience, in part due to economic compulsions, but India must be on its guard. For this purpose, India must be prepared militarily and otherwise to keep a check on China’s burgeoning ambitions. It also needs to take care to see that China does not exploit the present pandemic to deepen its influence in India’s neighbourhood, as is patently evident from reports of China’s plans to provide access to China’s coronavirus vaccine to several countries of Asia and Africa. M.K. Narayanan is a former National Security Adviser and a former Governor of West Bengal
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Dilution without adequate deliberation||On September 19, the government withdrew three Bills related to labour laws and replaced them with new ones. These Bills make significant changes to regulation of labour and the employer-employee relationship in several ways. India has a complex regime of labour laws, and several committees have recommended simplifying and rationalising them. Last year, the government introduced four labour codes as Bills to replace 29 existing laws. These Codes dealt with regulation of wages, occupational safety and health, social security, and industrial relations. The Code on Wages was passed by Parliament last year. Over the last few months, the Standing Committee on Labour presented its reports on the other three Bills. It is these three Bills that the government has replaced and introduced in the Lok Sabha. Major changes There are several aspects of these Bills that differ significantly from the earlier Bills. Let us call the new Bills as the 2020 Bills to distinguish them from the 2019 Bills that were examined by the Standing Committee and subsequently withdrawn. First, the 2020 Bills raise several thresholds. The Factories Act of 1948 defines any manufacturing unit as a factory if it employs 10 workers (and uses electricity) or 20 workers (without using electric power). These thresholds are being raised to 20 and 40 workers, respectively. The Industrial Disputes Act of 1947 requires any establishment employing over 100 workers to seek government permission before any retrenchment; the threshold has been raised to 300, with the government empowered to raise it further through notification. These changes have been debated for over two decades but were not proposed in the 2019 Bill. The Industrial Employment (Standing Orders) Act of 1946 requires employers to formally define conditions of employment under them if they have at least 100 workers. The 2020 Bill has increased this threshold to 300 workers. Second, they provide the government with the power to exempt establishments from any or all of their provisions. The Code on Industrial Relations governs working conditions, trade unions, retrenchment and layoffs, dispute resolution, and establishes industrial tribunals. The government may, in public interest, exempt any new industrial establishment from the provisions of this Code. The Code on Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions specifies leave and maximum work hours, requires health and safety norms including adequate lighting and ventilation and welfare measures. It subsumes 13 Acts including the Factories Act. The 2020 Bill allows the State government to exempt any new factory from its provisions in the interest of increased economic activity and employment generation. Given that every new factory would lead to incremental employment, this gives wide discretion to the State government to exempt new factories from basic safety and welfare norms. Note that the Factories Act permitted such exemption for a limited period of three months only during a “public emergency”. Third, there are some changes related to contract labour. The 2019 Bill was applicable to establishments which employed at least 20 contract workers and to contractors supplying at least 20 workers; these thresholds have been raised to 50 workers. The 2020 Code prohibits the employment of contract workers in any core activity, and specifically permits employment in a specified list of non-core activities including canteen, security and sanitation services. Fourth, the 2019 Bill on Occupational Safety allowed the government to prohibit employment of women in undertaking operations that could be dangerous to their health and safety. The 2020 Bill removes this power to prohibit employment and instead allows the government to require employers to provide adequate safeguards. A shift in approach All the three Bills (both the 2019 and 2020 versions) also show a major shift in approach from the earlier laws. Many essential features of the law are no longer specified in the Codes but have been delegated to be prescribed by the government through Rules. Examples of delegated items include setting the thresholds for application of various social security schemes, specifying safety standards and working conditions, and the power to increase the threshold for establishments that have to seek permission before retrenchment. An important question is whether such features should be hard-coded in the Acts. Another important issue for consideration is whether there should be relaxations for small enterprises to reduce their compliance burden. One may argue that some matters such as safety standards should apply to everyone while others that provide job security could be based on the size of the firm. The Occupational Safety Bill (which prescribes safety standards and maximum work hours) exempts small establishments from its purview while the Industrial Relations Bill applies to all. These three new Bills were introduced on Saturday, and the Business Advisory Committee of the Lok Sabha has allocated three hours for them to be discussed and passed this week. Together, these Bills have 411 clauses and 13 schedules, and come to 350 pages. The provisions of the Bill affect every person working in India and every employer, and address complex issues. It is difficult to believe that Members of Parliament, who are attending Parliament every day including weekends, have had the time to read and understand the implications of the various provisions of the Bill. As discussed above, the Bills also have several key changes from the 2019 Bills that were examined by the Standing Committee. Therefore, it is important that there is wider scrutiny and public discussion on these Bills. They should be referred to the Standing Committee. After all, a complete revamp of labour laws should be done only after due deliberation. M.R. Madhavan is President of PRS Legislative Research, New Delhi
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||With China as backdrop, New Delhi’s Moscow watch||As India-China tensions along the Line of Actual Control continue to escalate, India decided to pull out of Russia’s Kavkaz 2020 (or the Caucasus-2020) military exercises (September 15-26), where it was scheduled to participate alongside other Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO) member states. While COVID-19 was cited as the official reason, it was the situation on the border with China that most likely prompted this decision. LAC issue and Moscow’s role New Delhi’s decision has led to questions about the possible impact of deteriorating India-China relations on the India-Russia partnership. Earlier in June, the Russia-India-China Foreign Ministers meeting, convened at Moscow’s initiative and coming days after violent border clashes that led to the death of 20 Indian soldiers, ended without an official communiqué. It is hardly surprising that ongoing conflict between two prominent members, and both close partners of Russia, has given rise to concerns about its impact on India-Russia ties. But this is only one side of a complicated story. Moscow has been playing a quiet diplomatic role during the recent border clashes without actively taking sides. India’s Russia engagement has remained steady and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh visited Russia in June for the 75th Victory Day parade. He was in Moscow again on September 4 to attend the SCO Defence Ministers’ Meeting, which also formed the setting for the bilateral meeting with his Chinese counterpart. These visits saw detailed discussions around furthering the India-Russia defence relationship alongside the promise to accelerate certain supplies based on New Delhi’s requirements. The September visit coincided with the biannual Indo-Russian naval exercises, INDRA, in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, in the strategically crucial waters of the Indian Ocean. India’s External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar attended the online BRICS foreign ministers meeting on September 4 and also travelled to Moscow for the SCO Foreign Ministers meeting (September 9-10). In fact, in November, India will host the SCO Heads of Government Meeting. Forums are crucial The multilateral forums are important as they foster continued India-Russia cooperation at the bilateral and multilateral levels. While increasingly divergent foreign policies of its members pose challenges of agenda-setting and overall scope, it also underscores that at this moment of flux, countries such as India and Russia are keeping all their options open. India was to have hosted the Quad foreign ministers meeting, but the venue is likely to be now shifted to Tokyo. So alongside this, if this flurry of activity looks contradictory, it should not be surprising given the changes under way in the global order. Mr. Jaishankar has noted that we live in a ‘curious world’ where one cannot view engagement with different parties as a ‘zero-sum game’. As a result, worsening India-China ties or a burgeoning China-Russia relationship does not automatically mean a breakdown of the India-Russia strategic partnership. In fact, India and Russia have spent the past few years strengthening their partnership, particularly since the 2018 Sochi informal summit. From substantive defence engagement to regional questions in Central Asia, Afghanistan and West Asia, a conversation with Moscow remains an important element of Indian foreign policy. India and Russia are pragmatic players looking at maximising their strategic manoeuvrability, which understandably has led them to align with different powers based on their respective geopolitical positioning. Both recognise the value of having a diversified portfolio of ties. This is not to deny that external events will have no impact on the partnership. But in order to understand this, one cannot see the India-China clashes in isolation. China-Russia ties In fact, a more aggressive China is a result of its rise that has led to a change in the existing balance of power. It is this systemic change that is likely to produce a long-term shift in India’s posture, prompting it to take tougher, decisive positions. It is the combination of a changing regional order, closer Russia-China ties and India’s alignment with the United States and other like-minded countries to manage Beijing’s rise that has the potential to create hurdles for India-Russia cooperation in the Asia. While India would like to secure Russian support in this changing Asian regional order, the latter has seen China become its key partner as relations with the West have hit a new post-Cold war low since 2014. This has led to a qualitative improvement in its ties with Beijing as the superpower looks to partner with a strong external player that can balance the West. The U.S. policy towards Russia has further pushed the latter towards China, strengthening the rising power, to the detriment of both Indian and western interests. While Russia has acknowledged that the Indian and Association of Southeast Asian Nations concepts of the Indo-Pacific do not include the aim of containment of another power, it has been critical of the American conception of the region that in its strategy classifies China as a revisionist power. India on its part has sought to include Russia in its vision of the Indo-Pacific that does not see the region as ‘a strategy or as a club of limited members’. In fact, Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his 2019 visit to Vladivostok contextualised the cooperation in the Russian Far East as ‘a confluence of the Eurasian Union on one side and the open, free and inclusive Indo-Pacific on the other’ in an effort to bridge the strategic visions of the two countries. As part of the same effort, reports indicate that a proposal for a India-Russia-Japan trilateral is being explored. A world split into two blocs would be detrimental to the interests of both New Delhi and Moscow — squeezing the space available for hedging — and that makes it imperative that seeming contradictions in their respective policies are managed pragmatically while taking a long-term view of the strategic partnership. Although the evolving global order makes it difficult for India and Russia to pursue fully convergent policies, it does not preclude the bilateral relationship from retaining its relevance. The strategic space both provide to each other is critical and only underscores the need to insulate their bilateral relationship from the vagaries of the international system. Harsh V. Pant is Director of Research at the Observer Research Foundation (ORF), New Delhi and Professor of International Relations at King’s College London. Nivedita Kapoor is a Junior Fellow at the ORF
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||India and the Abraham Accords||The White House ceremony on September 15 marking the formal normalisation of Israel’s ties with the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and the Kingdom of Bahrain has created a significant inflection point in regional history and geopolitics. Indeed, it helped ring in the Jewish new year (Rosh Hashanah 5781) last weekend with some extra cheers! Two new friendships The two Gulf states have, thus, joined Egypt and Jordan which had their peace treaties with Israel in 1979 and 1994, respectively. Still, several nuances make the September 15 reconciliation different. For one, the UAE and Bahrain do not have any territorial dispute with Israel, nor have they ever been at war with it. Although formally committed to an Arab consensus over a two-state resolution of the Palestine cause, these two countries have steadily, albeit furtively, moved towards having substantive links with Israel in recent years. Hence, the ‘Abraham Accords’ entered with the UAE and Bahrain are ‘peace-for-peace’ deals without any physical quid pro quo by Israel. Multiple drivers are likely to spur the two new friendships to grow faster and deeper than the ‘cold peace’ Israel has had with its two Arab neighbours. Externally, Israel, the UAE and Bahrain share the common threat perception of Iran against the backdrop of the ongoing diminution of Pax Americana in the region. Internally, while all three have their respective hotheads opposing this reconciliation, these seem manageable. They are relatively more modern societies which share the overarching and immediate priority of post-pandemic economic resuscitation. They have lost no time to set up logistics such as Internet connectivity and direct flights to pave the way for more active economic engagement. If these sinews evolve, other moderate Arab countries are likely to join the Israel fan club. Israel’s detente with Egypt and Jordan did not have any major impact on India as our ties with them were relatively insignificant. However, now India has stronger, multifaceted and growing socioeconomic engagements with Israel and the Gulf countries. With over eight million Indian diaspora in the Gulf remitting annually nearly $50 billion, annual merchandise trade of over $150 billion, sourcing of nearly two-thirds of India’s hydrocarbon imports, major investments, etc., it is natural to ask how the new regional dynamic would affect India. Implications for India Geopolitically, India has welcomed the establishment of diplomatic relations between the UAE and Israel, calling both its strategic partners. In general, the Israel-Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) breakthrough widens the moderate constituency for peaceful resolution of the Palestine dispute, easing India’s diplomatic balancing act. However, nothing in West Asia is monochromatic: The Israel-GCC ties may provoke new polarisations between the Jihadi fringe and the mainstream. The possibility of the southern Gulf becoming the new arena of the proxy war between Iran and Israel cannot be ruled out, particularly in Shia pockets. India would have to be on its guard to monitor and even pre-empt any threat to its interests in the Gulf. Even more important for India is to manage the economic fallout of the Israel-GCC synergy. With defence and security cooperation as a strong impetus, both sides are ready to realise the full potential of their economic complementarity. The UAE and Bahrain can become the entrepôts to Israeli exports of goods and services to diverse geographies. Israel has niche strengths in defence, security and surveillance equipment, arid farming, solar power, horticultural products, high-tech, gem and jewellery, and pharmaceuticals. Tourism, real estate and financial service sectors on both sides have suffered due to the pandemic and hope for a positive spin-off from the peer-to-peer interactions. Further, Israel has the potential to supply skilled and semi-skilled manpower to the GCC states, particularly from the Sephardim and Mizrahim ethnicities, many of whom speak Arabic. Even the Israeli Arabs may find career opportunities to bridge the cultural divide. Israel is known as the start-up nation and its stakeholders could easily fit in the various duty-free incubators in the UAE. Israeli foray into the Gulf has the potential to disrupt the existing politico-economic architecture India has carefully built with the GCC states. India has acquired a large and rewarding regional footprint, particularly as the preferred source of manpower, food products, pharmaceuticals, gem and jewellery, light engineering items, etc. Indians are also the biggest stakeholders in Dubai’s real estate, tourism and Free Economic Zones. In the evolving scenario, there may be scope for a profitable trilateral synergy, but India cannot take its preponderance as a given. It needs to keep its powder as dry as the shifting sands of the Empty Quarter. Mahesh Sachdev, a former Indian Ambassador, is President, Eco-Diplomacy and Strategies, New Delhi
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Beginning of the end?||The embattled Belarusian President’s charm offensive aimed at his Russian counterpart over a month after mass protests broke out against him following his August 9 re-election has paid off splendidly for him for now. It is, however, an open question how Alexander Lukashenko’s views on deepening ties with Russian President Vladimir Putin will play out given his zealous assertion of national sovereignty versus Mr. Putin’s vision of closer integration. At their meeting held in the Black Sea resort town of Sochi, Mr. Putin pledged a $1.5 billion loan to Mr. Lukashenko. He also said he would uphold his promises of security and joint military exercises “practically every month” for a year. In recent days, Mr. Lukashenko has addressed the Russian leader as an “elder brother” and praised him as a “friend in need”. More significantly, Mr. Lukashenko has portrayed the popular unrest in Belarus as a test run for eventually overthrowing Mr. Putin. Change in stance These remarks imply that Mr. Putin’s moves relating to Minsk are no less an act of self-interest. They are also a tacit allusion to the international fallout from the Kremlin’s systematic suppression of dissent, illustrated by the poisoning of Russia’s most prominent opposition leader, Alexei Navalny, in August. Days before his meeting with Mr. Putin, Mr. Lukashenko asserted that he would not heed demands from the street for his resignation, insisting that the protesters would destroy the country. All of this is a marked change in tenor from the early phase of the unrest, when Mr. Lukashenko appeared desperate, pleading with Moscow for military assistance against what he then described as an external threat. When he addressed domestic audiences, the autocrat of 26 years, who in 2004 pushed through a constitutional referendum that scrapped presidential term limits, and swore on other occasions that he would die rather than give up power, had even referred to calls from countries in the region for him to hold fresh elections. Notable through this tumult was Russia’s conspicuous overall silence, as also the focused target of the protesters demanding Mr. Lukashenko’s exit. While Mr. Putin made known his readiness to deploy the police to quell the unrest if requested, the Kremlin was reluctant to risk any action that might turn the anti-Lukashenko tide against Russia. The recent shift to a more assertive stance is plausibly a reflection of a seemingly weakening opposition under a sustained crackdown since the controversial polls. Treatment of opposition leaders In the run-up to the election on August 9, a number of prominent candidates were imprisoned or barred from the contest, action that unwittingly united the people against the brutal regime. In the wake of the disputed victory of Mr. Lukashenko for the sixth time, an opposition leader was abducted, others were forced to flee the country, or forcibly deported. Most prominent of them is Svetlana Tikhanovskaya, who fled to Lithuania after running against Mr. Lukashenko, when her husband Sergei, a YouTuber, was imprisoned on sedition charges months before the poll. Earlier this month, two opposition leaders were deported to Ukraine and a third was detained by authorities when she tore up her passport to avoid being forced to cross the border. The opposition coordination council has just one member remaining in Belarus with her liberty intact, the 2015 Nobel laureate, Svetlana Alexievich. Paradoxically, as fatigue sets in among the protesters, Mr. Lukashenko’s political options at home have also narrowed. A potential price for the recent package Moscow has offered could well be to breathe life into a 1997 Treaty on the Union between Russia and Belarus that envisages common legal and immigration policies. The end to Belarusian independence vis-a-vis the European Union and Moscow could spell the end of Mr. Lukashenko. garimella.subramaniam@thehindu.co.in
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||A point of order||Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh’s refusal to conduct a division of votes on two controversial pieces of legislation on Sunday, despite persistent demands from members, was unprecedented in its sheer brazenness. The Bills in question have been challenged on constitutional and practical grounds, but that is a different point. The rules of procedure regarding voting are unambiguous that if a voice vote is challenged, “votes shall be taken by operating the automatic vote recorder or by the members going into the Lobbies”. Even if a single member demands a division, it is required to be carried out. Quite often, a division of vote is demanded even when the outcome is predictable, in order to bring on record the positions of parties and members on a particular bill. The explanation that members were not demanding a division from their seats and the House was not in order is disingenuous. To begin with, the disorder was triggered by the Chair’s refusal to order a division. And curiously, the Chair went on to declare the Bills passed amid the din, this time unaffected by disorder. Significant amendments were sought and several parties had demanded that they be referred to a parliamentary select committee. The government’s claim that it had the numbers to pass the Bills is dubious in the wake of the skulduggery it deployed for their passage. In any case, regardless of which side has the majority, procedure is sacrosanct and voting is the foremost tool of establishing parliamentary authority. It cannot be reduced to an act of benevolence by the Chair or the executive. The chaos that followed in the Upper House, though not unprecedented, was unsavoury. Parliament is a deliberative forum and not a theatre for protest demonstration. Regardless of the provocation, the Opposition should have adhered to decorum while articulating its concerns. But, meaningful parliamentary discussions have become infrequent, and the voice of the Opposition is often ignored. Upper House functions have been significantly curtailed by the arbitrary labelling of money bills, which bypass it. The flat out denial of a division of votes was a new low in parliamentary history. Not stopping there, eight Opposition members were suspended for one week while notice for a no-confidence motion against the Deputy Chairman was rejected at the threshold by Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu. Opposition parties have now petitioned President Ram Nath Kovind to not give assent to the two Bills passed by voice vote. There must be immediate efforts led by the executive to restore the effective and meaningful functioning of Parliament.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||In the air||The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is revising its guidelines to acknowledge the spread of the novel coronavirus through aerosols, and to point to inhalation of particles as a common way the virus spreads. A draft of the proposed changes to its recommendations, which was later withdrawn pending finalisation, confirmed that airborne particles can spread even by breathing, remain suspended in air and be inhaled and spread beyond six feet in certain enclosed settings. This comes after a body of evidence provided sufficient indication of aerosol (less than 5 microns) transmission, especially in closed settings with poor ventilation and after prolonged contact with an infected person. In February, researchers from the Wuhan Institute of Virology, in a paper published in Nature , first proposed airborne transmission. The paper also identified and characterised the novel coronavirus and confirmed the receptor to which the virus binds. The World Health Organization had, on July 9, acknowledged that the virus can be airborne in closed settings after an open letter by more than 200 scientists appealing to the medical community and national and international bodies to “recognize the potential for airborne spread of COVID-19”. Beginning with the cruise ship, Diamond Princess , large outbreaks have been documented in churches in South Korea and Singapore, prisons, old-age homes, ski resorts in Austria and even choir practice in a church in Mount Vernon, Washington, providing strong evidence of aerosol transmission in certain closed settings early during the pandemic. It is therefore bewildering that both WHO and the CDC refused to adopt the precautionary principle and caution people even while collecting data to confirm or refute that possibility. However, even in the absence of guidelines from the global bodies, many countries had on their own denied permission for certain enclosed settings to operate, thus averting innumerable outbreaks and cases. With aerosol transmission now being confirmed and its spread to distances beyond six feet also known, the only way to prevent infection till such time and probably even when vaccines become available is through universal masking. Timely cautioning by global bodies of an aerosol transmission possibility might have encouraged universal mask wearing early on, thus preventing thousands of cases. Universal masking can avert infections, and if infected, the amount of viral load one is exposed to will be less, thus leading to only asymptomatic infections or mild disease. Unlike Diamond Princess , universal masking in another ship led to 81% of infections being asymptomatic. There have been similar results in other cases where universal masking was practised. With aerosol transmission now being established as a common way of spread in certain settings, the best way to avoid getting infected is by staying clear of crowded, closed settings that have poor ventilation.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Juvenile offenders (From an Editorial)||The juvenile offender presents one of the hardest problems of modern thought. Criminologists have envisaged him from all points of view and worked out uncertain hypotheses. The courts when they have him before them administer a sort of justice which fails in most cases to be either preventive or reformatory. What exactly turns a child to crime and how best to protect the innocent and wean the guilty back into goodness are questions to which in spite of laborious research, a conclusive answer has not been obtained. Some light is thrown on the subject by a report of the Juvenile Organisations Committee issued by the Board of Education in England. The committee examined the return of various juvenile courts and came to the disturbing conclusion that, in the case of theft, perhaps the commonest form of juvenile crime, poverty was not the primary incentive. About seventy per cent of the juvenile thefts examined by the Committee were found to be devoid even of the excuse of penury; and reason was found to justify a surmise that many a child turned thief at his parents’ instigation or with his connivance. Another noteworthy circumstance that inspires a boy to crime is the love of adventure — a quality which under proper direction might easily run into channels far healthier than house-breaking or shop-breaking.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Luna-16 bringing moon rock||The Soviet unmanned spaceship Luna-16 is returning from the moon, bringing samples of moon rock, Tass, the Soviet news agency, announced to-day [Moscow, September 21]. The achievement in re-launching an unmanned probe from the surface of the moon through remote control from the earth marks a space first for the Soviet Union. Luna-16 landed on moon yesterday and began sending back scientific information. The Luna blast-off from the moon comes 14 months after American Apollo-11 astronauts made the first successful take-off from the moon. Luna-16 scooped up samples in the area around the sea of Tranquillity using an electric “probe” which bored to a depth of 350 millimetres, Tass said. The samples were then transferred by means of a manipulator to a container in the spacecraft and hermetically sealed. After the landing of Luna-16 on the moon a complex of technological operations was carried out.
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||Banks not risk averse: SBI chief||Asserting that there is a muted demand for loans, SBI Chairman Rajnish Kumar on Monday said banks are not risk averse but being prudent in these trying times to avoid a repeat of the post-2008 scenario when there was ‘dilution’ in credit underwriting standards. Data clearly shows that investment in the economy has come down, the head of the country’s biggest lender said. “If the capex [capital expenditure] is not happening and investment in the economy is not happening at the same pace, then obviously this is a demand issue and the risk aversion would be where there is a demand and banks are not lending,” he said at a virtual event organised by AIMA. Non-food bank credit grew 6.7% year-on-year in July as against growth of 11.4% in the same month of 2019, as per latest data from the Reserve Bank of India. Bank credit in July stood at Rs. 91.48 lakh crore. For banks, to give debt requires equity from promoters, Mr. Kumar said, adding that the number of people or business houses with the capacity to invest had shrunk. Want of entrepreneurs In such circumstances, there was a need to create more businesses and entrepreneurs who have the capability to invest in operations and borrow, he noted. “If people are benchmarking that what happened after 2008 where there was a lot of money supplied by the banks and there was dilution of the credit underwriting standards and then banking system and the country paid a heavy price. “Banks, in my view, they are being prudent,” he said. Asked if further rate cuts would spur growth, Mr. Kumar said whatever reduction had happened had not been able to push investment. Inflation, the SBI chief said, was supply side driven. “Right now, the demand is muted, discretionary spend is muted, so we have to do everything to keep our supply chains in order and put them up and running. Inflation will come under control,” Mr. Kumar added.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Privatise select PSU banks’||Former RBI Governor Raghuram Rajan on Monday suggested that the government should privatise select public sector banks, set up a bad bank to deal with NPAs and dilute the Department of Financial Services’ role. The reforms are necessary to ensure growth of banking activity without the periodic boom-bust cycles, Dr. Rajan and former RBI Deputy Governor Viral Acharya said in a paper titled ‘Indian Banks: A Time to Reform?’. “Re-privatisation of select PSBs can then be undertaken, bringing in private investors who have both financial expertise as well as technological expertise; corporate houses must be kept from acquiring significant stakes, given their natural conflicts of interest. ‘Offer patronage’ Noting that the government obtains enormous power from directing bank lending, they said sometimes this power is exercised to advance public goals such as financial inclusion, sometimes it is used to offer patronage to or exercise control over industrialists. “Winding down Department of Financial Services in the Ministry of Finance is essential, both as an affirmative signal of the intent to grant bank boards and management independence and as a commitment not to engage in ‘mission creep’ when compulsions arise to use banks for serving costly social or political objectives.” Private and national asset management ‘bad banks’ should be encouraged in parallel to the online platform for distressed loan sales. On bad loans, they said out-of-court restructuring frameworks can be designed for time-bound negotiations between creditors of a stressed firm, failing which the National Company Law Tribunal filing should apply.
22 September 2020||Mumbai,||Investors lose Rs. 4.23 lakh cr. as global sell-off hits stocks||The Sensex dived 812 points while the Nifty closed below the 11,300-mark on Monday, in tandem with a global sell-off after a resurgence of COVID-19 cases in Europe stoked fears of another round of lockdowns. Denmark, Greece and Spain have imposed fresh curbs to tackle a surge in infections. Britain too is considering a second lockdown, prompting investors in Europe to offload travel, consumption and banking stocks. Falling for the third straight session, the BSE Sensex ended 811.68 points, or 2.09%, lower at 38,034.14. The NSE Nifty tumbled 2.21% to 11,250.55. IndusInd Bank was the top loser in the Sensex pack, sliding 8.67%, followed by Bharti Airtel, Tata Steel, ICICI Bank, M&M, Maruti and Axis Bank. The market capitalisation of all BSE-listed companies fell to Rs. 154.76 lakh crore, wiping off Rs. 4.23 lakh crore of investor wealth. “With high valuations and worries that earnings may not justify such valuations anytime soon, markets may trade uncertain for the time being,” said Vinod Nair, Head of Research at Geojit Financial Services. “Stay cautious.”
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||IT services industry has stabilised: Rishad Premji||The IT services industry has stabilised with customers coming back, looking for a shift to digital, said Rishad Premji, chairman, Wipro. Speaking at an All India Management Association (AIMA) event, Mr. Premji said Indian IT services industry struggled during the April-June quarter because customers had cut spending on technology early on during the COVID-19 crisis. Since then, the industry has stabilised with customers coming back looking for help in shifting to the digital model. “There is a change in the customers’ mindset and they are becoming more comfortable with the digital medium,” he said. He further said the digital-delivery model had opened up tremendous opportunities for the Indian IT sector, especially in the area of talent sourcing. “We can crowdsource talent from anywhere in the world and provide the same quality of work from anywhere,” Mr. Premji said, adding “this makes talent more inclusive.”
22 September 2020||MUMBAI,||HDFC Bank ‘to vigorously defend itself’ in U.S. suit||HDFC Bank has denied allegations made in a class action suit filed by a U.S. law firm and said it would defend itself vigorously. “The bank is aware of a complaint that was recently filed against the bank and its three employees in the United States,” the lender said in a stock exchange filing. “The lawsuit, which was filed by a single small security holder who seeks to represent a class of the Bank’s security holders, is based on allegations that the security holder claims caused a temporary decline in the bank’s ADR stock price in July. The bank denies the allegations and intends to defend itself vigorously. The bank expects its response to the lawsuit to be due in early 2021.” The law firm’s suit is seeking damages for the losses incurred by investors because of alleged “materially false and misleading” representations by the bank. It has specifically named the bank’s CEO and MD of over 25 years, Aditya Puri, his designated successor Sashidhar Jagdishan and company secretary Santosh Haldankar as defendants. The complaint did not mention the exact quantum of the damages sought. The allegations pertain to the vehicle finance vertical, where the bank acknowledged some improprieties.  (With PTI inputs)
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||BSNL reworking 5G trials to suit new norms||State-run BSNL has raised Rs. 8,500 crore via government-guaranteed bonds, CMD P. K. Purwar said on Monday, adding that the ficompany was reworking its 5G trials proposal to partner with a firm that would not be impacted by the recent curbs on public procurement from countries with common border. “We got 229 bids [for the bonds] worth Rs. 17,183 crore,” he said. “The issue was subscribed over 2.02 times of the total issue size and over 17 times of the base issue size of Rs. 1,000 crore. “We have accepted bids to the tune of Rs. 8,500 crore,” Mr. Purwar told reporters. To a query on BSNL’s application for 5G trials in partnership with ZTE, Mr. Purwar said, “We had applied for 5G. Considering the changes done to General Financial Rules (GFR) provisions we have to revisit our application and we are in the process of doing that. “At this stage, I will not like to say if I will partner company A or B but we are open to partner with every company which is not adversely impacted by the present GFR provisions.” He also said 11 out of 14 land parcels, identified by BSNL for asset monetisation, had got approval from the inter-ministerial group. “The value of those assets is about Rs. 18,000 crore.”
22 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Insurers can use video based KYC identification||Insurance regulator IRDAI has permitted life, general and health insurers to undertake video-based identification process (VBIP) of customers. An optional, electronic way of identification as part of the know-your-customer (KYC) process, VBIP is to facilitate insurers or their authorised personnel to collect information, including necessary KYC documents. This is for carrying out client due diligence and to ascertain veracity of information furnished by the customer/ beneficiary. Stating that the VBIP process has to be seamless, secure and real-time, the regulator said customer consent was a must for the audio-visual interaction. All accounts opened or any service provided based on VBIP will be “activated only after being subject to proper verification by the insurer to ensure that the integrity of process is maintained and is beyond doubt,” the IRDAI said in a circular. The process of audio-visual interaction should be secured and encrypted end-to-end, the regulator added.
22 September 2020||new delhi,||‘Imports from China dip 28% April-August’||India’s imports from China declined by 27.6% during April-August this fiscal to $21.6 billion over the same period previous year, Parliament was informed. Value of imports from China stood at $4.98 billion in August and $5.58 in July, according to the data provided by Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal in his written reply to the Lok Sabha. “India’s imports from China have declined by 27.6% during April-August, 2020-21 over the corresponding period of the previous year,” he said. In a separate reply, the Minister said there is no proposal under consideration on withdrawal of Most Favoured Nation (MFN) status to China.
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||SBI raises Rs. 7,000 cr. via Basel III bonds||State Bank of India on Monday said it had raised Rs. 7,000 crore via Basel III compliant bonds. “The Committee of Directors for Capital Raising at its meeting of held today on September 21, 2020 accorded its approval to allot 70,000 Basel III compliant non-convertible, taxable, redeemable... debt instruments in the nature of debentures aggregating to Rs. 7,000 crore, to bond subscribers,” SBI said in a regulatory filing. Allotment of bonds took place on the same date The bonds qualify as tier II capital and have a face value of Rs. 10 lakh each, bearing coupon rate of 6.24% per annum payable annually for a tenor of 10 years, it said.
22 September 2020||Chennai,||FSS bags card mandate from Canada’s Everlink||Financial Software and Systems (FSS), a global payments technology firm, has bagged a mandate from Canada’s Everlink Payment Services Inc. to modernise its card operations. Everlink Payment services, which is a provider of payment solutions and services for Canadian credit unions, banks and small and medium enterprises, chose FSS’s Unified Card Management System. It is scheduled to go live in the fourth quarter of this year, said FSS.
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||Route Mobile makes dream debut, shares jump 86 pc||Shares of Route Mobile Ltd. on Monday made a stellar stock market debut as they jumped 86% at close of trade against its issue price of Rs. 350. On the BSE, it got listed at Rs. 708, reflecting a jump of 102.28% from the issue price. During the day, it rose to a high of Rs. 735, registering a gain of 110%. It later closed at Rs. 651.10, higher by 86%. On the NSE, it debuted at Rs. 717, up 104.85% from the issue price and finally settled at Rs. 650.30, up 85.8%.pti
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Chahal triggers a collapse, spins it Royal Challengers’ way||A terrific spell from Yuzvendra Chahal (three for 18) helped Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) defeat Sunrisers Hyderabad (SRH) by 10 runs in its IPL opener at Dubai on Monday. Leg-spinner Chahal, the leader of the RCB bowling attack, took three crucial wickets to drag his side back into the contest. He first stifled the settled Manish Pandey (34, 33b) before forcing a false shot from the batsman. Chahal next scalped the key wicket of Jonny Bairstow (61, 43b, 6x4, 2x6), who made no contact off an attempted slog. Luck had finally run out for Bairstow, who had received no less than three lives through dropped catches from Aaron Finch, Dale Steyn and Devdutt Padikkal.  Next man Vijay Shankar played all over a googly and lost his stumps for a golden duck. With the top-order back in the hut, RCB piled on the pressure. SRH all-rounder Mitchell Marsh, severely hampered by an injury, bravely came in to bat at eight-drop, but holed out for a duck. The last wicket pair of T. Natarajan and Sandeep Sharma were left with 18 runs to get in the final over — a bridge too far for the tailenders. After being put in to bat, RCB rode on a sparkling innings from opener Padikkal (56, 42b, 8x4) and a late assault from A.B. de Villiers (51, 30b, 4x4, 2x6) to post a respectable total. Showcasing his range Padikkal shone bright in his IPL debut, showcasing a wide range of shots. He got going with a lofted shot over midwicket off pacer Sandeep and followed up with a glance to the fine-leg fence. The 20-year-old batted with the elegance typical of a southpaw, with flowing shots all around the park. Padikkal got to his fifty courtesy a mistake from Rashid Khan, who misjudged a skier at deep square-leg. Abhishek Sharma and substitute Fabian Allen nearly collided and messed up another catch a few minutes later, before Vijay Shankar flattened Padikkal’s stumps. Fellow opener Finch made a sedate 27-ball 29, falling to a carrom ball from left-arm spinner Abhishek. Skipper Virat Kohli (14, 13b) and de Villiers kept the big hits at bay, preferring to take the singles and doubles. When it was time to open up, Kohli could only manage to heave a slower ball from Natarajan to Rashid at deep mid-wicket. de Villiers provided the late fireworks, clearing his left leg to get power on his bat swing. RCB scored only 77 runs in the last 10 overs, a disappointing end to an innings which started so brightly.
22 September 2020||New York,||DeChambeau wins maiden Major||Bryson DeChambeau captured his first Major title on Sunday, firing a three-under 67 to win the 120th US Open. The 27-year-old American, who bulked up during the coronavirus lockdown in a bid to add power to his game, eagled the par-5 ninth from just inside 40 feet and rolled to a six-stroke victory over 21-year-old countryman Matthew Wolff. Wolff led partner DeChambeau by two strokes when the day began but, on his US Open debut, failed to become the youngest US Open winner since Bobby Jones in 1923 and youngest Major winner since Tiger Woods at the 1997 Masters. “Oh my gosh. I can’t believe it,” said DeChambeau, renowned for his scientific approach to the sport. “It has been a lot of hard work.” DeChambeau hit only 23 fairways for the week but finished 72 holes on six-under 274. DeChambeau became the first player since 1955 to win with the only sub-par score in the final round, and just the fourth ever to do it. South African Louis Oosthuizen was a distant third on 282, one stroke ahead of American Harris English after both fired 73 on Sunday. Xander Schauffele shot 74 and settled for fifth on 284, one stroke ahead of two fellow Americans, top-ranked Dustin Johnson and Will Zalatoris. Thomas joint eighth Third-ranked American Justin Thomas finished on 286 to share eighth in a pack with fourth-ranked Rory McIlroy, who closed with a 75.  The scores: 274: Bryson DeChambeau (69, 68, 70, 67); 280: Matthew Wolff (66, 74, 65, 75); 282: Louis Oosthuizen (67, 74, 68, 73).   283: Harris English (68, 70, 72, 73); 284: Xander Schauffele (68, 72, 70, 74).   285: Dustin Johnson (73, 70, 72, 70), Will Zalatoris (70, 74, 70, 71).
22 September 2020||London,||Leicester tops the charts after come-from-behind victory||Leicester moved to the top of the table on goal difference ahead of Arsenal, Everton, Crystal Palace and Liverpool after it came from behind to beat Burnley 4-2. After a disappointing end to last season when it missed out on Champions League football, Brendan Rodgers’ side has responded well with two convincing wins to start the new campaign. Chris Wood fired the visitors into a 10th-minute lead at the King Power, but Harvey Barnes sparked the fightback before Erik Pieters’ own goal, James Justin and Dennis Praet’s blistering finish handed the Foxes all three points. Andrea Pirlo got his coaching career off to a winning start as Juventus launched its bid for a 10th consecutive league title with a 3-0 win over Sampdoria on Sunday. Swedish debutant Dejan Kulusevski opened the scoring after 13 minutes in Turin with Leonardo Bonucci adding a second on 78 minutes and Cristiano Ronaldo a late third. Real Madrid began the defence of its Spanish title with a tepid 0-0 draw at Real Sociedad on Sunday as Martin Odegaard made his first league start for the reigning champion against his former club.  The results:   Premier League: Leicester 4 (Barnes 20, Pieters 50-og, Justin 61, Praet 79) bt Burnley 2 (Wood 10, Dunne 73).   Serie A: Genoa 4 (Destro 6, Pandev 9, Zappacosta 34, Pjaca 75) bt Crotone 1 (Riviere 28); Sassuolo 1 (Bourabia 87) drew with Cagliari 1 (Simeone 77); Juventus 3 (Kulusevski 13, Bonucci 78, Ronaldo 88) bt Sampdoria 0.   LaLiga: Huesca 0 lost to Cadiz 2 (Negredo 11, Pombo 83); Granada 2 (Soldado 7, Machis 79) bt Alaves 1 (Joselu 22); Real Betis 2 (Fekir 10-pen, Carvalho 18) bt Valladolid 0; Real Sociedad 0 drew with Real Madrid 0.
22 September 2020||SHARJAH,||Royals up against an upbeat Super Kings||Steve Smith-led Rajasthan Royals, without all-rounder Ben Stokes and Jos Buttler, has an onerous task of stopping an upbeat Chennai Super Kings in its IPL opener here on Tuesday. Stokes’ father’s illness has kept him out of action for some time now and his absence is bound to disturb Royals’ balance at least in the first half of the tournament. Buttler, Rajasthan’ impact player at the top, will miss the game because of a mandatory 36-hour quarantine in Dubai. Speedster Jofra Archer’s presence will be important along with seasoned stars like South African David Miller, Australian pacer Andrew Tye and England all-rounder Tom Curran. Inconsistent The Royals’ main problem lies in its Indian core, which hasn’t exactly been consistent. The likes of Sanju Samson, Robin Uthappa, Jaydev Unadkat and Varun Aaron have failed to live up to the expectations over the years. Super Kings have once again showed how to work around with available resources and Sam Curran coming good with an all-round show means that Dwayne Bravo’s absence won’t matter even if he misses a few more games due to injury. Rayudu and Faf du Plessis perfectly maintained the CSK “run-chase template” of attacking in the back 10 overs, while the addition of Piyush Chawla, a very successful IPL bowler, also paid dividends.  It needs to be seen how Deepak Chahar is shaping up after sustaining a niggle in the final over of the MI innings. In case he can’t make it, CSK has a ready replacement in Shardul Thakur. The Sharjah pitch will be a different challenge for the bowlers both in terms of surface as well as the size of the ground.
22 September 2020||Bengaluru,||I have never felt so stressed: Mandeep||Striker Mandeep Singh has been through many tough situations during his career, but by his own admission the time spent while recovering from COVID-19 has been the most “stressful” one. Mandeep was one of six hockey players who had tested positive for COVID-19 at the team’s training base here last month after they arrived for the national camp. In fact, Mandeep was the first player to be admitted to a hospital here. All six have recovered Since then, all the six players have recovered and started their individual training sessions. “I think we had read and heard so much about the pandemic being a deadly disease, the first few days were stressful and anxious. “Although I have been in some of the most difficult match situations as a professional, I had never felt this stressed,” Mandeep said in a Hockey India release. New experience “I was never taken away in an ambulance, never been seriously injured either. So, this phase was a new experience for me. “After recovering, they (Hockey India) even gave us an option to return home to take a break if we felt like it but we wanted to stay back and rejoin the rest of the group,” said the forward.
22 September 2020||ROME,||Djokovic wins record 36th Masters||World No. 1 Novak Djokovic overcame a sluggish start to lift his fifth Rome Masters crown on Monday, defeating Argentine Diego Schwartzman 7-5, 6-3 for a record 36th ATP Masters crown. Playing his maiden ATP 1000 final, eighth seed Schwartzman raced out of the blocks for a 3-0 lead as Djokovic struggled to put a lid on his backhand errors. An on-and-off drizzle added to Djokovic’s frustration but he still found a way past Schwartzman’s serve to draw level at 3-3. Djokovic’s relentless baseline hitting came to the fore when he broke Schwartzman in the 12th game to take the opening set, despite committing 18 unforced errors. Schwartzman snatched another early break in the second set but this time Djokovic was quick to respond. The top seed stepped up the intensity to break Schwartzman’s serve twice before serving out the match comfortably to seal victory. Earlier in the women’s event, top seed Simona Halep won her first title here defeating defending champion Karolina Pliskova, who retired while trailing 6-0, 2-1. World No. 2 Halep was competing in her third Rome WTA final, having finished runner-up in 2017 and 2018 on the clay at the Foro Italico.  The results:   Men: Final: Novak Djokovic bt Diego Schwartzman 7-5, 6-3.   Semifinal: Schwartzman bt Denis Shapovalov 6-4, 5-7, 7-6(4).   Women: Final: Simona Halep bt Karolina Pliskova 6-0, 2-1 (retd.) .
22 September 2020||PARIS,||An extravaganza with many thrills and spills||Cycling’s rescheduled Tour de France made a proud entry into Paris on Sunday with its boyish champion Tadej Pogacar the figurehead of a storied 21-day extravaganza crowned by a twist in the tail. Many predicted the pandemic would prevent the race making it the 3,400 kilometres from the Mediterranean city of Nice to the French capital. And that ever-constant tension provided the drumbeat for the series of cautionary tales and the modern day David slaying Goliath re-enactment that unfolded before a stunned global audience. Saturday’s gut-wrenching penultimate stage time trial saw the 21-year-old Pogacar rip the yellow jersey from his 30-year-old Slovenian compatriot Primoz Roglic. So just how did Rogli’s Jumbo-Visma team that had appeared to dominate a Tour, destroying the hopes of the home nation and ending the reign of Dave Brailsford’s British outfit Ineos, let victory slip from its grasp? All-time great Eddy Merckx didn’t mince his words. “They were asking for it riding defensively like that. Imagine letting yourself get taken like that,” said the five-time winner. The Jumbo horror story provides Brailsford with convenient cover but his Ineos team can point to a number of mitigating circumstances. Pogacar’s win is not only one of the sports stories of the year, but also marks a generational shift to the ascendency of younger riders, following as it does the story of Bernal’s success a year ago at 22.
22 September 2020||Dubai,||Kings XI appeals against ‘short run’ call||Kings XI Punjab has appealed against on-field umpire Nitin Menon’s controversial ‘short run’ call during a crucial period of the game against Delhi Capitals. KXIP lost in a Super Over. “We have appealed to the match referee. While a human error can happen and we understand that, there is no room for human errors like these in a world-class tournament like the IPL. This one run could cost us a playoff berth,” KXIP CEO Satish Menon said. From TV footage, it was apparent that umpire Menon, positioned at square leg, had erred in calling non-striker Chris Jordan for a ‘short run’ during the 19th over of KXIP’s chase. Replays showed that Jordan’s bat was inside the crease before he had turned for the second run. However, umpire Menon signalled that Jordan had not completed the first run and only one run was added to Mayank Agarwal and KXIP’s total. There were questions after the match from former players about why the decision was not reversed, but as per the playing conditions of both the ICC and the IPL, the on-field umpire can use the assistance of the third umpire only in cases of a possible dismissal or an unclear boundary decision.
22 September 2020||DUBAI,||It really hurts, says Mayank||Crestfallen after losing its IPL opener, Kings XI Punjab’s Mayank Agarwal said it felt terrible to not close the game after making a stupendous comeback against Delhi Capitals here. Chasing 158 to win, KXIP was looking down the barrel at 55 for five but Mayank’s blistering 89 took it to 157. The team needed one run off the final two balls but Marcus Stoinis’ twin strike took the game to the Super Over, in which Punjab came a cropper. Tough day “We had a tough day. There are a lot of positives to take out. The way we came back was fantastic, the way we bowled with the new ball was terrific. It really hurts to not close off the game from the situation we were in, feels terrible,” Mayank told KXIP TV. “This is just the first game. We can get things rolling again, let’s see how we will go in the coming games. I think to play a game like that first up was fantastic. Everyone was up for it, guys really put in the effort. ‘Should have finished’ “Definitely, we should have finished the game when we needed one run. We batted extremely well to reach there. I don’t know what to say (about the final moments).”
22 September 2020||Perth,||Langer feels continuity could be the watchword for Australia against India||Australia head coach Justin Langer has hinted that they will go with tried and tested players when India arrives for a four-Test series at the end of the year unless an exceptional performer emerges from the Sheffield Shield. Set for December 3 start The series, India’s first Test outing since the February-March contest in New Zealand, is set to start on December 3. But there is still some confusion over the venues since different Australian States have different lockdown protocols. “We’ve been able to play some great Test cricket in the last 12-18 months. “We’re ranked number one at the moment and there are reasons for that,” Langer said on Monday. Langer’s statement was an indication that he wanted to field experienced players against India. The Aussies played only 12 players in five home Tests, last season. “In our mind, it’s pretty clear at the moment what that first Test squad would be, but it’s exciting to see if anyone else is going to put his hand up. If someone’s banging so hard on the door (in the Sheffield Shield) that we can’t ignore them, that’s what we’re looking for.”
22 September 2020||Strasbourg (France),||Cornet fears for French Open after ‘too many fans’ at Strasbourg event||French tennis player Alize Cornet on Sunday told AFP of her coronavirus fears for Roland Garros after lamenting the presence of “too many” fans at the WTA event in Strasbourg.  Limited spectators The rescheduled French Open later this month will be limited to 5,000 spectators daily, a reduction from the initial 11,500 announced by the tournament's organisers. The Strasbourg event is the last warm-up before the clay court Grand Slam, which runs from September 27 to October 11, and is welcoming 2,500 fans to its 10-hectare site — half the usual number. “Here in Strasbourg there are too many fans... The fact that there is a crowd in the stands is not necessarily bad. “But these people are in the walkways with us, they ask for a lot of photos and autographs from the players and it's hard to refuse,” Cornet said. “We are locked in a hotel, we are prevented from going out, we take the health protocol really seriously, but we meet people who are there en masse and who do not respect social distancing at all.”
22 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Malleswari wants to open academy in Hyderabad||Sydney Olympics bronze medallist Karnam Malleswari has expressed willingness to start a weightlifting academy in Hyderabad. Malleswari, who hails from Amudalavalasa (Srikakulam, Andhra Pradesh), was speaking at a webinar organised by Handball Federation of India vice-president Jaganmohan Rao and Sports Authority of Telangana State chairman A. Venkateshwar Reddy to commemorate the feat that made her the first Indian woman athlete to win an Olympic medal. “Even 20 years after I won my Olympic medal, I don’t think there is the desired improvement in terms of facilities for weightlifters in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh,” she said. Venkateshwar Reddy invited Malleswari to the city so that he could facilitate a meeting with Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhara Rao and take up the issue.
22 September 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Smith hopes to be available for CSK game||Steve Smith looks quite likely to play on Tuesday. The Australian, who had to sit out the ODI series against England earlier this month after being hit on the head during a nets session, expressed hope that he would be able to take the field for Rajasthan Royals’ opening IPL fixture against Chennai Super Kings at Sharjah. “[I have] been in Dubai for a couple of days now with some good rest and then got into a bit of running,” said Smith. “Yesterday I did a bit of zig-zag running, which is part of the protocols to pass to get back to play. I’ll have a hit in the nets. [I hope to] be good to play [on Tuesday].” The Royals captain said it felt good to catch up with his teammates — old and new. “The guys have been here for a month now and from all reports, the training has been magnificent. We have a good squad this year, really strong,” he said. He said CSK and Mumbai Indians have been two really strong teams for a long time. “Hopefully we can get our campaign off to a good start,” Smith said. Royals’ new coach Andrew McDonald said the captain’s availability was fantastic news.
22 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Selector eligibility on MCA apex council agenda||The Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) apex council is set to finalise on Tuesday the eligibility criteria for members of its selection committees. While the Cricket Improvement Committee (CIC), headed by Lalchand Rajput, conducted interviews for coaches last week, the announcement has been delayed due to a variety of reasons. One of the reasons is there are common applicants for coaches’ and selectors’ posts. The CIC has not been able to shortlist selector-candidates as there seems to be confusion over the eligibility criteria. The CIC is understood to have sought clarity in writing from the apex council. One of the points the council will debate is whether to consider those who are over 70 years of age or have served more than five years as a selector/coach. Besides, the council will also have to prescribe minimum number of First Class appearances to be a Ranji selector.  The Kulkarni case Despite Sulakshan Kulkarni, whose earlier three-year stint as Mumbai coach included the Ranji title in 2012-13, emerging as a clear favourite among the 24 candidates interviewed last week, the apex council is divided over his eligibility. Kulkarni was involved in a bitter war of words with the MCA ahead of the last domestic season, when he turned down the contract offered him. Hence, a section of apex council members is likely to moot a proposal to keep him out of the race.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Invincible Garuda||Garuda’s strength was incomparable, which was why he was able to break through every barrier that stood in his way when he went to get the nectar in the celestial kingdom. Indra hurled the vajra at Garuda. But even this did not hurt Garuda. What was the secret behind Garuda’s strength? Indra’s disrespect of sages was one of the reasons for Garuda’s power! And this arrogance of Indra predated the birth of Garuda, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. Kashyapa, Indra’s father, was going to perform a yaga. Many sages made their way to the yaga. Indra too set out to participate in the event. On the way, he saw the valakilyas, tiny sages not higher than one’s thumb, also going to the yaga. They were unable to carry even the samit individually, and it required a joint effort of all seven of them to carry the samit. A little further on, there was a pond to be crossed, and the sages, unable to cross it, fell into it. Indra was amused by the sight. And he went on his way mocking them. When he arrived at the site of the yaga, he found his father waiting for the valakilyas. He told his father that he had seen them fall into a pond and had laughed at them. His father said he feared what the valakilyas would do because of the insult. He ran to apologise to them. In the meanwhile, the valakilyas had themselves performed a yaga, and had brought forth a challenger to Indra, one who would be more powerful than Indra. Alarmed, Indra requested them not to endanger his position. They said that they could not undo what they had done, but the new leader would not become lord of the devas, but would be lord of the birds instead. This Pakshiraja was Garuda. He was the embodiment of the tapas of the valakilyas, and was hence strong.
22 September 2020||London,||Gundogan tests positive for COVID||Manchester City midfielder Ilkay Gundogan has tested positive for coronavirus, the Premier League club announced on Monday. “Ilkay is now observing a 10-day period of self-isolation in accordance with Premier League and UK government protocol on quarantine,” said a City statement. Gundogan is the third City player to return a positive test this month, following Aymeric Laporte and Riyad Mahrez.
22 September 2020||Paris,||Prajnesh advances, Nagal exits||Indian tennis player Prajnesh Gunneswaran advanced to the second round of the French Open men’s singles qualifying event. However, the country’s top player Sumit Nagal bowed out after a narrow defeat here on Monday. Seeded 16th, Nagal lost 7-6(4), 7-5 to Germany’s Dustin Brown. Prajnesh got the better of Turkey’s Cem Ilkel 6-3, 6-1. Frenchman Tristan Lamasine defeated Ramkumar Ramanathan 7-5, 6-2.
22 September 2020||Dubai,||Ruturaj back in training for Super Kings||Chennai Super Kings batsman Ruturaj Gaikwad was back in training ahead of the game against Rajasthan Royals after clearing the two mandatory COVID-19 tests. The 23-year-old had tested positive and was in quarantine for two weeks. “The first thing you wanna see on a Monday morning. Look who’s back! Smiling face with heart-shaped eyes #Ruturaj #WhistlePodu #Yellove,” CSK posted on its twitter handle along with his picture.
22 September 2020||Dubai,||Fleming hails Sam’s attitude||CSK head coach Stephen Fleming is quite impressed with Sam Curran’s attitude. “Losing Dwayne [Bravo] was a big loss and Sam went a long way in filling that,” said Fleming. “The things that impressed us with Sam was his attitude; the harder it gets the better he gets, his all-round skill component and the fact that the captain trusted him straightaway to go in at a crucial time and hit the way he did. “Also with the ball, almost stepping straight off the plane, was a sign of his attitude and what he is going to bring to CSK for the next few years.”
22 September 2020||CHENNAI,||CFC signs up Sipovic||Chennaiyin FC (CFC) on Monday announced the signing of Bosnia and Herzegovina centre-back Enes Sipovic for the 2020-21 ISL season. The towering 6’6” defender will be the first Bosnian to feature in the ISL.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 09:34 IST,||Sudoku - September 22, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Into the escapist world of thrillers||How Bilal Siddiqi wrote an espionage thriller when he was barely 19, which was later adapted into a web series ( Bard of Blood ), is a story well-known in entertainment circles. The author-screenwriter has come up with a new book, a spy thriller, The Phoenix (Penguin publication), which has already been taken up by a production house for a movie adaptation. Though he won’t reveal details of that film production, Bilal discusses The Phoenix, which revolves around investigative officers Aryaman and Randheer who have to thwart a biological warfare terror threat. Edited excerpts from an interview: How did the idea of The Phoenix come about? I wanted to return to writing a spy-fiction novel and was thinking of a bio-terrorism premise. Of course, the virus situation right now has brought up all of these theories and discussions to the forefront. But when I was thinking of writing the book in late 2017/early 2018, I thought it was a nice idea for a thriller. I completed writing the book two or three months before COVID-19 broke out. I read up on biological warfare and concocted a storyline. I then floated it past my mentor S. Hussain Zaidi sir; he liked it and we pitched it to Penguin. Were there certain archetypes for the characters of Aryaman and Randheer? I think every novel of this kind operates on archetypes, in a way. However, you have to figure out vulnerabilities and strengths to attribute to the characters that are unique and set them apart from other books in the same genre. Aryaman is a down-and-out action hero which we may have seen before, but he draws strength from his child and his mother to fight his personal and professional setbacks. He isn’t a superhero. Randheer, on the other hand, is driven by loyalty to Aryaman and patriotism for his country, and the two sometimes collide. That dilemma is an interesting one for his character, but he still makes the right choices. Since your previous book has been made into a series, did that change your writing style? I wouldn’t say it has changed it substantially. I hope it has evolved for the better, though. Hussain sir, when he was guiding me while writing Bard of Blood , told me something that stayed with me... He said you have to make sure your writing conjures up images in the minds of the readers. So I consciously try to create images in the minds of my readers, and it may not always work, but this particular tip is a function of the genre I dabble in. Aryaman goes through tumultuous life events and is on the edge. As a writer in his 20s, how do you try to understand the psyche of such a character and his relationships? As a writer, it’s important to try and live out the situations you create in your head before you pen them down. What would this character do in this particular situation? You have to keep asking yourself that once you’ve created your characters. I read a book on acting that speaks about a similar technique, where you have to channel your emotions that you may have faced in a real situation and project them onto a make-believe situation. So when Aryaman lost someone, I just tried to recreate what loss feels like at it’s base level and then amp it up to a point that my story needs. I don’t know how to explain it really, but it’s something that comes to you as you write more. I am still learning a lot of things. What’s the trickiest part about writing an espionage thriller? How to set it apart from the rest of the thrillers out there. That is a challenge I think every writer faces. What you bring to the table that is unique, outside of your writing style. It’s a challenge for sure. What drew you to the world of thrillers? There is a certain escapism that comes with the genre. I started reading them when I was very young. The Bond series, the Bourne series, Frederick Forsyth’s books, all sucked me in with the intricate plotting and heroic characters. There was a certain adrenaline rush that came with thriller books and films/shows that really drew me to the world of thrillers. What are the other genres you would like to explore? I would like to attempt a coming-of-age story — a fun, light-hearted, drama that explains what the youth of today expects from the generation before them.
22 September 2020||September 22 2020 00:00 IST,||A smorgasbord of genres||When we exchange messages to fix a time for this interview, actor Shriya Saran, who is based in Barcelona, lists three dance class schedules the following day. She has been using the COVID-19 downtime to get back to her Kathak. “There’s uncertainty around film shoots this year, so I’ll look forward to starting something new in 2021,” she says over phone. However, she had completed shooting for five films before the pandemic set in. Among them is Gamanam directed by Sujana Rao, slated to release in Telugu, Tamil, Kannada, Malayalam and Hindi. Inspired by real-life incidents, Gamanam explores how a turn of events affects different people in a metropolis. Shriya says the concept is universal and can work in different languages. It all began on the sets of Gautamiputra Satakarni (2017), during a conversation with cinematographer V.S. Gnana Shekhar, Shriya expressed an interest to collaborate. “One day he asked if I’d listen to a story, and put me on to Sujana. As Sujana narrated Gamanam , I had tears. It’s an unconventional but commercially viable film. I don’t know if cinema can change society, but if it can make us show some empathy, that’s a good start,” she says. Shriya plays a de-glam role and appreciates how Sujana and Gnana Shekhar, who co-produced the film, stuck to what the story warranted and did not worry about abiding by a formula. “It’s the second time I’ve worked with a female director, after Deepa Mehta ( Midnight’s Children ; 2012). There’s depth and fire in Sujana’s writing. She wrote the story one night and it’s powerful; I hope it reaches a wide audience.” She is not allowed to discuss the storyline but emphasises that it was a tough film to shoot as many scenes involved shooting in water: “Gnana Shekhar is an artist and the play of light in his cinematography is interesting.” As she holds forth on Gamanam , Shriya recalls that occasionally she has taken up non-mainstream films: “I did Midnight’s Children and Cooking with Stella when I was at the peak of my career. Bommalatta/A Belly Full of Dreams (2006, National Award-winning film directed by Prakash Kovelamudi and co-produced by Rana Daggubati and Gunnam Gangaraju) wasn’t seen by everyone, but it was a beautiful project,” she recalls. Reconnecting with Rajamouli Shriya is also a part of S.S. Rajamouli’s film RRR . “I have a small part, and I loved reconnecting with Rajamouli sir after Chatrapathi (2005). Even back then, I could see that he was driven by a passion for cinema. I think as we gain experience, we discover different facets of a personality. I would equate the experience to revisiting a book.” She filmed for RRR when she visited India last year for a cousin’s wedding. She flew to Hyderabad for a look test: “Then they told me the shot is ready,” she laughs.  Re-recording during COVID-19   Gamanam has music by Ilaiyaraaja. The film’s director Sujana reveals that the maestro worked with a live orchestra for the re-recording in July, ensuring safety precautions, “I was reluctant to ask when he will compose, since safety is top priority. But he surprised me by saying that he will compose the background score and it has turned out beautifully.”
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||Virus cases fall below 3K as tests drop by 42%||As many as 2,548 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 2,49,259, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. The total number of daily tests done as per Monday’s bulletin was less than the average of the last three days by 42%. This trend is seen on most Mondays as data represents the tests done on Sunday. Also, 32 more deaths were reported with the death toll touching 5,014. Of the total cases, 2,13,304 people have recovered and there are 30,941 active cases. Map of centres The Delhi government will put up maps with locations of COVID-19 testing centres at prominent locations in the city, including metro stations, according to officials. This follows an HC order. “The map has been prepared by GSDL (Geospatial Delhi Limited) and will be given for printing. It will be put up at different places, including metro stations, and online within the next three-four days,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu . GSDL, a Delhi government company, has also submitted a soft copy of the map to the government for verification. The hard copy of the map at this point does not have phone numbers of these centres, but might be available when it is online, officials said. Containment zones Also, teams under the District Magistrates (DM) are working with the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) to replan containment zones in the city following Lt. Governor Anil Baijal’s directions. “The idea is that the containment zones should be planned in such a way that most of the active cases will be in the zones. The government will come out with the new plan in the next couple of days,” a senior official said. Currently, only less than 20% of the active cases are from the containment zones. The official also said that the Delhi government will conduct a meeting with an expert committee under V.K Paul (member NITI Aayog) to formulate a plan to increase the number of RT PCR tests following last week’s High Court order. RT PCR tests are more accurate than rapid antigen tests, but Delhi government currently depend heavily on the latter. Meanwhile, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that around 30% people admitted at hospitals for COVID-19 treatment are from outside the city.
22 September 2020||Chandigarh,||Akali Dal urges President not to give assent to Bills||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Monday urged President Ram Nath Kovind not to give his assent to the three agriculture sector Bills passed by the Parliament.  ‘Rescue farmers’ A delegation led by party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal met the President in New Delhi and urged him to “act as the nation’s conscience keeper and the custodian of the Constitution” and come to the rescue of farmers, farm and ‘mandi’ labourers and farm traders. Mr. Badal said the core committee of the party would meet soon to decide on the course of action to take the struggle for justice to the next level. “But we will stand by the farmers every inch of the way forward. We are a farmers’ party and 95% of our members are farmers,” he said. Mr. Badal warned that “ignoring the sentiments of farmers can have the potential to disturb social harmony and peace in the country”. He said the party has asked the President to heed to the sentiments of numerous beleaguered farmers, labourers and and commission agents and send the Bills back to Parliament for reconsideration.  Committee sought The memorandum submitted by the party also urged the President to advise the government to send the Bills to a select committee of Parliamentarians, which could then take the stakeholders on board before presenting the Bills to Parliament again.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. protests ‘anti-farmer’ Bills||The Delhi Congress on Monday held a protest outside Parliament House against the “anti-farmer” Bills passed by the Central government. The party said that these Bills had been passed despite the strident objection by the Opposition parties in a bid to handover the farm sector, like all other sectors in the country, to the private players. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar and several party workers were detained as they moved towards Parliament House. “Delhi Police, at the behest of the BJP government at the Centre, is trying to silence the political parties’ democratic right to protest,” Mr. Kumar said. He added that the Modi government is introducing anti-farmer Bills, which will further destroy the farmers already reeling under tremendous financial stress due to the pandemic. ‘Crushes voice’ “The Modi government crushed the voice of farmers with the passage of the Bills in a dictatorial manner in Parliament without considering the opinions of the Congress and others. It has snatched away farmers’ freedom to sell their products at competitive prices with a Minimum Support Price assured and to give the private players a free run,” he added. He alleged that the farmers of Delhi said that they are being forced to sell their wheat at prices lower than the Central MSP and this is in stark contrast to the announcements made by the Arvind Kejriwal government last year, when it had announced the “Mukhyamantri Kisan Mitra Yojna”.
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||LoP seeks permission for staging Ramlilas||Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, on Monday handed over a memorandum to Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy, seeking permission for staging Ramlilas with all safety norms in the Capital. The LoP said Mr. Reddy “responded positively” to the request and assured him and Delhi BJP chief spokesperson and General Secretary of the Delhi Dharmik — Sangh Ashok Goel Devraha — that a decision regarding it will be taken at the earliest. “This year, the Shri Ram Mandir Janmabhoomi Pujan has also been done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the construction work of Ram Temple has been started. From this perspective, this year Ramlila is even more special,” Mr. Bidhuri said. MHA guidelines “Recently, several guidelines have been issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs, according to which permission has been given to run theaters. Staging of Ramlilas should also be allowed with all the parameters in view of preventing COVID-19,” he also said. Earlier, Delhi BJP President Adesh Gupta and Ramlila organisers had met L-G Anil Baijal over the issue.
22 September 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram schools reopen with few students||Schools in Gurugram, both private and government, opened to a lukewarm response from the students on Monday. Most of the prominent schools — Heritage Xperiential Learning School, Scottish High International School, Ajanta Public School and Delhi Public School (Sushant Lok) — either remained shut or recorded nil turnout. The poor turnout was in sharp contrast to a survey by the Haryana Education Department claiming that 84% parents for government schools and 73% for private schools were willing to send their wards to schools for taking guidance from their teachers. Deputy District Education Officer Kalpana Singh said the response was very “poor” and hardly 2-3% students had turned up. She, however, said the exact statistics on the turnout were being compiled. “I visited the boys and girls schools in Badshahpur. Hardly 15-20 students had turned up in each of the two schools. The teachers spoke to the students to allay their fears on infection and asked them to bring along their friends as well,” said Ms. Singh. She added the priority of the education department was to bring back those students to schools who did not have access to smartphones or were not active on online classes. “Let us see how the situation unfolds over the next one week. We will try to speak to the parents if the response remains poor,” said Ms. Singh. A survey conducted by Heritage Xperiential Learning School had only 8% of parents expressing their desire to send their wards to school. Most of the parents stated that they were very happy with the online classes being offered. Ajanta Public School’s Public Relations Officer, Leena, said the parents were not willing to send their kids to schools in the present condition. Principal of Ryan International School, Sohna Road, Peeya Sharma said the response from the parents was not encouraging and the school would open only on Wednesdays and Saturdays for two hours for the students to come and clear their doubts. Scottish High International School Director Sudha Goyal said the school was open, but no one turned up. DPS (Sushant Lok) admission team member Megha Gupta said the school was holding online exams for the first semester and the students were not allowed come to the school.
22 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||RTI queries draw unusual responses||Odd though it may sound, the Odisha Forest Department has refused to divulge travel details of officers deployed in protection of forests and wildlife, arguing that it would compromise with nation’s sovereignty and integrity. Some people, who wanted information regarding alleged corruption in the Uchhupur Cooperative Society in Puri district, were provided blank papers last year. Apprehending foul play, seven information-seekers had opened the registered postal envelopes in the presence of the postman and found only plain papers. Despite a decade and half of passage of the historic RTI Act and massive awareness programmes conducted, government officials have found bizarre ways to deny information in the State. Concerned over alleged frequent poaching of elephants in the Similipal Tiger Reserve (STR) and adjoining area, wildlife activist Biswajit Mohanty had sought copies of tour dairies of STR’s Field Director and Deputy Directors. On September 1, the STR PIO replied that the information attracted Section (1) (a) of RTI Act, 2005. The Section (1) (a) RTI Act, 2005 reads, “Information, disclosure of which would prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the State, relation with foreign State or lead to incitement of an offence.” Under the clause, the public authority is not under obligation to disclose the information.  ‘Confusing replies’ Pradip Pradhan, convenor of Odisha Soochna Adhikar Abhijan, an RTI forum, said, “Lack of imposition of penalty has emboldened public authorities. They are taking different excuses to deny information. They evade supplying information by asking exorbitant cost of true copies of documents and sometimes answers are deliberately made confusing to discourage information seekers.”
22 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Protests against farm Bills in Rajasthan||All the 247 Krishi Upaj Mandis in Rajasthan remained closed on Monday in protest against the contentious farm Bills passed in Parliament, while workers of the ruling Congress staged demonstrations and submitted memorandums to the District Collectors. The farmers’ outfits have extended support to a call for ‘Bharat bandh’ on September 25 on the issue. A delegation led by Pradesh Congress Committee president Govind Singh Dotasra submitted a memorandum addressed to Governor Kalraj Mishra in Jaipur. Mr. Dotasra said the farmers would become labourers with the passage of the Bills and big companies would take over their land and agricultural produce. Revenue Minister Harish Chaudhary and Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariawas, who accompanied Mr. Dotasra, said the “anti-farmer Bills” had been brought in a hurry, while the farmers had been deprived of the bonus on minimum support prices. “The passage of the Bills during the pandemic shows that the Modi government is not concerned about the deaths due to virus infection,” Mr. Khachariawas said. While the closure of mandis affected business worth Rs. 600 crore as well as the work of about 5 lakh labourers, the farmer leaders said the ‘Bharat bandh’ would be observed across the State on September 25. The All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) staged ‘paraav’ (stay) outside the Collectorate in Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh to highlight the provisions of the Bills which would affect the farmers.  ‘Bid to destroy farmers’ AIKS vice-president and former CPI(M) MLA Amra Ram said the BJP government at the Centre, which was serving the interests of big corporate houses, wanted to destroy farmers, agricultural labourers, small shopkeepers and the rural population. “The Bills amount to an attack on India's federal structure... No State Assembly debated the issue and no farmers were consulted.”
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||DPCC shuts down 30 illegal vehicle scrapping units in outer Delhi||The Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has shut down 30 illegal vehicle scrapping units in outer Delhi for causing air pollution, said officials. “These units were illegally scrapping cars, mini tempos, and even trucks. They did not have any mandatory permission from the DPCC and Transport Department to operate the units,” a DPCC official said. The official added that the units were causing air pollution due to fumes from dismantling the vehicles using gas cutters and there was also oil and chemical spillage, which further pollutes the environment. “They were mostly small units and did not have any waste water treatment facility and did not dispose of the oil properly. Also, they were not operating in an industrial area and will not be allowed to open again,” the official said “The processes of dismantling and scrapping of End of Life Vehicles [ELVs] often in an unscientific manner generate toxic fumes, chemicals which affect air quality. Last year, a large number of operators engaged in such activities were removed from Mayapuri and the problem in that area was largely contained,” the DPCC said in a statement. The DPCC on receiving reports that such illegal units were operating in a cluster in Nangli Sakrawati, carried out a survey and identified 18 such units and shut them. “Penalties were also levied on the illegal operators. On receiving information, further survey was carried out in outline areas of Delhi as Nilothi, Mundka, Mangolpuri, Mukundpur, Ghevra, Tikri Kalan and ten more units were found operating in such illegal activities.
22 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||CPI(M) stir over ‘anti-people’ policies||The Delhi State Committee of the CPI (M) on Monday organised protests at several places in the city to highlight the issues like unemployment, lack of rations, health and facilities during the pandemic due to “anti-people” policies by the Centre. It also protested against the false implication of senior left leaders, professors, and students in north-east Delhi riot cases. Addressing a gathering at Vithalbhai Patel House, State Secretary K.M. Tiwari demanded that the government provide 10kg foodgrains for individuals and Rs. 7,500 for every family outside the purview of tax for the next six months. He said allowance needs to be given to the unemployed as well. The protesters demanded withdrawal of anti-farmer bills and all activists of the democratic movement against whom false cases are charged be released.
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||Sisodia launches data analysis programme for govt. officials||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday virtually inaugurated the Advanced Data Analysis Capacity Development Programme for government officials. “We have plenty of data, but the important thing is to understand it. Its method of analysis, maintenance, and processing should be such that it helps us to meet future needs,” he said, adding that the Planning Department should be equipped with every kind of data which different departments, Ministers and officers may need in the future.“If we can identify how many one-year-old children we currently have in Delhi then only we will be able to estimate the total number of classrooms required to accommodate those children in the first grade after six years. If we estimate how many children are there in the first class today and how many seats of Class XII will be required after 12 years, then we will be able to plan the infrastructure needs accordingly,” he said. This programme will run for one week for 25 officers.
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Make scheme for equal salaries’||The Delhi High Court asked the municipal corporations here on Monday to draw up a scheme for paying salaries out of the funds they have without picking or choosing one cadre of workers over another. An HC Bench told the three corporations that they should have a policy in place for equal disbursal of their funds among all cadres of their workers when their coffers run low. The court was hearing pleas by various categories of civic body employees.
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||No protests till Sept. 30: police||Citing an order of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), the police on Monday said people cannot be allowed to hold demonstrations in the city till September 30 due to the pandemic. Amid protests against farm bills, the police informed about the order through a series of tweets. “The general public is hereby informed that in view of DDMA order dated 03/09/2020, “Status Quo” is required to be maintained with respect to prohibited/permitted activities in NCT of Delhi till 30/09/2020 [SIC],” the police tweeted.
22 September 2020||Cuttack,||Fire breaks out in COVID hospital||Over 100 patients were safely evacuated after a fire broke out at a dedicated COVID-19 hospital at Jagatpur on the outskirts of Cuttack on Monday. The incident took place just after noon at Sadguru Hospital, which has been declared a special COVID-19 hospital by the Cuttack administration. While the hospital has a total of 152 beds, 127 beds, including 20 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, were occupied. “All the patients were rescued safely and they were immediately shifted to the nearby COVID facilities,” said Cuttack District Collector Bhabani Shankar Chayani. “All the critical patients in the ICU were rescued first,” Mr. Chayani added.
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Reconsider suspension of MLALAD fund’||BJP MLA Vijender Gupta on Monday wrote to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asking him to reconsider the suspension of the release of funds under the MLA Local Area Development (LAD) head due to the pandemic. A total of Rs. 700 crore is released by the Delhi government annually and Rs. 10 crore per legislator is granted towards maintenance of parks, street lights, community centres, drainage systems among other such services. “Not even a single proposal has been accepted since the constitution of the 7th Delhi Legislative Assembly in February 2020. There was no clarity on how long the work will remain stopped,” Mr. Gupta wrote. “The government should at least ask the department concerned to accept the development proposals under the MLALAD scheme so that a decision could be taken on the release of funds as soon as possible and delay in execution of these proposals is minimised,” the MLA also wrote.
22 September 2020||New Delhi,||BJP accuses govt. of rising cases||The BJP Opposition on Monday attacked the Delhi government over the increasing number of COVID-19 cases in the Capital, accusing it of “negligence”. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta said the data regarding the number of hospital beds, including those equipped with ventilators, were not being updated properly on the government-operated “Corona App”.
