22 June 2020||New Delhi,||Armed forces ‘given free hand’ to respond to situation at LAC||The armed forces are said to have been given a free hand to assess the situation on the ground along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and take appropriate action as required in case of any escalation from the other side, a defence official said on Sunday. This was conveyed during a meeting chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh with the Chief of Defence Staff and the three Service Chiefs. “The situation along the LAC and preparedness of the armed forces was reviewed at the meeting. Forces have a free hand to assess the situation and to take action as required. While we don’t want escalation but if it happens by the other side, appropriate action will be taken. Clear cut instructions to this effect were given,” the official, who wished not to be named, said. Mr. Singh held the meeting ahead of his scheduled departure to Russia on Monday for participation in the 75th anniversary of the Second World War. The prevailing border situation is expected to come up for discussion at Mr. Singh’s meetings in Moscow. The Minister will return on June 25. He will continue to closely monitor the situation during the trip, the official added. As reported earlier, following the Galwan incident, it was learnt that the Army revised its Rules of Engagement (RoE) for its ground commanders on the LAC. Use of firearms on the LAC is strictly regulated as per the border agreements of 1993, 1996 and 2005. Forces on full alert The armed forces have gone on full alert along the LAC following the clash. The IAF has forward deployed its front-line fighters, including Su-30MKIs and Mig-29UPG, and its latest acquisition the AH-64E Apache heavy attack helicopter, meant to neutralise armoured formations, has been deployed in Leh. The CH-47 Chinook heavy lift helicopters, too, have been deployed in this region. China has deployed artillery, armoured vehicles and tanks close to the LAC on its side. It has been learnt that the Army, too, has moved additional divisions from Bareilly and other areas forward for acclimatisation. After the stand-offs began on May 5, the Army had moved additional units for acclimatisation to prepare for high-altitude operations, which are now ready. The Navy has also stepped up its operational alert and is closely monitoring movements in the Indian Ocean Region (IOR).
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Secrecy of ballot is key to free and fair elections: SC||Secrecy of ballot is the cornerstone of free and fair elections. The choice of a voter should be free and the secret ballot system in a democracy ensures it, the Supreme Court has held in a judgment. “It is the policy of law to protect the right of voters to secrecy of the ballot... Even a remote or distinct possibility that a voter can be forced to disclose for whom she has voted would act as a positive constraint and a check on the freedom to exercise of franchise,” a three-judge Bench of Justices N.V. Ramana, Sanjeev Khanna and Krishna Murari observed. The principle of secrecy of ballots is an important postulate of constitutional democracy, the court said. Voters’ privilege Justice Khanna, who wrote the judgment, referred to Section 94 of the Representation of the People Act, which upholds the privilege of the voter to maintain confidentiality about her choice of vote. However, a voter can also voluntarily waive the privilege of non-disclosure. “The privilege ends when the voter decides to waive the privilege and instead volunteers to disclose as to whom she had voted. No one can prevent a voter from doing. Nor can a complaint be entertained from any, including the person who wants to keep the voter’s mouth sealed as to why she disclosed for whom she voted,” Justice Khanna wrote. Appeal against HC order The judgment came on an appeal against the Allahabad High Court decision setting aside the voting of a no-confidence motion in the zila panchayat of the Panchayat Adhyaksha in Uttar Pradesh in 2018. The High Court found that some of the panchayat members had violated the rule of secrecy of ballot. It relied on CCTV footage to conclude that they had either displayed the ballot papers or by their conduct revealed the manner in which they had voted. The Supreme Court referred to Section 28(8) of the Uttar Pradesh Kshettra Panchayat and Zila Panchayat Adhiniyam, 1961. This provision states that a motion of no confidence shall be put to vote in the prescribed manner by secret ballot. The court ordered a re-vote of the motion within the next two months. It ordered the Allahabad District Judge or his nominee to act as the presiding officer. Justice Khanna ordered that the vote should be conducted by the secret ballot system.
22 June 2020||IMPHAL/GUWAHATI,||BJP pursuing patch-up with NPP to secure govt. in Manipur||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the National People’s Party (NPP) are pursuing the possibility of patching up in Manipur to bring the Nongthombam Biren government back on the rails. The NPP, which had four MLAs in the BJP-led coalition government, pulled out on June 17 along with five other legislators, including three of the BJP. This reduced the government to a minority, but the BJP pulled off the Rajya Sabha election two days later with the support of a few MLAs of the Opposition Congress, which had staked claim to form an alternative coalition government. On Sunday, Meghalaya Chief Minister and NPP national president Conrad K. Sangma and Assam Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma took a special flight to Manipur capital Imphal to hammer out an agreement between the legislators of the two parties. The outcome of the meeting was not immediately known, but leaders of both parties exuded confidence of “carrying on from where we left off”. Officials said the two had checked into a high-end hotel designated as an institutional quarantine centre for a meeting with key leaders of both parties in Manipur.
22 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Five more deaths, 477 new COVID-19 cases in State||The State has reported five more deaths and 477 fresh cases of COVID-19 during the past 24 hours as of Sunday morning, as a whopping 24,451 samples were tested, the highest single-day tests so far. According to the bulletin issued by the Health Department, the tally has gone up to 8,929 and the death toll reached 106. Of them, 7,059 are local cases. The deaths were reported from Krishna (3), Kurnool (1) and Chittoor (1) districts. In the past three days, 14 deaths were reported. With 36 deaths and 3.44% mortality rate, Krishna district now has the highest number of deaths and also the highest mortality rate among the districts. There are 4,516 active cases while 4,307 patients have been discharged after recovery so far. During the 24 hours, 196 patients have recovered. New infections East Godavari district reported the highest number of local fresh cases with the detection of 70 infections. It is followed by Krishna (66), Kadapa (58), West Godavari (52), Chittoor (47), Kurnool (47), Visakhapatnam (39), Guntur (26), Nellore (12), Anantapur (11), Vizianagaram (6) and Prakasam (5). Srikakulam district reported no new case in the past three days. Among foreign returnees, four new cases have been detected and among people from other States, 34 new cases have been found. Meanwhile, Krishna district’s tally of local cases has crossed the 1000-mark and reached 1,048, next to only Kurnool which has 1,294 cases. A total of 6.77 lakh samples were tested so far.
22 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Five more deaths in State; number of fresh cases is 453||A total of 453 fresh COVID-19 positive cases and five deaths were reported in Karnataka on Sunday. With this, the total number of cases in the State stands at 9,150 and the number of deaths due to the virus has climbed to 137. Of the total 453 new cases, 69 are inter-State passengers and five are international passengers. In Bengaluru alone, 196 cases were reported on Sunday. This is the highest reported in Bengaluru on a single day. The total cases in Bengaluru now stand at 1,272. Meanwhile, as per the health bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, 102 cases were termed as having influenza-like illnesses (ILI) and contact tracing of 67 people who have tested positive was under way in Bengaluru. “Bengaluru did very well in contact tracing and isolating primary and secondary contacts of patients very effectively. But over the last couple of days, it is a matter of concern that contact tracing in the city has not been up to the mark,” said a doctor at a government run hospital. Of the five deaths, three were in Bengaluru Urban. The three patients are a 53-year-old female who had ILI and suffered from fever, cough and cold, a 62-year-old male who had diabetes, and a 55-year old male who had Severe Acute Respiratory Infection and suffered from pneumonia and respiratory distress. Two other deaths were reported in Bidar. While one patient was a 70-year-old male, another was a 46-year-old male. Both patients had hypertension. Meanwhile, on Sunday 225 patients were released and the total number of patients discharged so far was put at 5,618.
22 June 2020||Belagavi,||47 private hospitals offer to treat COVID-19 patients||As many as 47 private hospitals have offered to treat COVID-19 patients with the State government issuing guidelines and fixing a ceiling on rates for medical services. This is in contrast to the lockdown period when a majority of the over 500 hospitals remained closed. The Health Department issued notices to over 425 hospitals for remaining closed during the lockdown. Then, district in-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar made repeated requests to hospitals to function during the lockdown but in vain. As per the government guidelines, private hospitals, empanelled with Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST) under Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka Scheme, should be notified for treatment of COVID-19 patients. The list of empanelled hospitals is available on http://www.arogya.karnataka.gov.in and http://karunadu.karnataka.gov.in/hfw/home.aspx. Information is also available on the toll free helpline Ph: 18004252646. Ashok Chandaragi, an activist, demanded action against private hospitals, which had refused to treat patients during the lockdown despite repeated requests from the government, but are now offering to treat COVID-19 patients. “These hospitals had shut their doors even on non-COVID-19 patients and many poor women had to be delivered of babies at home. Now, they are offering their services as they want to make money out of the disease. They should be disciplined,’’ he said.
22 June 2020||Mumbai,||State leading way in tackling COVID-19: CM||Maharashtra is leading the country in the prevention of COVID-19, with other States and Union Territories like Delhi setting up field hospitals on the lines of those here, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has said. “Hospitals with all required facilities have been set up in Mumbai and Thane. All this amazing work could be completed because of the hard work of the administration and all related people,” he said. Mr. Thackeray e-launched the 100th COVID-19 testing centre in the State in Mumbai at Gukuldas Tejpal Hospital on Saturday. “Various measures are being taken in Maharashtra to prevent the spread of the novel coronavirus and quality health facilities are being built. The State government has made these facilities a priority to make the health system more efficient,” the Chief Minister said. He said field hospitals have been set up at Bandra Kurla Complex, the NSCI Dome in Worli, and the Goregaon exhibition centre in Mumbai. He added that Maharashtra is conducting the highest number of COVID-19 tests in the country. “Most testing centres are in Maharashtra, where the necessary experts and technicians have been appointed. That is why more tests have been conducted in the State. Today, we are experimenting in plasma therapy along with providing oxygen facilities, dialysis machines and ventilators. We are not lagging behind in dealing with emergencies. Keeping in mind the prevalence of COVID-19 and the monsoon, the number of testing centres will have to be increased,” he said. Medical Education Minister Amit Deshmukh said when the first COVID-19 patient was diagnosed in the State in March, Maharashtra only had testing facilities in Mumbai and Pune. “Today, more than 100 laboratories have been set up for COVID-19 testing. About 38,000 such tests are being conducted in the State in a day. Today, 20 medical colleges have been converted into quarantine facilities, ICU wards and dedicated COVID-19 hospitals,” Mr. Deshmukh said.
22 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Closure of wells may lead to more blowouts, warns OIL||Oil India Limited (OIL) has said that the June 19 order from the Pollution Control Board Assam (PCBA) to shut down all crude oil and gas wells in the Baghjan area may lead to more blowouts and damage the ecology beyond repair. The exploration major said the order was “irrational” since they had replied to the PCBA’s show-cause notice on the very day the closure order was served. “We replied to their letter in the morning via email and sent the closure order in the evening. But the question here is that they are operating without CTO (consent to operate),” PCBA chairperson Y. Suryanarayana told The Hindu on Sunday. OIL has 22 wells in the Baghjan oilfield around Well Number 5 that burst into flames on June 9 after a blowout — uncontrolled escape of crude oil or natural gas at great speed — on May 27, posing a threat to flora, fauna and wetlands around it in the ecologically sensitive zone. Operations to tame the flame, now over the well head, and capping the blowout are still on. Flora, fauna affected Two OIL firefighters lost their lives in the operation on June 9. Environmental activists have said oil condensates have affected the flora, fauna and wetlands around the blowout well, which is close to the Maguri-Motapung wetland and the ecologically fragile Dibru-Saikhowa Natural Park. Environmentalists have questioned the PCBA’s “waking up from slumber” when OIL has been functioning in the area for almost two decades. ‘Legal intervention’ “We have requested PCBA to revoke the closure order. If nothing comes by Monday morning, our legal team will approach the Gauhati High Court for legal intervention,” said OIL spokesperson Tridip Hazarika. OIL officials said that from the closure order it was evident that PCBA was not aware of how the oil industry functions. “Wells cannot be shut overnight because they are not like water taps that be closed whenever one wants to. Closure is a complicated process that can take months... Shutting down all the wells will worsen the situation at the blowout well because of geological factors,” a senior executive said. Sudden shutdown, exploration experts said, could lead to “blowout after blowout” of the other wells as closure valves cannot withstand the upward pressure from the crude oil or natural gas for long. It will lead to a disaster that the area might not recover from, they said. Meanwhile, local groups lifted their blockade of all oil and gas wells in the Baghjan area from Saturday evening allowing OIL to resume operations. But drilling and associated operations in five more areas outside Baghjan remained disrupted, resulting in a cumulative lost of 8,013 metric tonnes of crude oil and 10.24 million metric standard cubic metres of natural gas since May 27.
22 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Rise in COVID-19 graph with 133 new cases||After a brief spell, the State’s COVID-19 case graph seems to be climbing steadily again, with over one hundred cases being reported for the third consecutive day on Sunday. Yet, with 133 new cases and 93 recoveries on a single day, the State seems to be holding it together for the time being, the number of active cases being 1,490. While 123 of the new cases are imported cases of infection, local transmission seems to have resulted in the infection in 10 others, including a health worker in Idukki. Official data The official data released by the government does not reveal if these cases have occurred through contact with known sources or whether these cases have been acquired by people from the community through unknown sources. A total of 3,172 persons have tested positive for the infection since the outbreak began, of whom 1,659 have recovered and 1,490 are undergoing treatment. Till date, 21 deaths have been reported. A total of 1,43,969 persons have been put under surveillance and quarantine in various districts. These include primary and secondary contacts of patients as well as the 2,050 persons who developed mild symptoms and have been isolated in hospitals in districts. On Sunday alone, 325 persons were admitted in the hospital for isolation and observation. The State has so far tested samples from 1,37,475 persons. This apart, 38,146 samples from the population have also been tested as part of sentinel surveillance. Seven new regions from Kollam, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta have newly entered the hotspot list, while nine regions in Thrissur and Kollam districts were dropped from the list on Sunday. The State currently has 109 hotspots.
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennai civic body to add 67 fever clinics||The Greater Chennai Corporation has planned to increase the number of fever clinics to 600 on Monday. It was increased to 533 on Saturday. The civic body on Sunday reported that 36,671 visited fever clinics on Saturday. The number is expected to cross 50,000 every day this week. As many as 1,198 Influenza Like Illness (ILI) cases were reported this weekend and 1,029 swabs taken from residents for testing. Greater Chennai Corporation Commissioner G.Prakash said the fever clinics run by the Corporation evoked tremendous response from people. “Not only for COVID-19, but for many other ailments, the services came in handy, particularly when many clinics and dispensaries in the private sector remain closed,” he said. Case fatality rate The case fatality rate in the city has increased to 1.46%. Eleven zones continue to report a large number of COVID-19 positive cases, with most cases in Royapuram. It has also become the first zone to report more than 100 deaths due to COVID-19. Even as the number of positive cases is increasing, the Corporation has reported a reduction in the number of containment zones. Only 64 streets in the city have been barricaded. Greater Chennai Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance) Meghanath Reddy said 3,500 focus volunteers started visiting homes to help residents and monitor violations of containment norms. “The focus volunteers go to houses under isolation or quarantine. They ensure that all the isolated and quarantined people stay home. Residents have requested many volunteers to take care of their immediate needs such as medicines or provisions. They visit the houses frequently for random check and report back in the evening,” said Mr.Reddy. According to estimates, over 10,000 residents need assistance every day at fever clinics.
22 June 2020||Mumbai,||Navlakha kept in ‘deplorable’ conditions, says partner||Activist Gautam Navlakha, incarcerated in the Bhima-Koregaon case, is being kept in deplorable conditions in a quarantine facility in Taloja for the last three weeks, his partner Sahba Husain said on Sunday. Mr. Navlakha was shifted to Taloja jail from Tihar jail last month. Ms. Husain said he called her on Saturday and said there are 350 inmates crowded into six classrooms in a school in Taloja. He is sharing a room with 35 other inmates, while many others sleep in corridors and passage, she said in a letter posted on social media by documentary filmmaker Anand Patwardhan. “Gautam called me yesterday after a gap of 15 days. He is put in a quarantine facility that runs from a school building in Taloja where new inmates are brought before being shifted to jail ... There are only three toilets, seven urinals and a common bathing space without a bucket or a mug. He said that the congestion is such that apart from the fear of COVID-19, inmates are prone to skin infections too.” Ms Husain said the activist told her there is no fresh air as they are mostly locked in with no place to walk or exercise, although he manages to do yoga as other inmates clear some space for him. “He said he has lost 2 kg in these three weeks of prolonged quarantine and was wondering how long the authorities would keep him and the other inmates in such inhuman conditions. Taloja jail at present does not seem to have space for new prisoners such as him,” the letter said. Mr. Navlakha told her all the inmates are completely cut off from the outside world as there is no news flowing in or out of the quarantine facility. “Despite these deplorable conditions that he described to me, he sounded well and said that he is trying his best to manage and not wilt under the sheer burden of this ordeal,” Ms. Husain said. She ended her post saying, “I do believe that it is important for us outside to raise our voice against this kind of inhuman treatment of a political prisoner like Gautam — and in fact all the other ‘Bhima-Koregaon 11’ currently in jail. You must have also heard regarding Varavara Rao’s terrible and deteriorating health condition inside the jail. The concerned authorities urgently need to look into this and make necessary amends.”  He said he has lost two kg in these three weeks ... and was wondering how long the authorities would keep him and the other inmates in such inhuman conditions Sahba Husain Gautam Navlakha’s partner
22 June 2020||Pune,||Second-highest single-day jump takes State tally beyond 1.3 lakh||Maharashtra recorded its second-highest rise in COVID-19 cases in a single day on Sunday, with 3,870 new cases taking its tally to 1,32,075 — a fifth of the country’s total cases. Another 170 deaths pushed the State’s total death toll to 6,170. Of these, 101 deaths occurred on Sunday, while 69 were from an earlier period, said State Health Department officials. Of the total cases, 60,147 are active. As many as 1,591 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the total number of discharged till date to 65,744. With 1,159 new cases, Mumbai’s total case tally has reached 66,488, of which 29,318 are active. As many as 41 of the new deaths reported on Sunday were from Mumbai, taking the city’s death toll to 3,671. In Thane, 29 fatalities took the district’s death count to 294, while 14 deaths reported from Pune district took its toll to 601. Nashik district reported seven deaths to take its fatality count to 152. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the State’s recovery rate is 49.78%, less than the 50% recorded in the past week. The case fatality rate is 4.67%. Thane district reported more than 370 new COVID-19 cases to take the district’s total tally to 10,061, while Navi Mumbai reported more than 170 new cases as its tally reached 5,786. Pune district’s tally, as per State figures, has reached 15,881, with it reporting more than 500 new cases. Of these, 6,658 are active, while 8,622 people have been discharged thus far. “A total of 103 laboratories — 60 government and 43 private — are currently functional for testing samples. Till date, of a total 7,73,865 laboratory samples, 1,32,075 (17.06%) have been tested positive with around 19,000 samples across the State tested today,” Dr. Awate said. He said 6,00,066 people across the State are in home quarantine and 26,287 in institutional quarantine.
22 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Fresh cases spike to 730 in Telangana||After Telangana government ramped up number of coronavirus tests to know prevalence of COVID-19, more cases are being detected. The surge in cases continues in the State as 730 more samples tested positive for coronavirus on Sunday taking the total to 7,802. This is the highest number of cases detected in a day from March 2 — when first case was detected in the State. The State government proposed to perform 50,000 tests from June 15 to June 25. As days pass by, the highest number of cases detected in a day continue to go a few notches up. While 499 cases were recorded on June 19, it was 546 on Saturday, and 730 on Sunday. The 730 new cases includes 659 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 34 from Jangaon, 10 from Rangareddy, nine from Medchal, six from Warangal. Of the total 7,802 cases, 3,861 are active cases 3,731 were discharged and 210 died. The daily Test Positivity Rate (TPR) continues to range between 17% to 24%. While the daily TPR (Percentage of samples which test positive) on Saturday was 17.1%, it was 22.14% on Sunday.
22 June 2020||MADURAI,||238 Madurai streets to turn containment zones||With COVID-19 cases having seen a rise of about 39% in Madurai last week, the district administration has said 238 streets in the city will be regarded as ‘containment zones’. With more localities being identified as ‘hotspot areas’, more streets would be added, said Collector T.G. Vinay. A Tamil Nadu Government Notification on June 5 stated that there were no containment zones in Madurai, though it had recorded 291 positive cases by then. The district administration, instead, resorted to barricading individual houses where people who tested positive for COVID-19 were living. From June 14 to 20, the district recorded 253 new cases. The steep rise of 90 cases on June 20 caused an alarm among people. Mr. Vinay said the officials would now be barricading streets where COVID-19 patients were living as they did when the lockdown was announced in March. “Streets where even one case is recorded will be sealed and police will stand guard. Nobody will be allowed to travel in and out of these areas till the number of cases is contained,” he said. Health workers would go door to door in these areas to check for fresh cases. Those with symptoms would be brought to the nearest fever clinics, tested and admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital, if they turned positive, he said. Mr. Vinay said increased testing and high number of inter-district travellers could be considered the reasons for the spread. The Health department was researching other causes for the high number of indigenous cases and the presence of clusters, he added. Madurai Member of Parliament Su. Venkatesan, in a press statement, said apart from the glaring number of new cases, there had also been several deaths in south Tamil Nadu. “Madurai, which is a centre of trade, sees hundreds of people penetrating the borders every day for business. Hundreds of people without e-passes too have entered the district from places like Chennai,” he said. The MP added that they were only a few of the reasons for the fast spread of the disease in the district and that several people without any travel history had shown COVID-19 symptoms in the last couple of days. “Strict vigilance is the need of the hour, especially in Madurai,” he said.
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||3,000 fresh COVID-19 cases in Delhi||The Capital reported 3,000 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total to 59,746, said a government health bulletin. In the last 24 hours, 63 deaths were reported and the toll was revised to 2,175. The bulletin also stated that 1,719 patients have recovered and the total number of recoveries stands at 33,013. There are 24,558 actives cases in the city. Union Home Minister Amit Shah held a meeting with Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal and others to discuss key strategies to contain the spread of COVID-19 in Delhi. Recommendations by an expert panel were discussed at the meeting.
22 June 2020||Reading,||3 stabbed to death as terror strikes U.K.||The British police said on Sunday they were treating a stabbing spree in which a lone assailant killed three people in a park filled with families and friends in the southern city of Reading as a “terrorism incident”. The Thames Valley police said three people were also seriously injured and a 25-year-old resident of the town, 60 km west of London, was detained. The police made no reference to reports that the man was a Libyan refugee. Footage showed a large number of counter-terror police performing a controlled explosion at the suspect’s presumed residence shortly after Saturday evening attack. “I can formally confirm that this has been declared a terrorist incident,” counter-terror police chief Neil Basu said.
22 June 2020||ADILABAD,||Out of school, working on the farm negating labour shortage||The threat of COVID-19 spread has forced schools to remain closed indefinitely but it has failed to keep students indoors. Children aged between 8 and 16 years can be found toiling on the fields these days, more in the tribal belt. These children do not fall strictly under the category of child labourers as the Right To Education considers only those students who bunk school for a period between one month and three months and work on fields or in industries. “And agriculture is placed in the category of non-hazardous industry under the RTE,” pointed out B. Gangaiah , former Academic Monitoring Officer under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (subsequently Rajiv Vidya Mission), Adilabad. Labour shortage  The Hindu spoke to a number of farmers in the agency mandals who said that children found scope for ‘employment’, mostly on cotton fields and in this season had negated the impact of labour shortage. “We prefer children for jobs like collecting debris while preparing land, sowing of cotton seeds, administering fertilisers when the crop is nascent, ploughing and weeding,” revealed Mesram Limba Rao, a farmer from Bandeyer in Sirpur (U) mandal of Kumram Bheem Asifabad district who said almost all the 50 school-going children in his village were working on cotton fields. Another reason for farmers to prefer children sharing work is the ease with which they bend when compared to adults while working. Kanaka Hanmanth Rao of Marlavai village in Jainoor mandal had all his four children, aged between 9 and 14, working on his 10-acre field. “Their contribution saved me about Rs. 15,000 in investment and that money will be used to buy new clothes for them in the coming months,” he said. Mr. Rao also said he would not mind his children working on other farmers’ fields whenever they could. “Children in our ethos have always learnt to be self-sufficient in this manner,” he added. Children who work find at least 20 days of work and earn Rs. 200 per day in wages during the season.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Hide-and-seek||
22 June 2020||Washington,||U.S. talking to India and China: Trump||Amid the stand-off at the China-India border, U.S. President Donald Trump has said his administration is talking to both countries to “help them” resolve the tensions. Mr. Trump’s comments follow the violent face-off between the Indian and Chinese armies in the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15 in which 20 Indian military personnel were killed, significantly escalating the already volatile situation in the region. According to U.S. intelligence sources, more than 35 Chinese soldiers were also killed during the skirmish. “It’s a very tough situation. We’re talking to India. We’re talking to China. They’ve got a big problem there,” Mr. Trump told reporters at the White House on Saturday before leaving for his first post-COVID-19 election rally in Oklahoma.
22 June 2020||SRINAGAR,||3 militants shot dead in Srinagar||Three local militants were killed in a gunfight in a congested locality of Srinagar’s Zadibal area on Sunday, while the body of a non-local militant was found at the Kulgam encounter site. “The police on Saturday night received a tip-off about the presence of three militants in the Zadibal area. A siege was laid and efforts were made to ensure their surrender. The families [of two militants] and local elders made repeated pleas on loudspeakers to surrender. The hiding militants lobbed grenades and fired at security forces instead. All the three militants were killed in the gunfight,” said Vijay Kumar, Inspector General of Police, Kashmir. One AK-47 and two pistols were recovered from the site. It was the second major gunfight in Srinagar since May this year. “Two militants still remain active in Srinagar. Militants use Srinagar to receive funds and meet their group leaders and other associates,” Mr. Vijay Kumar said. Two identified The police identified two slain militants as Shakoor Farooq Langoo from Bharthana, Srinagar, and Shahid Ahmad Bhat from Semthan, Anantnag. “The identity of the third terrorist is yet to be ascertained. All of them were affiliated to the proscribed terror outfits such as the Hizbul Mujahideen and the Islamic State-JK,” the police said.
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre lauds Dharavi efforts||The Union Health Ministry on Sunday said the Maharashtra government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had been able to effectively bring down the COVID-19 spread in Dharavi. “They have actively ‘chased the virus’ and aggressively conducted targeted tracing of suspects,” the Ministry said. It also lauded the BMC for ensuring a steep decline of daily cases.
22 June 2020||Eluru,||YSRCP MP fears threat to life||YSRCP Narsapuram MP K. Raghu Rama Krishna Raju’s personal secretary K.U. Krishna Varma has lodged a police complaint seeking action against those who had burnt the MP’s effigies and threatened him. It is learnt that the MP has made a representation to the Lok Sabha Speaker apprehending a threat to his life from some YSRCP activists and sought the protection of central forces.
22 June 2020||TIRUPATI,||‘Capital shift only after COVID situation eases’||The process of shifting the capital will be taken up only after the situation arising out of the COVID-19 subsides, Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy has said. Addressing the media here on Sunday, he reiterated that the government was committed to decentralisation. When asked to comment on the issue finding mention in the Governor’s address to the Legislature, he said it was included as it was very much in the reckoning. Alleging that a section of the media was bent on writing negative reports, he mentioned about the article on laterite reserves in the Lingampally reserve forest in East Godavari published by a vernacular daily. “The government will not hesitate to take legal action if such media institutions continue to sling mud with factually incorrect reports,” he warned.
22 June 2020||KALABURAGI,||40 people test positive in Ballari, 39 in Kalaburagi||As many as 40 people in Ballari district and 39 people in Kalaburagi district tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday. With the new cases, the total number of infected persons in Kalaburagi rose to 1,199, including 11 deaths and 697 people discharged upon recovery, and the tally in Ballari went up to 442, including two deaths and 110 people discharged after recovery.
22 June 2020||RAICHUR/YADGIR,||Five test positive in Raichur, Yadgir||As many as five persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Raichur and Yadgir districts on Sunday. Of the five, two are from Raichur and three from Yadgir. In Raichur, 431 persons have tested positive so far and 271 of them have been discharged from hospital. There are 158 active cases. In Yadgir, 880 persons have tested positive so far and 513 of them have been discharged from hospital. There are 366 active cases.
22 June 2020||Bengaluru,||High home quarantine violations in Bengaluru||COVID-19 cases have been rising in Bengaluru and one of the reasons could well be the lack of discipline among people who have to undergo home quarantine. As of June 20, about 44% of the total 1.31 lakh violations has been in Bengaluru.
22 June 2020||RAICHUR,||Six RTPS units shut as power demand falls||Raichur Thermal Power Station (RTPS) has shut six of its eight power generation stations for the last 20 days at Shaktinagar in Raichur district because of the dip in demand for power in the State.
22 June 2020||New Delhi,||Lake pollution: Rs. 10L fine imposed on State govt.||The NGT has imposed an interim penalty of Rs. 10 lakh on the Karnataka government over pollution in the Kithiganahalli lake, near Bommasandra in Bengaluru, stating that a criminal offence is being committed by the authorities in not stopping the discharge of pollutants into waterbodies.
22 June 2020||Mumbai,||Dharavi on the mend: life in a COVID-19 care centre||Inside a COVID-19 care centre in Dharavi, patients practise yoga as healthcare staff do their best to treat and comfort them. The 300-bed centre, with just seven patients now, is a sign of how Dharavi is getting better.
22 June 2020||Pune,||Suit seeks to bring PM CARES Fund under RTI||A civil suit has been filed in a local court in Pune seeking to bring the PM Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (CARES) Fund under the purview of the Right to Information (RTI) Act, 2005. The suit, filed on Shaikh on behalf of social worker Rajesh Bajaj and Satish Gaikwad of the RPI (I) , has also sought that the PM CARES Fund be declared “null and void” if the Centre did not bring it under the ambit of the RTI Act.
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,||2,532 new COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu on Sunday recorded 2,532 new COVID-19 cases, taking the overall tally to 59,377. In Chennai, 1,493 people tested positive, taking the total in the city to 41,172. The State recorded 16 deaths in private hospitals and 37 in government facilities in the past 24 hours.
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,||BJP sets up committee, website for loan-seekers||The Tamil Nadu unit of the BJP has set up a committee to help persons get bank loans under various schemes instituted by the Centre and created a dedicated website for applicants to register themselves and submit applications.
22 June 2020||Chennai,||7,965 street vendors stop doing business||As many as 7,965 street vendors, who had been selling essential commodities such as vegetables and fruits, have stopped their business in the past few months, according to data compiled by Greater Chennai Corporation during the COVID-19 pandemic.
22 June 2020||New Delhi,||Over 57,000 register for DU admissions||A total of 57,312 students had registered for undergraduate programmes at Delhi University till Sunday evening, the second day of registrations, officials at the university’s admissions branch said. Registrations will stay open till July 4.
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||4 held for killing senior citizen during robbery||A security guard and his three accomplices have been arrested for murder and robbery at the house of a senior couple in Safdarjung Enclave. Kanta Chawla, 88, wife of a 94-year-old retired MEA official, was stabbed to death during the robbery bid on Saturday.
22 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||57 girls at shelter home test COVID-positive||Fifty-seven girl inmates of a government shelter home in Kanpur have tested positive for COVID-19, the district administration said on Sunday. Amid reports that some of these girls were also pregnant, the administration clarified that they were recorded as pregnant during their arrival at the home.
22 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Special rain alert for hilly areas||The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has issued a special alert for hilly areas of the State with most districts continuing to receive the southwest monsoon rainfall.
22 June 2020||NEw DELHI,||Cong. keeps up attack on Modi||After accusing Prime Minister Narendra Modi of having ‘surrendered’ Indian territory to Chinese aggression, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Sunday once again took a dig at the Prime Minister by tweeting that ‘Narendra Modi is actually Surender Modi’. At an online press conference later, former Union Law Minister Kapil Sibal asked ‘why is the government denying brazen Chinese transgressions’ even as he asserted that the Indian armed forces would repel any Chinese misadventure. On Tuesday, the Congress Working Committee, the party’s highest decision-making body, will have a pre-scheduled meeting to discuss the India-China face-off, the spike in COVID-19 cases and the increase in the retail prices of diesel and petrol. ‘Appeasement policy’ “Narendra Modi is actually Surender Modi,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted and tagged an opinion piece, published by the Japan Times , headlined, “India’s appeasement policy toward China unravels”. In another tweet in Hindi, Mr. Gandhi tagged a video clip of a news channel that reported how satellite images show Chinese build-up in the disputed area of Finger 4 and Finger 8 next to the Pangong lake On Saturday, Mr. Gandhi had taken on Mr. Modi over his remarks at the end of the all-party meeting on Friday that ‘neither is anyone inside India's territory nor has anyone captured its posts’. Mr Gandhi had tweeted: “PM has surrendered Indian territory to Chinese aggression. If the land was Chinese, why were our soldiers killed? Where were they killed.” A clarification issued by the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), however, claimed that attempts were being made to give a “mischievous interpretation” to Mr. Modi’s remarks and said his comments referred to the situation at the Line of Actual Control after Indian soldiers had foiled China’s intrusion. Mr. Sibal also pointed to discrepancies in the government’s versions of the ground situation. “Despite the statement of security experts, Army Generals & Satellite Imagery depicting Chinese intrusion into Pangong Tso Lake upto nearly 8 kms, construction of over 60 permanent structures, including bunkers and boat pads & occupation up to Finger 4, why is the government denying brazen Chinese transgression?” he asked. “Why is Prime Minister refuting the statement of Raksha Mantri on ‘Chinese presence in large numbers’ and External Affairs Minister’s statement that we seek to restore ‘status quo ante’? Didn’t the Army chief clearly state that ‘disengagement’ is under way? If ‘no one has intruded into our territory’ and ‘no one is occupying our territory’, what was being erected by China or what status quo ante or disengagement were we seeking?” asked Mr. Sibal. Calling the situation grave, former Union Minister Ashwani Kumar said, “Prudence demands a negotiated de-escalation of hostilities consistent with the securing of India’s strategic interests in the region .The supreme sacrifice of our valiant soldiers cannot be in vain.”
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dharavi turns the corner with steep decline in COVID-19 cases||The Union Health Ministry on Sunday said the Maharashtra government and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had been able to effectively bring down the COVID-19 spread in Dharavi. “They have actively ‘chased the virus’ and aggressively conducted targeted tracing of suspects,” the Ministry said. In a release on Sunday, the Ministry said being densely populated (2,27,136 persons/sq. km), Dharavi had 491 cases in April 2020 with a 12% growth rate and a case doubling period of 18 days. The Ministry also lauded the BMC for ensuring a steep decline of daily COVID-19 cases from an average of 43 in May to 19 in the third week of June. Case doubling time “The proactive measures adopted by the BMC have reduced the growth rate to 4.3% in May and 1.02% in June. These measures also ensured an improved case doubling time to 43 days in May and 78 days in June.” It said several challenges presented themselves to the BMC, where 80% population depends on community toilets and about 8-10 people live in households/hutments which measure about 10ft x 10ft coupled with narrow lanes with 2-3 storied houses where often the ground floor is a house and the other floors are used as factories. Hence, there are severe limitations of physical distancing with no possibility of effective ‘Home Quarantine’. “The BMC adopted a model of actively following four T’s – Tracing, Tracking, Testing and Treating. A salient feature of its response strategy is strict enforcement of containment measures with three primary components — an effective containment strategy, conducting comprehensive testing and ensuring uninterrupted supply of goods and essential supplies to the community,” said the Ministry.
22 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Telangana spike of 730 cases after more testing||Cases of COVID-19 in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh soared again on Sunday. Telangana reported its highest single-day number of 730 new cases, while Andhra Pradesh reported 477 cases and five deaths. Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph also appeared to be climbing steadily, with over one hundred cases reported for the third consecutive day on Sunday. With 133 new cases and 93 recoveries on a single day, the State was trying to stop a sharp rise. The number of active cases was 1,490. While 123 of the new cases were imported, local transmission seemed to have resulted in the infection in 10 others, including a health worker in Idukki. Government data did not reveal whether these cases had resulted from contact with known sources or from people in the community, that is, unknown sources. Deaths in Krishna dist Andhra Pradesh reported five more deaths and 477 fresh cases, as a record daily testing of 24,451 samples was done. The Health Department said the case tally rose to 8,929 and the death toll to 106. Among cases, 7,059 were local. The deaths were reported from Krishna (3), Kurnool (1) and Chittoor (1) districts. In the past three days, 14 deaths were reported. With 36 deaths and a 3.44% mortality rate, Krishna district had the highest fatalities and the highest mortality rate. There were 4,516 active cases. On Sunday, 196 patients were declared as having recovered. East Godavari district reported the highest number of local fresh cases with 70 infections, followed by Krishna (66), Kadapa (58), West Godavari (52), Chittoor (47), Kurnool (47), Visakhapatnam (39), Guntur (26), Nellore (12), Anantapur (11), Vizianagaram (6) and Prakasam (5). Among foreign returnees, four new cases were detected and 34 new cases among people from other States. After the government ramped up testing, number of cases has surged in Telangana with 730 more cases taking the total to 7,802. The State government plans to perform 50,000 tests from June 15 to June 25. The new cases includes 659 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 34 from Jangaon, 10 from Rangareddy, nine from Medchal, six from Warangal. Of the total 7,802 cases, 3,861 are active cases 3,731 were discharged and 210 died. Another high in T.N. Tamil Nadu saw the highest number of new COVID-19 positive cases detected on Sunday, at 2,532. The total number of people with the infection was 59,377. As many as 29,963 were tested on Sunday, and 1,438 persons were discharged in the State after recovery. The State recorded 53 more deaths. The number of persons who had recovered stood at 32,754. In Chennai, 1,493 people tested positive on Sunday, raising total positive cases in the city to 41,172.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, and Chennai bureaus)
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Additional funds sought for Jal Jeevan Mission||Faced with a financing shortfall for the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM), the Jal Shakti Ministry is pitching for additional funding of Rs. 82,000 crore from the 15th Finance Commission for the project to provide drinking water tap connections to every rural household by 2024. Only 18% of households are currently covered. The Ministry also wants to control the flow of the Commission’s funds to panchayats for water and sanitation. In a presentation made to the Commission this week, the Ministry showed that there had been a 45% shortfall in financing the JJM by both the Centre and the States in its first year of 2019-20. The planned Central share for the year was Rs. 20,798 crore, but actuals were only at Rs. 12,000 crore. The share due from States was Rs. 8,329 crore, but the shortfall was more than Rs. 4,200 crore. Similarly, in 2020-21 as well, there has been a 32% shortfall at the Central level. Resource constraints There are “post- COVID-19 resource constraints both at Centre and States,” the Ministry told the Commission. It pitched for additional funding of Rs. 82,000 crore to meet the need for capital intensive projects in water scarce areas, and areas where the water has been contaminated by arsenic or flouride, or has high-salinity levels. The Ministry also wished to take more direct control of the Commission’s grants to panchayats. In its interim report for 2020-21, the Commission had allocated Rs. 30,375 crore as tied grants to rural local bodies for drinking water and sanitation “in order to ensure additional funds to the local bodies over and above the funds allocated ... under the Centrally sponsored schemes, Swachh Bharat and Jal Jeevan Missions.” However, the Ministry complained that there is “no handholding and identification of work,” “no criteria and indicators to assess the performance of panchayati raj institutions” and “no pressure on gram panchayats to dovetail FC grants with JJM.” It proposed that the money be placed with the Jal Shakti Ministry instead, which would in turn release it to the panchayats, to ensure that they follow the JJM’s five-year village action plans. This kind of centralisation would be a regression from the 14th Finance Commission’s move to empower panchayati raj institutions, says N.R. Bhanumurthy, professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy. “We cannot go back to a situation of putting strings on panchayat funds. It is true that there are issues at the panchayat level, with some having huge unused funds, but there must be other ways to deal with that,” he said.
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Yoga helping COVID-19 patients: PM||The world is feeling the need for yoga more than ever owing to the COVID-19 pandemic and the ancient Indian practice is helping a large number of patients across the globe defeat the disease, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday. The novel coronavirus especially attacks the respiratory system, and ‘pranayama’ or breathing exercise helps in strengthening the system, he said in his message on the sixth International Day of Yoga. It was celebrated with great enthusiasm across the country through electronic and digital media, an official statement said. Mr. Modi said yoga has emerged as a force for unity and it does not discriminate as it is beyond race, colour, gender, faith and nations. “Yoga enhances our quest for a healthier planet. It has emerged as a force for unity and deepens the bonds of humanity. It does not discriminate. It goes beyond race, colour, gender, faith and nations. Anybody can embrace yoga.” In his nearly 15-minute address, the Prime Minister said that due to the pandemic, the world was feeling the need for yoga more than ever. “If our immunity is strong, it is of great help in defeating this disease. For boosting immunity, there are several methods in yoga, various ‘asanas’ are there. These ‘asanas’ are such that they increase the strength of the body and strengthen our metabolism,” he said. Talking about the benefits of ‘pranayama’, Mr. Modi said it is very effective and has variations like ‘Sheetali, Kapalbhati and Bhrastika’. “All these forms of yoga help a lot in strengthening our respiratory and immune systems,” he said, urging people to include ‘pranayama’ in their daily routine. “Yoga is giving us not only the physical strength, but also mental balance and emotional stability to confidently negotiate the challenges before us,” Mr. Modi said. “If we can fine-tune our chords of health and hope, the day is not far away when the world will witness the success of a healthy and happy humanity. Yoga can definitely help us make this happen,” he said. With the shadow of the pandemic looming large, International Day of Yoga was marked on digital media platforms without mass gatherings. This year’s theme is ‘Yoga at Home and Yoga with Family’. Yoga Day is going digital for the first time since June 21, 2015, when it began to be celebrated annually across the world, coinciding with the Summer Solstice each year. On December 11, 2014, the United Nations General Assembly declared June 21 ‘International Day of Yoga’, months after the Prime Minister proposed the idea. The Prime Minister’s message was followed by a live demonstration of Common Yoga Protocol (CYP) by experts of Morarji Desai National Institute of Yoga.  If our immunity is strong, it is of great help in defeating this disease. For boosting immunity, there are several methods in yoga... Narendra Modi Prime Minister
22 June 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat HC stays Jagannath Rath Yatra in Ahmedabad||The Gujarat High Court stayed the annual Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra in an urgent hearing on Saturday evening. The yatra was scheduled to be conducted on June 23. The court held that given the COVID-19 pandemic in the city, the yatra should not be allowed to be held as it had the potential to spread the infection in the city as social distancing norms could not be ensured with a large crowd gathering for the procession. With the court’s intervention, the Rath Yatra procession in Ahmedabad will not be held for the first time since 1878. The Supreme Court on Thursday declined permission to hold the annual Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath in Odisha’s Puri citing concern for public health and safety amid the pandemic. The division Bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J.B. Pardiwala while hearing the plea relied on the Supreme Court’s judgment staying the annual celebrations in Puri Jagannath. The Ahmedabad Rath Yatra is second largest after the one in Puri and more than one lakh people participate in the yatra, which passes through walled city area from Jagannath temple in Jamalpur. The areas where the yatra would pass through are COVID-19 hotspots with hundreds of deaths having taken place there.
22 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Hyderabad firm gets DCGI nod for generic Remdesivir||Hetero, drug-maker with headquarters in Hyderabad has received approval from the Drug Controller-General of India (DCGI) to manufacture and sell a generic version of Gilead’s Remdesivir drug for the treatment of COVID-19 patients in the country. The generic version will be marketed under the brand name ‘Covifor’ in India, Hetero said about the product being manufactured at its facility in Hyderabad. Combating COVID-19 B. Partha Saradhi Reddy, chairman of Hetero Group of Companies, said the approval, amid the increasing number of COVID-19 cases, could prove to be a game-changer given the positive clinical outcomes. “Backed by strong backward integration capabilities, we can ensure that the product is immediately made available to patients across the country. We are prepared for ensuring enough stocks required to cater to the present needs,” he said in a statement on Sunday. The DCGI had granted approval for use of Remdesivir in the treatment of suspected or laboratory-confirmed cases of COVID-19 in adults and children, hospitalised with severe symptoms of the disease. Covifor (Remdesivir) will be available in a 100-mg vial (injectable) which has to be administered intravenously in a hospital setting under the supervision of a healthcare practitioner, Hetero said. Sources in the company said since the product has been approved for emergency use and in hospital/institutional set up only, it will not be retailed through chemists. Instead Covifor will be made available to hospitals treating COVID-19 patients. The supplies are expected to begin in a week. Each 100 mg vial is likely to be priced between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 6,000. The drug is to be administered only after getting the consent of patients. The product is being launched under a licensing agreement with Gilead Sciences Inc to expand access to COVID-19 treatment in low and middle-income countries. Besides Hetero, other drugmakers, including Jubilant Lifesciences, Mylan, Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Biocon company Syngene and Zydus Cadila Healthcare, have entered into deals with Gilead.
22 June 2020||Bhopal,||74% Bhopal COVID-19 deaths were of gas tragedy survivors||Nearly three-fourths of the 60 patients who dies of COVID-19 in Bhopal were survivors of the 1984 gas tragedy which compromised their immunity significantly leaving them vulnerable to the illness, survivors’ groups say. An analysis of 60 of the 69 deaths here until June 11 by four groups working for the survivors, which they submitted to the Chief Minister requesting intervention, has revealed 45 deaths, or 74%, were that of survivors, while 5% (three deaths) were of their children. At least four of the five deceased among the survivors suffered from one or more underlying illness which hastened death. The deaths proved survivors were ailing even 35 years after the methyl isocyanate leakage from a pesticide plant here, said Rachna Dhingra of the Bhopal Group for Information and Action. However, all the 45 deceased were among the 5,21,322 survivors categorised as having suffered temporary/minor injuries, which did not require long-term care. “We demand the State government categorise them as having suffered permanent injury in a curative petition pending before the Supreme Court to secure fair compensation for them,” said Ms. Dhingra. The analysis further shows three of four patients among survivors died within five days of hospitalisation. Sixteen of the 19 to die within 24 hours of admission were also the tragedy’s survivors. “We have seen most of the deceased among the gas tragedy survivors ignored symptoms initially and presented themselves late to hospitals, which spiked fatalities,” explained Lokendra Dave, member, State Expert Committee on Clinical Management for COVID-19 and Head, Department of Respiratory Medicine, Gandhi Medical College, Bhopal. He said the Bhopal district administration had been undertaking screening and sampling drives aggressively in survivors’ localities to contain the virus’ spread. Purnendu Shukla, Member, Supreme Court’s Monitoring Committee for Gas Victims, pointed out that the Indian Council of Medical Research-run Bhopal Memorial Hospital and Research Centre (BMHRC), the dedicated supe-rspeciality hospital for the survivors, was not admitting those with COVID-19 symptoms, which was causing delay in their treatment. The hospital’s officials refused to comment.
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear pleas for recall of order staying Puri Yatra||The Supreme Court will hear behind closed doors, on Monday, a host of pleas seeking the recall of its ban on the annual Puri Jagannath Rath Yatra this year amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The petitions said the yatra has been conducted under “all circumstances” since time immemorial. It was not stopped even during the throes of the Spanish flu pandemic in 1918. The petitions said an interruption in the religious rituals would affect not only the sanctity of the temple but the whole society in general. Moreover, it would be a blow to millions of devotees across the world. “Temple and its practices have survived the worst of iconoclastic invasions. It would indeed be unfortunate if its practices are broken in modern independent India which constitutionally recognises and guarantees freedom of religion,” said a petition filed by Janardhan Pattajoshi Mohapatra, the hereditary chief servitor of Lord Jagannatha of the Puri temple. In the latest petition, BJP leader Sambit Patra, who lost the Lok Sabha election from Puri last year, approached the court for permission to hold the yatra. However, his petition is not listed before Justice S. Ravindra Bhat. The judge is hearing the case in his chambers and not in open court. Besides the plea by Mohapatra, the other petitions listed before Justice Bhat are those of Saroj Kumar Sahu, secretary of the Cuttack-based Jagannath Sanskrutika Jana Jagaran Manch, and Aftab Hussein, an individual. ‘Public health, safety’ On June 18, a three-judge Bench, led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, had stayed the yatra scheduled for June 23. Chief Justice of India Bobde had cited public health and the safety of citizens as the reason, saying the event would attract a large gathering amid the pandemic. The Odisha government agreed to the injunction, though the Centre remained inconclusive. The Chief Justice of India had said Lord Jagannath would forgive the judges for not allowing the yatra. Urging the court to rethink this decision, the petitioners said the preparations for the yatra included extensive precautions in line with the guidelines to check the spread of COVID-19.
22 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Bengaluru police above 55 years to be kept off duty||City Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao on Saturday directed personnel above the age of 55 to not report for duty. This comes in the wake of three police personnel — all above 55 years — dying while battling COVID-19 in seven days. “Police personnel [head constables, ASIs, and PSIs] above 55 need not report for duty and it will be treated as attendance. They should quarantine themselves at home and not leave the city,” Mr. Rao said, adding that the services of the Home Guards should be utilised effectively based on requirements. He also said that Hoysalas and Cheetahs need not be on rounds all the time. “They have to work from a designated spot or at the station and not visit the police station frequently,” he said. Personnel had been directed to avoid bringing accused inside police stations. “A shamiana has to be put up outside stations and the work should be carried out from there by maintaining social distancing,” he said. To minimise the risk to family members, marriage halls will be readied so that police personnel could temporarily stay there. “If the situation arises, police personnel will be asked to stay at such marriage halls and not go home,” he added.
22 June 2020||KOCHI,||Kerala to drop case against Mohanlal||The Kerala government will shortly move a trial court in Ernakulam to withdraw the prosecution procedure against actor Mohanlal and others in a case related to illegal possession of ivory. The application for the withdrawal of the prosecution is likely to be submitted before the Perumbavoor Judicial First Class Magistrate Court 3 this week, government sources said. The Forest Department had earlier booked Mr. Mohanlal and three others in the case which was registered at the Mekkappala Forest Station. The accused had violated the provisions of the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972 and “illegally transacting and possessing ivory”, according to the chargesheet. The reported illegal possession of ivory surfaced following an income tax raid on the actor’s house. The chargesheet filed by G. Dhaniklal, Range Forest Officer, Kodanad, noted that the actor had long been illegally possessing the ivory. He reportedly transferred it to his home in Ernakulam from Thiruvananthapuram and never sought permission for shifting the ivory from one place to another, the chargesheet noted. Earlier, the State government had issued a No Objection Certificate for the withdrawal of the case, which had taken the Forest Department by surprise as it was contesting the case in the trial court. Senior forest officials said the department was not aware of the developments regarding the withdrawal of prosecution.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Closure of wells may lead to more blowouts, warns OIL||Oil India Limited (OIL) has said the June 19 order from the Pollution Control Board Assam (PCBA) to shut down all crude oil and gas wells in the Baghjan area may lead to more blowouts and damage the ecology beyond repair. The exploration major also said the order was irrational since they had replied to the PCBA show-cause notice on the very day the closure order was served. OIL has 22 wells in the Baghjan oilfield around Well Number 5, that burst into flames on June 9 after a blowout on May 27, posing a threat to flora, fauna and wetlands in the eco-sensitive zone. “We have requested PCBA to revoke the closure order. If nothing comes by Monday morning, our legal team will approach the Gauhati High Court for legal intervention,” said OIL spokesperson Tridip Hazarika. “Wells cannot be shut overnight because they are not like water taps .... [it] will worsen the situation at the blowout well because of geological factors,” a senior executive explained. Sudden shutdown, exploration experts said, could lead to “blowout after blowout” of the other wells as closure valves cannot withstand the upward pressure from the crude oil or natural gas for long. It will lead to a disaster that the area might not recover from, they said.
22 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Canara Bank officials avert Rs. 1.5 crore home loan fraud||Canara Bank officials recently averted a banking fraud to the tune of Rs. 1.5 crore, a press statement from the bank said here on Sunday. According to the release, on June 15, a walk-in customer, along with his friend, visited one of the Bengaluru branches of Canara Bank to avail themselves of a housing loan jointly with his spouse and submitted multiple documents for verification. The loan was to be availed for the purchase of two flats at K.R. Puram. “As a standard procedure, he submitted all the necessary documents and a saving bank account was opened subsequently by the branch. On the basis of the initial PAN and Aadhaar documents submitted by him, the bank generated CIBIL reports which reflected a satisfactory score. The bank however suspected something amiss on noticing multiple enquires from other financial institutions and sought additional ID proof,” the release said. It further added that the CIBIL report generated on new ID proof revealed several loans availed from other banks. “The report also disclosed that the person was holding another PAN card on which he has already taken three housing loans from other banks and all those housing loan accounts have been classified as NPAs. On further enquiry, it also came to light that the person had submitted fabricated account statement, salary slips and employer ID cards,” it stated. The branch, in accordance with instructions of its higher office, sought assistance from the nearby police station to look into the matter. Accordingly, the branch informed the parties to visit the bank on June 20 and was arrested by the police on their visit, thereby averting the fraud, the release said.
22 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||VSSC director moots an overhaul in higher education||Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) Director S. Somanath has proposed radical changes in the State’s higher education sector to spur research. Advocating academic autonomy for high-performing engineering colleges, the aerospace engineer has also called for greater responsibilities for the teaching community as seen in the premier institutions of the country. The disinclination towards research and development is often cited as a lacunae in the State’s education system, particularly in technical education. This had a telling effect in the recent NIRF rankings of most State colleges that figured among the top performers, registering low scores in the research parameter. In an interview with The Hindu , Dr. Somanath, a member of the Board of Governors of APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University, stressed the need for a greater tilt towards research and continuous assessment, while reducing dependence on the conventional exam-based evaluation system. Flair for innovation Citing the successful practices set by the IISc and the IITs, Dr. Somanath urged the teaching community not to restrict themselves to generating journal papers, but to float enterprises for product development. “Professors must transition into entrepreneurs without compromising on their academic activities. Such endeavours will cultivate a flair to innovate among faculty and students,” he said. Batting for providing partial autonomy for colleges and bringing down the “undue interference” of universities, he said the curriculum was largely stagnant. “Only those courses approved by the university can currently be introduced in colleges. The practice must change. College teachers must be empowered with designing elective courses and getting them cleared by an academic committee in their own institution.” He also called for switching over to a continuous mode of assessment that could be more effective than exams in gauging students’ knowledge. Another reform crucial for fostering research is reasonable stability for teachers. The system of transfers hindered long-term research, he said. Such relocation must be confined for professors, principals or those beyond the age of 50. Promotions must be linked to performance.
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Secrecy of ballot is key to free elections: SC||Secrecy of ballot is the cornerstone of free and fair elections, the choice of a voter should be free and the secret ballot system in a democracy ensures it, the Supreme Court has held in a judgment. “It is the policy of law to protect the right of voters to secrecy of the ballot... Even a remote or distinct possibility that a voter can be forced to disclose for whom she has voted would act as a positive constraint and a check on the freedom to exercise franchise,” a three-judge Bench of Justices N.V. Ramana, Sanjeev Khanna and Krishna Murari observed. Justice Khanna referred to Section 94 of the Representation of People Act, which upholds the privilege of the voter to maintain confidentiality about her choice of vote. However, a voter can also voluntarily waive the privilege of non-disclosure, it said. “The privilege ends when the voter decides to waive the privilege and instead volunteers to disclose as to whom she had voted,” Justice Khanna wrote. The judgment came on an appeal against the Allahabad High Court decision setting aside the voting of a no-confidence motion in the zila panchayat of the Panchayat Adhyaksha in Uttar Pradesh in 2018. The HC found that some of the panchayat members had violated the rule of secrecy of ballot. The SC ordered a re-vote of the motion within the next two months and said it should be conducted by the secret ballot system.
22 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Cong. rallies around Mullappally for now||The Congress party appeared to have rallied around Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran after Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan censured him for alluding to Health Minister K.K. Shylaja as ‘Nipah princess and COVID queen.’ Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy on Sunday said Congress would not allow anyone to single out the party's State president for vilification. Regardless of the show of solidarity, Mr. Ramachandran's verbal spat with Mr. Vijayan seemed to have brought the fissures in the Congress and the United Democratic Front (UDF) to the fore. Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) State secretary K.P.A. Majeed called Mr Ramachandran's comment on Ms. Shylaja as unwarranted. It had caused the ruling front to shame the Opposition as a whole, he said. A Malayalam daily widely regarded as pro-Congress and anti-ruling front had run an editorial denouncing Mr. Ramachandran's criticism of Ms. Shylaja as "patently anti-women and politically improper.” Some leaders cited the editorial as a bellwether of how multiple factions in the Congress viewed Mr. Ramachandran's action. Mr. Vijayan had used the damning indictment of the KPCC president's words to inveigh against Mr. Ramachandran. Hence, the organisation felt that any public criticism of its president would allow Mr. Vijayan to gain more traction in the political arena. Political advantage Nevertheless, Mr. Ramachandran was sure to face criticism from his peers in the party. At least a few felt that Mr. Ramachandran had accorded the LDF a political advantage and derailed the party’s pro-women stance in the public eye. They felt Mr. Ramachandran's attack on Ms. Shylaja had to some measure diverted public attention from other pressing issues, including the sharp increase in domestic power bills and "abandonment" of COVID-19 ravaged expatriates in the Gulf. The KPCC president has remained unapologetic. He said he had used the analogy to expose Ms. Shylaja's bid to use the pandemic as a cover to burnish her personal and political credentials and misogynistic comments were not part of his political lexicon. Mr. Chennithala attempted to turn the tables on Mr. Vijayan by urging the Chief Minister to shed his habit of calling people names before advising others. He listed Thamarassery Bishop Mar Remigiose Inchananiyil; N.K. Premachandran, MP; and the late RMP leader T.P. Chandrasekharan as victims of Mr. Vijayan's "crude taunts."  It has caused the ruling front to shame the Opposition as a whole. K.P.A. Majeed IUML State secretary
22 June 2020||Chandigarh,||India-China standoff: SAD slams Punjab CM||Shiromani Akali Dal on Sunday accused Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh of undermining the government of India with his statements aimed at inflaming passions and asked him to leave soldiering to the Army. Following the death of 20 Indian soldiers in a violent clash with Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in Ladakh, the CM had questioned the Centre on why no orders were given to fire at the Chinese in the face of such a brutal attack and also said the Centre’s policy should be, if they kill one of ours, we should kill five of theirs. Capt. Singh had also urged the Centre to change its policy to allow soldiers at the borders to open fire in their own defence and for protecting the nation’s territorial integrity. Senior Akali leader and Rajya Sabha MP Balwinder Singh Bhunder on Sunday said that it was very distressing that the CM was undermining the government of India at a crucial juncture with his statements aimed at inflaming passions and politicising an issue of national security. ‘Creating divisions’ “Such statements create divisions and are likely to be exploited by our enemies at a time when four bravehearts from Punjab have also been martyred. This is unbecoming of any Chief Minister. We request you to let the Indian Army decide on the best tactical response needed to counter our adversaries on our borders,” Mr. Bhunder said in a statement here. He told the Punjab CM to leave soldiering to the Army and to stand with the Central government in sending a clear cut message to the Chinese that India was one in this hour of crisis.
22 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||Kanwar yatra deferred due to pandemic||The States of Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Haryana have deferred this year’s Kanwar yatra due to the COVID-19 situation, the U.P. government said. The announcement was made after a video conference meeting between Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath and his counterparts Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar and Uttarakhand CM Trivendra Singh Rawat. The decision to postpone the yatra, which is held during month of Shravan, was taken in “public interest”, after consultation with religious leaders and the Kanwar sanghs, the State government said. Mr. Adityanath has instructed police officers and administrative officials to establish communication with religious leaders, Kanwar sanghs and peace committees. While following the COVID-19 protocols, five or less persons would be allowed do participate in the jal abhishek ritual at the local shivalaya s, said a government spokesperson.
22 June 2020||Bengaluru,||High home quarantine violations in Bengaluru||The number of people contracting COVID-19 in Bengaluru has been rising by the day, and one of the reasons could well be the lack of discipline among those who have to undergo home quarantine. As of June 20, about 44% of the total 1.31 lakh violations in home quarantine have been reported or observed in Bengaluru, according to data from the State war room. Of the total 58,832 complaints reported in Bengaluru, 15,157 people have been warned. Once complaints are received, people either receive a warning, or are sent to institutional quarantine. In many cases, FIRs have also been filed against them. Mysuru accounts for the second highest number of complaints. A total of 11,307 cases were reported from here. Around 40 FIRs have been filed against those violating home quarantine norms and 3,951 individuals or families have received warnings. Details of the number of people sent to institutional quarantine or the FIRs filed for Bengaluru have not been updated. Officials in the war room pointed out that they were following up on action taken against violators daily. “We are striving to improve and reform the system, but we will require the help of citizen volunteers for effective monitoring of people quarantined at home,” said an official. Citizens roped in Munish Moudgil, officer in-charge of the war room, said that field teams in the district and Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) follow up and get facts checked on the ground once violations are reported. “We are creating a citizen quarantine watch. Their reports will be followed up with a staff visit and action taken. This should come into operation in a day or so,” he said. It’s not only international and inter-State returnees who have been violating rules. Primary and secondary contacts of patients who test positive are also expected to follow home quarantine. Many of the complaints regarding these violations have been made by neighbours and Residents’ Welfare Associations. Some complaints have also been made by the public when they see those with quarantine stamps roaming around in markets or other public places. “It is extremely important for the government to frame a mechanism to monitor people in home quarantine carefully as the number of institutional quarantine norms have been relaxed in some categories,” said a member of the RWA in West Bengaluru. To date, the State government has taken up several initiatives to monitor people including urging them to upload selfies and send them to the Health Department every one hour (except between 10 p.m. and 7 a.m.). This measure however was not successful. Three teams To control the spread in Bengaluru and take preventive measures during Unlock 1.0, the government has constituted three teams that will include senior IAS, IPS officers and doctors. Senior IAS officers Tushar Girinath, D. Randeep and IPS officer M.N. Anucheth are part of the COVID-19 positive patient transportation team, while IAS officer Sathyavathi is part of the team that will look into containment zones. IAS officer Naveen Raj Singh and IPS officer Hemant Nimbalkar are part of the team that will enforce social distancing in public places.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. talking to India and China, says Trump||“They’ve come to blows, and we’ll see what happens. We’ll try and help them out,” Mr. Trump said when asked about his assessment of the situation between India and China. Over the past few days, senior members of the Trump Administration, including the Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, have spoken against incursions of the Chinese Army into the Indian side of the Line of Actual Control in Eastern Ladakh. Earlier offer rejected Mr. Trump had offered last month to “mediate or arbitrate” in the border dispute, saying he was “ready, willing and able” to ease the tensions. India, however, had virtually rejected his offer, saying it was engaged with China to peacefully resolve the ongoing border row. China also said both the countries have proper mechanisms and communication channels to resolve their issues through dialogue and consultations. The U.S. has accused China of escalating border tensions with India and other neighbours by trying to take benefit of these countries busy fighting the novel coronavirus pandemic. “The PLA (People’s Liberation Army) has escalated border tensions with India, the world’s most populous democracy. It’s militarising the South China Sea and illegally claiming more territory there, threatening vital sea lanes,” Mr. Pompeo had said in a major speech on China on Friday.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Three militants shot dead in Srinagar||“All the three militants were killed in the gunfight,” said Vijay Kumar, Inspector General of Police, Kashmir. One AK-47 and two pistols were recovered from the site. It was the second major gunfight in Srinagar since May this year. “Two militants still remain active in Srinagar. Militants use Srinagar to receive funds and meet their group leaders and other associates,” Mr. Vijay Kumar said. The police identified two slain militants as Shakoor Farooq Langoo from Bharthana, Srinagar, and Shahid Ahmad Bhat from Semthan, Anantnag. “The identity of the third terrorist is yet to be ascertained. All of them were affiliated to the proscribed terror outfits such as the Hizbul Mujahideen and the Islamic State-JK,” the police said. Mr. Vijay Kumar said Langoo was involved in the killing of two BSF jawans near Soura on May 20. “The snatched AK rifle, belonging to one of the BSF jawans, was also recovered from the site. It was a clean operation. The security forces displayed patience and exercised utmost restraint, with no collateral damage in a highly congested and densely populated area,” he said. The police said they recovered the body of a militant in Likhdipora village in Kulgam, where a gunfight broke out on Saturday evening. “The slain terrorist was identified as Tayab Waleed alias Imran Bhai alias Gazi Baba, a Pakistani national affiliated to the Jaish-e-Mohammed,” the police said. Waleed was an “operational commander” of the Jaish-e-Mohammed and was an expert in making improvised explosive devices, besides being a sharp shooter, the police said. The police said that in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the bodies of the militants were sent to Handwara and Baramulla for burial.
22 June 2020||New Delhi,||NGT fine on Karnataka over pollution in lake||The National Green Tribunal has imposed an interim penalty of Rs. 10 lakh on the Karnataka government over pollution in the Kithiganahalli Lake, near Bommasandra in Bengaluru, saying criminal offence is being committed by the authorities in not stopping the discharge of pollutants into water bodies. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel also slapped a fine of Rs. 5 lakh on the Bommasandra municipal council for failure to discharge its duties. “Failure of important constitutional obligation by the municipal council as well as defiance of orders of this tribunal and the Supreme Court by State authorities is at the cost of environment,” it said.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||BJP pursuing patch-up with NPP in Manipur||Mr. Sangma had before leaving for Imphal said the Manipur issue was brought to the notice of central leadership of the National Democratic Alliance in Delhi. “Efforts are on to resolve this,” he added. Former Chief Minister and senior Congress leader Okram Ibobi insisted that the BJP-led government had lost majority and said a trial of strength would make things clear. He was also critical of Governor Najma Heptulla for taking time in summoning a special session of the Assembly. “The way Leishemba Sanajaoba, the BJP candidate, was elected as the Rajya Sabha member shows that the coalition Ministry still commands majority,” Mr. Biren said. The Manipur Assembly has 60 members but only 52 could vote for the Rajya Sabha poll on June 19. Officials said Mr. Sangma and Mr. Sarma were not required to be quarantined as they were scheduled to fly out the same day. On the other hand, two Congress leaders — former Union minister Ajay Maken and Assam MP Gaurav Gogoi — have been in quarantine in an Imphal hotel since their arrival on June 18. Mr. Maken said they had booked the quarantine facility in advance for a long stay. However, local Congress leaders have not been able to meet them at the hotel for discussing party matters.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Armed forces ‘given free hand’ at LAC||“Three of their (Chinese) ships are currently in the Indian Ocean as part of the last ATF (Anti-piracy Task Force). They are off the Gulf region for two weeks now. We are closely monitoring them,” another defence official said. China has steadily increased its presence in the IOR beginning 2008 in the name of anti-piracy patrols in the Gulf of Aden. In 2017, it opened its first overseas bases at Djibouti in the Horn of Africa. Critical choke points While there are no plans to move into the South China Sea, the Navy in the last few years has deployed at least one ship at all critical choke points in the IOR, including the Malacca Strait, at all times as part of its Mission Based Deployment. “We are already present near Malacca and we can operate with the U.S. and other Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN) Navies if required, with whom our engagement has significantly gone up in recent years,” the official said. The Indian Navy has over the years increased its engagement and interoperability with countries in the region, including Australia, Japan and the U.S., and has also signed maritime cooperation agreements and logistics support agreements.
22 June 2020||Mangaluru,||Serial killer convicted in 20th murder case||Serial killer ‘Cyanide’ Mohan was convicted by a local court here in Karnataka in the 20th case against him for the rape and murder of a woman from Kasaragod in Kerala in 2009. The sentencing will take place on June 24. Mohan has been awarded the death sentence in five cases and life imprisonment in three. Two of the death penalties were later commuted to life terms. In the final case, the prosecution said the 25-year-old victim, a cook in a ladies hostel in Kasaragod, got acquainted with Mohan in 2009. Promising to marry her, he took her to Bengaluru, where they stayed overnight at a lodge. The next day he gave her a cyanide-laced pill, saying it was a contraceptive. The woman had the tablet and collapsed at the bus stand. After Mohan was arrested in October 2009, the victim’s sister identified him and filed a complaint. Public prosecutor Judith O.M. Crasta has argued the case earlier which was then taken up by Jayaram Shetty.
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Smokers at higher risk, says govt.||Tobacco, alcohol and drugs used to cope with emotions or boredom can worsen physical and mental health and reduce immunity during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. “Smoking makes people more vulnerable to COVID-19 because it leads to lung diseases, reduces lung capacity and may lead to virus transmission from hand to mouth,” it said. It also cautioned that there is no evidence to show that regularly rinsing your nose with saline helps prevent infection. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, the number of samples being tested every day also continues to grow and in the last 24 hours, 1,90,730 samples were tested. The number of samples tested thus far is 68,07,226, it said. It said the number of government labs has increased to 722 and private labs to 259 (total 981).
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Rough weather||
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI files 5 cases in Bengal chit fund scams||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered five more cases to probe chit-fund scams in West Bengal, through which a large number of small-time investors were cheated on the pretext of phenomenal returns. The cases have been registered by the CBI in compliance with the Supreme Court’s directive in May 2014. In one of the cases, five persons linked to Golden Point Merchant Vice Limited have been accused of cheating people of more than Rs. 15 crore. The State Police had earlier registered an FIR in the matter on April 2013, following complaints from 84 victims, including agents through whom funds were collected. The complainant in the case alleged that she had deposited money to Unipay2U Marketing and Visarev Marketing Private Limited through a constable, who is an accused in another case, but only received part of the payment. The Enforcement Directorate is already conducting a money laundering probe into the Rs. 600-crore Unipay2U scam, in which people were cheated through Ponzi schemes. The CBI has registered yet another case, by clubbing three FIRs lodged earlier by the police, against nine accused persons linked to the Jeebandeep group of companies. Two other cases are against nine persons allegedly associated with Unnayan Samity and Kohinoor Trust. Earlier this month, the CBI had taken up seven chit-fund scam cases in the the State.
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Naval ship bringing back 198 from Male||Amphibious vessel INS Airavat set sail from Male in the Maldives to Thoothukudi in Tamil Nadu with 198 Indians on Sunday under the next phase of Operation Samudra Setu to repatriate citizens from overseas. All virus-related social distancing norms have been catered to on board, the Navy said. The passengers will be entrusted to the care of the State authorities at Thoothukudi. INS Airavat arrived in Male on Saturday. The Navy launched Operation Samudra Setu on May 8 to repatriate citizens stuck abroad due to the COVID-19 pandemic and since then Indian citizens have been evacuated from the Maldives, Sri Lanka and Iran.INS Jalashwa and INS Magarhad evacuated 2,874 individuals from the Maldives and Sri Lanka to the ports of Kochi and Thoothukudi.
22 June 2020||KANNUR,||Cong. leader passes away||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) general secretary and former president of Kannur DCC K. Surendran, 65, passed away at a private hospital here on Sunday. He was hospitalised on Sunday evening with severe chest pain. Mr. Surendran, who was the national secretary of the INTUC, was also the president of the Kannur Block Congress Committee and president of the District Congress Committee for four years. He had contested the election to the district panchayat from Valapattanam division and also from the Payyannur and Taliparamba constituencies. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala condoled the death of Mr. Surendran. He said Mr. Surendran had done exemplary work as DCC president. Senior Congress leader V.M. Sudheeran said he was deeply saddened by the sudden departure of Mr. Surendran. As DCC president, Mr. Surendran was instrumental in strengthening the Congress in Kannur district through his sincere efforts, Mr. Sudheeran said.
22 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Plantations likely to be allowed to intercrop food crops||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Sunday said the government would seek the mandate of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) to modify specific laws that govern the plantation sector to allow the managements to intercrop food crops with cash crops such as tea, coffee, cardamom and rubber. Some provisions of the Kerala Land Reforms Act, Kerala Grants and Leases (Modification of Rights) Act and Kerala Land Utilisation Order might come up for legislative review, if the LDF permitted. In his weekly televised interaction with the members of the public, Mr. Vijayan said the question of modifying the laws while preserving their animating principles was a policy decision within the purview of the LDF. The ruling coalition would take a final decision on the matter after due deliberation. Kerala, a predominantly consumer State, had to break its dependency on food imports from neighbouring States. It had to guard against possible food protectionism by large-scale producers by opening up plantations for farming edibles. The proposed modification would also permit plantations to diversify into dairy and poultry farming. B. Ajith, general secretary of the Association of Planters, who participated in the interaction with Mr. Vijayan, said plantations encompassed 8 lakh hectares in Kerala. An amendment to the law would free up an estimated two lakh hectares for inter cropping. The Kerala Agricultural University had zoned Kerala into 23 agro-climatic sectors. It had suggested that oranges, apples, avocados, grapefruit and winter vegetables were ideal intercrops for high altitude tea plantations in regions such as Munnar. In rubber growing regions, the KAU had suggested the cultivation of rambutan, mangosteen and other tropical fruits in small plots interspersed among the trees. It had also suggested jackfruit as shade trees in tea, coffee and cardamom plantations. The participants also mooted rejuvenation of cashew plantations and use of cashew apple to produce ethanol. They also asked the government to permit planting of soft and hardwood trees on the fringes of the estates. Cold chains The Chief Minister also promised the institutionalisation of a cold chain process to store, preserve and transport vegetables, fruits, meat, milk, and poultry from farm to the table. He mooted labour banks to make up for the scarcity of farmworkers.
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With 2,532 fresh cases, State’s daily tally hits all-time high||With 2,532 fresh COVID-19 infections, Tamil Nadu recorded the biggest single-day jump in cases on Sunday. The overall case tally stood at 59,377*. As many as 29,963 persons were tested on Sunday, while 1,438 persons were discharged from various facilities, taking the total figure of persons discharged to 32,754. In Chennai, 1,493 persons tested positive, bringing the city’s overall case count to 41,172. As many as 22,887 persons had recovered, while there were 17,683 active cases. Chengalpattu recorded 121 cases and Tiruvallur 120, followed by Cuddalore with 90. As many as 87 persons tested positive in Vellore while Tiruvannamalai had 76 cases. Kancheepuram and Madurai had 68 and 63 cases, respectively. Among the positive cases were 52 persons who had returned from other parts of the country and from abroad. Five persons, including three from Malaysia and one each from Singapore and the UAE, tested positive, as did one returnee each from Delhi, Maharashtra and Telangana. Sixteen persons from Kerala, 12 from Karnataka and 9 from Maharashtra who had returned by road/train tested positive. 53 fatalities The State recorded 16 deaths in private hospitals and 37 deaths in government facilities over the last 24 hours. Of the 53 fatalities recorded overall, three had no co-morbid conditions. Three deaths were reported at the Government Railway Hospital. Three patients from Chennai, including a woman, who were admitted to medical services hospitals, died of the infection. A 54-year-old man with type 2 diabetes, who was admitted to ESIC medical college, died on Saturday. A 62-year-old man with Pott’s puffy tumour, who was admitted to Southern Railway Headquarters Hospital with complaints of breathlessness on June 20, died on Saturday. A 47-year-old woman with chronic kidney disease, who was on haemodialysis, was admitted on March 13 to ESIC hospital and died on Saturday. As many as 16 patients who died at government hospitals had a history of diabetes. Other chronic illnesses included severe hypertension, chronic kidney disease and cardiac ailments. Casualties at RGGGH A 61-year-old man who was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on June 15 died on Saturday. He had tested positive for COVID-19 on June 14. A total of 15 deaths were recorded at the hospital, apart from the abovementioned case, till Sunday. This apart, the Directorate of Public Health has released the details of patients who had died in the past few days at the government medical college hospitals in Villupuram, Chengalpattu and Tirunelveli and at Stanley Medical College in Chennai. Without co-morbidities Among the three patients who died without co-morbid conditions was a 60-year-old man who was admitted to Government Stanley Hospital on June 19 and died the next day. He had suffered a cardio-respiratory arrest. A 50-year-old man from Tiruvannamalai, admitted to Vellore Medical College, died on Saturday within hours of admission. The State has added another testing centre — in Tirupattur. The Health Department said that 8,32,720 samples had tested negative so far. Testing of 515 samples is under way. (* Two deaths were cross notified to other states and one patient died after turning negative for infection. )  Among the positive cases were 52 persons who had returned from other parts of the country and from abroad
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 leaves street vendors in distress||The number of street vendors in Chennai has reduced by 34% during the pandemic, disrupting the sale of essential commodities at affordable rates for residents in many zones. According to data compiled by Greater Chennai Corporation during the COVID-19 pandemic, 7,965 street vendors, who had been selling essential commodities such as vegetables and fruits, have stopped their business in the past few months. Officials have tracked 23,154 street vendors, who had identity cards, in the past few weeks for distribution of cash assistance by the State government. At least 7,965 street vendors were not at their vending zones in various parts of the city. The city has earmarked more than 900 vending zones so far. 2,509 have left the city As many as 2,509 vendors told the officials, who called them, that they were “out of station”. During field verification, the officials found that another 1,849 street vendors had left the city and did not answer phone calls while 2,947 vendors were not reachable on the phone and they were missing in action. As many as 68 street vendors have died. Officials sent SMS to 15,265 street vendors and 9,586 messages were delivered. As many as 5,629 messages were undelivered. The largest number of street vendors have left Royapuram zone covering areas such as George Town. As many as 1,290 in Royapuram zone were not traceable and 1,849 were out of station. More than 1,300 street vendors from Kodambakkam zone have stopped their business in neighbourhoods of the zone. 11,648 give details According to officials, the Corporation has collected bank account details from 15,189 street vendors for providing cash assistance. A total of 11,648 street vendors gave bank account details to officials during field verification. Just 21 street vendors sent bank account details by email, 3.462 sent on WhatsApp and 58 vendors visited Corporation website for submitting details. At least 592 street vendors did not have bank account for receiving cash assistance from the government. Corporation Deputy Commissioner (Revenue and Finance) Meghanath Reddy said civic officials had been directed to help all street vendors open bank accounts to facilitate distribution of cash assistance. The civic body was talking to banks to help street vendors activate accounts that were found to be deactivated owing to minimum balance norms. National Association of Street Vendors secretary Mageswaran said many street vendors who had an account in public sector banks had not been able to get money from the government as the banks had not activated the account owing to minimum balance requirements. “We request the public sector banks to help street vendors get cash assistance in their account. Many accounts have been deactivated by banks because the vendors were unable to meet the revised minimum balance requirements. Public sector banks should not be strict during the pandemic. They should help the poor,” said Mr. Mageswaran added.
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Most people stay home as city shuts down||While the roads in Chennai were deserted on Sunday because of total shutdown, Commissioner of Police A.K. Viswanathan requested members of the public to cooperate with the police in enforcing the lockdown till June 30. The police were more focussed on creating awareness about the lockdown since Saturday evening. While robots were used in some areas, the Greater Chennai Corporation officials and police went around in autorickshaws urging people to stay indoors. The State government had announced lockdown from June 19 to June 30. However, shops selling groceries and vegetables are allowed from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m on all days, except Sunday. “On the two Sundays, June 21 and 28, shops will not be allowed to function except pharmacies. People co-operated in most of the areas as they did not venture out,” said a senior police officer. Speaking to mediapersons on Sunday at Flower Bazaar police station, Mr. Viswanathan said all senior police officers were patrolling the city. He said that public address system was being used to request people not to come out. “There was good response on Sunday and this should continue throughout the lockdown. We need cooperation from the public for this. It may be difficult for now, but if we bear the restrictions for a few days there are chances that things will return to normalcy. The police are your friends and we are implementing the lockdown strictly for the benefit of the people,” he said. Later, speaking to the media at Koyambedu police station, the Commissioner of Police said that on Sunday alone 948 vehicles were seized in city limits for flouting the lockdown. From June 19 till June 21, 10,665 vehicles were seized. He said 3,527 cases were booked for violation of Section 144 on Sunday and around 10,604 since June 19. Similarly, 1,395 cases were filed on Sunday against those who did not wear masks or follow personal distancing norms and 3,517 since June 19. He said that 870 policemen had tested positive for COVID-19. “Out of these, 29 are in hospitals and some are in COVID care centres and home quarantine. A total of 333 have rejoined work,” he said. Robots deployed In Mylapore, the police used a robot at Luz Junction to create awareness about COVID-19 and the lockdown. “It went around playing the recorded announcement. Besides, the CCTV camera fitted to the device recorded movement of vehicles,” said Mylapore inspector Senthil Murugan. In north Chennai, which is usually bustling with activity, the roads were empty. Kapil Kumar C. Saratkar, Joint Commissioner of Police, north, said the roads were deserted and people came out for medical needs alone. “That too they were allowed to go only to the nearest pharmacy. Besides, we created awareness making announcements using patrol vehicles, autorickshaws and public address systems,” he said. RWAs praise police Many Residents Welfare Association said that unlike the previous lockdown, the people were more disciplined this time. “There is more awareness. There were a lot of policemen going around making announcements and asking people to stay indoors,” said K.Viswanathan, secretary, Mylapore Residents Welfare Association. V. Rajagopal, Anna Nagar West Extension Phase II Residents Welfare Association, said the solar eclipse also kept people indoors. “This time the police were very strict. Many people have been fined for flouting violations. This time the lockdown will have some result,” he said.
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Need transparency on LAC issue’||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Sunday demanded “transparency” and “accountability” from the Centre when questions are raised regarding the recent death of 20 Indian soldiers in the Galwan valley near the Line of Actual Control (LAC) on the India-China border. In a statement, Mr. Haasan said that it was disrespectful to the Army to suggest that its morale would be shaken by a few pertinent questions put to the Central government by the Opposition and people . “Our Army is a lot tougher than that. But their lives must not be taken for granted. We need to know what is being done to control China’s belligerence at the border,” said Mr. Haasan. Arguing that the Centre must divulge what exactly happened at the Galwan valley so as to stop the spread of rumours, Mr. Haasan pointed out how Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his speech on June 19 contradicted the statements of Army Officers and Minister of External Affairs made on June 16 and 17. “The PMO also issued an explanatory statement within 10 hours of his speech terming the questions as a ‘mischievous’ attempt to misinterpret the PM’s statements,” Mr. Haasan said. He said questions put to the government should not be termed as “anti-national”. “In fact, the mischief lies in continuing to emotionally manipulate people with such statements. I sincerely request the Prime Minister and his supporters to stop doing that. Millions of true nationalists like me are deeply pained by the soldiers’ deaths,” said Mr. Haasan.  Mahabalipuram summit  “The right to ask questions is the base of democracy and we will continue asking till we hear the truth. The current Prime Minister has frequented China more times than any other Prime Minister since independence. The Mahabalipuram summit was claimed to be a diplomatic success. Merely eight months later, the Chinese stab us in the back by killing our unarmed soldiers. If that is the result of the government’s diplomacy, then either their strategy has failed miserably or they failed to read the intentions of the Chinese correctly.”
22 June 2020||CHENNAI:,TAMIL NADU||Counselling must to prevent suicides, expedite recovery, says expert||A majority of people infected with COVID-19 have developed psychological symptoms due to the sudden diagnosis, abrupt changes in routine life, absence of meaningful communication and hostile isolated environment resulting in lack of confidence to fight the disease, renowned psychiatrist Dr. C. Ramasubramanian has said. He said mental healthcare for patients played a crucial role not only in instilling confidence among patients that they could easily recover from the infection, but also to ward off suicidal tendencies in the pandemic scenario. Psychological intervention by way of professional counselling should not only be for infected patients but also for the community to create awareness about the pandemic and its implications. Sleep disturbance Quoting recent studies, Dr. Ramasubramanian, the nodal officer for police well-being programme, said that there was a steep rise in the suicide rate and 44% of people were suffering from sleep disturbances, irrespective of their age, gender and financial status. “People should be educated about coronavirus and the prognosis. The lack of understanding has created some kind of panic in the community. This has also resulted in mounting aggression, which in many cases gets manifested in the form of anger towards the treating doctors/paramedical staff. Some of them (positive patients) are hostile towards the medical fraternity because of lack of knowledge about the COVID-19 pandemic and also with treatment modality,” he said. An attempt was made in the Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, where psychological first aid services/counselling to patients infected with coronavirus were provided by professionals of M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation. Completely curable “Initially the patients were apprehensive, angry reluctant to undergo treatment since their understanding of the disease was limited to media reports that mostly highlighted deaths or life-threatening conditions among the infected people. However, we were able to create awareness that the condition was completely curable by early and effective medical intervention. The patients, who took counselling which included a short session on stress management, showed a positive attitude and recovered well,” he said. Dr. Ramasubramanian said some patients who slipped into symptoms of depression had to be given anti-anxiolytic and anti-depressant drugs. About 93 patients of all age groups were benefited by the counselling, which was a part of the comprehensive treatment protocol for COVID-19 cases, he said. “We provided follow-up counselling sessions after they got discharged from the hospital and advised home quarantine. The family members are also benefiting through follow-up counselling sessions,” he said, adding that the Trust provided tele-counselling for 102 police personnel, including 23 women police constables, who tested positive to coronavirus. Dr. Ramasubramanian said about 1,000 student of Madurai Kamaraj University colleges were trained as ‘Mental Health First Aid Volunteers’ jointly by the Trust and the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences.
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Skygazers in city treated to partial solar eclipse||Skygazers in Chennai viewed a partial solar eclipse on Sunday amidst the total lockdown. The celestial event started at 10.22 a.m. and ended at 1.41 p.m. even as the city was under intense lockdown. Enthusiastic eclipse watchers in the city were disappointed as the Tamil Nadu Science and Technology Centre in Kotturpuram, which makes arrangements for watching the eclipse, was closed because of the lockdown. S. Soundararajaperumal, executive director of the centre, said throughout the State only partial eclipse could be witnessed, with Chennai having 34% visibility and 33% in Vellore district. The duration of the solar eclipse was more than three hours. Saravana Manikandan, a photography enthusiast, said he along with his family watched the partial eclipse through a pinhole projector in his Perumbakkam house. The Centre had issued an advisory to citizens to watch solar eclipse only through binoculars or telescopes as it could harm the eye.
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Best time to start yoga’||Last International Yoga Day, hundreds thronged the beaches and schools to practise and celebrate this ancient art form. Amidst the intense lockdown, this year it has been a lot subdued, with mostly online sessions. Says Balaji K, a 44-year-old yoga therapist and trainer, “This time, I barely saw any interaction. Of course, people are occupied with a host of problems. But it is more so a reason why now everyone should take to yoga.” “With stress and anxiety shrouding people’s minds, people can begin with pranayama and suryanamaskar ,” says Mr. Balaji who gave up a lucrative career in marketing and turned into a yoga therapist more than a decade ago. Harini Ravi, another yoga instructor from the city, also recalls the city had played host to several events last year including the Elliots beach where several people came together to practice Suryanamaskar . "This year though, there were many live online sessions. Through the last few months, there are several people who have sought yoga as a means to de-stress and relieve anxiety," says Ms Harini, who has been conducting online classes since March. New normal Some of the yoga trainers say, there were online classes and some of them delivered talks through the day. Though online classes may be different from physical class, people may have to adapt to this new normal. Padmini Narendran, a 62-year-old yoga therapist with Krishnamacharya Yoga Mandiram, says, “I delivered a few talks to some corporate companies, talking to them about what a significant role yoga will now play in reducing stress now. “We had a lot of online classes through the day as well. Online classes have a few challenges but this is the way forward now and more people can sit at home and learn. This is a great relaxing regimen and it is more important now more than ever to de-stress through yoga,” she adds.  Through the last few months, there are several people who have sought yoga as a means to de-stress and relieve anxiety
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cylinder deliveries may be affected||With cooking gas delivery persons attached to many agencies unable to reach their places of work with police insisting on e-passes, supplies to consumers were likely to be hit. A delivery boy from Kakkalur working in an agency near Poonamalee High Road said he had not reported for work for two days now. “Since buses and trains are not available, I commute on a friend's two-wheeler. But on Friday, I was stopped by the police at two points and told to go back since I did not have an e-pass. They threatened to impound the vehicle. I was afraid and so I called my owner and told him I won’t be reporting for duty,” he said. Distributors said that the Government Order clearly stated that gas delivery personnel did not require e-passes. Their uniform, valid ID cards and an authorisation letter from the respective oil marketing company was enough. “However, our people are not being allowed to travel from Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram to Chennai. Each district follows a different set of rules. But the site just takes all our documents and details and our requests are kept pending,” said a distributor.  Discussions held Oil industry sources said they had raised the issue with the government and the police. However, despite various orders, the situation on the ground was extremely difficult. An industry source said that they were in touch with the respective departments and the police. “Even today, the Director-General of Police has given a direction saying those involved in essential services can use their official ID cards,” the official said.  Each district follows a different set of rules
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thiruvanmiyur apartment complex barricaded||An apartment complex in Thiruvanmiyur, Atrium, was barricaded with tin sheets after a few residents tested positive for COVID-19. The apartment houses a number of businessmen and Carnatic musicians. The residents had complained that the entry and exit have been shut and they were facing severe hardships. Curbs on residents A resident said they had been advised not to step out and told to stock up food and groceries. The residents were also told to put all the garbage in one bag without any segregation at a particular place, and the bags would be cleared by the housekeeping staff in the apartment. A senior official of the Adyar Zone of the Greater Chennai Corporation, under whose jurisdiction the apartment comes, said nine residents tested positive for COVID-19, and all infections had been traced to local grocery shops. Denying that the entire apartment had been barricaded with tin sheets, the official pointed out that only the main gate had been blocked with tin sheets and not the small gate. The Corporation official said the tin sheets put up at the main entrance of the apartment would be removed on Monday and a banner would be put up about CoVID-19.
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Velachery Station Road overbridge to be completed by this year-end||The road over bridge (ROB) project being built on the Station Road between Velachery and Taramani stations, which was to be completed by April, has been postponed and will be completed by this year end. The completion of the Station Road running parallel to the tracks of the Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) has been delayed by several years because of the delay in executing the bridge project and linking both sides of the road. S. Kumararaja, a social activist of Velachery, said the completed service road could not be put to public use because of the non-completion of the bridge. The bridge is meant to facilitate rain water to flow into the Pallikaranai marshland. He said the Station Road would help in decongesting the heavy traffic on Taramani Link Road and save fuel and time for the vehicle users bound for the Information technology corridor. A senior official of Southern Railway said initially work on the incomplete bridge was resumed in January but was stopped midway due to COVID-19 lockdown announced in March last week. With the easing of lockdown, work began on May 4 but the contractor had been facing hurdles in the form of labour shortage and a difficult terrain. The railway official said the pile foundation work had been completed and the full project would be completed by December this year.
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. BJP creates website to help people get bank loans under Central schemes||The Tamil Nadu unit of the BJP has set up a committee to help persons get bank loans under various schemes instituted by the Centre, as well as a dedicated website for applicants to register themselves and submit applications. The portal, www.tnbjp.in, was set up a couple of weeks ago, and has already received 20,000 applications, as of Saturday. The party says this will help applicants do away with intermediaries or brokers. The website, initially set up as a helpline, is an initiative of Tamil Nadu BJP president L. Murugan, who constituted the committee to be helmed by the party unit’s treasurer, S.R. Sekar. The committee will guide those seeking loans on the submission of necessary documents. The party has deputed around five workers each with knowledge of the banking system to its 60 districts in the State to scrutinise the applications. It has also engaged retired bankers, financial consultants and auditors in most of the districts to ensure that the applications received are thoroughly scrutinised and filtered to meet the expectations of the banks. “Sometimes, when people submit applications, the banks reject them outright at the time of submission. We will help applicants ensure that their documentation is perfect, and if any details are missing, they are added,” Mr. Sekar told The Hindu.  He said banks were reluctant to give loans for fear of defaulters. “In order to ensure that banks are satisfied with the documentation, we scrutinise all the applications that we receive, and undertake a process of enquiry about the applicants before we process them further within our team. We want to ensure that the applicants will repay the loans and that they are trustworthy,” he said. But will bankers not feel intimidated or pressured to provide loans as the applications are sent from a party in power at the Centre? To this, Mr. Sekar said bankers were reluctant to give loans when applications came in from political parties. “We have two messages for the bankers — we are not pressuring you, and are only sending applications of deserving candidates. Ultimately, we tell them to scrutinise the applications thoroughly as per their processes and give loans based on the merit of the applications,” he said. Currently, the party is in the process of sorting out the applications and calling the applicants for an interview to verify their credentials.  The party has deputed around five workers each with knowledge of the banking system to its 60 districts in the State to scrutinise the applications
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Neighbouring districts fall silent||It is not just Chennai city, the neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu too fell silent as total lockdown was enforced on Sunday. Around 5,000 police personnel and 61 check-posts within the three districts have been set up to ensure that the lockdown is enforced strictly. “We have seized a few hundred vehicles in the three districts. But this is less compared to what we seized on the first two days of the lockdown. A total of 93 two-wheeler patrol and 32 four-wheeler patrol vehicles are being used to enforce a strict lockdown,” added the police officer. Tiruvallur Superintendent of Police P. Aravindan said that in his district, the Tirumazhisai wholesale market was shut for a day. Besides being a Sunday, not many industries were functioning in the district. “We seized a few vehicles that flouted the lockdown. However, most people stayed indoors and came out only for medical needs,” he said. Kancheepuram SP B. Shamoondeswari said the full-scale lockdown was enforced in her district too and vehicles of violators were seized. Good response V. Sivaprakasam, CPI (M), Kuruvimalai branch secretary, Kancheepuram district, said since June 19, the villagers themselves did not step out after 2 p.m. “After a few cases were reported in adjacent villages, they have realised the importance of staying indoors,” he said. R. Sridhar, Assistant Director, Panchayats, Tiruvallur district, said that they had given an audio recording, asking people to stay indoors, to panchayat presidents in Villivakkam, Puzhal, Sholavaram, Poonamallee and Tiruvallur blocks. “The multiple entry points into a village have been closed and each one has only one exit and entry points. This will keep a check on people leaving and entering the hamlet,” he added.
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers concerned over choice of courses for Plus 1 students||The admission process this year for students of State board schools going to Plus 1 will be different for obvious reasons. In September last year, the School Education Department announced that students would be given the option of taking five or six papers based on the core subjects they chose. While students have always had six subjects in Plus 1, from the 2020-2021 academic year, the department said they can choose three core subjects and can take another core paper if they wish to. They will have to compulsorily take a language and English. Students of Science group will now have four combinations of three core subjects to choose from and those taking the Commerce group as well have combinations that they can pick from. Concerns are being raised about the options offered to students opting for the Science group in particular. Restricted choice “This will greatly restrict the choice of courses that students can take up after Plus 2,” said K.P.O. Suresh, president of the Tamil Nadu Post Graduate Teachers Association. Mr. Suresh, who is a chemistry teacher, pointed out that the subject was left out of one of the combinations of core subjects and it would be a drawback for students. “Many students make decisions based on their line of study only in Plus 1 and Plus 2 and omitting an important subject might work against this,” he said. A teacher from a government school pointed out that students who want to pursue medicine or engineering will definitely drop Mathematics or Biology respectively. “Mathematics will definitely help students prepare for competitive exams, but two of the four options given for Science group students don't have it the subject. Students should think about their options properly and then make a careful decision instead of simply looking at the reduction in the number of subjects,” he said. With the preparation of class 10 marksheets under way in the State, most schools in Tamil Nadu are yet to begin the admission process for Plus 1. In several districts, private schools have been asked to wait until the marksheets are prepared before they can initiate the admission process as well. Orient parents K.R. Nandhakumar, State General Secretary of the Tamil Nadu Nursery Primary, Matriculation and Higher Secondary Schools Association, said schools would now have to orient parents as well as students before the admission process begins. “Parents and students need to be made aware of the options and courses they can subsequently pursue in college. Even though students can take a sixth subject if they wish to, we don't think many students will opt to take up an extra paper," he said.
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Producers hope to resolve key issues with cinemas||With no date set yet for the reopening of cinemas, producers are hoping for a speedy resolution of outstanding issues with cinema owners like the sharing of revenue, timely disbursal of the weekly share and the Virtual Print Fee. The COVID-19 lockdown and the consequent economic crisis has altered the dynamics of the film business, as producers have found that OTT (over-the-top) platforms offer an alternative to cinema halls, at least for the time being. The move by producers to release films directly on OTT platforms has predictably drawn opposition from those in the film exhibition business. Producers are now hopeful that all outstanding issues would be resolved when cinemas reopen in the coming months. Producer J. Satish Kumar said, “The resolution of these issues can be discussed only when we see audiences come back to theatres.” “We don’t know when theatres would reopen and whether audiences would come back after the long break,” he said. “Movies are not like Tasmac shops. If people don’t have money, they won’t spend money in theatres,” he added. Vinod Kumar, who has worked as an executive producer at Wunderbar Films, said, “I am not sure if the terms of sharing revenue every week could be renegotiated, but it is necessary to ensure that the weekly share is promptly paid to the producer. We also have to find a solution to the long-standing VPF issue.”
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Indian-American to head U.S. science body||The United States Senate confirmed the appointment of India-born American scientist Sethuraman Panchanathan as the Director of National Science Foundation (NSF), the premier body in the U.S. that supports research and education in fields of fundamental science and engineering. He is an alumnus of University of Madras, Indian Institute of Science and Indian Institute of Technology Madras. U.S. President Donald Trump nominated him as the Director of NSF in December 2019 and his appointment was pending endorsement from the U.S. Senate as per the appointment process. According to the NSF’s website, its annual budget would be $8.3 billion in 2020 and was the funding source for roughly 25% of all U.S. government supported research in colleges and universities. Dr. Panchanathan obtained his Bachelors degree in Physics from the University of Madras in 1981. He later completed his Bachelors in Engineering in Electronics and Communication Engineering from IISc in 1984, followed by M.Tech in Electrical Engineering from IIT-Madras in 1986. He took up a teaching tenure in University of Ottawa before moving to Arizona State University, where he currently holds multiple positions apart from the Chief Research and Innovation Officer. He was earlier appointed by former U.S. President Barack Obama as a member of the National Science Board that establishes policies for NSF. According to the website of Dr. Panch, as he is widely known in the research and academic circles, his areas of interest include innovation, particularly in the areas of assisstive technologies and in higher education.
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PWD working on providing oxygen lines for beds||With government hospitals receiving more and more symptomatic COVID-19 patients requiring oxygen support, the demand for beds with oxygen lines has increased. To cater to the increased demand, the Public Works Department has begun a project to provide oxygen pipelines for COVID-19 beds identified at government medical college hospitals and district headquarters and taluk hospitals across the State. As part of measures to combat COVID-19, the PWD is in the process of providing oxygen lines for nearly 13,900 COVID-19 beds identified at hospitals and upgraded primary health centres across the State. The project has been taken up at a cost of Rs. 75.28 crore. This follows a recent meeting involving officials of the Health and Family Welfare Department. Oxygen is considered vital for COVID-19 patients. Change in trend “The trend has changed. Unlike earlier, we are seeing more symptomatic patients and fewer asymptomatic ones. Out of 100 COVID-19 patients, at least 10 require oxygen support. So, there is an increased demand for beds with oxygen lines. There are more patients with hypoxia and patients requiring extended stay at hospitals. By getting beds with oxygen lines ready at headquarters hospitals and PHCs, we can decrease the rush to tertiary care centres,” a health official said. PWD officials said that of a total of 30,100 beds identified at various hospitals, the department was in the process of providing oxygen pipelines and vacuum and compressed air pipelines/drop points for 13,900 beds. The remaining beds had already been provided with such pipelines. Earlier, such facilities were not available in wards on the ground floor and the first floor of some hospitals. Now, such wards will also have those facilities to treat COVID-19 patients. Work has already commenced in some hospitals as part of COVID-19 emergency projects. In Chennai alone, nearly 5,500 beds will be equipped with oxygen lines. The Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, has already been provided with the facility. Work to strengthen the Central Sterile Supply Department will be taken up, apart from electrical work at King Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research, Guindy, a PWD official said. Works across the State will be completed in a few days. Simultaneously, the oxygen capacity of government medical college hospitals in Chennai is being increased, the health official said, adding: “At Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, the oxygen capacity is being increased from 20 kl to 60 kl, while that of Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, Kilpauk Medical College Hospital and Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, will be increased to 40 kl each. We are providing headquarters hospitals with 10 kl oxygen capacity. We have also procured 10,000 oxygen cylinders and kept them as a reserve.”
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Despite extended lockdown, COVID-19 not under control in State: DMK chief||There is no sign of COVID-19 subsiding in spite of the State having entered the fifth phase of a lockdown, DMK leader M.K. Stalin said on Sunday. The remarks made by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday did not offer any solutions to the problems being faced by the people, Mr. Stalin said. According to the State government, a lockdown was the only way to contain the spread of the virus. But the number of cases was increasing day by day, he said. “This shows the lockdown is a namesake exercise. Despite the increase in the number of cases and deaths, the Chief Minister has been making statement after statement that the virus is being contained,” he added. Referring to the Chief Minister’s statement that “only God knows when the COVID-19 pandemic will end”, he said Mr. Palaniswami was struggling to handle the situation after five phases of lockdown. “Instead of controlling the spread of the virus, the Chief Minister is blaming me. All we are saying is that more measures are needed from the State government to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic. I request the Chief Minister to avoid viewing our suggestions as attempts to play politics,” Mr. Stalin said. He clarified that he had tweeted about Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbazhagan testing positive for COVID-19 after confirming the same with the Minister. “The Chief Minister said Mr. Anbazhagan himself had stated in an interview that he had not been infected. I will be happy if the Minister is not infected. But Union Minister of Human Resource Development Ramesh Pokhriyal had also tweeted about Mr. Anbazhagan having been infected. What will be the Chief Minister’s response to this?” the DMK leader asked. Case numbers He said the CM was “not going to earn a good name by hiding the number of cases or under-reporting the numbers”. Mr. Stalin urged the Chief Minister to consider the suggestions coming in from all quarters to make the State coronavirus-free.
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prevent caste atrocities, CPI (M) urges CM||CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan on Sunday wrote to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami urging him to take steps to stop crimes against persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes (SCs). Even during the lockdown, crimes against the community had increased, Mr. Balakrishnan said in the letter. Listing specific instances, he said nine murders, three honour killings, over 60 instances of violence, crime against women and land grabbing incidents took place during the lockdown, he said. Mr. Balakrishnan also urged the Chief Minister to file cases against those guilty of such crimes and increase the number of special courts hearing the cases from the current six. Being the chairperson of the State-level Vigilance and Monitoring Committee, the Chief Minister must call for a review meeting and ensure that meetings of district-level vigilance and monitoring committees are held, Mr. Balakrishnan said.
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Take care, Vasan tells frontline staff||Tamil Maanila Congress president G.K. Vasan on Sunday urged doctors, other healthcare workers and police personnel to take care of themselves and their family members. In a statement, he said they were at the forefront of the fight against COVID-19, and acknowledged the key role they were playing in managing the pandemic. News reports about some of them getting infected by the virus were disturbing and concerning, Mr. Vasan said.
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin condoles death of party member||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday condoled the death of L. Balaraman, former secretary of the party’s north Chennai unit , due to COVID-19. In a statement, he said that Mr. Balaraman was a hard worker and played a key role in ensuring the victory of former DMK president M. Karunanidhi and former general secretary K. Anbazhagan in the Harbour Assembly constituency. His sacrifices and contributions will never be forgotten, Mr. Stalin said.  He confirmed that the party’s Rishivandiyam MLA, Vasantham Karthikeyan, had tested positive and was undergoing treatment. “I wish him a speedy recovery and hope he resumes public service soon,” he tweeted.
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Students oppose move||A group of students from Anna University’s College of Engineering (Guindy) has appealed to the Governor of Tamil Nadu to stop Greater Chennai Corporation’s proposal to takeover the institution’s hostels and make them COVID-19 care centres. The students highlighted that since they left the hostel in a hurry soon after the announcement of lockdown, they had left their valuable belongings in the rooms. These included original certificates, research reports and laptops. The university administration had expressed its hesitation in handing over all its hostel blocks. Its Knowledge Park academic complex and the yet-to-be inaugurated hostel building for postgraduate students have already been taken over for use as quarantine facilities.
22 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 99.5 lakh hawala cash seized||The police seized Rs. 99.5 lakh, suspected to be hawala money, from a man in Mannady on Saturday. According to the police, they intercepted a two-wheeler rider who was moving around flouting lockdown rules on Jules Road-Prakasam Salai junction. The police checked the vehicle and found bundles of cash.
22 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Goggles donated to police||Rotary Club of Madras T. Nagar and Rajan Eye Care donated 1,000 pairs of 3M goggles to the police for COVID-19 protection. According to a press release, Shyam, president-elect, Dr. Madhusudhan, Secretary, and Dr. Mohan Rajan donated the goggles in the presence of Commissioner of Police A.K. Viswanathan.
22 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 tests: Coimbatore stands next to Chennai||Coimbatore district stands next to Chennai in terms of maximum number of COVID-19 tests done so far in the State. As of Saturday, Coimbatore district had done 33,522 tests while Chennai stood at the first place with 1,70,701 tests. The data was tracked by the Health Department based on entries of RT-PCR tests made by laboratories approved by Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). These laboratories are updating the number of tests done per day in the web portal of ICMR. “As of now, 1,000 to 1,500 swab samples are collected per day for test. The sample size was between 300 and 400 when number of active cases were very low,” said an official in charge of COVID-19 management in the district. According to Health Department officials, tests are mainly done on those with suspected symptoms of COVID-19, people who have influenza-like illness, people who are admitted to hospitals for various procedures, pregnant women who are two weeks away from expected delivery date, people who seek treatment for non-communicable diseases and people who have a history of travel in COVID-19 affected areas within the State, other States and abroad. Swab samples are also collected from airport, vehicle checkpoints on highways and from places where positive cases are reported. There were 102 active cases of COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Sunday while total number of persons tested positive for the disease stood at 268. Meanwhile Coimbatore district stood at 13th position in terms of number of tests done per million population. As of Saturday, the tests per million done in Coimbatore was 8,230 while the figure was 23,660 in Chennai which has the highest number of COVID-19 patients in the State. The district’s figure of tests per million was also less than that of the State which stood at 8,935 on Saturday. At national level, the number of tests per million was 4,657 on Saturday.
22 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘Industries should ask testing results of migrant workers’||Migrant workers and employees, who are returning to work at industries in Coimbatore district, can get tested at the block primary health centres or at the CMCH or ESI Hospital, if they cannot afford the testing costs. Official sources here said the industries should ask for testing result, taken just two days before the worker left his home town, and quarantine the worker for seven days. Even if the worker had tested negative he should be on quarantine before he joins work. Industries can also get the workers tested at the private laboratories. In the case of workers who are here and need to be tested, the industries can take up testing or they can produce the Aadhaar card and get tested at private laboratories too. The private laboratories are doing the testing at the airport, railway junction and airport now. They have set up testing booth in the city too. “We have warned industries that action can be taken against them if they do not quarantine the workers and do not take steps to ensure that the migrant employees and workers returning here are negative for COVID-19,” an official said.
22 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Remove ban on PPE export: AEPC||The Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) has appealed to the Union government to remove the ban on export of personal protection equipment (PPE). Production of PPE kits has hit eight lakhs a day and the manufacturers are eyeing the $60 billion global market, said the Council chairman A. Sakthivel. The Indian apparel export industry wants to grab the lion’s share in the $60 billion global market. Production facilities The industry, which was hit hard after the outbreak of COVID-19, has been able to rejig its production facilities and in four months reach the level of eight lakh PPEs a day though it was almost nil production before COVID. “The AEPC has requested the government to lift the ban on export of PPE kits. Countries such as Bangladesh, Indonesia, and Pakistan have lifted the ban on PPE exports and are receiving huge orders. We are afraid of losing export markets to our competing countries. The current production of PPE is more than sufficient to cater to the needs of the country and can be opened up for exports,” he said. Pakistan received $100 million export orders last week which is likely to go up to $500 million. Bangladesh has also aggressively captured global business from countries such as the United States, Nepal, Sri Lanka and Kuwait. It is learnt that the Embassy of Vietnam in Washington has established a channel of communication with the Center for Disease Control and Prevention and the US Department of Health and Human Services. The US Federal Emergency Management Agency has created an ‘air bridge’ to quickly get medical supplies like 2.25 million PPEs exported from Vietnam, Mr. Sakthivel said. “India is also part of the US ‘air bridge’ initiative. We should not lose out on an attractive global business opportunity and the need of the hour is to initiate PPE exports. India should consider the economic and political dividends that timely PPE exports will generate in the post-Covid era,” he added.
22 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Smart City works to continue at night||To overcome the delay in implementation of lake development project under the Smart Cities Mission, the Coimbatore Corporation has asked the contractors to take up work at night as well. According to sources, the spread of COVID-19 in Coimbatore and its impact on migrant labourers’ presence had put brakes on the Corporation’s plan to complete the ‘Quick Win’ component of the lake development project. The component included developing a stretch of the northern bund of the Ukkadam Periyakulam and two areas of Valangulam – the area beneath the bridge on Sungam Bypass Road and along the road across the tank. To overcome the minimised presence of migrant labourers, who were mostly engaged in the work in Ukkadam and Valangulam, the Corporation had allowed the contractor to work at night as well to finish the component work at the earliest. The Corporation had hoped to complete the work by March this year and now it looked at October-end as the next deadline, they added.
22 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited||The Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurships will select industry clusters through the Directorate General of Training for the second phase of skills strengthening for industrial value enhancement project. It is a programme funded by the Ministry and World Bank and aims at empowering MSMEs to participate in formal apprenticeships system through a cluster approach. Industry clusters can apply for the programme and the application is available on the websites of Directorate General of Training and State Directorate of Technical Education. For details, call: 0422-2642044. The last date for submission of application is July 30.
22 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||3 employees of jewellery showroom test positive||Fifteen persons, including three employees of a jewellery showroom on Cross Cut Road, tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore on Sunday. Sources with the district administration said the three persons were among the 30-odd employees of the jewellery group who came from Chennai’s T. Nagar branch to the Coimbatore branch on Cross Road on June 18. The Cross Cut Road branch of the jewellery was sealed by the Revenue Department on Saturday after authorities found that the employees from Chennai were brought to Coimbatore without obtaining E-pass. The employees were also not kept in quarantine for 14 days on arrival here. The three persons, who tested positive, were shifted to Government Medical College and ESI Hospital. Confirming that three employees of the jewellery group tested positive, District Collector K. Rajamani told The Hindu that the employees, who came from Chennai to Coimbatore, belonged to the online sales and software sections of the jewellery group. As operations of different branches in Chennai is hit due to lockdown restrictions, those employees were brought to Coimbatore. “Test results of swab samples collected from 208 employees returned negative. As per preliminary findings, they did not have interaction with customers who visited the jewellery. However, efforts are on to trace people who visited the jewellery since they started working here,” said Mr. Rajamani. Sources said that an industrial pass was used to transport the employees from Chennai to Coimbatore. Though 208 employees of the jewellery group tested negative, the Health Department was keeping tab on those who are currently in home quarantine.  Other cases The other cases, who have been tested positive for the disease, have been identified as a 28-year-old man who travelled from Chennai to Coimbatore on June 17, a 68-year-old man from Sirumugai who was admitted to a private hospital, a 21-year-old man from Kalapatti, a 50-year-old man from Vadasithur, a 55-year-old man from Karumbukadai, a 77-year-old man from Velandipalayam, 57-year-old woman from Selvapuram, and a 35-year-old woman from Ramanathapuram. Two cases were reported from Pollachi area -- 25-year-old man from Suleswaranpatti and a 28-year-old woman from Nadupuni. A 25-year-old woman and a nine-year-old boy from Annur also tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, said Health Department sources.
22 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Minister distributes corona special package||Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani on Sunday disbursed funds to people in rural areas under the Tamil Nadu Rural Rejuvenation Mission to mark the launching of the corona special package. A release from the district administration said the Minister, in the presence of Collector K. Rajamani and senior officials, gave Rs. 24.28 lakh to 22 persons from self-help groups for self employment. Under the Rural Rejuvenation Mission, the State government had allocated Rs. 300 crore as corona special package. In Coimbatore, 5,047 persons would stand to gain from the package by getting Rs. 5.16 crore. Under the Mission, skilled persons who had returned home during lockdown and were unemployed would also get financial assistance to start enterprises. In the first tranche, 167 persons would get Rs. 1 lakh each.
22 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held on sexual assault charge||The Coimbatore rural police arrested a 59-year-old man for alleged sexual assault on a 17-year-old girl, an inmate of a home for children he ran near Sulur, which was closed two years ago. The children’s home, started by the man near Sulur seven years ago, took care of children from poor socio-economic conditions. The survivor girl was admitted to the home as her mother reportedly had mental disorders. While 20 children were sent back to their families when the home was closed two years ago, the accused made the girl stay at his house. The accused allegedly assaulted the girl sexually when she was sleeping in his house on June 16. The assault continued for two more days after which the girl informed the incident to one of her relatives over phone. The relative contacted officials with the District Child Protection Office who, in turn, informed the police. The man was arrested and the girl was moved to a home for children.
22 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held on cheating charge||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Tiruppur city police on Sunday arrested a 28-year-old man who siphoned off money from the credit card of a person. The police seized 13 SIM cards and four mobile phones from him. The arrested has been identified as V. Dinesh, a native of Dadagapatti in Salem. Dinesh called M. Perumal, a resident of RVE Nagar in Tiruppur, over phone a few days ago and introduced himself as an executive from the credit card section of a nationalised bank. He accessed Mr. Perumal’s credit card number, date of expiry, and a one-time password that the latter received through SMS. Mr. Perumal later came to know that Rs. 32,989 was debited from his card. The CCB team traced Dinesh to a place near the new bus stand in Tiruppur on Sunday, based on a complaint lodged by Mr. Perumal. He was produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.
22 June 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Loans disbursed to rural entrepreneurs in Dindigul||Tamil Nadu Rural Transformation Project has devised a special scheme at a cost of Rs. 918 crore to be implemented in 3,994 village pachayats in 30 districts, said Forests Minister Dindigul C.Srinivasan. Speaking at a function to disburse loans under the project here on Saturday, he said the project, a first of its kind in the country, was being implemented through Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department with World Bank assistance. The project would benefit people in Dindigul district in seven blocks namely Vedasanthur, Gujiliambarai, Batlagundu, Athoor, Ottanchatram, Palani and Kodaikanal covering 148 village panchayats. In her address, District Collector M. Vijayalakshmi said the State government had introduced a novel scheme of COVID–19 assistance package to promote rural entrepreneurs who had been affected by the lockdown. The Self-Help Group members/ family members, producer groups, enterprise groups, farmers producer organisation, differently abled and vulnerable and skilled migrant youth would be benefited by the scheme. The assistance is provided in four components including one time grant to producer groups, enterprise groups up to Rs. 1.50 lakh per group through Panchayat Level Federations (PLF). In Dindigul district, COVID–19 assistance package of Rs. 11.35 crore would be distributed to 6,375 eligible beneficiaries as per the government guidelines, she said. The TNRTP has released the first instalment fund of Rs. 2.96 crore for different components and the rates of interest varied between 6% and 12 %, said District Executive Officer Jayaprakash in his welcome address. Assistant Collector (training) Ayushi Singh, Mahalir Thittam Project officer Santosh Kumar, Joint Registrar Cooperatives Murugesan spoke.
22 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown pushes relocated tribal families back to their settlement||Fourteen tribal families who left Kembanur tribal settlement many years ago in search of jobs and schools for their children have returned to their native to take up farming. Located 12 km from the Athani - Sathyamangalam Road, the settlement inside the Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve comes under Kongarpalayam Panchayat in Gobichettipalayam taluk. Ten years ago, over 50 families from the settlement moved to Kembanur Colony, which is located outside the forest area at Vinoba Nagar. However, M. Srirangan (71), his wife Lakshmi (62) and her mother Madhammal, aged over 91, continue to live in the settlement. They belong to the Urali community and speak the Urali language and call their hamlet “Kambanur”.  No work “We were earlier engaged in sugarcane harvesting in Sathyamangalam areas, while our children were studying in a school at Vinoba Nagar. Since there was no work for the last three months due to the COVID-19 lockdown, we returned to our settlement,” said Vellaiyan (52), who built a hut last week. Many years ago, the Forest Department had provided 18 acres of land to the families to raise crops, but they cannot claim ownership over the land. Since many were residing outside the settlement, no farm activities took place in the last 10 years, said Maran (60) who along with others ploughed the land and prepared it for ragi cultivation. “Wild animals, especially elephant, bear and pig stray into our land and we need to dug trenches to protect our crop,” said Mr. Srirangan. Most of the families said that they had no income and hence returned to their native to take up farming. “This place is our home for many generations. A school for our children and protection for our crops will ensure return of more families to the hamlet,” he said.
22 June 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Visually challenged karaoke singers struggle for livelihood||Though the hustle and bustle of the main bus stand in Krishnagiri is absent, a mellifluous voice filled the air with songs. For anybody commuting past the bus stand, this voice, the troupe and their omni van was a constant presence until before the lockdown.  After a gap of three months, Murugammal, the owner of that voice, and her husband Manikandan, both visually challenged, reached the bus stand in the van, this time without the troupe as the members had left for their hometowns. The pandemic did not spare the karaoke troupe of the visually challenged that entertained people with Tamil melodies from the 80s until the lockdown in March. “We had to come, because money lenders have started coming home insisting we pay up our borrowings,” says Muruguammal. “But there was hardly any people. We do not know how we will tide through this time,” says Manikandan. Manikandan, with a diploma in music and a teacher training qualification to his resume, took to the orchestra troupe near the busy bus stand, when no openings were available for him in schools. “My wife has a beautiful voice. Our troupe consists of five persons including the driver of the omni van. Every time, we finish a song, four of the troupe members, two are visually challenged, supported by two others, will start their “line collection” (shop by shop collection),” says Manikandan. In the last three months, they got their basic rations from the family card and survived with help from friends. They were making a living out of their music from the van, lent to Manikandan by his friend. “He had a spare van, and gave it to us to use it for our troupe. We will make between Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 2,000 per day. Of this, Rs. 300 each would go to the five members. What we collect from the “line collection”, we divide,” says Manikandan.  The couple has two children, a daughter in Class VIII, and a son entering Class IX. “As we are short of income, we have just started sending our son to a mechanic to learn the job,” he says. Not letting the uncertainty shadow her music, Murugammal sang another song, as people walked past, caught in their own struggles.
22 June 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Body of girl exhumed||The body of a nine-year-old girl buried near Kelamangalam here was exhumed by the Krishnagiri police on Sunday after doubts were raised about the manner in which the girl and her grandmother died. According to police, the deceased were identified as Keerthana (9) and her grandmother Marammal (70) from K.Kuttur village. On June 19, Keerthana’s mother Rajeshwari had served reheated food for the family. On June 20, Rajeshwari, Keerthana, Marammal and Kerthana’s sister Archana fell ill. They visited Kelamangalam Primary Health Centre for treatment and returned home. Keerthana’s father Duraisami, who was working in Bengaluru, reached Kelamangalam knowing about the illness. Rajeshwari, Keerthana and Archana fell ill again and they were taken to Hosur GH for treatment. Later, they were referred to Krishnagiri GH. Marammal stayed at home. According to police, Keerthana died on the way to the hospital during the early hours of Sunday and her body was buried in their village. On reaching his house, Duraisami found Marammal dead. With the permission of the Tahsildhar, police exhumed Keerthana’s body on Sunday. The girl’s body and that of Marammal were sent to Denkanikottai GH for autopsy. Kelamangalam police have registered a case.
22 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Now, railways wants to close down economically unviable lines||A series of austerity measures suggested by Railway Board, including closure of economically unfeasible railway lines, has stirred up fears that services connecting rural areas will be hit hard. In a communication, dated June 16, to zonal railway general managers, Financial Commissioner (Railways) Manjula Rangarajan has listed out a series of economic measures and rationalisation of expenditure including reduction of overtime and travel allowances to railway men by 50% and reduction of PRS counters and re-deployment of reservation clerks. ‘Review and closure of uneconomic branch lines to the extent possible’ is one of the measures suggested by the Railway Board, according to Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan. “Going by this suggestion, it looks like most of the branch lines from the mainline and chord lines where goods trains are not operated will be closed down,” he said. In Madurai division, Tirunelveli-Shencottah, Shencottah-Kollam, Manamadurai-Rameswaram and Manamadurai-Virudhunagar sections may face closure, said R. Sankaranarayanan, divisional secretary, Dakshin Railway Employees’ Union. ‘Even Madurai-Usilampatti-Bodi section that is under gauge conversion may not see operation of trains again. The entire investment made on this section for gauge conversion will go waste,” he added. In the past, when new lines were laid and new trains were introduced, the Centre justified them saying they were “socially desirable” though not economically viable. “But, now it looks like the government has forgotten it social responsibility and is keen on making railway operation only profitable,” said president of Southern Railway Mazdoor Union C.A. Raja Sridhar. Lakhs of students, office-goers and workers from rural areas are using the train services to reach towns and cities for their daily needs/earnings. The low-fare transport offered by passenger trains has provided impetus for economic development in rural areas. “The Centre is only bothered about the economics of railways, forgetting that cheaper mobility for rural masses helped the economic growth,” he added. “This is another step towards privatisation and commercialisation of railways.”
22 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||No meat and fish shops||Meat and fish shops remained closed on Sunday across Madurai following the district administration’s order. K. Tirunavakarasu, a fish shop owner in Narimedu, said that residents from the area did not venture out to shop. “Seeing the rise in number of COVID-19 positive cases, people are also a bit apprehensive. Narimedu, Mattuthavani and K. Pudur, the areas with markets, have COVID-19 cases. It is not a good time to venture out,” he said. Former secretary of Madurai Corporation Fish Vendors Association Rahat Ulillah said that sellers themselves were concerned about contracting the disease. “If we contract COVID-19, we will have to be admitted to a hospital. This will mean loss of income for at least 14 days. Our health is also at risk,” he said.
22 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Patients demand better food||Patients at COVID-19 special wing of Government Rajaji Hospital here staged a protest on Sunday saying they were being served food of poor quality. But Dean J. Sangumani said the food being served was consistently good but for occasional glitches. One of the patients said they gathered around 9 p.m. on Saturday and again on Sunday to protest against both poor quality of food and lack of drinking water. “We were given very hard idlis. An elderly man on the bed next to mine soaked his idli in hot water and ate it,” he said. Another patient said the food usually came very late. A woman said many people did not eat the food served to them. “Some old people with major health issues have attendants to look after them. They go out and buy them food. The rest of us do not have a choice,” she said. The Dean said the idli would be replaced by something more appetising. Since different people prefered food cooked in different ways, it was a problem purely of taste. “We are accommodating requests though food is cooked in bulk,” he said. He said attendants were not allowed to go out of the hospital and security personnel had been posted on all floors.
22 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tamils coming from abroad being fleeced by State govt., says MP||Su. Venkatesan, MP, has charged that Tamils returning to India from foreign countries through chartered flights by pooling their resources and through sponsors were fleeced by the Tamil Nadu government. The State government was collecting over Rs. 20,000 from each passenger for the mandatory paid services for COVID-19 tests and quarantine facility, he said in a statement. “They are charged even for their transport from airport to quarantine facility,” he said. “Kerala Government is not collecting any such money for these services from people who come by chartered flights,” he said. The Centre and State were ignoring the Tamils living abroad, especially those in Gulf countries, as not many flights were being operated for them. Out of 1,175 Vande Bharat flight services operated to evacuate Indians living abroad, 279 flights were operated to Kerala. Among them, 238 were from Gulf countries and they brought back 20,000 people to Kerala. However, only 14,000 Tamils from various countries, including 5,000 from Gulf countries, have returned through 53 flight services. He flayed the Tamil Nadu Government for having failed to press for more flights for evacuation of Tamils stranded in various countries. “At this rate, it will take at least another two months to bring back hundreds of Tamils who have registered for returning home,” he said. Mr. Venkatesan said that government should appoint a special officer to deal with stranded Tamils in foreign soil. For many of them, their visa period had expired. Many had lost their jobs. Among them there were pregnant women, aged people and those who have lost their dear ones back home.
22 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Core beliefs will see you through hard times’||Entrepreneurship is a lonely journey and one mustsail through hard times by holding on to core beliefs, said Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Groom India Salon C. K. Kumaravel here on Saturday. He was speaking at the online launch of Thendral, an initiative by NativeLead Foundation to promote mental well-being among start-up entrepreneurs. Thendral was started by Founder of iMMI Life Health Care Manick Rajendran. Mr. Kumaravel said one can often feel alone and vulnerable to attacks. “I often repeat anecdotes of strength and courage.There is nobody in the world without problems,” he said. Trustee with Bhoomika Trust Aruna Subramaniam; Consultant and Founder and CEO of Live Life Education Kannan Gireesh and entrepreneur Shanmuga Priya were present.Mr. Gireesh said silence was dangerous during times of crisis and people must reach out to resolve internal qualms. Nativelead Foundation's CEO Sivarajah Ramanathan organised the programme.
22 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Goat, sheep to be given with 90% financial aid||To promote goat and sheep rearing in the district, the Animal Husbandry department will distribute sheep and goats to farmers with 90% financial assistance. Regional Joint Director of Animal Husbandry D. Suresh Christopher said this programme was implemented under the National Livestock Mission 2019-20. Madurai is among the 21 districts in Tamil Nadu selected for the scheme. Dr. Christopher said the idea was to motivate landless, small and marginal farmers to opt for sheep and goat rearing in their backyard or in common property, thereby improving their household income and their nutritional intake. “In the past few years, there has been a great increase in demand for mutton and hence goat and sheep rearing has become a profitable business,” he added. In Madurai, four blocks - Vadipatti, Sedapatti, T. Kallupatti and Kallikudi - had been chosen for the implementation of the scheme. From each block, 45 landless farmers would be selected. While the financial assistance provided by the Central and State government were 60% and 30% respectively, the beneficiary had to bear the rest. Each farmer would get 10 high-yielding adult female sheep or goats and one male sheep or goat. While the total cost was Rs. 66,000, a farmer had to pay Rs. 6,600. Clusters A five-member group will be formed for each veterinary dispensary jurisdiction, which will select the beneficiaries from potential villages from each block to form a cluster. “We are focussing on forming a cluster as it will be useful for the beneficiaries to pool in resources and have collective livestock farming in the future. Our ultimate aim is to form a Livestock Producer Company so that the farmers can trade their produce for good prices and earn profits,” he said. Preference will be given to below poverty line women farmers, widows and differently abled people. A minimum of 30% of beneficiaries would belong to Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes.Interested farmers can approach the nearest veterinary dispensary with necessary documents before June 25.
22 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Twins born to COVID-19 patient test negative||Twins born to a 45-year-old woman, who succumbed to COVID-19 on Friday, tested negative for COVID-19, said Government Rajaji Hospital Dean J. Sangumani. He said the babies were handed over to the father. The woman was considered a high-risk patient when she was admitted to the hospital on June 16. “She was a diabetic for 15 years and had two other children. She conceived the babies through In vitro fertilization (IVF) and was admitted to a private hospital before delivery. Since she tested positive for COVID-19, she was redirected to our hospital,” he said. Head of Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology N. Sumathi said they performed a C-section. She also had a ruptured membrane which added to the complications. “The patient had fever and experienced distress on the third day after delivery. Unfortunately, we lost the patient,” she said. Dedicated facility Dr. Sumathi said that for taking care of pregnant women, a postgraduate doctor is on call at all times at the COVID-19 speciality hospital. “In case an emergency C-section needs to be performed, we have a stand-by team. A dedicated operating theatre for COVID-19 deliveries has also been created,” she said.
22 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Gang beheads 24-year-old man in Madurai||In a suspected case of revenge murder, a 24-year-old youth K. Muthuselvam was hacked to death by a gang that also severed his head in Avaniapuram on Sunday. Police said the youth was waylaid by the armed gang at Thanthai Periyar Nagar around 6 p.m. and done to death. The deceased was an accused in the murder of one Mari in 2019.
22 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 45.50 crore allocated for micro-irrigation||A sum of Rs. 45.50 crore has been allotted for Madurai district for providing drip and sprinkler irrigation facilities for horticulture crops. The funds had been sanctioned for 6,500 hectares under Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana. Deputy Director of Horticulture (in charge) S. Kalaiselvan said in a release that horticulture crops were grown on 29,500 hectares in Madurai district. For the past three years, sprinkler and drip irrigation facilities were provided for 6,200 hectares. Micro irrigation helped in having higher yields with optimal usage of water. There will also be a reduction in pest attack and growth of weeds. He said 100% subsidy would be given to marginal farmers for land holding up to one hectare, and for small farmers 100% subsidy would be given for land holding up to two hectares. For other farmers, a subsidy of 75% would be given for land holding up to five hectares.Interested farmers can submit their applications with the respective office of the Block Assistant Director (Horticulture).
22 June 2020||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||69 fresh cases reported in Madurai||Sixty-nine persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai district on Sunday, taking the tally to 705. Doctors at Government Rajaji Hospital said it was expected to rise. Of the 69 fresh cases, 68 were indigenous cases. The number of active cases went up by 100 in a single day from 316 from 216 on Saturday. Tirunelveli district reported 28 new cases for the second consecutive day on Sunday. The number of active cases stood at 225. In Thoothukudi, two persons tested positive, taking the tally to 577. The number of active cases is 310. Sailors test positive Three more sailors from the Philippines, who reached VOC Port from Indonesia on June 15, tested positive on Sunday. Doctors at Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital said a sailor had already tested positive on June 18. Policemen affected A 27-year-old policeman posted at Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital and another working in Tiruchendur Taluk police station tested positive. Twenty-three persons tested positive in Tenkasi. Though the doctors maintained that there were more imported cases than indigenous cases, sanitary inspectors felt that there was lack of cooperation from the public, who continued to neglect health guidelines. Kanniyakumari district recorded six fresh cases, and the tally went up to 168. A pastor was among the cases. As many as 120 people who had met him were advised home-quarantine. Ramanathapuram Ramanathapuram witnessed 30 fresh cases taking its tally to 299. Keelakarai and Ramanathapuram continued to be COVID-19 hotspots. A 46-year-old man from Ramanathapuram, who was undergoing treatment at Government Sivaganga Medical Collecge Hospital, died on Sunday. Sivaganga reported 20 new cases. However, its tally dropped to 75, after cross-notification of cases to other districts, especially Chennai. There are 25 active cases. Dindigul In Dindigul, 27 fresh cases, most of them with travel history, were recorded. They were from Nilakottai, Batlagundu, Chinnalapatti, Vilampatti, Oddanchatiram, Ambathurai, Gujiliamparai, Dindigul, Vedasandur and Natham. Only two from Vakkampatti and Vadamadurai had contacts with positive cases. Theni accounted for seven fresh cases, and its tally rose to 200. While three persons had returned from Chennai, the others had contracted the virus through contacts. A doctor at the Collectorate Control Room also tested positive. The patients were from Odaipatti, Theni, T. Sindalaiseri and Uthamapalayam.  Virudhunagar Virudhunagar recorded 13 fresh cases, which took the tally to 203 and the number of active cases to 64. A COVID-19 patient escaped from Government Virudhunagar Medical College Hospital. Police and health officials traced him to the town.
22 June 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Dull export market proves to be a choppy sea for mechanised trawlers||The Fisheries Department has made arrangements, in adherence to safety protocols to prevent spread of COVID–19 virus, for sale of catches netted by mechanised trawlers from Monday after the ban period ends at the harbours in the coastal districts of delta region, but there are indications that only less number of boats will venture into the sea due to unfavourable conditions. Operators of mechanised trawlers are not convinced about the possibility for reasonable returns for the catches as the export market for the marine products remains dull due to COVID–19 lockdown conditions worldwide. According to officials, the bulk of the catches in the coastal districts gets transported to the processing plants in Kerala from where products like shrimps and squids get exported to other countries. European countries have scaled down and some have even cancelled their earlier orders, leaving exporters in the lurch. Another reason why fish merchants are wary about procuring the catches in large quantities is the struggle being faced by processing units in Kerala due to sudden decline in manpower after exodus of the North Indian labour force to their respective States. Though the lockdown restrictions have been stepped up in Coimbatore district through which the fish loads have to pass, transport will not be a problem since the marine products have also been categorised under essential commodities. “Though the export market is dull, the requirement for marine products will still be on the higher side in Kerala, since there is a requirement for internal consumption what with the 45-day fishing ban period starting in the State from June 15”, Joint Director of Fisheries in Nagapattinam district Amal Raj Xavier said. According to a senior official of MPEDA (Marine Products Exports Development Authority), China was the only country where the marine products were exported so far. The current military stand-off between India and China has raised fears among exporters about further decline in overseas market, the official said.
22 June 2020||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Yoga day observed in Nagercoil||Observing World Yoga Day, a large number of people performedasanasmaintaining physical distancing at their homes here on Sunday. Former Union Minister Pon. Radhakrishnan also joined by performing yoga at his residence here. Like last year, the large gatherings at Vivekananda Rock and at educational institutions were missing this time due to COVID-19 pandemic. However, many residents performed the yoga from the terrace and shared happy messages on the Yoga Day. According to a faculty member in Hindu College, many enthusiastically performed independently ensuring that there was no crowding.
22 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry to reimpose curbs from tomorrow||Restrictions on the timings of shops and hotels will be reimposed for ten days from Tuesday. Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, who chaired a Puducherry State Disaster Management Authority meeting on COVID-19 related activities, said shops and petrol pumps can be open from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. Hotels will be allowed to serve food on their premises on the basis of norms during this period and can only provide takeaways till 9 p.m. Milk booths will function from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. Fine for not wearing a mask has been doubled to Rs. 200. The meeting was attended by PWD Minister A. Namassivayam, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao, Welfare Minister M. Kandasamy, Revenue Minister M.O.H.F. Shahjahan, Agriculture Minister R. Kamalakkannan, Rajya Sabha MP N. Gokulakrishnan, Lok Sabha MP V. Vaithilingam, Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar, DGP Balai Srivastava and Collector T. Arun.
22 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||10,554 students take Jipmer PG entrance exam||Jipmer conducted the PG entrance examination for admission to MD/MS/MDS and PDF/PDCC courses for the July 2020 session on Sunday in 133 centres across 105 cities, including five in Puducherry. A total of 10,554 out of 16,357 (65%) registered candidates appeared for 127 MD/MS/MDS seats and 222 out of 318 (69%) registered candidates appeared for 22 PDF/PDCC seats., a Jipmer press note said. Considering the COVID-19 situation, Jipmer was made the command centre with live streaming from all examination centres. TCS provided the technical support for holding the examination. Iris scanners were used to capture biometric information of all the candidates and the entire entrance examination process was video recorded, the press release said. The candidates’ requests for change of examination centres were accepted till the day prior to the examination. The entrance examination results will be declared on or before June 27 on the Jipmer website (www.jipmer.edu.in) and will also be posted on the notice board at the Jipmer Academic Centre.
22 June 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||One death, 31 new cases in Puducherry||The Union Territory’s COVID-19 victim count increased to eight with the death of a 64-year-old patient at Jipmer on Sunday. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, while expressing concern over the COVID trajectory, said,“It is only personal responsible behaviour which will prevent the speed of the spread.”
22 June 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable shops to function from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. in Pudukottai district||Shops selling vegetables and fruits in the district will function from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. from June 22 in view of the spread of COVID-19. A resolution to this effect was adopted at an urgent meeting of the 'Kai Kani Vyabaarigal Nala Sangam' held here on Sunday. The resolution further said vegetable and fruits shops would definitely close at 2 p.m. The sangam treasurer S. Kalimuthu said the move had been taken to extend support to the government in its fight against the spread of the viral disease. The sangam has asked the traders to necessarily wear mask while selling vegetables and fruits. He said the shops would not sell vegetables or fruits to those public coming to the outlets without wearing mask.
22 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Residents witness solar eclipse in Salem||People gathered following physical distancing norms near the Salem Steel Plant to witness the annular solar eclipse here on Sunday. T. Jayamurugan, State resource person for astronomy of Tamil Nadu Science Forum organised an eclipse viewing session near the steel plant. Partial eclipse was witnessed here from around 10.15 a.m. Mr. Jayamurugan said that two telescopes, pinhole cameras and solar filter glasses were arranged to view the eclipse in a safe manner. He said that all safety measures were taken for the viewing session. Mr. Jayamurugan said that eclipses are rare celestial wonder and there is nothing to fear about it. He added that in ancient days it was believed that a snake was swallowing the sun. He added that since the moon doesn’t cover the entire plain of the sun, a ring of fire appears. Mr. Jayamurugan said that 34% of eclipse was visible from Salem. There is no harm in consuming food during the eclipse, he added. “Several scientists have conducted studies in this regard and there is no harm in consuming food during eclipse nor does food items turn stale due to eclipse”, he said.
22 June 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Cases registered against 27 in Salem||The district administration through police have registered cases against 27 persons for entering Salem district without e-pass and for not undergoing medical checks here. District Collector S.A. Raman said that strict surveillance is being carried out in the district through various departments and legal action would be taken against persons who travel to the district without e-pass.
22 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Dispose of masks, gloves in safe manner’||The Salem Corporation advised the public to dispose of used masks and gloves in a safe manner as unsafe disposal could lead to spread of communicable diseases. In a release, Corporation Commissioner R.Sadheesh advised the public not to discard used masks and gloves in the open or in dustbins and drains as it could clog drains and also lead to spread of diseases. The public should pack the used masks and gloves in paper and hand them over separately to sanitary workers visiting their houses for door-to-door waste collection. The waste collected was discarded through authorised agency, the Corporation officials said. The Corporation also advised the public to use reusable cloth masks instead of disposable masks.
22 June 2020||SALEM/NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||40 cases registered in Namakkal||Namakkal district police registered 40 cases and detained seven vehicles for violating prohibitory orders here on Saturday. Salem district police registered eight cases against 13 persons and detained five vehicles.
22 June 2020||Staff Reporter Salem,TAMIL NADU||Patient leaves hospital, brought back||A COVID-19 patient, who was undergoing treatment at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, went missing on Saturday. According to police, the patient, who is charged with murder, went to his residence near Ethapur. Ethapur police, who were alerted, brought him back to the hospital on Saturday evening.
22 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Counselling||Ninety persons have been provided with counselling to allay fears and misconceptions about the COVID-19 pandemic over mobile phone by the staff of the psychiatric treatment wing at the Government District Headquarters Hospital, Kumbakonam. Individuals who need counselling in this regard can contact 97862 53527 or 97518 49953 or 94424 04953 to avail the counselling service, according to a press release.
22 June 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Theni district bags Skoch Gold award||Theni district has bagged the Skoch Gold award for water conservation and management of water bodies at the national level, said Collector M Pallavi Baldev here on Sunday. She said it is a reward for the hard work of officials from various departments with support from stakeholders and dedication of people. “Over 130 districts were in the fray for this award. We feel proud that Theni has been adjudged winner in this category,” she said. She said 12 interventions were devised which included survey of waterbodies, eviction of encroachment, private public contribution, silt removal, creation of farm ponds, curbing illegal sand mining, green cover through Miyawaki technique, rejuvenating defunct borewells and treating and recycling of water, among others. Though flanked by Mullaiperiyar, Vaigai and Sothuparai dams, the district administration planned to rejuvenate waterbodies as farmers could not bank on unpredictable monsoon year after year. To ensure that the greenery remained in the agrarian district, officials worked towards achieving the goal with the aid of village maps. The kudimaramathu project not only helped generate employment but also boosted confidence of farmers to carry on cultivation season after season. Instead of depending on rain, a majority of farmers have their own source of water for irrigation now, Ms. Baldev said. By digging farm ponds in 561 locations under the MGNREG programme since 2017, small and marginal farmers have their own source today. Not only the water was used for irrigation but also to quench the thirst of milch animals. Under the public-private partnership route, over 225 tanks including 30 PWD tanks were taken up after spending Rs. 10.62 crore. This year alone, 12 minor irrigation tanks and 172 ‘ooranis’ were rejuvenated at a cost of Rs. 2.27 crore, the Collector said and added that water conservation work fetched desired results in Andipatti, a dry belt, as the water table had improved there. In the coming years, there is a good scope for the area turning green. Over the last two years, rainwater harvesting structures were created in 95,868 houses and 2,586 government buildings. The PWD officials said a toll-free number was established exclusively for the people to pass on information regarding illegal sand mining. Habitual offenders were punished and vehicles were impounded. They said close to 1.75 lakh cubic metres of silt was removed leading to enhancement of 10 % of storage capacity at Sothuparai dam. Ms Pallavi Baldev said the green programme initiative had resulted in at least 18.5 % more area under cultivation. With 1.46 lakh saplings planted and 2,500 illegal taps disconnected, the district looked confident in marching forward.
22 June 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||250 Indians to arrive from Maldives||Around 250 stranded Indians from Maldives will arrive at VOC Port here in the early hours of Tuesday. The district administration, in coordination with port and customs officials, will receive the passengers will be brought by INS Airawath. Under ‘Operation Samudhra,’ the Union government has made arrangements to bring home people stranded in different countries due to COVID-19 pandemic. On June 2, 713 Indians arrived from Sri Lanka, while 700 passengers were brought from Maldives by INS Jalaswa on June 7. The naval ship, which is carrying 250 passengers from Maldives Port, is expected to reach VOC Port on Tuesday morning. Official sources say, the passengers will board special buses to reach their destination. Residents of Thoothukudi and other States will be quarantined here. On June 28, about 700 fishermen stranded in Iran will arrive at the port.
22 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees a sudden spurt with 152 cases||The central region witnessed a sudden surge with detection of of 152 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday. While Thanjavur had the highest number of 49 cases, Tiruchi had 36 cases. There were 30 fresh cases in Tiruvarur, 25 in Nagapattinam, seven in Ariyalur, five in Karur, and one case in Pudukottai district. A 74-year-old patient suffering from COVID-19 related symptoms, who was a family member of a staff nurse attached to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, died at the GH. He was admitted on June 4 and died after his pre-existing conditions such as blood pressure and asthma further complicated his heath condition. The body was handed over to the Tiruchi City Corporation for quick disposal. In Tiruchi, 26 out of the 36 cases were from the city limits such as Gujili Street, Big Bazaar Street, West Boulevard Road, Ramasamy Street, Devathanam, Edamalaipatti Pudur, Thillai Nagar and surrounding areas. There were also two each from Manapparai and Manikandam. Of the total 266 cases treated so far, 167 have recovered and discharged from the Tiruchi MGMGH. Meanwhile as many as 107 patients including two from Tiruchi, seven from Ariyalur, three from Perambalur, two from Kallakurichi, one from Karur, three from Cuddalore, three from Thanjavur, one from Namakkal, one from Nagapattinam, five from Tirunelveli, two from Tenkasi, two from Virudhunagar, four from Chennai and one from Karaikal are undergoing treatment. In Thanjavur, 49 patients have tested positive for the virus while in Tiruvarur, 30 tested positive and are being treated. In Nagapattinam, 25 people, including 11 women tested positive for the viral infection. Of the 25 people, 14 returned from Chennai, while two were local patients. One patient travelled from Kallakurichi, one from Kanchipuram, one from Tiruppur, two from Chengalpattu and one from Thoothukudi district. In Ariyalur six people, including a five-year-old boy and one woman tested positive for COVID-19. The five-year-old returned from Thirukkovalur in Kallakurichi. His parents did not test positive, officials said. A 50-year-old man returned from Kerala and tested positive for the virus. The other four- are all men aged 45, 27, 25 and 55 who returned from Chennai to their home towns in the district. All have been admitted to the Ariyalur Government Headquarters Hospital for treatment. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Ariyalur is 420. However, 389 patients have recovered and returned home. A total of 121 new throat swabs were also lifted from people in the district. In Karur, five people all who returned to the districts from other districts in the State tested positive. The patients have been admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital for treatment. The sole patient who tested positive in Pudukottai on Sunday is undergoing treatment at the Ranee's Government Hospital. The patient is stable and is responding well to treatment officials here said.
22 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Woman held for killing mother, younger sister||The death of a 65-year-old woman and her 28-year-old daughter at Ayyalur village in neighbouring Perambalur district a few days ago under suspicious circumstances has turned out to be a case of double murder committed by none other than her elder daughter whose son was also an accomplice. The Maruvathur Police in Perambalur district which had initially registered a case under section 174 (iii) of the Code of Criminal Procedure has altered it under IPC section 302 (murder) by arresting R. Valli (35) and detaining her 15-year-old son on the charge of committing the double murder following an investigation. Police gave the names of the deceased as T. Rani and S. Rajeswari - the youngest of three daughters of the aged woman, a widow. Rajeswari whose husband is working abroad has been staying with her mother at Ayyalur. The second daughter Valli whose husband is also employed abroad was staying in the same village along with her minor son. Police sources said Rani and Rajeswari were found dead in their house on June 19 following which the Maruvathur Police launched an investigation into the case. The strangulation marks apparently noticed on the neck of Rajeswari triggered suspicion prompting the police to treat it initially as death under suspicious circumstances. During a detailed probe, the role of Valli behind the killings was established, the police said. Sources said Valli was apparently irked over her mother's reported soft corner towards the youngest daughter Rajeswari by way of handing over cash and jewellery. The sources said Rajeswari had reportedly mortgaged her mother’s gold chain and ear studs in a bank and obtained money which was not to the liking of Valli. An argument is said to have broken out between Valli and her mother over this issue a few days ago. The sources said Valli allegedly mixed pesticide in the cough syrup and gave it to her mother and her 15-year-old son reportedly held the legs of the aged woman causing her death. Rajeswari who was asleep at that time was allegedly strangulated with a rope.
22 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Avid skywatchers come together online as they witness celestial spectacle||Experts advised avid skywatchers and enthusiasts in the city not to venture outdoors in search of facilities to watch the partial solar eclipse that was visible in the city from 10. 15 am onwards. Videos on how to make home-made devices to watch the eclipse was circulated so enthusiasts could witness the celestial event even amid the pandemic. Lenin Tamilkovan, former head, Anna Science Planetarium, said that planetariums across the State were shut and officials were instructed not to permit entry to visitors. “Even though it is an interesting event to witness, it is unfortunate that we could not organise an event around it. However, discussions on video-calls among enthusiasts kept the event alive,” he said. Mr. Tamilkovan said that mirrors, shadows, a bucket of water to view the reflection were all suggested to viewers. “There has been no report of any problem which means that everyone stayed safe and did not view the eclipse directly,” he said. K. Balakrishnan, Principal, Bharathi Matriculation School, who is a science enthusiast and organises viewings at the school was disappointed that he was unable to do so this year. “I organised a group video call with around 100 students. Question-answer sessions were encouraged and students asked questions about the cause of the event and the reason they are asked not to see it directly,” he said. The Tamil Nadu Science Forum, and faculty and students of the Department of Physics, Jamal Mohammed College, took part in the discussions organised by Mr. Balakrishnan. He dispelled rumours of the solar eclipse’s connection to COVID-19. “Children asked if coronavirus would go away after the virus and we had to explain to them that it was fake news,” he said. Interestingly, the corona of the sun is the outermost layer of the sun’s atmosphere. On a lighter note, he said when the children heard the word corona, they thought it to be the virus.
22 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||As social distancing goes slack, civic body mulls restricting business hours||City Corporation authorities are contemplating restriction of business hours of shops and business establishments along important streets due to apparent large-scale violation of social distancing norms. Officials of revenue and the Tiruchi Corporation are understood to have stepped up surveillance on shops and business houses located on various streets such as Big Bazaar Street, Singarathope, NSB road, Chinnakadari Street, Peria Kammala Street and others to check the efficacy of social distancing norms among the customers and traders. They noted that though the percentage of awareness on wearing face mask had gone up, many customers and a section of traders continued to violate the social distancing norms, thereby giving room for the spread of the COVID–19 virus. It has been found that unmindful of the consequences, a section of traders too failed to impose the social distancing condition while transacting business. “It is paramount to follow all conditions imposed by the government while carrying out business transaction. We have noted that many customers and traders continue to defy the norms. If they fail to cooperate with the efforts to contain the spread of the virus, we will resort to reducing the business hours in select areas,” a senior official of the Tiruchi Corporation told The Hindu . However, it would all depend upon the ground situation. Hence, traders and customers should understand the situation and extend full cooperation to the officials in containing the spread of the virus, the official said, observing that a few COVID-19 clusters had emerged in the city. Steps were being taken to minimise the cases. Meanwhile, the time restriction imposed by the Karur district administration on business hours of shops and business establishments got operational from Sunday. As per the order, traders including textile and grocery merchants in the Karur municipal limit should close their shops at 2 p.m. The district administration has resorted to this measure following the failure of a section of traders and customers to adhere to the social distancing norms and rise in number of cases.
22 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Breach in Grand Anicut canal||A breach occurred in the bund of the Grand Anicut (GA) canal at Sanakarai near Peravurani, on the border of Pudukottai and Thanjavur districts, on Sunday, within a few days of water release for irrigation. A PWD lascar, who was patrolling along the bunds of the Grand Anicut canal, noticed the breach in the early hours. The water, after being released into the canal on June 16 from Grand Anicut, crossed Sanakarai on Saturday evening. The breach occurred in a stretch of 12 meters and the water flowed into a neighbouring lake. It was said that about 1,250 cusecs was flowing in the GA canal when the breach occurred. On information, the Public Works Department (PWD) officials rushed to the spot and began work on plugging the breach. Besides the field staff of the PWD, about 150 workers have been engaged in the operation. A few earth movers too were utilised, besides bulldozers and tippers, to plug the breech. R.A. Murugesan, Executive Engineer, Grand Anicut Canal, who is camping at the site, told The Hindu that water had not gone waste as it was flowing into a lake. There were four lakes in the area. All of them were interconnected. After filling up of the first lake, water would be diverted to other lakes. There was no need to decrease the water flow in the Grand Anicut canal as branch canals such as Kalyana Odai, Pudupattinam Vaickal and others, which were branching off from the Grand Anicut canal ahead of the breach site, had been opened for carrying water to the paddy fields. Mr. Murugesan said that it was estimated that at least 3,000 sand bags would be required for plugging the breach. The operation would be carried out round the clock. The Executive Engineer said that ‘mottu’ (big hole beneath the bund) would have caused the breach. The breach would be plugged within a day or two. After arresting the seepage, water would be carried in the lower reaches of the canal from the breach site, the official said.
22 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Another batch of expats arrive||A total number of 181 expatriates arrived here from Singapore by an Air India Express flight on Sunday. The flight landed at around 7 p.m. after which the passengers were subjected to screening by medical teams deployed at the airport. Swab tests were being done on all passengers and vehicles were being provided for their return to their respective districts. Earlier, an Air India flight with 170 Singapore nationals who were stranded due to lockdown left from here.
22 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NIT-T Director is president of Shastri Indo-Canadian Institute||Mini Shaji Thomas, Director, National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi, has taken over as president of the Shastri Indo-Canadian Institute (SICI) at the annual general meeting of the organisation held over video conference on Saturday. Dr.Thomas was vice-president 2019 and the president-Elect for 2020. Prof. John Kershaw from University of New Brunswick,Canada, took over as the vice-president of SICI, according to a NIT-T press release. The initiatives of SICI support the creation of bi-national links between academia, government, the business community and civil society organisations in India and Canada by funding research and hosting seminars. The Shastri Indo-Canadian Institute was initiated in 1968 in Canada, by the Government of Canada in 1968, and became bi-national in 2005. It has 114 premier academic institutions as its members in India and 42 universities in Canada. The institutes’ scope has expanded as well to include law, management, arts, information science, environment, science and technology including biotechnology along with humanities and social sciences.
22 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 96.63 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 1,213 cusecs and the discharge was 9,997 cusecs.
22 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Karukurichi earthenware to be placed on e-commerce portals soon, says Collector||Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish is making efforts to sell earthenware being produced by Karukurichi Earthenware Manufacturers’ Cooperative Society worldwide through leading e-commerce portals including Amazon and Flipkart. Ms. Shilpa, who has released Rs. 38,000 from the Collector’s Discretionary Funds to the society for purchasing two soil grinding machines to increase production and quality of the product, handed over the money to the society on Saturday. The earthenware manufacturers of Karukurichi make cooking vessels, pots, lamps, ornamental flower pots, decorative dolls for parks and home gardens. Interacting with the manufacturers, Ms. Shilpa, who released Rs. 20,400 last year for buying motorised wheel, said the society sold earthenware worth Rs. 27.61 lakh during 2019 –20. It should improve the quality and increase production to reach the global market. Since Karukurichi’s eco-friendly earthenware had earned the goodwill of consumers, manufacturers should strive hard to reach new domestic and foreign markets through modern facilities, including e-commerce portals. The soil grinding machines would help improve the production and quality of the earthernware, she said.
22 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||200 saplings planted under Miyawaki method in Tirunelveli||The corporation has planted 200 saplings on the premises of its Urban Primary Health Centre at Perumalpuram in Palayamkottai under the Miyawaki method on Saturday. This method has been successfully used to create forests in urban areas. It requires less space and degradable waste can be used for nourishing the saplings. On seeing unused area on the PHC campus, Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan hit upon the idea of utilising it. Developed by Japanese expert Akira Miyawaki, this method involved growing dozens of native species close to each other so that the plants received sunlight only from the top and grew upwards instead of sideways, he said.  Creating forests “You can virtually create forests even within cities and thus facilitate better rainfall,” Mr. Kannan said. The Commissioner plans to plant 17,000 saplings in all four zones. “Wherever there is adequate space, we’ll go in for Miyawaki method,” he said. City Engineer L.K. Bhaskar, Assistant Commissioner of Melapalayam Zone Sughi Premala and Assistant Executive Engineer of Melapalayam zone Lenin were present.
22 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Four test positive in Tiruppur district||Four persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tiruppur district on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 123. The first case was a 25-year-old man from Tiruchi, who was staying in Chennai for the past one year, Health Department sources said. He reached Erode from Chennai via a train on June 17 where the swab samples were lifted and went to Kangeyam in Tiruppur district in a car. The second and third cases -- a 56-year-old woman and a 61-year-old man -- had permanent addresses in Chennai. Both visited Tiruppur on June 17 separately and their samples were lifted. The 61-year-old man is asymptomatic till date, according to the sources. A 44-year-old man from Palladam, who was staying in Chennai for 15 days and reached Tiruppur on June 18 in a private taxi, was the fourth case. This patient is also asymptomatic till date. The 25-year-old patient was admitted to Government IRT Perundurai Medical College and Hospital in Erode district and the 61-year-old man was admitted to a private hospital in Coimbatore. The remaining two patients were admitted to Government Medical College and ESI Hospital, Coimbatore. Contact tracing and sample lifting processes are under way, sources said. Out of the 123 overall COVID-19 positive cases in Tiruppur district, seven patients including one imported case are active cases and 116 patients have recovered as on Sunday.
22 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. considering setting up cattle shandies in rural areas’||Minister for Animal Husbandry Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan said that the State government will consider setting up cattle shandies in rural areas. Speaking to reporters after inspecting the Kudimaramathu works at villages in Kangeyam block recently, Mr. Radhakrishnan said that most of the cattle shandies are located in urban areas. They have not been reopened yet to avoid overcrowding and spread of COVID-19, he said. Kudimaramathu scheme A total of 132 works under the Kudimaramathu scheme are being carried out in Tiruppur district at at cost of Rs. 13.93 crore. Nearly 1.3 hectares of agricultural land would be benefited in Udumalpet, Madathukulam, Dharapuram, Palladam and Kangeyam blocks, the Minister said.
22 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Kotagiri farmers come together amid pandemic||While the COVID-19 pandemic proved to be an extremely challenging time for farmers in the Nilgiris, it could have inadvertently forced small farmers to come together and eliminate the need to pay commissions to middlemen and ensure they get better prices for their produce. One such effort, spearheaded by the Horticulture and Agricultural Marketing departments in the Nilgiris, has paid rich dividends to hundreds of farmers in and around Kotagiri. Known as the Kotagiri Collective Farming Farmers Producers’ Organisation, the registered company, which counts over a 1,000 farmers from 10 Farmers Producers’ Groups (FPG) among its members, has managed to move around 450 tonnes of vegetables during the last three months. “When the pandemic hit, the prices of vegetables like carrots and potatoes and other hill produces crashed due to restrictions in movement between districts and other factors. This led many farmers to dump their produce or to be used as cattle fodder,” said R. Chandran, a farmer from Kotagiri. “To prevent such instances from happening, the collective in Kotagiri, which purchased a pick-up truck with assistance from the government, offered to procure vegetables from farmers in the Kotagiri block and also in Thengumarahada. They then transported the vegetables to other districts such as Tiruppur, Coimbatore and Erode, as well as to the states of Kerala and Karnataka. This ensured that farmers received a decent price for their harvest,” said Vetrivel Kumar, Assistant Agriculture Officer, Kotagiri Block. Farmers, who had been forced to sell their produce for a pittance to middlemen looking to take advantage of the lack of demand for their produce, managed to get anywhere between Rs. 3 to Rs. 6 extra for a kg of their produce because of the collective, said a farmer. Over the last three months, more than 450 tonnes of produce, worth Rs. 90 lakh have been procured from farmers and moved to markets in the Nilgiris and surrounding districts. The pandemic has put down immense challenges, which has served to strengthen the position of farmers who are part of FPGs across the district, said T. Kalaivani, Agricultural Officer, Udhagamandalam. The Horticulture Department said it had set up cold-storage facilities and processing centres where farmers could come and store vegetables if they were unable to send them to the market or unable to get a good price for their crop.
22 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Police clamp down on tourists trying to enter the Nilgiris illegally||With increasing instances of tourists trying to enter the Nilgiris illegally being reported, the district police have started registering cases and seizing vehicles of tourists from Saturday. Nilgiris District Superintendent of Police V. Sasi Mohan said that till Saturday people trying to enter the district without valid reasons or without documentation proving that they were local residents were being sent back at border checkposts. However, to serve as a deterrent against people from trying to enter the Nilgiris illegally, the police have started registering cases under Section 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. Since Saturday, 10 cases have been registered and seven vehicles have been seized by the police, Mr. Sasi Mohan said. The SP said that on average, between 700 and a thousand vehicles are entering the district mostly via the Kunjapanai and Burliar checkposts, and that most of the people trying to enter the Nilgiris are tourists or people who own guest houses in the district. The police said that many people are trying to sneak into the district by taking a detour through reserve forests and circumventing the checkposts. The police are working with the forest department to patrol these areas and prevent people from using the forests as cover to enter the Nilgiris. “Many people are also stopping at tea shops and eateries at the checkposts and are then using vehicles with a Nilgiris registration to enter, so local DSPs have held meetings with these shop owners to discourage people from doing so,” said Mr. Sasi Mohan. Village vigilance committees, involving two members of each village have been formed in 350 locations, to intimate police about the entry of outsiders into the district. Police officials said that police personnel have been posted at all 16 border checkposts, with increased strength at Kunjapanai and Burliar. All checkposts bordering Kerala and Karnataka are closed to private vehicles, unless the people travelling in these vehicles have valid E-passes, police officials said.
22 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Mahouts, assistants trained in managing elephants||A total of 44 mahouts and their cavadis (assistants to mahouts), were part of a one-day training programme designed to impart new techniques in management of captive elephants as well as safer techniques to drive away, capture and translocate problematic wild elephants. The training was held at the Theppakadu Elephant Camp in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR). According to officials, three kumki elephants in the elephant camp were used to impart the training. S. Senbagapriya, Deputy Director of MTR (Core Area), said that the training, which is part of the Ministry of Environment and Forests’ “Project Elephant” is a refreshment training programme to first and foremost, keep mahouts and their assistants well-trained with the techniques of management of captive elephants. “These techniques are crucial in ensuring that elephants at the camp are healthy, and have a good quality of life,” said Ms. Senbagapriya. Apart from the management of captive elephants, the participants were also given training on how to handle the kumkis when dealing with problematic elephants. “Right from driving operations to capturing an elephant to loading it into a truck for transportation to its release, the mahouts were imparted training on new and improved techniques to keep both the kumki and the wild elephant safe and without injury,” said K.K. Kaushal, Field Director of MTR. “These kinds of training programmes will ensure that captive elephants do not experience any stress in the camp, while also promoting safer techniques when dealing with wild elephants,” added Mr. Kaushal. Also present at the training on Wednesday were forest rangers from both the Theppakadu Reception Range and the Mudumalai Range. N.S. Manoharan, additional director (retired), Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services, was also a guest at the event.
22 June 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||110 people test positive in Vellore||On Sunday, 110 persons, including 33 residents of police quarters tested positive for COVID-19 in the district, according to officials. Collector A. Shanmuga Sundaram instructed officials manning the check-posts to be more vigilant on movement of vehicles and residents. “Those from lockdown areas such as Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet should undergo swab test compulsorily when they enter Vellore and they would be allowed to be in home quarantine till the results are released. If positive they will be shifted to hospitals for treatment and their contacts would be subjected to testing,” he said. He added that there were 487 cases till Saturday, and among them 403 were Chennai-related. SARI/ILI cases account for 27 and persons with other ailments (positive for COVID-19) 57.
22 June 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Street theatre artistes fear starvation more than virus||The ongoing COVID-19 lockdown has adversely affected the livelihood of street theatre performers and folklore artistes. With temples remaining shut and public gatherings banned to ensure physical distancing, they are finding it difficult to make ends meet. “Our sources of income and livelihood opportunities have depleted,” said A. Murugan, 41, a senior street theatre performer from Poyyapakkam near Koliyanur in Villupuram district. Mr. Murugan has been performing in street plays at temples for the last 20 years. “We have to feed our families. For this, we have started working as assistants to a mason. But our income is not enough to run a family,” he said. There are nearly 6,800 street theatre performers and 365 troupes of artistes in the State. Normally, there will be no dearth of opportunities from the Tamil month of Thai to Aadi. Though there are only a few programmes at temples during Thai, opportunities are aplenty from the subsequent Tamil month of Chithirai till Aadi. “The artistes earn an average of Rs. 800 per day during such events. The few months after Aadi are the lean period, and we manage to run our families with this income,” said A. Prabha, a street theatre artiste from Melapadi. “A situation has now emerged where folk art is vanishing. The fear of dying due to starvation torments them (the artistes) more than the fear of dying due to the virus,” said R. Boobalan, an artiste from Poyyapakkam. “The government should extend assistance to the artistes who have been facing difficulties due to the lockdown,” Mr. Murugan said.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||One lakh residents to get free medical kits||Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar and Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju inaugurated distribution of kits containing medicines that will boost the immunity of residents here on Sunday, in the wake of rise in COVID-19 positive cases. Collector T.G. Vinay and Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan were present. The Revenue Minister said these kits would be distributed for free by Madurai Corporation to one lakh residents of slums in the city. Through volunteers and non-governmental organisations, these kits will be sold to the other residents of the city, he added. The Minister said that each kit would have allopathic, homeopathic and siddha medicines. Each kit will have adathoda manapagu , thalisadi tablets, kabasura kudineer, zinc, multi-vitamin and arsenicum album tablets. A kit would be sold for Rs. 100. The Cooperation Minister urged the residents to buy these kits to boost their immunity. Mr. Udhayakumar said that till date around 37,000 had procured e-pass and entered Madurai from other districts and States. Despite this huge inflow of people, the district administration had been working hard to contain active cases in the city, he added. He said that there was no need to panic for 90 new COVID-19 cases that were registered on a single day in the district. “Sometimes, test results of two or three days are released on a single day,” he said. Mr. Raju said that the civic body had been strictly monitoring the elderly population across the city. He also urged the people to cooperate with the district administration and inform if any person had come to their area from other districts without procuring an e-pass.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. faces yet another challenge in multi-level car parking project||Coimbatore Corporation that has been braving one challenge after another is facing yet another in completing the Rs. 40.78-crore multi-level car parking (MLCP) project on D.B. Road, R.S. Puram. The first challenge it faced was the contract-company executing the work proceeding at such a slow pace that it had to issue notice asking reasons. The second was the COVID-19 lockdown that saw all activities, including construction, stopped. Though the Corporation had hoped to make some progress in building the MLCP when the State Government began easing one restriction after another by allowing construction provided the workers were at the construction site, it was not to be. The company resumed work with the 50-odd labourers at the site and with the resumption the Corporation had hoped to make good some of the time lost in the lockdown but that was not to be. The civic body sources said that the resumption of special trains for migrant labourers saw them leave the site for home. The Government easing more lockdown restriction and allowing movement of people from other districts and States brought in hope to the Corporation, the sources said, adding that with the labourers it had mobilised the company had resumed work at the site. But, even if the company were to show progress at the expected pace or perhaps more, there was one more challenge that had started staring on the Corporation’s face – the import of the hardware equipment, including electronic items. The company had ordered the items from a Chinese company that operated out of Wuhan in the Hubei province, known as ground zero of COVID-19 cases. With the shipment getting stuck at a Chinese port, the Corporation was not confident of having the equipment any time soon and, therefore, had started looking for alternatives. The sources said that the Corporation had asked the company to look at Indian companies that offered automated car-parking solutions, even if it meant changes in technical specification. What the Corporation hoped for now was that the D.B. Road MLCP would not be as it had visualised, that there would be compromises and it had to choose the best among the available alternatives, if it had to complete the project within the two-year period. The Corporation had conducted the ground-breaking ceremony for the project in March 2019 and hoped to complete it by March 21. The MLCP was to house 370 cars.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Many Madurai residents view solar eclipse from home||Residents and sky gazers across the city used glasses with solar filter and projectors-like mirrors to view the partial solar eclipse from home on Sunday. T.V. Venkateswaran, senior scientist of Vigyan Prasar, said that the partial eclipse began at 10.17 a.m. and ended at 1.24 p.m. in Madurai. He said that the maximum eclipse occurred in Madurai at 11.46 a.m. when 26% of the disk of the sun was covered by the moon. M. Rajesh, district president of Tamil Nadu Science Forum (TNSF), said that it was something special to view the partial solar eclipse on Sunday as June 21 was the longest day in the year.  “But many people across the city used solar filtered glass0es to view the partial eclipse. They had bought these glasses last December when an annular solar eclipse was viewed in the city,” he said. V. Vishnu Vardhan, who along with his children viewed the partial eclipse from Mariamman Teppakulam, said that his children were excited to view the eclipse after facing boredom for the past few weeks due to the lockdown. M. O. Pandiarajan, a member of TNSF, said that around 50 residents of Muthupatti viewed the partial eclipse through his telescope with a strict enforcement of personal distancing norms.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Salem reports 12 cases, while Erode records seven||In Salem, 12 persons tested positive on Sunday. According to officials, among the patients, two cases have been reported within Salem and remaining 10 have travelled to the district from places like Chengalpattu, Chennai, Thiruvallur, Madurai and Maharashtra. The patients are undergoing treatment at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital. In Namakkal, two women, aged 77 years and 12 years respectively who had travelled to Namakkal from Chennai tested positive. They are undergoing treatment at Thiruchengode Government Hospital. In Dharmapuri, four returnees from Chennai, including a 29-year-old woman tested positive. The patients are undergoing treatment at Dharmapuri Medical College Hospital here.  Erode  Seven persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the district here on Sunday. Three members of a family at Teachers’ Colony at Guruvareddiyur in Ammapettai block, who returned from Chennai on June 18, tested positive and were admitted Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. They were a 54-year-old man, his 44-year-old wife and their 14-year-old daughter. A two-and-half-year-old boy, who along with his parents returned from Karur and Pudukottai, tested positive while his parents tested negative. The boy and his parents were admitted to the isolation ward. Among those who were tested positive were a 42-year-old woman of Valayakarar Street, a 26-year-old man, native of Chithode and working at Tiruppur, and a 40-year-old man, native of Sathyamangalam and working at the Government Hospital at Gobichettipalayam, tested positive. Currently, the total number of active cases in the district is 12 while the total number of positive cases reported in the district is 85.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Introduce free classes through TV, online platforms for special children’||As closure of special schools is expected to continue for some more months owing to the pandemic, educators and parents of children with special needs have urged the government to introduce free classes through television and online platforms to guide the parents on handling the children. Some special schools and non-governmental organisations in the city have reached out to parents through phone and have sent videos to guide them on framing a routine for their children. KS.P. Janardhan Babu, Director, M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation, which runs Aakaash Special School, said that their special educators tell the parents on how to keep their children engaged with household chores. There are also webinars conducted on parenting of special children during the lockdown. “However, there are still many students who do not have access to such options”, says S. Vignesh, Correspondent of Gurukrupa Special School, which also conducts online classes for their children. “Though some schools are conducting online classes, parents are unable to pay for them owing to their financial distress. Many parents from underprivileged families in rural areas also do not have access to such classes,” said M. Sasi Rekha, a special educator. Stressing upon the need to guide the parents, Mr. Vignesh said “with limited outdoor activities and change in their routine, the special children can become violent, unless they are engaged. Hence, parents must be sensitised on how to keep the children engaged by forming an activity-based schedule.” The lockdown has also made it difficult for parents to attend special therapy classes, said Saravanan Indravel, a parent. “But, speech and occupational therapists can teach simple techniques that the parents can teach their children at homes,” said Mr. Vignesh. Hence, the government can introduce scheduled free online classes and television programmes for special children too, said A. Chandrasekar, another parent. “They can even have experts give counselling for parents on their mental well being,” according to Mr. Chandrasekar. Johny Tom Varghese, State Commissioner for Differently Abled, said that works are under way to conduct online classes for special children by the Department of Welfare of the Differently Abled. “After formulating syllabus and necessary infrastructure, online classes will be introduced,” Mr. Varghese said.  Special educators tell parents how to keep their children engaged with household chores KS.P. Janardhan BabuDirector, M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Yoga Day celebrated||The sixth International Yoga Day was celebrated at the Srinagesh Barracks of the Madras Regimental Center in Wellington on Sunday. In a press release, the MRC stated that 850 military personnel and civilian defence staff practised yoga exercises, including “asanas, yogic kiriyas and pranayams.” “Highlighting the importance of yoga, the Commandant, Madras Regimental Center stated that the army has been practising yoga as part of its physical fitness curriculum every week,” a release said.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fringed view||
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||covid-19 update||Till June 21   Coimbatore district  No. of persons tested+ve so far: 268 Domestic cases: 257 Imported cases: 11 No. of persons recovered: 164 No. of persons died: 1 No. of active cases: 102 (Another death cross-notified to Kerala)  Tiruppur district  House quarantined: 1,737 Positive: 123 (Four fresh cases on June 21) Discharged: 116 Active cases: 7
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail - Monday - June 22, 2020||When it was announced that Dindigul was selected for improvement under Smart Cities Mission programme, road were laid with medians. But there are no platforms for pedestrians. The pavements, which were widely used in the 1970s, vanished when vehicular traffic increased. The Dindigul Corporation must ensure road safety by bringing back the vanished platforms.  V. H. K. Hariharan,  Dindigul     The occasional rain in Madurai during these summer months led to clogging of drains and sewers in Iyer Bungalow. This caused drainage water to flow on to the road and created traffic snarls. I request the authorities to look into the issue and provide a solution soon.  K. Sridharshini,  Madurai     A few days ago, I went to an ATM kiosk of a nationalised bank on South High Ground Road in Palayamkottai. There was no sanitiser or tissue paper at the entrance which was disappointing. The Centre and the State government insist on keeping sanitisers at the entrance of offices, shops and public places. Every day hundreds of customers visit these ATMs . There is every chance of some spreading COVID-19. Banks should disinfect ATMs frequently and must keep sanitisers for the safety of customers.  P. Victor Selvaraj,  Palayamkottai
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||The damaged stretch along the road from Top Sengattupatti to Thonoor has been left unattended by the State Highways Department. Residents of hamlets on the hills depend on the road that is shrinking due to growth of vegetation on the sides, to transport their agricultural produce. Travelling on the road on two-wheelers becomes all the more difficult during night time. Black-topping of the stretch from Ramanathapuram hamlet to Top Sengattupatti will be well appreciated. Saravanan Natesan  Puthanampatti   Hand wash helps effectively in containment of COVID-19 spread through the respiratory route. Frequent washing rids the hands of the virus contacted through touching infected surfaces, due to spread of virus-laden droplets released through coughs and sneezes. People need to be told that self-infection is caused by touching eyes, mouth or nose with infected hands. Alcohol-based hand sanitisers are ideal. But, when hands are dirty, soap and running water becomes necessary. M. A. Aleem  Tiruchi   Those managing grocery shops not only have to wear face masks, but also make sanitisers available to customers. Shopkeepers must be taken to task if customers are found without face masks and social distancing is not maintained. M. Raja  Tiruchi   Since take away is permitted by hotels and eateries during COVID–19 lockdown, a need has arisen to ensure use of cloth bags since discarded plastic covers are causing health hazards. Discarded plastic bags and leftovers are now becoming more visible on the roadsides. M. Sainithii Cantonment   Though Warners Road in the Cantonment area is located adjacent to the City Corporation office, disinfection activities seem to have stopped after the announcement on relaxation of COVID–19 lockdown. At least in four places along the prominent road there are huge heaps of garbage that needs to be removed to prevent health hazards. S. Raghavan Cantonment   It is surprising that the City Corporation has permitted functioning of roadside eateries despite the spike in COVID–19 positive cases in Tiruchi. Gathering of public without adherence to social distancing norm could make matters worse. For, the roadside eateries do not accord importance for cleanliness. R. Giressachandran  Tiruvanaikoil   For the people who are already suffering due to loss of jobs or slashing of salaries, during the COVID–19 lockdown, the continuous increase in fuel costs has caused misery. They have been forced to shell out substantial amounts to pay for transport. Increase in fuel price at this juncture is not acceptable. Kanagaraj Arthur Ramalinganagar South Extension    The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board must act fast to establish treatment plants to clean up effluent discharged into the Cauvery river by dyeing units in Erode district. Restart of the dyeing factories in the textile centre has meant pollution of the river water flowing downstream through Tiruchi and delta districts. It is unfortunate that the proposal has remained just on paper for years. The onus is on the local MLAs to take up the issue with the Government for prompt completion of the project. T. M. Ranganathan  Srirangam   The State Public Works Department deserves appreciation for having desilted the riverbed for free flow of water for agricultural purposes. This has been a long-time dream of agriculturists for undertaking farming activities for maximum period during the year. The Government should ensure free flow of water from the river to the fields through desilting the small canals. S. Krishnan  Thippirajapuram   A long-pending demand of the people in Adirampattinam, the largest and fast-developing town panchayat in Thanjavur district with 21 wards, for upgrade as a municipality has to be given a serious consideration by the Government. The upgrade in the status of the coastal town would pave way for adding more amenities. Moreover, surrounding villages like Eripurakkarai, Mahilankottai, Milarikkadu, and Mazhavenirkadu could be included in the municipality area. A. Haja Abdul Khader  Adirampattinam
22 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Inflow in the Krishna reduces||There was reduced inflow into the Krishna and its tributaries on Sunday as there was reduced rainfall in Maharashtra and Belagavi district. Officials said that the release into the Doodh Ganga and Veda Ganga rivers had stabilised to less than 10,000 cusecs, which did not affect the water level significantly. The officials said that the inflow into Hidkal dam was 6,079 cusecs, while the outflow was around 2,300 cusecs. The dam with the gross storage of 11.53 tmcft has a live storage of 9.51 tmcft water now.
22 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Inculcate the spirit of inquiry in young people’||Rationalists and members of science associations organised public viewing of Solar eclipse using safe screens and boxes in some places in Belagavi district. The Karnataka Rajya Vijnana Parishat organised an event at the S.G. Balekundri College here. A few students and women attended the programme. A team led coordinator of the District Science Centre by Rajshekar Patil had installed easy-to-make viewing boxes for enthusiasts to look at the eclipse. Social distancing norms were adhere to, he said. Members of the Science, Technology and Environment Protection Society came out to watch the eclipse at the government school in Gokak. Gangadhar Nesargi, convenor of the society, stressed upon the need to develop scientific temper. He said that the spirit of inquiry should be inculcated among young people from primary school. The society usually invited young students and their parents to view eclipses every year, but this year, they did not send out a general invite due to the COVID-19 situation, he said. He urged media houses not to send out unscientific information on the eclipse. The former Minister Satish Jarkiholi organised a mass breakfast at Hill Gardens in Gokak. His followers organised lunch for science enthusiasts under the banner of Manava Bandutva Vedike in Belagavi.
22 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMTC withdraws over half of its AC buses due to poor response||Citing poor response from the public, the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) has withdrawn more than half of its air-conditioned buses after it re-introduced them barely three weeks ago on June 1. Of the total 85 AC buses, 47 have been withdrawn. After lockdown restrictions were eased, BMTC buses resumed services on May 19, and later sought permission from the government to run its AC fleet in the hope of increasing daily revenue. Around 61 buses were operated on routes such as Majestic to Kadugodi, Majestic to Hoskote, Majestic to Attibele, Majestic to Sarjapur, Hebbal to Banashankari, Hebbal to Silk Board, Banashankari to ITPB, and Electronics City to ITPB. However, the response has been so poor that only 14 buses are currently operational on these routes. Buses to KIA Ridership remains low even on services to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) where BMTC had introduced 24 AC buses. “But we have not withdrawn buses on these routes,” said an official.  Bus services operating on Outer Ring Road where the tech parks are located have also received poor response. Officials attribute the poor ridership to the fact that most people are still working from home. An official with BMTC said: “Prior to lockdown, hundreds of people used to travel in AC buses. Now, however, companies are working with limited staff and a majority of them are working from home. This has resulted in poor ridership. We have withdrawn services on these routes but the rest of the routes, including airport buses, are plying.” It may take a while before people are comfortable using public transport, as ridership is low even for non-AC services on ORR. BMTC officials admitted that running air-conditioned buses is not financially viable as they incur a higher operational expenditure. To operate an AC bus, the BMTC spends Rs. 75 to Rs. 79 per kilometre, while for ordinary services it is around Rs. 55 per kilometre. The official said: “It is not financially viable to operate AC buses when there is poor ridership. We will observe the response for one or two weeks and make a decision.” The BMTC is one of the major road transport corporations in the city and has a fleet of around 860 air-conditioned buses, which have remained off the road for more than two months. On airport routes When asked about the occupancy in bus services operated to the international airport, the official said: “We receive around 25% occupancy in Vayu Vajra services and we have not curtailed any services that we resumed from the first week of June.” Prior to lockdown, more than 100 Vayu Vajra AC services were operated on airport routes. At present, barely 24 buses are running.  Total number of AC buses — 860 No. of buses reintroduced after lockdown — 85 No. of buses removed — 38 Cost of operation per km — Rs. 75 to Rs. 79
22 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cauvery Stage V pipeline work to be ready in 70 of 110 villages by September||Work on laying Cauvery water supply pipelines under the fifth stage in close to half of the 110 villages is now complete, said the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB). The board is expecting to complete work in 70 villages by this September. Kemparamaiah, BWSSB Engineer-in-Chief, told The Hindu that apart from the 39 villages where work was completed a year-and-a-half ago, pipeline laying work had recently been finished in 13 more villages. “Apart from the 52 villages, we will finish work in another 17 villages in the next two months. By September, we should be able to complete work in 70 villages,” he said. The Cauvery Water Supply Scheme Stage V was conceptualised with an allocation of an additional 775 MLD of Cauvery water for Bengaluru to cater to 110 villages in five zones — Dasarahalli, Rajarajeshwari Nagar, Bommanahalli, Mahadevapura, and Byatarayanpura. The project also aims to provide UGD (underground drainage) facilities to the extended areas of the city in these 110 villages.  But the BWSSB is still faced with the problem of not getting enough people coming forward to take connections. Even in the 39 villages where work has been completed, very few have come forward, officials said. “We expected 40,000 to 50,000 connections. What we have got is 6,000 connections. We have now created subdivisions and appointed new engineers and we are waiting for the connections. If people come and apply for connections and we get 50% of the money, we will immediately release water. We are ready. We are only waiting for people to take connections,” Mr. Kemparamaiah said. Asked why people are unwilling to opt for Cauvery water connections, he said in core areas, there is no development charges. But in new areas, they are expected to pay city development charges, which is in addition to the meter and inspection charges, he said. In addition, they will have to pay for floor heads. “For domestic consumers who have not built too many floors, it should cost them around Rs. 12,000. But the others who have built more floors will end up paying more,” he said. What if the lack of response continues? “There is nothing much we can do. We are continuing supply to core areas with the same 1,420 MLD. It is our responsibility to provide water and UGD services. We are sure people will come forward. We will in fact be completing pipeline laying work in the remaining 40 villages in around four months, and with that, all 110 villages will be covered,” he added.
22 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Chickpet traders, dealers to shut business for a week||Most activities at Chickpet will come to a halt from June 23 to 29. Several associations, including the Electrical Merchants’ Association and Jewellers’ Association of Bangalore (JAB), have announced that they will voluntarily close their businesses for a week due to the rising number of cases. “There is an unusually large concentration of COVID-19 cases in the surrounding areas of Avenue Road. For the safety of our customers and employees, it has been decided along with other associations to voluntary close business for a week,” a statement from the JAB said. The Electrical Merchants’ Association has requested its dealers to close shops voluntarily from June 21 to 28. However, not everybody is on board. “The lockdown can only be enforced by an order from the Health Ministry or civic administration. We have to do our banking transactions and other payments, including rent, bills, staff payments, which cannot be stopped. If it is closed, it will go against the will of the government,” said trade activist Sajjan Raj Mehta.
22 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three bikers killed in accident||Three youths, two of whom were juveniles, died when their motorcycles collided with each other near Jakkur Aerodrome, on Airport Road, on Sunday morning. They were allegedly performing stunts and wheelies. The incident took place around 6.30 a.m. while the motorcyclists were riding from Yelahanka towards Hebbal on Airport Road. According to a complaint registered by the police personnel on duty, based on information received by eyewitnesses, the three deceased were performing stunts atop two motorcycles and collided with each with one motorcycle ramming into the divider. “Two of the deceased were only 16 and 17 years old. They died on the spot. We are looking into whose motorcycles they were riding, and will take action accordingly. Their friend, Syed Pasha, 22, a resident of HBR Layout, succumbed to injuries on the way to a private hospital,” said a police officer. Traffic personnel attached to Yelahanka Traffic Police said that since the accident happened around 6.30 a.m. no other casualties were reported on the otherwise busy Airport Road. “One of the motorcycles belonged to a person by the name of Sameera Taj but the other vehicle did not have any number plate. We have booked cases against relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Motor Vehicles Act,” said the police officer.  With lockdown restrictions eased, the police say there has been an increasing number of motorcyclists performing wheelies and stunts on bikes.
22 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||People jump at chance to learn Yakshagana online||As much as ‘work from home’ has become the norm during the pandemic, so has ‘learn from home’. While popular arts have gone online by way of performances and classes, niche forms, such as Yakshagana, are attracting new groups of learners from across the world. Prasad Cherkady, who has been involved in Yakshagana for 18 years, was teaching groups of learners at various places, including KH Kala Soudha, V.V. Puram, Konakunte and R.T. Nagar. During the lockdown, when performing spaces had to down their shutters, he hit upon the idea of starting online classes from July. The response has been encouraging. He has been getting enquiries not just from people in Karnataka, but also from other parts of the country and the world. “People are calling from Dubai and USA too, apart from other parts of India. Even those who are not from Karnataka are interested in learning Yakshagana. We have seen this trend in offline classes too. We ensure that the teaching medium is Kannada and English, though the script remains Kannada,” he said. The online classes will be held once a week, but recorded material, audio and video notes will be circulated through the week, he added. Sathish Agpala, who has spent 12 years in Yakshagana, is also starting online classes from July. “We will start with a basic foundation course where students will be taught sangeeta basics and initiation into makeup. We have received 500 enquiries from the Gulf countries, USA and different parts of India. Most of them are natives of Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada, but other people too are showing interest,” he said. Online classes, he said, are turning out to be more advantageous than the offline classes he usually conducts in V.V. Puram. “A lot of time is saved as most learners would take an hour to reach the venue of the one-hour class. This resulted in a lot of dropouts. Online classes ensure a more continuous learning process and have abundance of information. It also works out to be more economical and transcends geographical boundaries,” he explained. Discussing the potential of online learning, he says, “I think a hybrid model involving the best of both offline and online teaching will become popular.” The learners agree. Suparsh Jain, 34, a software engineer from Bengaluru, always wanted to learn Yakshagana as he has a few relatives who are artistes. Offline classes did not work out for him. He has enrolled in an online class. “Though there is nothing better than being physically present in front of a teacher, especially in dance and similar art forms, online is the second best option, more so during the present situation,” he said. Kowshik Kukkemane, 32, from Dharmasthala, who is now a post doctoral research scholar in Hyderabad, said online classes are a boon for people like him, who always wanted to learn the popular art form. “I had grown up watching Yakshagana, but never got an opportunity to learn. When online classes were announced, I immediately joined. I can easily spare time on the weekends and learn, maybe not as a profession, but definitely as a hobby. I hope to be part of some performances too in the future,” he said.
22 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nrupatunga University gets Governor’s nod||Governor Vajubhai Vala has given his assent to the Karnataka State Universities and Certain Other Law (Amendment) Ordinance, 2020 for establishing Nrupatunga University by upgrading the Government Science College, located on Nrupatunga Road in Bengaluru. The ordinance amended the Karnataka State Universities Act, 2000, and split the name Shivajinagar into two “Shivaji Nagar”. Nrupatunga University falls in Shivaji Nagar Assembly constituency in the city. In respect to the university, the Dean will be called Director of Schools, and various “faculty” will be called “schools”. The ordinance empowered the government to appoint Vice-Chancellors to Maharani Cluster University, Bengaluru, and Mandya University, Mandya. It also renamed Bengaluru Central University as Bengaluru City University. A few days ago, the Cabinet cleared these proposals and sent them to Raj Bhavan, as the State legislature was not in session.
22 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Will work with industry to double GSDP’||The State government will extend complete cooperationto the industry, which is aiming to double the Gross State Domestic Produce (GSDP) in the next six years, from $230 billion to $500 billion, said Deputy Chief Minister C.N Ashwath Narayan. He was addressing industry leaders at a webinar on ‘Nava Karnataka: Post COVID-19 Economy Rebuild – framework and strategies to strengthen the economy’, organised by the Associated Chamber of Commerce and Industry of India on Saturday. “The government will stand with industry and create a conducive atmosphere to ensure overall growth,” Dr. Narayan said. “There is an open atmosphere for investment in Karnataka.” COVID-19 has adversely affected the State, bringing about several changes, be it social, industrial or economical, the Minister noted. He sought the industry’s cooperation to overcome the crisis.
22 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kanakapura to observe voluntary lockdown till July 1 as cases increase||Kanakapura Assembly constituency will observe a “voluntary lockdown” till July 1 as the number of COVID-19 cases there are on a rise. The decision to observe a voluntary lockdown was made at a meeting chaired by Kanakapura legislator and Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president-designate D.K. Shivakumar on Sunday. Officials, leaders of all parties, and representatives of social organisations were among those who participated. The emergency meeting was convened in light of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases in the segment. MP for Bengaluru Rural D.K. Suresh, MLC Ravi, Deputy Commissioner Archana, and Superintendent of Police Anoop Shetty werealso present. According to a press release issued here on Sunday, the measure was necessary to protect the old and the young during this pandemic. “This lockdown has nothing to do with the State government’s guidelines. This will be voluntary and will be reviewed on July 1,” Mr. Shivakumar said.  He said that traders had agreed to keep open essential items stores between 7 a.m. and 11 a.m. The district administration, in consultation with the respective trade bodies, will decide on the timings for medical and wine stores. Wearing masks and keeping sanitisers on hand has been made mandatory and the police will implement this, he added. The timings for the silk market will be announced later. Asking the public to refrain from moving around unnecessarily, he directed the district administration to be reasonable while implementing the voluntary lockdown. Additional funds Mr. Shivakumar also said thatthe government was giving only Rs. 60 per person daily towards the food expenses of those admitted at Ramanagaram government hospital and for those in quarantine centres. “This is grossly insufficient. Hence, we have decided to provide Rs. 100 more from the DKS Charitable Foundation,” the Congress leader said. He refused to comment on the government’s decision to hold the SSLC exam.
22 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police shaken with third death; 15 more cases in Kalasipalyam station||A 59-year-old assistant sub-inspector (ASI) attached to Wilson Garden Traffic Police Station died of COVID-19 late Saturday night. The ASI had tested positive on June 18 and was hospitalised the same day. The death of three police personnel in a span of one week has hit the department’s morale hard. On June 20, a 56-year-old constable attached to the Kalasipalyam police station had succumbed to the virus. Earlier, an ASI attached to V.V. Puram traffic police station, who died of heart attack, had tested positive for COVID-19 posthumously. The fact that the police are vulnerable to contracting the virus because of the nature of their jobs hit home after 15 personnel from Kalasipalyam police station tested positive late Saturday night. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Ramesh Banot said that the 15 personnel and one family member of one of the personnel tested positive. “Based on requirement, we are utilising the services of the adjoining police stations. Most of the primary and secondary contacts have been traced and are in quarantine,” he said. With this, over 23 police personnel from that station alone have tested positive for COVID-19. Stations sealed Koramangala and Bande Palya police stations were sanitised and sealed on Sunday as one personnel each from these stations tested positive.
22 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two patients, one staffer at NIMHANS test positive||Three people in the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences (NIMHANS) tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. While two of them were patients, the third was hospital staff. Following this, the health of a few patients and staff is being monitored. They are being quarantined in NIMHANS. All the primary contacts will be tested later this week. On Saturday, a patient who came to the psychiatry emergency and ICU Block tested positive. Four patients adjacent to her were quarantined in another block, and 20 other patients, were shifted to another block as a precaution. Another patient admitted in the neurosurgery department, who was kept in pre-operation ward for elective surgery for meningioma, also tested positive. The 32-year-old hospital assistant who tested positive was working in another psychiatry female ward. Shifted to Victoria Hospital Officials at NIMHANS stated that all the three patients have been shifted to Victoria Hospital. “None of these departments have stopped functioning as we have shifted the departments to other blocks,” said Shashidhara, Resident Medical Officer, NIMHANS.
22 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Applications invited||The Karnataka State Fire and Emergency Services has invited applications for the recruitment of 1,567 posts of fire personnel of various cadres from eligible and interested candidates. The recruitment included 36 posts of Fire Station Officers, 227 posts of Firefighter Drivers, 82 posts of Driver Mechanics and 1,222 posts of Firefighters. The applications should be submitted online by logging on towww.ksp.gov.infrom June 22. Last date The last date for submission of applications is July 20, according to an official press release.
22 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Parents take part in Twitter storm||Hundreds of parents from Karnataka joined those from Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh to take part in a ‘Twitter storm’ against the ban on online classes. Parents posted several tweets with the hashtag #righttolearn and expressed their dissent. The topic was trending in Karnataka on Sunday evening. Both school managements and parents are considering legal recourse demanding that the ban be lifted
22 June 2020||Chitradurga,KARNATAKA||Mutt in Chitradurga serves food during solar eclipse to instil scientific temper||The Murugarajenda Bruhan Mutt in Chitradurga not only made arrangements to view the solar eclipse on its premises on Sunday, but also served food to override the belief that food should not be consumed during the eclipse. Around 100 members including seers of various mutts, students and devotees of the mutt participated in the programme held at the mutt. Speaking on the occasion, Shivamurthy Muruga Sharana said, “An eclipse is a natural phenomenon and one should not be driven by superstition with respect to this celestial event.” He said there was nothing inauspicious about solar or lunar eclipses. He called upon people to develop a rational mind and scientific temper. He also asked them to eradicate blind beliefs and social evils like untouchability. Meanwhile, the fear of the spread of COVID-19 and also solar eclipse forced people to remain at home in Tumakuru on Sunday. The streets of Tumakuru wore a deserted look as there was very less movement of people and vehicle. It appeared as if there was a bandh in the city.
22 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Skygazers watch celestial event at Dharwad Science Centre||The Dharwad Regional Science Centre located on KU campus had made special arrangements for a handful of skygazers to watch a celestial event on Sunday. Due to the pandemic, restrictions have been imposed on mass gathering. Hence, the Dharwad Regional Science Centre allowed only a few students to watch the solar eclipse. A telescope of high definition was put up on the terrace of the science centre allowing skygazers to watch the natural phenomenon. However, not to disappoint enthusiasts, the science centre also arranged live telecast of the annular eclipse. Meanwhile, the city wore a dull look as temples remained closed till in the afternoon. Later, cleansing rituals and special pujas were offered. The market area and the busy PB Road were deserted. Vegetable and fruit sellers opened their business post-lunch session as people chose to remain indoors watching the celestial event on their television sets. Progressive thinkers from the Bharat Vigyan Kendra, with a view to eradicating beliefs and superstitions attached to solar eclipse, cooked food on the premises of Kalabhavan and ate it during the peak eclipse time. In Hassan, a few students and astronomy enthusiasts gathered at Hemavati Statue Circle to watch the solar eclipse. The Hassan district unit of the Bharat Gyan Vigyan Samiti (BGVS) and Shrama, a forum for studies in Social Science, organised the event. Science writer S. Ravi Kumar and teacher Kavitha spoke about the celestial happening and appealed to the public not to miss an opportunity to watch it. Gynaecologist A. Savithri, who inaugurated the programme, said that people could watch the event with protective glasses. However, residents remained indoors till the eclipse ended. Roads wore a deserted look, while there were no customers at many shops in the morning hours. ( With inputs from Hassan )
22 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Rural teachers worried about results||Teachers working in rural schools are worried about the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) exam results this year, as they had no access to their students for months because of the lockdown. A majority of rural students did not have smart phones to attend online classes. Even those who could afford them faced network issues. Many students in rural areas had the practice of spending more hours in the day at school engaged in group studies. The COVID-19 scare denied them this opportunity. For the last two years, the government high school at Attavara in Hassan taluk has recorded 100% results. In 2018-19, except for one student, all students secured first class in the exam. This time, the teachers were hoping for 100% results for the third consecutive term. But the lockdown has dented their hopes. The school used to conduct night classes ahead of the exam. “We could register impressive results because of the efforts we put in during the weeks before the exam, besides having a year-long plan. This time, we could not execute this,” said K.P. Narayan, headmaster of the school. The school conducted online classes for 25 SSLC students, but only 10 with smart phones could take part in it. “At every school, there will be around 20% of students who will study independently even if there are no teachers to discipline them. But for the rest, teachers have to be around,” he said. Many teachers feel that the online classes did not get good response, as many students did not have smart phones and many who did could not afford data connection. Anxious students Recently, the Department of Public Instruction and the Government Home Science College in Holenarsipur conducted a phone-in programme for SSLC students. Clinical psychologist Mohan Raj S. responded to questions raised by the students. A few students said they could not prepare well for the exam at home. A student wanted to know if he could go to school so that he could study there. Another student said she could not study at home as she had to attend to other work there. Similarly, another student said that in the school environment he understands subjects well, but at home he is unable to. The psychiatrist suggested that the students draw up a time table and devote more time to their studies. He also gave some tips on improving memory.
22 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Five more people test positive for COVID-19||Five people tested positive for COVID-19 in Hassan on Sunday. With this, the total number of confirmed cases in the district increased to 292. Of these five, four had returned from Maharashtra and one had history of travelling to Tamil Nadu. One among them is a native of Holenarasipur and four are natives of Channarayapatna taluk. So far, 203 people have been discharged. As many as 88 people are undergoing treatment.
22 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||80-year-old man dies after being hit by truck||An aged person died after he was hit by a concrete mixer truck at Holenarasipur town recently. The police gave the name of the deceased as Chikkarangaiah (80), a resident of Ambedkar Nagar in Holenarasipur. He was on his way back home when the truck hit him. Based on a statement from Nataraja, Chikkarangaiah’s son, Holenarasipur Police have registered a case.
22 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Bidar reports two more COVID-19 deaths||COVID-19 toll continues to rise in Bidar district. As per information provided by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the district reported two more deaths on Sunday. With these, the toll in the district rose to 15. The district, as on Sunday, stands in the second position as far as COVID-19 fatalities are concerned with 64 deaths. The district also reported 13 new cases taking the total number of positive cases to 497. As many as 58 patients have been discharged after recovery bringing down the number of active cases to 158.
22 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Khwaja Bande Nawaz Dargah to open today||The Dargah-e-Shareif of the 14th-century Sufi saint Hazrat Khwaja Bande Nawaz in Kalaburagi that was closed for devotees for more than two months due to the COVID-19 situation will be thrown open to the public on June 22, Sajjada Nasheen of the dargah Syed Shah Khusro Hussaini has said.
22 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Paddy farmers upbeat after good rain and the coming of added manpower||In the time of COVID-19, the agriculture sector in undivided Dakshina Kannada has some reason to cheer. Farmers as well as Agriculture Department officials are expecting that vast fallow land in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts, which had remained uncultivated for years, would be cultivated this year, not only because of the monsoon forecast but also due to the enthusiasm of those who have returned from other cities and States. Yet another reason is that farmers who had mostly remained indoors during the lockdown have prepared themselves for the oncoming kharif season. “We used to attend many weddings and other programmes otherwise during the summer. The lockdown thus helped us concentrate on our land,” said Shashidhar Shetty, a farmer from Dakshina Kannada. The Agriculture Department, which had sold about 2,100 quintals of paddy seeds last kharif season in Udupi district culminating in the cultivation of about 35,000 hectares of land, has already sold over 2,500 quintals ahead of this year’s season. “We will surpass the target of 36,000 hectares this season,” department’s Joint Director in Udupi H. Kempe Gowda told The Hindu . At the same time, the department is making all efforts to expand paddy cultivation in Dakshina Kannada where the cultivation area is normally less than in Udupi district. It is involving farmers, farmer service centres and organisations concerned to encourage farmers to cultivate paddy, said Joint Director in Dakshina Kannada M.C. Seetha. The district has set a target of about 10,500 hectares for paddy, and with enhanced efforts as well as through the participation of returnees, it is hopeful of expanding the cultivation area. Since paddy cultivation in the coastal region is carried out on rain-fed land unlike in irrigated areas, hybrid varieties cannot be introduced here, Ms. Seetha said. “Farmers in the region grow paddy for local consumption — predominantly MO 4 variety used to produce boiled rice — than to cater to other regions,” Mr. Kempe Gowda said. The department supplies 18 varieties of paddy seeds to farmers, he added. Paddy cultivation has mostly been mechanised, with tractors and power tillers replacing bullocks and buffaloes for ploughing. Shivanand Poojari, a farmer in Maravanthe village of Udupi district, who was overseeing transplantation of paddy shoots on Saturday, said that farmers were upbeat with good rainfall and the presence of additional manpower in the form of returnees. Those who have returned to the district have addressed the shortage of manpower to some extent, he said and added that he expects very few fields to remain fallow this time.
22 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Yoga enthusiasts perform asanas indoors||Several yoga practitioners as well as the general public on Sunday celebrated the International Day of Yoga by practising yogasanas in their houses in Mangaluru and other parts of Dakshina Kannada district. Yoga practitioner and teacher Gopalakrishna Delapamdy had an online yoga session with 150 fellow practitioners. His two disciples joined him in holding the session from his house at Yeyyadi. The session was held as per the guidelines prescribed by the Ministry of AYUSH. For the last 15 days, Mr. Delampady held online yoga sessions to prepare enthusiasts for the session on Sunday. The Sri Dharmasthala Manjunatheshwara College of Naturopathy and Yogic Sciences held a yoga session on its campus in Ujire near Dharmasthala. Students of Alvas Group of Institutions performed yogasanas in their houses and posted their photos on the portals of the institutions they are studying in. Vanitha Shetty, Archana and Vrunda, teaching faculty of Alvas College of Naturopathy and Yogic Sciences in Moodbidri, delivered a virtual talk on Yoga. The staff of the college held a brief Yoga session on campus. Around 200 students submitted a three-minute video of their individual yoga performances for the competition organised by the Ministry of AYUSH. A group of Bharatiya Janata Party workers from Bantwal conducted a Yoga session at the party office. The Yenepoya (Deemed to be University) and Avishkar Yoga organised a 12-hour virtual live lecture series from yoga experts on Saturday. Meanwhile, officers and staff of Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd., including its Chairman and Managing Director Sanjay Gupta, participated in the programme by practising Yogasanas in their homes at Belapur in Navi Mumbai, said a release.
22 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Department plants cane on a large scale in DK reserve forest areas||The Forest Department has been planting rattan or cane, sought after by artisans for making handicraft products and furniture, in Dakshina Kannada on a vast scale for the past five years. Of them, some species are endemic to the Western Ghats. “We have planted rattan seedlings on about 1,500 hectares [3,707 acres] in the thin reserve forest areas on the foothills of the Western Ghats in the past five years,” V. Karikalan, Deputy Conservator of Forests, Dakshina Kannada, told The Hindu . The department will plant its seedlings on 500 more hectares [1,235 acres] in this rainy season in the district, he said. The department is focusing on planting three species of the cane. They are ‘Naga betha’ [calamus nagbettai], ‘Onti betha’ [calamus prasinus] and ‘Handi betha’ [calamus thwaitesii]. They can be harvested in 12 years. Of them, ‘Handi betha’ is a slow growing species with a girth ranging between 15 cm and 20 c.m. The other two species have a girth ranging from 12 cm to 15 cm, Mr. Karikalan said. According to K.R. Chandrashekar, professor of Botany, Yenepoya Research Center, Yenepoya [Deemed to be University], ‘Naga betha’ and ‘Onti betha’ are endemic to the Western Ghats. ‘Naga betha’ is a high climbing cane with clustering stems [bunches]. Their stems often straighten up to 4-5m and then climbing reach up to 25m or even more, Mr. Chandrashekar, who was a former chairman at the Department of Botany, Mangalore University, told The Hindu . The ‘Onti betha’ is a high-climbing solitary cane without any branching, he said. The professor said that ‘Handi betha’ is distributed throughout the Western Ghats and in other regions, in moist deciduous, semi evergreen and evergreen forests of Goa, Karnataka, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu. It is a high-climbing and robust cane. Stems grow to the height of 20m or even more, he said. Mr. Chandrashekar said that 51 species of rattans, belonging to four genera, have been reported in India, of which 14 are from Karnataka. The professor said that the rattans of peninsular India belong to only one genus namely calamus and of the 21 species reported here, 20 are from the Western Ghats. Of these, the status of calamus delessertianus and calamus rheedei is uncertain and of the remaining 18 species, 15 are endemic to the Western Ghats. Among the five States falling within the jurisdiction of the Western Ghats, Karnataka has the maximum number of calamus species (13), of which 11 are endemic to the Western Ghats. Of these, three species namely, calamus lacciferus, calamus lakshmanae and calamus prasinus are restricted only to the Karnataka region of the Western Ghats.
22 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Watching an eclipse amid rain and clouds||Leaving apart brief periods of rain and clouds, citizens had had a fair glimpse of the Solar eclipse between 10.05 a.m. and 1.22 p.m. here on Sunday. “It was cloudy at the start at 10.05 a.m. The sky was clear at 10.22 a.m. We could get a clear glimpse between 12.45 p.m and 1.22 p.m.,” said H. Jayantha, retired Science lecturer from St. Agnes College and member of Mangalore Amatuer Astronomers Association, who has been holding eclipse viewing sessions for enthusiasts in the city. On Sunday, Mr. Jayantha arranged one such session near Cordel Hall in Kulashekara. He had brought a telescope, binoculars and solar eclipse goggles. Filters were used to view the eclipse through binoculars and telescope. “In view of COVID-19 restrictions, I avoided a public session. Only those close to me came along with their family members,” he said. A similar arrangement was made by science teacher Premanath Marne on the terrace of his house at Akash Bhavan. Rationalists assembled near the City Corporation swimming pool and had lunch during the eclipse period, while maintaining social distancing. “Due to COVID-19 restrictions, we did not organise a swimming session this time,” said Narendra Nayak, president of the Federation of Indian Rationalist Associations. They made use of solar goggles to view the eclipse. A few rationalists came with their children. “We have been doing this since decades with an aim to dispel superstition that eating food during an eclipse causes diseases,” Mr. Nayak said.
22 June 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Beef transporter assaulted in Mangaluru||A group of five persons waylaid a vehicle transporting beef and assaulted the driver near the Highland Hospital in Falnir on Sunday. According to Mangaluru East police, Rasheed was taking around 200 kg of beef from the abattoir in Kudroli to the tall of Zakir in Kankanady. He carried documents related to transport of beef in his luggage tempo. Near the hospital, the group stopped the vehicle and reportedly rained blows. They damaged the vehicle and tried to throw out beef. Seeing people coming to the spot, the members of the group left the place. Police quickly reached the spot and took Rasheed to the nearby hospital for treatment. The police registered a case against the alleged assaulters and are searching them.
22 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Yoga practices that help boost immunity||With COVID-19 making its impact, yoga teachers and practitioners recommend the practice of simple asanas, pranayama and relaxation techniques under the guidance of qualified gurus to boost immunity. “Yoganidra (a conscious relaxation practice) is one of the most effective practice to improve immunity,” Ajitesh N.H., Head, Department of Yogic Science, University College, a constituent college of Mangalore University, Mangaluru, told The Hindu . The practice of simple asanas such as simhasana, vajrasana, parshvakonasana, paschimottanasana, pavanamuktasana, bhujangasana, ardhamatsyendrasana and uttanapadasana will help boost immunity. Under different types of pranayama, the simple ones such as ujjayi, nadishuddhi, bhastrika, suryabhedana and bhramari will help. Mr. Ajitesh, who obtained his Ph.D from Mangalore University for his thesis on “Yoga therapy for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease”, said that one can practice kriyas such as kapalabhati, agnisara and dhauti. “Any meditation like that of Soham and the practice of mudras such as viparitakarni also help boost immunity,” he added. “One requires a minimum of 90 days to 120 days of practice to boost the immunity level,’’ Mr. Ajitesh said.
22 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kodagu’s ecological fragility in focus again||The latest landslip in Madikeri town last week, following which the Kodagu district administration decided to shift 13 families to safety, brings the focus back on the ecological sensitivity of the region which has been ignored. This is the third consecutive year that the district is witnessing landslip and experts say this calls for urgent long-term environment mitigation policy initiatives, besides a halt on wanton destruction of the local environment. A study by a team of experts from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.), Bengaluru, has highlighted the dangers of increased landslip, if the current development trend is allowed to continue. The findings are by T.V. Ramachandra, S. Vinay and S. Bharat of Energy and Wetlands Research Group, Centre for Ecological Sciences, IISc.. It has been published in a paper titled ‘Urban Dynamics in Coorg District, Karnataka’ in the ENVIS Technical Report. The study assessed the land use dynamics of the district and the results indicated that the built-up area has increased from 1.55% to 2.69% in three years from 2016 to 2019. Besides, the native vegetation cover including forest, scrub jungles, sacred groves have declined from 45.44% of the land area to 44.46%. The other findings of the study also has environmental implications and it points out that the interior forest cover of the district had declined from 24% to 22.23%. The proposal of new layouts, resorts, highway expansions and linear projects will encourage higher land use changes, according to the study. It stated that the urbanisation process has led to chaotic growth in the region and called for determining the rate and trend of land use conversion for devising a rational land use policy. Based on the land use pattern for 2016 and 2019, the authors of the study predicted the landscape dynamics for 2031, which indicated increase in the built-up areas in Madikeri, Kushalnagar, Virajpet, Gonikoppal, and Somwarpet. Also, the influence of road networks and tourism will encourage urbanisation along highways and identified Kodilpet, Suntikoppa, Hebbale, Maadapura, Napoklu, Ammathi etc, as per the study.
22 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kodagu braces itself for holding delayed SSLC examination||Kodagu is bracing for the challenge of holding the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examination as it is the first time the exam will be conducted during peak monsoon. The district is known for recording heavy to very heavy rains. The exam used to be completed in March-April, ahead of monsoon. But this year has been an exceptional one because of COVID-19, and students and officials are readying to face the challenge. Given the rain fury of the last two years, the authorities are on their toes to ensure smooth conduct of the exam, which will start on June 25. The exam centres have been carefully chosen and safety audit is being conducted of the school buildings where the 27 centres will function. This year, 7,149 students are to appear for the exam. This includes students coming from remote villages and hilly areas. Such students are being identified and transportation facilities being arranged for them. Difficulties in access It is not easy for the students living in undulating terrains and isolated habitations to access the exam centres as the district is known for continuous downpour and accessibility has been cut off on many previous occasions. Power cuts are common in Kodagu during monsoon, which may pose hurdles to the preparations, locals said. Bhagamandala, a pilgrim centre known for receiving record rains, has no exam centre. The students from this place and nearby villages have to commute to Cheerambane village to sit for the exam. As it will be difficult for the students to travel daily to the exam centre, they have been given the option of staying in hostels until the exam is over. Many are said to have agreed to this arrangement. Also, arrangements are being made for students belonging to places known to receive heavy rain across the district to stay in government-run hostels, where they will be provided food and other facilities. T.S. Machado, Deputy Director for Public Instruction (DDPI) of Kodagu, told The Hindu that buses from private schools were being roped in for ferrying students from remote villages and hilly areas to the exam centres. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation too has been requested to operate special buses on exam days for the benefit of students. “The departments of Women and Child Welfare and Social Welfare have promised to make arrangements for the stay of students in hostels if they opt to avoid daily commute in view of monsoon. Parents have been consulted and some have agreed to go with the arrangement,” he added. Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy has asked the DDPI to carry out emergency works, if necessary, after the safety audit of the exam centres.  The departments of Women and Child Welfare and Social Welfare have promised to make arrangements for the stay of students in hostels if they opt to avoid daily commute T.S. Machado, Kodagu DDPI
22 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Yoga lovers take to rooftops, private spaces||The International Day of Yoga celebrations in Mysuru on Sunday may not have witnessed the “single largest gathering” of yoga performers like in the previous years, owing to the COVID-19-related ban on large congregations, but enthusiasts took to rooftops and private spaces to celebrate. The message to develop immunity and keep the virus at bay saw many people taking to yoga and performing asanas from the safe confines of their respective homes in the city, known to be an international yoga hub. Earlier this year, efforts were made to bring Prime Minister Narendra Modi to Mysuru to lead the yoga performance. However, the pandemic put a wet blanket on all efforts resulting in a low-key celebration in terms of mass congregation at any single venue. The programme was conducted on the palace premises, under the aegis of the Yoga Federation of Mysuru with a representative from the local AYUSH Department. The 45-minute protocol designed by the Ministry of AYUSH was followed and 24 asanas were performed apart from pranayama [breathing exercise] and dhyana [meditation]. As against thousands who would congregate in front of the Mysuru Palace premises or the Race Course grounds, the event – which was livestreamed on social media — saw five instructors and participants take part. “We had sought permission from the Deputy Commissioner to perform in front of the palace and livestream the event. So, in terms of reach, it surpassed our earlier efforts,” said Ganesh Kumar, one of the yoga instructors conducting the event. Mysuru has nearly 250 yoga schools and institutions. Though classes were suspended in view of the pandemic, students took to performing the asanas at their homes and on rooftops, according to B.P. Murthy of Chaitanya Yoga Kendra.  The feedback and the photographs shared on social media indicate that the response was higher this year given the COVID-19 scare. “There is a general realisation that building up immunity and shoring up mental health was the key to coping with the pandemic and also for the general well being. At least 2.5 lakh people must have performed yoga across the district,” Mr. Murthy added.
22 June 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||NIRF rank helps UoM get UGC nod for online courses||The University of Mysore (UoM) is one of the universities in the State eligible for launching online courses under the PM e-Vidya programme as part of the self-reliant India campaign after it secured 27th rank in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) announced recently. In an attempt to boost online education, the e-Vidya programme was announced and top 100 NIRF rank holders got the nod to launch courses in online mode. UoM Vice-Chancellor G. Hemantha Kumar told The Hindu that the move would go a long way in promoting online learning in higher education. UoM was ready to take up the task. “The Centre was pushing higher education online in view of the pandemic that has halted universities and colleges from resuming classroom education.” In fact, UoM was running over 10 courses online some years ago but had to discontinue owing to technical reasons. “Now, with the university getting the green signal from the UGC, we wish to revive the courses and await regulations from the UGC on whether more courses can be brought under the mode,” he added. According to the reports, the top 100 universities in NIRF can directly start admissions for the courses from this year. “We intend to start online courses from September when our academic year is expected to commence. All preparations will be made for the launch,” the V-C said. Awaiting clarity Prof. Kumar said the university was awaiting a notification from the UGC for clarity on courses since UoM has infrastructure to expand the online teaching network. Online education gives flexibility to learners and its need was felt in the lockdown. A few months ago, the UGC had invited proposals from universities that wished to start online courses. “The UoM submitted its proposal since we had been running such courses. Our presentation was approved and acquired eligibility. In the meantime, the lockdown was announced over the pandemic. However, on Thursday, we got information that top 100 universities in NIRF had been given direct eligibility to start online courses and we figure in it being the 27th rank holders,” he informed. The UGC had earlier recognised UoM’s 10 courses. “If we get the autonomy, we can include more courses, including UG and PG. It all depends on how the rules are framed. Courses such as BBA and B.Sc computer science existed earlier.” Moodle Platform UGC-Human Resource Development Centre (HRDC), University of Mysore, was the first among 66 HRDCs in the country to launch the Moodle Learning Management Platform. Modular Object Oriented Dynamic Learning Environment (Moodle) was the user-friendly platform for the delivery of Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs).
22 June 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Changes to Act worry locals||The series of amendments to dilute the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, which enables direct purchase of agricultural land from farmers for industries, and the purchase of agricultural land by non-agriculturists, is worrying locals in Kodagu. According to C.P. Muthanna of Coorg Wildlife Society, it would not only hasten the destruction of the ecology of the region but also have a negative impact the lives of the local people.
22 June 2020||New Delhi,KARNATAKA||Lake pollution: NGT fines State govt. Rs. 10L||The NGT has imposed an interim penalty of Rs. 10 lakh on the Karnataka government over pollution in the Kithiganahalli lake, near Bommasandra in Bengaluru, stating that a criminal offence is being committed by the authorities in not stopping the discharge of pollutants into waterbodies. A bench headed by National Green Tribunal (NGT) Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel also slapped a fine of Rs. 5 lakh on the Municipal Council of Bommasandra for failure to discharge its duties. “Failure of important constitutional obligation by the municipal council as well as apathy and defiance of orders of this tribunal and the Supreme Court by State authorities is at the cost of environment and public health and is very unfortunate for which prompt remedial action must be taken and accountability of erring officers fixed,” the bench said. The NGT said only writing a letter is not compliance of the law and the stand taken by the authorities concerned can hardly be described as a responsible one. The discharge of untreated sewage into waterbodies causes huge damage and the prevention of the same is the duty of the State authorities as the trustees of people’s rights, the tribunal said, adding that such duty is being clearly breached. “In view of the above for the damage caused to the environment, the State of Karnataka and Municipal Council, Bommasandra are held liable to pay interim compensation assessed on ad-hoc basis at Rs. 15 lakh. “Karnataka is liable to pay Rs. 10 lakh and the Municipal Council, Bommasandra, is liable to pay Rs. 5 lakh. Final compensation will be determined after hearing the State and the municipal council,” the bench said. If necessary, an expert committee will be appointed and it would be open to the State and the municipal council to recover the amount from the erring officers, the tribunal added. The amount of interim compensation is liable to be deposited with the CPCB within a month and maybe spent for restoration of the environment, the bench said. The green panel was hearing a plea filed by Sanjay Rao and others seeking action against pollution in the Kithiganahalli lake due to dumping of garbage.
22 June 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Six RTPS units shut as power demand falls||Raichur Thermal Power Station (RTPS) has shut six of its eight power generation stations for the last 20 days at Shaktinagar in Raichur district because of the dip in demand for power in the State. RTPS has eight units, with a total capacity of 1,720 MW. Units 1 to 7 generate a total of 1,470 MW (210x7) of power, while unit 8 generates 250 MW of power. Units 3 and 6, which are presently being operated, generated 302 MW of power on Sunday. Wind and solar power production has caused low demand at RTPS. On Saturday, there was a demand for around 187 million units from all forms of power generation units; of this, RTPS generated eight million units from its share and supplied it. An engineer of the electrical division of RTPS told The Hindu that the shutdown of various units was due to the reduction in demand for power, mainly on account of the onset of monsoon as well as the COVID-19 situation, which has resulted in the closure of several commercial and industrial units. Also, this is the season when wind power reaches its peak in terms of generation, and hence the base load of thermal generation is reduced, he said. Normally, thermal units are shut and annual maintenance taken up during this season as the pressure on them for power generation is very low. However, this time COVID-19 has further reduced the pressure on them. Various thermal units across the country too have reduced power generation.
22 June 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||A ‘town’ depicting water conservation models||A model of the ancient underground water supply system of the Adil Shahi era is among the many eye-catching displays on water conservation set up at ‘Barishpur’ (rain town) in Vijayapura city. Developed on about two acres near Kendriya Vidyalaya in the city, Barishpur was conceptualised and designed by Nirmiti Kendra, a government-funded agency. The beautiful ‘town’ has many life-size models depicting the importance of conserving rainwater, mainly in parched districts such as Vijayapura, which faces drought almost every alternate year. Among the models are an inverted umbrella, which sends the message of storing water, and women collecting rainwater in sheets and filling up a tank with it. The models also depict the people’s struggle to fetch water and a picture of drought. Some models display how rooftops can be used to channelise rainwater and store it in underground tanks. “Conserving water has become an important aspect the world over as many countries are facing acute water scarcity. Considering this, we wanted to create a model that would not only highlight the problems people face in collecting water, but also the importance of conserving rainwater, which is a major source of water in the world,” said G. N. Malaji, planning director of Nirmiti Kendra. He said that after consultation, a decision was taken to get a small town-like model prepared where all these aspects could be presented. “That is when the idea of Barishpur took shape. The kendra hired a Mysuru-based agency to design and execute the idea. The entire model was inaugurated in 2005 at a cost of Rs. 7 lakh only. Today, it attracts schools that bring students to educate them about the importance of water conservation,” he said.  We wanted to create a model that would not only highlight the problems people face in collecting water, but also the importance of conserving rainwater, which is a major source of water G. N. Malaji,planning director of Nirmiti Kendra
22 June 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Two accused test positive||As many as two of the three accused in a robbery case who were arrested by the Vijayapura District Police have tested positive for COVID-19. Following confirmation of their medical status, both the accused were shifted to the designated hospital from the Central Prison here. The police said that the three were accused in the robbery case reported in Almel Police Station limits on June 17. Later, they were taken to Sindgi taluk hospital for medical examination and COVID-19 test. After that, on the order of a JMFC Court in Sindgi, the accused were sent to the Central Prison and kept in an isolated cell. However, on June 19, the two accused tested positive for COVID-19. They were later shifted to the designated hospital here. Meanwhile, swab samples of two Sub-Inspectors and 37 constables who had come in contact of the accused have been collected. These personnel are kept in institutional quarantine, sources said. Amid this, Deputy Commissioner Y.S. Patil directed officials in Sindgi town to sanitise the JMFC Court premises.
22 June 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||A tough fight for ZP chief post in Yadgir||A tough fight is brewing among Yadgir Zilla Panchayat members Basanagowda Patil Yadiyapur, Rajeshree Raghunath Reddy and Shranamma Nagappa for the panchayat president post as Rajshekhargowda Patil Vajjal, who was in power for 18 months, resigned following a direction from the party. The zilla panchyat, which had 24 members after the 2016 election, now has 22 members following the death of two members. As no party could obtain a majority in 2016 to run the panchayat on its own, the Congress, which won 12 seats, and the Janata Dal(S), which won one seat, joined hands together to come to power in the panchayat, keeping the BJP, which had won 11 seats, out. Now, the same alliance can continue to be power if leaders from both the Congress and the Janata Dal(S) agree. At present, the Congress has 11 seats, the Janata Dal(S) one and the BJP 10 seats, and the majority mark is 12 seats. The term of the House will end by April-May 2021. As many as 18 months ago, there was a tough competition between Mr. Vajjal and Mr Yadiyapur but the party high command gave an opportunity to Mr. Vajjal after prolonged discussions. According to sources, a meeting was called to discuss the issue recently. Mr. Yadiyapur strongly appealed to MLA Sharanabasappagouda Darshanapur, the former MLA Raja Venkatappa Naik, DCC president Marigowda Hulakal and all zilla panchayat members, who were present, that he should be named this time as he had yielded to Mr. Vajjal last time after the party assured him of power. “We have collected opinion from leaders and all members. But, the party will finalise the name of the candidate only after the resignation submitted by Mr. Vajjal is accepted,” Mr. Hulakal told The Hindu over phone. Although there was a detailed discussions at the meeting, the party leaders are keen on electing Ms. Sharanamma Nagappa as panchayat president and Ms. Rajeshree Raghunath Reddy as panchayat vice-president. If this happens, Mr. Yadiyapur will lose a chance to become panchayat president this time too.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||Women ticket aspirants across all three major political parties are yet again a disappointed lot. Not a single woman was chosen for either the four seats in the Rajya Sabha or the seven seats in the Legislative Council elections in Karnataka. Though women constitute nearly 50% of the voters, leaders who speak volumes about the welfare and safety of women rarely give them a thought when it comes to giving poll ticket. In the Council, Jaimala and Jayamma (Congress) are retiring this month(in picture). This will leave only two women members — Veena Achaiah of the Congress and Tejaswini Gowda of the Bharatiya Janata Party — at the next session of the Council. The proposal on 33% quota for women in the Legislative Assembly and the Lok Sabha appears set to remain a dream for a long time to come.   The COVID-19 pandemic is likely to halt inter-district transfer of officials in 2020-21. To prevent disruptions in COVID-19-related activities in the State, the government has issued an order virtually cancelling general transfer of its employees this year. Usually, transfer orders are issued in May and June in the State to ensure smooth progress of administration as well as the studies of the employees’ children. The order said transfer of officials would be made only in special cases with approval from Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa.A few officials said COVID-19should not end up as an excuse for posting husband and wife working in differ-ent districts to one district.   Who is in charge in Belagavi? This is among the frequently raised, but seldom answered, questions about the way the government functions. During a meeting of officials at Chikkodi last week, Major and Medium Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, who is the district in-charge Minister, was reviewing the progress along with Women and Child Welfare Minister Shashikala Jolle(in picture)and her husband and MP for Chikkodi Annasaheb Jolle. As the meeting was about to end, a farmer from Nippani came to Mr. Jarkiholi, who represents Nippani constituency, and complained about not receiving compensation for crop loss. Mr. Jarkiholi assured the farmer that he would solve his problem. This irked Ms. Jolle, who asked Mr. Jarkiholi not to provide wrong information at public meetings. She told the farmer, in a raised voice, that he should come to her first and then go to other leaders. The farmer replied that when he tried to meet her at her house, her son had accepted the memorandum and assured him of help. The Minister retorted that the farmer should have come to see her again. The farmer responded with a meek “yes” and left the meeting. Nagesh Prabhu Rishikesh Bahadur Desai
22 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||KMML resumes sand removal from Thottappally||The Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd (KMML) has restarted the removal and transportation of mineral-rich sand from Thottappally. The activities were resumed following a Kerala High Court order on Friday. On June 17, the High Court passed an interim order directing the KMML to comply with the stop memo issued by the Purakkad grama panchayat. Following this, the removal of sand from Thottappally pozhi and its transportation to KMML’s unit at Chavara had come to a halt. However, the court on Friday lifted the ban after the State government informed it that the local body had withdrawn the stop memo. V. Sasikanthan, vice president, Purakkad grama panchayat, however, said that the local body had not withdrawn the stop memo issued to the KMML. The government has misled the court, he said. Meanwhile, the local residents have vowed to ramp up protests against the sand mining. Last month, as per a State government decision, around 550 trees on a plot in the possession of the Irrigation Department close to the Thottappally pozhi had been cut down by invoking various sections under the Disaster Management Act. According to the government, the trees were chopped to widen and deepen the mouth of the pozhi to ensure the smooth flow of water from Kuttanad through the Thottappally spillway to sea. The government further allowed the KMML to remove sand from the pozhi and from the place where the trees stood.
22 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Relief as injured havildar calls home||After a harrowing week, family members of Vishnu M. Nair, a havildar in the Indian Army, are a relieved lot. Mr. Nair, 34, hailing from Nadakkavu, near Chettikulangara in Mavelikara, who sustained serious injuries in a face-off with Chinese troops in Galwan Valley in Ladakh on June 15-16, is recuperating at a medical facility in Ladakh. His wife Preetha says the family received a call from the Army unit, several hours after the media broke news of the clash, informing that her husband was injured in Tuesday’s attack. “It was a distressing message and we could not contact him immediately. Later, he telephoned me from the hospital. On Saturday, we talked to him through a video call and he reassured us that he is slowly recovering from the injuries,” says his wife. Fracture She says her husband has not yet divulged details of the attack or injuries. “He told us that they (Chinese) assaulted him very badly. He sustained a fracture in his left arm and bruises on his face, right hand and other parts of the body. He was seen wrapped in a blanket in the video call. It is not possible for us to contact him. Only way we can talk or see him is when he makes a call with the help of his officers. It is not yet known when he will be discharged and return home,” Ms. Preetha says. Vishnu visited his wife, two children and mother Indiramma at their home at Nadakkavu seven months ago. Indiramma says that her son has suffered all the pain to protect the country. “It was hurtful, but happy to know that he is recovering,” she says. 16 years’ service Mr. Vishnu joined the Indian Army 16 years ago. After serving several years in Bihar, he was transferred to the dizzy heights of the Siachen Glacier last year. In May, following the stand-off between Indian and Chinese troops in Galwan, he was posted there.  He told us that they (Chinese) assaulted him very badly. It is not yet known when he will be discharged and return home.
22 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Six lakh seedlings distributed||Ensuring food security during the COVID-19 pandemic is of paramount importance, Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman has said. He was inaugurating the distribution of six lakh vegetable seedlings in Thanneermukkom grama panchayat on Saturday. “People should do farming on a regular basis. The pandemic period should be used effectively to attain self-sufficiency in milk, vegetable, fish and egg production. The government launched the Subhiksha Keralam project with this aim,” the Minister said. P.S. Jyothis, president, Thanneermukkom grama panchayat said that 50 seedlings would be given to each family.
22 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||10 cases in Alappuzha||The district reported 10 more COVID-19 cases on Sunday. According to officials, all the new cases are imported—five from Tamil Nadu and another five from abroad. Four of a family—husband, wife and two girls—came to the district in a private vehicle from Chennai on June 18. Another person from Tamil Nadu is a 57-year-old man hailing from Kanjikuzhy who reached the district in a private vehicle on June 3. Those found positive among foreign returnees include a man hailing from Kumarapuram who came from Kuwait on June 13. Two persons, a 52-year-old native of Punnapra and a Palamel native, came from Kuwait on June 11. The ninth patient, a young man from Nooranad, came from Dubai in the UAE on June 10. Another Nooranad native who tested positive reached the district from Bahrain on June 6. Of the patients, seven have been admitted to the Government MCH, Alappuzha, and three persons to Taluk Hospital, Haripad.
22 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki district records 11 positive cases||After a long spell of very few positive COVID-19 cases, 11 persons in the district were found to have the disease on Sunday. Three persons got infected through contacts. A health worker and three members of a family in Munnar were also among those who tested positive on Sunday. Another who tested positive came from Bahrain and one was found to be positive when a test was done on him before a surgery. A man who came from West Bengal and another from Tamil Nadu were also among the ones found infected. The three of the family had travelled to Tamil Nadu. All those who were found to have COVID-19 were admitted to the Idukki Medical College and the taluk hospital. With this the total number of persons admitted to hospitals with COVID-19 in the district is to 47.
22 June 2020||Kannur,KERALA||CPI(M) to hold mass rally||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] will hold a mass rally at 221 centres in Kannur district on June 25 to protest against the hike in fuel prices. CPI(M) district secretary M.V. Jayarajan said the protest would be held in front of Central government offices.
22 June 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Action against lodge owner for denying room||The Neeleswaram Municipality has initiated legal action against a lodge owner who allegedly denied room to an expatriate who had booked for a paid quarantine facility. Local bodies are providing free institutional quarantine facilities. But those who are not interested in availing them can go for paid quarantine facilities arranged by local bodies. Incidentally, the youth who had booked such a facility was denied access to it on his arrival. While a police inquiry is on against the lodge owner, Municipal Chairman K.P. Jayarajan said the authorities were also looking into a complaint lodged against a municipal cleaning staff, who is under observation at the lodge, for allegedly asking the lodge owner to deny room to the youth. The decision to initiate action against the lodge owner was taken at the Neeleswaram Municipal Council COVID-19 Vigilance Maintenance Committee meeting on Sunday.
22 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ro-ro service to resume in July||The roll-on roll-off (ro-ro) vessel service between Willingdon Island and Bolghatty Island to transport container-laden lorries will resume from July, with the Inland Waterways Authority of India (IWAI) set to commission two such vessels. They are expected to lessen traffic congestion on Kundannoor-Edappally-Kalamassery NH corridor and Container Road among other stretches, by providing fast and economical connectivity for container lorries between the two islands. Movement of lorries, especially through the congested NH corridor, was a headache for motorists and the traffic police. Under construction “The vessels are under construction at the Cochin Shipyard and will be rolled out, one in July and the other in August. They will be operated by city-based KSINC, which operates a pair of ro-ro ferries of the Kochi Corporation in the Fort Kochi-Vypeen sector,” said IWAI Director Mathew George. The vessels will operate from IWAI terminals at either end. A bigger ro-ro vessel that operated on the stretch was withdrawn from service two years ago over differences of opinion with the Cochin Port Trust. It could carry up to 20 lorries at a time and operate 20 return trips daily, ferrying 800 lorries. “The two new vessels will be smaller than the earlier one, but can carry 13 lorries, each laden with 20-ft-containers. With two vessels in service, the turnaround time for each return trip will reduce as compared to the earlier service,” said Mr. George. Incentives KSINC sources said the State government and other stakeholders would have to take lorry operators and crew into confidence and incentivise them so that they utilised the ro-ro service. “The around 40-km road route through the NH Bypass and other arterial roads in the city will see decongestion, lowering of pollution levels and also less number of accidents if container lorries opt for the ro-ro service in the 3 km-long waterway.” With two flyovers under construction and the Palarivattom flyover declared out of bounds for vehicles, the movement of container lorries is a perennial headache for police personnel stationed at junctions on the NH Bypass. It was high time stakeholders prevailed on them to utilise the fast and economical ro-ro service, said a traffic police officer.
22 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Pizhala bridge approach road should facilitate free movement of islanders’||The Janakiya Samithi Moolampilly Pizhala Bridge and Roads, a combine of people in the islands near Kochi, has demanded that the approach road for the Moolampilly-Pizhala bridge be completed in such a way that it facilitated the free movement of people in the neighbouring islands. The Samithi has submitted a memorandum in this regard to the State authorities, including Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. K.S. Edwin, convenor of the Samithi, alleged that the alignment of the approach road was being altered for the benefit of some vested interests. However, the completion of the bridge should be in accordance with the alignment fixed by the Kerala State Housing Board. The alignment had also been approved by the Goshree Islands Development Authority, he said. The memorandum pointed out that around seven acres of pokkali rice fields along the bridge were reclaimed using dredgers during the construction of the structure. The reclamation is against the existing rules and it is important that the areas are restored to their old condition. Several areas in the neighbourhood were flooded owing to the reclamation of the pokkali fields, said the memorandum.
22 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Water Metro may miss December deadline||The roll-out of the first of the 23 modern ferries for the Water Metro project, which was rescheduled to December earlier this year, might suffer further delay as the tender for a key component has not been finalised. The delivery of the propulsion system will take up to six months since tests will have to be done before they are assembled and shipped to India. Fitting them in the first among the batch of 23 vessels and readying them for delivery will take another three months, sources said. “It is not a technological challenge since the vessels will be constructed by integrating the existing technologies. But the choice of technology is the main challenge. Kochi Metro Rail Limited [KMRL] and Cochin Shipyard Limited [CSL] should have thought of optimising the technical specifications of the vessels to keep capital investment low. This is crucial since the income from passenger fare will be hardly enough to meet operational expenses,” said Sandith Thandasherry, naval architect who pioneered the first solar-powered ferry in India. Mr. Thandasherry also took strong exception to CSL, which is mainly into building big commercial and warships, being awarded the contract. Although Kerala Shipping and Inland Navigation Corporation Limited (KSINC) too was in the fray to manufacture the ferries, it was overlooked due to high stipulations in the tender like the annual turnover criteria. On concerns over the delay in finalising tenders for the propulsion system, KMRL managing director Alkesh Kumar Sharma said it would be done by the first week of July. On concerns aired by indigenous firms about reliance on foreign components, Mr. Sharma said emphasis would have been given to time-tested technologies so that the Water Metro was the latest and the best at the time of commissioning.
22 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Church factions come to blows||Members of the Orthodox and Jacobite factions of the Malankara Syrian Church clashed at St. George Church, Peechanikkad, Angamaly, on Sunday morning after the Orthodox faction arrived at the church to conduct mass. Members of the Orthodox faction said they had a court order in their favour. Their entry into the church was opposed by hundreds of Jacobite faction members, who claimed that they had been conducting mass at the church for more than 100 years. The police intervened and prevailed upon the Orthodox faction to return. However, members of the faction held a prayer outside the church. Case registered A case was filed against those who opposed their entry into the church, including the charge of violating the COVID-19 protocol.
22 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Nayarambalam likely to turn containment zone||A COVID-19 patient from Nayarambalam without any travel history or known source of infection has sent the surveillance team of the Health Department on a detailed combing for contact tracing along with the police. The route map of the patient will be ready by Monday, said Dr. S. Sreedevi, Additional District Medical Officer and head of the surveillance team. The patient had visited a few bakery outlets and other places, and depending on the contacts traced, the area could be made a containment zone, she added. The patient, a mimicry artiste, had visited a local private hospital on June 12 after he developed fever on June 11. His samples were taken at the hospital. Subsequently, on June 16, he went to Lisie Hospital, where an x-ray showed TB-like symptoms. A CT scan on June 19 revealed COVID-19 symptoms. He was immediately isolated, and a confirmatory test identified the disease on Saturday. The patient was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, later on the day. The Health authorities have asked both private hospitals to isolate their staff. Further details will be obtained after examining CCTV visuals on the patient’s movements.
22 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Baby in critical condition||A 55-day-old baby who sustained severe head injuries after being attacked by her father continues to remain in critical condition. The baby was admitted to the Kolencherry Medical College Hospital on Saturday with injuries, including bleeding in the brain. A clear picture on the baby’s health will emerge only after 48 hours. However, the frequency of seizures had come down on Sunday, hospital sources said. The child’s father, Shaiju Thomas, 40, of Kannur is in judicial custody, after being arrested by the Angamaly police and charged with attempted murder. The police said he used to assault the child when she cried, following which she fell unconscious. The Kerala State Council for Child Welfare has expressed willingness to bear the hospital expenses of the baby.
22 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Review meet on cancer centre today||With the lockdown affecting the construction of the Cochin Cancer Research Centre (CCRC), a review meeting on Monday is expected to take a decision on the future course of action to make the project a reality. Of the 150 labourers who were working at the CCRC site at Kalamassery, 130 went home during the lockdown. It is also learnt that INKEL, the special purpose vehicle chosen as the project implementing agency for a slew of healthcare infrastructure projects in the district, has been undergoing an internal reorganisation as many project managers and senior-level officers are no longer a part of the organisation. As the floods in August 2018 delayed the project, a new work schedule was started almost a year later only to be stopped soon because of a porch roof collapse. Even as the work was resumed early this year, the COVID-19 lockdown brought it to a halt. The meeting will reschedule the date of completion of the project. It is expected to be attended by the new managing director of INKEL and the District Collector. Industries Minister and INKEL chairman E.P. Jayarajan is also expected to take part. Among other works undertaken by INKEL, the super-specialty block at the General Hospital is around 90% complete. But, the commissioning of the project is likely to be delayed as equipment has to be imported, for which KIIFB has to give approval.
22 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||13 more test positive in Kollam||Thirteen more persons from Kollam, all of them NoRKs, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. While 12 persons came from abroad, one is from Mumbai. All patients are currently undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College, Parippally. The new cases include five persons who travelled from Kuwait, five from Saudi Arabia, and one each from Bahrain and Dubai. The patient from Mumbai, a 52-year-old Uliyakovil resident, reached Kollam on June 4. Though he tested positive in the rapid test conducted on June 9, later his swab tested negative. His sample was collected once again on June 18 after his wife tested positive on June 12. Other patients include residents of Karavaloor, Chavara Thekkumbhagam, Keralapuram, Mynagappally, Kulathupuzha, Thenmala, Thazhava, Piravathur, Sooranad, and Klappana. The Kuwait returnees who tested positive included a 33-year-old man from Karavaloor, another 33-year-old from Chavara Thekkumbhagam, and a 23-year-old Mynagappally resident who reached Kollam on June 12 and were on institutional quarantine. Two others from Kuwait, a 36-year-old Chandanathoppe resident and a 43-year-old Thenmala resident, arrived the next day on June 13 and were under home quarantine. Those from Saudi Arabia who tested positive included two Klappana residents and one Thazhava resident who were on institutional quarantine, and a Kulathupuzha resident and a Soorand resident. The patient from Bahrain was a 52-year-old Piravanthur resident who had completed seven days of institutional quarantine. When he tested positive, he was under home quarantine when he tested positive. The other patient from abroad, a 30-year-old Sooranad resident, travelled from Dubai to Kerala on June 10. Thrikkovilvattom, Mayyandu, Ittiva, Kalluvathukkal and Kollam Corporation have been declared COVID-19 hotspots in the district.
22 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||DPC nod for farm projects||The District Planning Committee (DPC) has given nod to projects submitted by 47 local bodies in connection with Subhiksha Keralam. The district has 3,393 hectares of fallow land and various local bodies will soon start farming in 1,420.25 hectares. The Animal Husbandry Department has set aside Rs. 118 crore for different initiatives while the Dairy Development Department will implement projects for fodder grass cultivation, increasing milk production, modernisation of farms and distributing subsidised cattle feed. In the inland fisheries sector, 500 biofloc units will come up along with 200 tarpaulin ponds. Apart from that, pearl spot farming will be extended to 250 more ponds. The projects have been conceived in a way to ensure good income for farmers while maximising production and achieving self-sufficiency. “Local bodies should come up with projects that attract expatriates and youngsters to farming and allied activities,” said District panchayat president and chairperson of the committee C.Radhamani. A total of 1,679 projects worth Rs. 146.53 crore will be implemented in the district.
22 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||UDF looks to avert crisis through negotiations||Even as the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani has declined to hand over the charge of the Kottayam district panchayat to the rival faction led by P.J. Joseph, the United Democratic Front (UDF) still appears optimistic about averting a crisis in the coalition through negotiations. Talking to mediapersons here on Sunday, senior Congress leader Oommen Chandy reiterated the UDF's position that the incumbent president of the local body, a nominee of the Mani group, step down. “The faction has been requested to cooperate by stepping down from the president’ post. Both sides have raised a few issues, which need to be discussed elaborately and settled later,” he said. Responding to the statement, Mr. Mani welcomed any move to sort out the issue through negotiations. Seat sharing The faction had put forth a demand for finalising a seat-sharing formula ahead of the upcoming local body elections as a pre-condition for handing over the post. Despite hardening its stance, uncertainty still reigns the coalition over the movement of a no-confidence motion in the council against Sebastian Kulathungal, the incumbent president. “Speculations about the Mani group, which has four members in the council, getting support from the Left Democratic Font (LDF), will make the Congress to think twice before going all out. The chances of the Mani group using it as a trigger to bargain its position is highly likely too,” said a senior UDF leader in Kottayam. Despite the uncertainty, Mr. Joseph appeared unperturbed by the possibility of any such set back and asserted that the resignation by the Mani group should be unconditional. Many options “If they are not ready to resign, there are several other ways and let the UDF decide on the next option. There is no question of holding any discussions whatsoever. All pending issues will be taken up for consideration only after the resignation,” he told mediapersons in Pala. Meanwhile, the KC(M) factions here on Sunday organised separate functions to mark the golden jubilee of the Youth Front (M). While Mr. Joseph inaugurated a function held at the Mariya Sadanam in Pala, Mr. Mani inaugurated the celebrations at the Navajeevan Trust at Arppokkara.
22 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Migrant exodus leaves Paippad desolate||Nearly three months after the infamous migrant labour protest, Paippad- a sleepy village on the outskirts of Kottayam and Pathanamthitta districts, wears a desolate look these days. The village, which had evolved as a hub of inter-State migrants over the last decade, came to a standstill during the three-month long lockdown as elsewhere. The country has since reopened but Paippad, with a near- total depletion in its work force, is yet to come alive. As per estimates by the local panchayat, at least 5000 inter-State migrants, who were staying in as many as 106 labour camps here, have returned to their home States since May. The actual number of workers residing in these camps was much higher but between 2,000 to 3,000 of them had left for their home States much before the lockdown. “Only 83 of them, who chose not to go back, remain in about 17 of these camps as of now,” said Swapna Binu, president, Paippad panchayat. According to her, the departure of workers at one go has dealt a huge blow to the local economic activity. From essentials to cellphones, the shops that did business among the community remain shut for most part of the day while there is zero demand for public transport, turning the roads empty. “The exodus has hit not just the village but the two districts to which it supplied the work force,” she added. Commenting on the phenomenon, Vinod Kumar, District Labour Officer (Enforcement) in Kottayam, said all sectors – from agriculture to construction were hit by the return of workers. “Around 20,000 of inter-State migrant workers in the district have returned since May where as about 10,000 of them, who are employed in the organised sector, have stayed back ,” he said. Those who went are expected to return from August this year as the rail traffic between States returns to normality, he said. The village grabbed national attention when a section of migrant workers on March 29 hit the streets, demanding help to return to their home States.
22 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Ten more positive cases in Kottayam||Ten persons, including eight who returned from Mumbai, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam, taking the total number of active cases in the district to 83. According to officials, the persons from Mumbai who were confirmed to have the virus infection were identified as a 60-year-old woman from Mutholi, her 37-year-old son and six-year-old grand son, a 57-year-old woman from Thalayazham, her 21-year-old son and 11-year-old twins. From Mumbai The remaining persons were identified as a 35-year-old Paippad native who came from Mumbai, a 32-year-old from Chembu who came from Chennai, and a 36-year-old woman from Vellavoor, who landed from Saudi Arabia. Of these, all except the Paippad native were under home quarantine. Upon receiving the test results, all of them were shifted to Pala General Hospital. Meanwhile, three persons—a 26-year-old woman from Changanassery, a 28-year-old Kangazha native, and a 32-year-old woman from Kumaranallur—recovered from the infection and left the hospital. Of the total 83 patients here, 40 are undergoing treatment at the district general hospital while 19 are at Pala General Hospital. As many as 24 persons are admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital while three persons are undergoing treatment in Ernakulam. Containment zones Meanwhile, the district currently has three containment zones—one each at Vazhappally, Koruthodu and Chirakkadavu panchayats.
22 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Veteran actor Usharani passes away||Usharani, who died in Chennai on Friday at the age of 62, acted in over 100 films in a career that spanned over five decades. She acted mainly in Malayalam cinema but also worked in several Tamil films with superstars like MGR, Sivaji Ganesan, and Kamal Haasan. Usharani began her career as a child artiste. As Baby Usha, she appeared in about 30 films, including Jail , Karthika and Balyakalasakhi . She then graduated to character roles and acted in films like Madanolsavam , which was directed by her husband M. Sankaran Nair, Muttathe Mulla , Randu Lokam , Samantharangal , Kanmadam and Thenkasipattanam .
22 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||A handbook on survival in the time of pandemic||The Kozhikode Municipal Corporation has come up with a handbook on the measures taken to tackle COVID-19 under its jurisdiction. The handbook summarises the experience of the civic body on the front in three phases — before, during and post-lockdown. Unique experience For the civic body, the experience was unique as it had large number of Non-Resident Indians returning from abroad and other States. It was in Kozhikode that quarantining of people started for the first time in the State on January 22. The corporation took effective steps to avoid crowding of people such as the decentralisation of fish and vegetable markets, shifting of the Palayam market to the more spacious bus stand premises, decentralisation of street vendors, and ensuring home delivery of food from restaurants. Community kitchens were opened across the city while migrant labourers and street dwellers were shifted to safer places. As a result, there were only a few cases of quarantine violations in the city compared to other parts of the State. Price control Meanwhile, strict measures were taken to control inflation. Prices of essential commodities were displayed in front of every shop on a daily basis. The drop in income during the period was a challenge for the corporation, especially because of increased expenditure. The handbook explains how the problem was overcome through efficient financial management.
22 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Thriveni market reaches out to students||‘Veettumuttathoru School Market’, a project of Consumerfed, was launched in Kozhikode on Sunday by its chairman M. Mehboob. The project envisages making study materials available to students at their homes. Mr. Mehboob said parents and students were not in a position to visit the Thriveni school market of the federation as in previous years, and hence the project to reach out to students. The inauguration of the project was marked by the distribution of study materials in the Nadakkavu region. Mr. Mehboob said the Thriveni staff would go around the district in teams of two, abiding by the COVID-19 protocol, to distribute study materials. The school market comprises everything from school bags to notebooks and umbrellas which will be available at subsidised rates, almost 40% less than the market price. Besides, two other projects—School Vandi and Notebook Vandi—are also in the pipeline. They are travelling school markets mainly targeting rural areas. The projects will be implemented in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam and Kozhikode districts in the first phase. A. Pradeep Kumar, MLA, will launch School Vandi at Muthalakkulam here on Monday.
22 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Hectic work on to clear sand deposits from Pampa||As many as 25 earthmovers and 40 tipper lorries have been deployed on the course of the Pampa in the foothills of Sabarimala to expedite the removal of sand deposits accumulated on the riverbed and surroundings in the wake of the deluge in 2018. The devastating deluge had depositioned an estimated 1.3 lakh cubic metres of sand at Pampa alone. Accumulation of sand in thickness of 10 to 12 metres on the riverbed had even changed the course of the Kakki river that joins the Pampa at Pampa-Triveni in the post-deluge scenario. However, the Irrigation Department, assisted by the Works Department of the Travancore Devaswom Board, restored the river to its original course clearing a huge quantum of sand from Triveni. Pampa has been a base camp for Sabarimala pilgrims and the government as well as the TDB had taken a series of initiatives to set things right in the flood-ravaged area. DDMA mission The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA), chaired by District Collector P.B.Noohu, launched the sand removal work on June 4 to prevent floods similar to that of 2018 during the monsoon. Thiruvalla Subcollector Vinay Goyal is heading a DDMA task force to expedite the work. Dr. Goyal told The Hindu that the work was progressing fast at Pampa as the monsoon was yet to pick up in the area. The DDMA was directly undertaking the work, using the State Disaster Response Fund. The decision was against the backdrop of the heavy monsoon forecast made by the Meteorology Department of India. Dr. Goyal said the Irrigation Department had assessed the quantum of sand accumulated along the 2.23-km river stretch between Valiyanavattom and Pampa-Triveni at 1.23 lakh cubic metres. He said 34,919 cubic metres (8,034 truck loads) of sand had already been removed from the river course as on Thursday afternoon. A team of experts attached to the National Centre for Earth Science Studies has found the sand as construction grade. The sand scooped from the Pampa is being dumped on forestland at Chakkupalam, near the KSRTC bus depot, at Pampa. Dr. Goyal said the DDMA was hopeful of completing the task in the next 10 days, if the monsoon did not play spoilsport.
22 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Eight cases in Pathanamthitta||Eight more Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) quarantined in the district tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. This takes the total COVID-19 patient count in the district to 126, according to an official bulletin released here. The present count is besides the 67 persons cured of the disease so far. The eight who tested positive include two from Maharashtra—a 54-year old woman who came on June 9 and a 24-year-old who arrived here on June 13. Others are Kuwait returnees including a 28-year-old youth who came on June 12, four men aged 61, 34, 37, and 36, all of whom came on June 13, and a 36-year-old man who came on June 18. A total of 194 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the district so far. As per the bulletin, 126 patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals — 121 of them in the district and others in hospitals outside the district. A total of 137 quarantined persons, comprising patients and those with acute symptoms, have been admitted to the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district as on Sunday. Of this, 53 persons are at the General Hospital in Pathanamthitta, nine at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, 68 persons at the firstline COVID treatment centre at Menanthottom Hospital in Ranni, and seven others at various private hospitals in the district.
22 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Doctors donate TV to LP school||The Doctors for Social Justice(DSJ) , a guild of doctors formed for extending tele-healthcare service to COVID-19 patients, donated a smart television set to a Government Lower Primary School in the backward area of Kunnam, near Vechoochira, on Saturday. Kurien Oommen, DSJ national coordinator, and P.S.Shajahan, Kerala University of Health Sciences Senate member, handed over the television to Headmistress K.Usha.
22 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Steps to check wild animal menace in Konni||A meeting of Forest officials and villagers chaired by K.U.Janeeshkumar, MLA, in Konni on Saturday has decided to take emergency measures to check wild animal attacks on human habitations along forest fringes in the hilly areas of Konni. According to the MLA, the panchayat areas of Thattakkudy, Paadom and Thidi in Kalanjoor panchayat were the worst-hit areas. Wild animals straying into these human habitations, destroying crops, attacking people and their cattle, have become common in recent times. A plantation worker was killed by a tiger at Medappara near Thannithode a month ago. The meeting has decided to erect solar fence and trenches along the trouble-prone forest borders, Mr. Janeeshkumar said. A total of Rs. 24 lakh would be spent for erecting solar fence along this 13.5 km stretch, he said. This is besides digging of 2.5-metre wide trenches at sensitive points under Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Programme, he said. Shyam Mohanlal, Divisional Forest Officer; M.Manojkumar, grama panchayat president, attended the meeting.
22 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Nine COVID-19 cases in capital||Nine persons, including eight who came from abroad, were diagnosed with COVID-19 in the district on Sunday. Among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 is a 48-year-old Varkala native who had come from Abu Dhabi on May 29. While he stayed in an institutional quarantine facility till June 6, he was sent home. He exhibited no symptoms, but his swab sample was collected after one of his co-travellers on the flight had tested positive for the virus. The others who were diagnosed with the disease include a 35-year-old Kesavadasapuram native who came from Saudi Arabia on June 13, a 36-year-old Pothencode native who came from Kuwait on June 13; a 43-year-old Navaikulam native who came from Muscat on June 19; a 32-year-old man and a 21-year-old woman who came from Kuwait on June 14 (both Balaramapuram natives); a 40-year-old Ambalathara native who came from Saudi Arabia on June 4, a 25-year-old Kaniyapuram native who returned from Saudi Arabia on June 3, and a 58-year-old man hailing from Kunnukuzhy who came from Chennai on a flight on June 11.   Meanwhile, the district administration has intensified efforts to check the virus in the containment zones declared in 10 wards of Kattakada grama panchayat and five areas in the Manacaud, Attukal, and Kalady wards of the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation.  Follow govt. guidelines Following a meeting convened by Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, the district authorities directed local self-government institutions to ensure that commercial outlets adhere to government guidelines. Those aged above 60 years and below 10 years and those suffering from critical ailments have been advised to leave their houses only for emergency purposes. Hospitals have also been ordered to ensure strict crowd management by permitting only a bystander. The meeting also took stock of the ongoing efforts in the containment zones. Health squads have visited 1,495 houses in Kattakada and have collected throat swabs from 280 people in the contact list of a Kulathummal-native ASHA worker who tested positive for the infection. The Amachal family health centre has been reopened. Three teams visited 60 houses in Attukal while five teams visited 140 houses in Chala and adjacent areas. The patient routemap of the Iranimuttom-native autorickshaw driver, who was diagnosed with the disease a few days ago, has also been released. Besides having taken part in the production of a television serial in Karamana with 15 others, the patient conducted trips to several places, including Anayara, Vattiyurkavu, Poojappura, Karamana, Palkulangara, Kaithamukku, Thrikannapuram, Pattoor, Statue, Kalady, Attukal, Vazhuthacaud, and Vellayani between May 30 and June 16. He also visited a private hospital at Attukal, General Hospital, and the community health centre at Iranimuttom. The public have been able to contact the district authorities at 1077 or 9188610100 to convey details regarding the movement of the autorickshaw (KL-01-BJ-4836).
22 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID, KC(M) issue to echo in local polls||The slugfest over the government’s COVID-19 containment strategy targeting Health Minister K.K. Shylaja, the debate within the Indian Union Muslim League over the move to strike an electoral pact with the Welfare Party of India (WPI) potentially putting its ideological moorings in peril, and the schism in the Kerala Congress (Mani) [KC(M)] offer adequate hints on how the pandemic and intra-party squabbles could dominate the local body election campaign. The repeated attempts of the United Democratic Front to punch holes in the government’s COVID-19 management plan, with barbs mostly targeted at Ms. Shylaja, may have scraped the sheen off its strategy to put the government in the dock. Politics during COVID-19 had been turning murky right from the reporting of the first case when the Opposition accused Ms. Shylaja of ‘media mania’ for her frequent media interactions to caution the public of the intensity of the crisis. Mandatory tests Since then, the debate had turned pungent at every point and even the decisions to conduct the SSLC, higher secondary and vocational higher secondary examinations and making COVID-19 test mandatory for repatriates were used by the UDF to whip the State government. The latest in the series was the caustic observations of Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran against the Health Minister. CM defends Shylaja With Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan himself taking the lead to mount a spirited defence of Ms. Shylaja, the Opposition had been put on the mat yet again. Ideological position The banner of revolt raised by the Youth League against the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leadership’s plans to strike a pact with the Welfare Party of India, which the youth brigade alleged went contrary to its ideological position and rocked its secular foundation, may trigger an intense debate. The Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] has already flagged the issue and asked the leadership of the IUML to come clear on the issue. The squabbles in the Kerala Congress (M) are also set to impact the UDF and could, by extension, lead to rumblings within the LDF too. While the UDF faces the tall challenge of accommodating both KC(M) factions without rocking the boat, the CPI(M)’s willingness to open parleys with any UDF ally on quitting the front has annoyed the Communist Party of India (CPI) and it has protested against such attempts to widen the front. Some of the issues dominating the political discussion at present may be ironed out in due course, but they might as well set the tone and tenor of the campaign.  CPI(M)’s willingness to open parleys with any UDF ally on quitting the front has annoyed the CPI.
22 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Higher education in State may open new chapter||A government-constituted expert panel tasked with recommending new courses in colleges has advocated reducing the overbearing focus on examinations and evaluating students on the basis of creative learning. An emphasis on soft skills, thrust on emerging fields of study, and a shift towards research-based learning are other suggestions being mooted. The six-member committee chaired by Mahatma Gandhi University Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas submitted its report to the government on a wide range of issues pertaining to higher education in Kerala. While proposing numerous courses befitting the changing job landscape, the panel calls for reshaping pedagogical practices to ensure both teachers and students are co-learners, rather than mere recipients and providers of knowledge. The report, accessed by The Hindu , highlights the need to hone the reading-writing skills of students. To develop their critical faculties, institutional facilities should be established to encourage research-based academic writing and critical reading of texts. Relevance of subjects To gauge the relevance of subjects being taught, a system to keep track of the career evolution of graduates is required. The current scenario made it appear as if teachers’ employment was the sole purpose of running higher education institutions. The reforms recommended at the undergraduate level include introducing a four-year Honours programmes in high-ranking universities and colleges to circumvent the difficulties posed by foreign universities that do not recognise three-year courses. Job-oriented Other options mooted include introducing job-oriented programmes, optional minor courses that could be taken in addition to a major degree, course-based undergraduate research, four-year courses with facility to opt for a specialisation in the fourth year, programmes in innovative areas such as sports management, museum anthropology, rural development, digital and interactive design. For postgraduate programmes, the committee has recommended integrated MA, MSc programmes in high-performing universities and colleges and launching MTech programmes on technologies such as artificial intelligence, autonomous vehicles, and Internet of Things. Programmes that ensure academic mobility by ensuring the participation of three or more universities to jointly award degrees also figure among the recommendations. Committee members The committee also had APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University Vice Chancellor Rajasree M.S., Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences Director Asha Kishore, IISER Thiruvananthapuram Director J.N. Moorthy, former Dean of School of Languages and Comparative Literature, Central University, Kasaragod, M. Dasan, and Kerala Council for Historical Research Director P. Sanal Mohan.
22 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Special rain alert for hilly areas||The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has issued a special alert for hilly areas of the State with most districts continuing to receive the southwest monsoon rainfall. Night travel may be regulated in the hilly areas of Kozhikode, Kannur, Ernakulam, Idukki and Kottayam, the authority said in a Sunday evening advisory. Yellow alert The India Meteorological Department (IMD), in a weather update, has issued yellow alerts for Idukki and Ernakulam districts indicating the possibility of isolated heavy rainfall. Relief camps The KSDMA has directed the police, fire and rescue services and officials attached to the departments of revenue and local administration in the five districts to remain prepared to tackle contingencies. As there is a possibility for waterlogging in low-lying areas, local bodies and village officers concerned should be directed, if needed, to open relief camps, the KSDMA said.
22 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Barrette lighting for airport runway||The Airports Authority of India (AAI) is gearing up to complete the conversion of the existing approach lighting system into Barrette Cat I approach lighting system at the beginning of Runway 32 of the Thiruvananthapuram international airport. A barrette is three or more ground aeronautical lights closely spaced together in a transverse line so as to appear as a bar of lights at least three metres in length from a distance. Placed every 30 metres, they will ensure more visibility of the central line of the runway to the pilot about to land. The Barrette light system, as specified by the Director General of Civil Aviation, is mandatory for the airport to get the aerodrome licence. The installation of the high intensity, uni-directional barrette lights for all weather conditions has been completed in the first 540 m of the threshold of the runway on the Vallakadavu side. The remaining 360 m is outside the airport premises till Muttathara on the approach path to Runway 32 that is 3,396-m long. The AAI has secured permission of the Public Works Department to mount the lights on the Ponnara bridge above the Parvathy Puthanar that runs close to the boundary wall. The AAI says the light system with one cross bar will not affect the movement of road users through the bridge. In the Barrette system, one pole will be at the beginning of the NS depot-Vallakadavu road near the Ponnara bridge and the other on Ponnara bridge approach road and the height clearance will be 5.5 m from the ground. Other lights near the bank of the Parvathy Puthanar will be installed on cantilever/GI truss. In Muttathara, these lights will be mounted on the land under the AAI. It hopes that the local people will support the initiative following the talks with the Vallakadavu-Vayyamoola Joint Action Council and the residents’ association in the locality. Precision landing The barrette lights will supplement the Instrument Landing System (ILS) installed to guide aircraft to precision landing. With ILS, the aircraft can land at low visibility of even 800 metres. “The commissioning of the lighting system will bring it further down and the Air Traffic Control will not have to go for flight diversion from here to adjoining airports during inclement weather,” Airport Director C.V. Ravindran told The Hindu . The AAI is planning to complete the works by October.
22 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ayurraksha clinics to promote steps for boosting immunity||Even as the number of COVID-19 cases goes up, daily life has resumed with prevention becoming the key. Masks, sanitisers, hand wash, and social distancing have become part of routine. Boosting of immunity too is important to prevent COVID-19. The Ayush Department has launched Swasthyam, Sukhayushyam, Punarjani, and Amritham schemes through the Ayurraksha clinics in government Ayurveda institutions to spread the message of Ayurveda’s importance in good health. Swasthyam focussed on reducing the intake of medicines to focus on daily routine, seasonal routines, good food, and moderate exercise for phyical and mental health. Sukhayushyam focussed on the health of the elderly. Medicines should not leave them sapped of energy but be able to boost their immunity. They should also not interfere with the medicines being taken for illnesses. Medicines as part of Sukhayushyam should be consumed along with the medicines being taken.  Preventive medicines COVID-19 positive cases who become negative following treatment should recuperate for 15 more days to prevent other illnesses too. Preventive medicines are given through Punarjani scheme. Amritham is for giving preventive medicines to those in quarantine. All government Ayurveda dispensaries and hospitals will provide this facility.  Online consultations Niramaya is for online consultations with doctors and getting medicines from the nearest government institution. Ward-level committees and volunteers will provide support to those in need under this scheme so that they do not venture out. Arrangements for ensuring total health to check diseases is what Ayurveda institutions are making, the district Ayurveda COVID-19 response cell said.
22 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Redeploy excess govt. staff: panel||A thorough redeployment of excess staff from the government Secretariat, line departments and other agencies to local bodies and merger of public sector undertakings and welfare boards of similar nature form part of the recommendations for rationalising government expenditure. The recommendation by an expert committee led by Centre for Development Studies director Sunil Mani assumes significance considering the pivotal role being played by local bodies in COVID-19 containment and creative interventions in key sectors, including health and education. Duplication of work An interim report submitted to the government says that many functions devolved to the local bodies have been resumed by the Secretariat and district offices without reducing the intake. This should be reviewed and rectified to avoid duplication of work, the report says. The Secretariat has 554 attender posts and 204 computer assistants. The Printing Department has 90 attender posts. The Kerala Books and Publishing Society has 113 posts in different levels and the Stationery Department 52. All these are no more required at these offices and hence proposed a redeployment from these and other offices. The committee has proposed a voluntary redeployment, which would give an opportunity to such employees to serve in local bodies in their home and adjacent districts. Since most of the offices are computerised and moving towards achieving a 100% target, the posts of typists could be converted to clerks or assistants based on their qualification. A rationalisation and integration exercise needs to be done in government- funded agencies such as boards, authorities, societies, and universities. The panel has called for reviewing and rationalising the system of ratio in promotions in the Secretariat and line departments. 34 welfare boards As many as 34 welfare boards with overlapping functional areas catering to the same set of beneficiaries are functioning at present. These boards could be consolidated and merged on the basis of their functional areas to form a Kerala State General Welfare Fund Board. Integration of PSUs of similar nature such as Malabar Cements and Travancore Cements and SIDCO and KADCO has also been suggested to check wasteful spending. The committee has also proposed to put a cap on non-Plan expenditure in government offices, except salary and wages, to 75% of the actual expenditure incurred during the previous financial year.  Panel moots voluntary redeployment, enabling staff to serve in local bodies in home and adjacent districts.
22 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Long wait for refund for flyers||For Akhil Ratheesh, the hopes of migrating to Toronto in May did not materialise due to the pandemic. Because of the uncertainty all around, he decided to stay back. But, he does not know when he will get the refund of Rs. 42,000 for the ticket booked on January 30 for the journey from Thiruvananthapuram. Santosh, based in Kuwait, had booked a ticket via a travel agent for his daughter Nandana from Manchester to Thiruvananthapuram and back paying Rs. 75,000 (March 25 and April 20). The flight did not materialise, and he is awaiting refund. $500 million in refunds Like Akhil and Santosh, hundreds are knocking at the doors of travel agents and airlines for the refund of tickets booked to the U.S., Europe, Australia, and in the domestic sector before the lockdown started in March 25. The Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation (CAPA), an aviation consultancy, estimates that airlines owe nearly $500 million, which translates into Rs. 3,787 crore as per the current exchange rate, in refunds. Centre’s directive Following protests from flyers, the Ministry of Civil Aviation had asked airlines to refund fares to those who booked tickets during the initial lockdown period and for travel within the period when flights remained suspended. Hundreds whose flights were cancelled during the lockdown and those who had booked tickets like Akhil and Santosh have not got any respite. Most airlines have offered a credit shell for cancelled bookings, which passengers can later redeem against flight tickets, instead of a full refund. In the domestic sector, it is 90 days and one year for international travel. “I had decided to shelve the plans to migrate. The airline should return the fare in cash,” Akhil said. AIYF State secretary Mahesh Kakkath is also trying to get refund from an Indian carrier for a ticket booked from Kannur to Hyderabad in March. IndiGo’s refund plans K.V. Muralidharan, president, Kerala Association of Travel Agents, said the DGCA directive for refunds was to help foreign carriers as they were the main defaulters. “Those who had booked tickets in advance are the worst hit”. Meanwhile, IndiGo has initiated steps to refund fares to those who had cancelled tickets. “It will take two to three weeks,” airline sources said.
22 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||2,000 houses built under Care Home||The Care Home project of the Cooperation Department, to provide houses for those left homeless by the floods of 2018, has hit a major milestone with the completion of 2,000 houses across the State. The State government is expected to officially hand over the keys to the beneficiary of the 2,000th house in early July. The project witnessed the coming together of cooperative societies at the grassroots- level and organisations like the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society and Cooperative Academy of Professional Education on a voluntary basis to provide technical guidance. The Department of Cooperation provided Rs. 5 lakh for each house, with the local cooperative societies pitching in with their profit shares. Engineering students helped out with the preparation of the houses’ plans. “Unlike usual housing projects, there was no set model for the houses. A beneficiary council was formed at the local level with representatives of cooperatives, panchayat representatives and the beneficiaries, in which each of the beneficiaries were asked about the kind of houses they wanted. The plan was prepared as per their requirements and considering the geography of the area, as many of these are flood-prone,” says an official. Gopalakrishnan from Cheruthana in Alappuzha district, whose family is a beneficiary of the project, says that he no longer fears floods as he has got a flood-resilient house under the project. On pillars “We got our house last year and since then there has been no fear of floods. A lot of work was done on the ground, using rings and other methods to prevent flooding. The house itself stands a few feet above the ground, on pillars. The Chingoli cooperative society helped with the funding and construction,” says Gopalakrishnan. In the second phase of the project, apartment complexes will be built in each of the districts for the homeless.
22 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State sets a model in exam conduct||Fears of COVID-19 transmission have put a question mark over the CBSE/ICSE examinations, but Kerala blazed a trail by successfully conducting the pending State board examinations last month with no student turning up COVID-19 positive as yet. Many States too have been grappling with the issue, with some scrapping them, others going ahead, and still others cancelling some of the papers. Over 13.7 lakh Class 10 and higher secondary students appeared for the examinations in the State from May 26 to 30. A well-planned and coordinated effort spanning authorities in the Gulf region, State government departments and agencies, and parent-teacher associations lay behind the examinations. Health advisory Unprecedented arrangements, starting from exam notification well in time and intimation to individual students to online teacher trainings, were made for the examinations. A comprehensive health advisory was the cornerstone of the safety measures. An important feature was a school micro plan that went into the minutiae of the arrangements. Information on students from other States and Lakshadweep as well as those in quarantine or with family members in quarantine was gathered and separate classrooms arranged for them in exam centres. Sanitised corridors were arranged in each exam centre for such students. Alternatives for exam centres that functioned as COVID care centres were found, school premises and classrooms cleaned, and furniture sanitised before each exam. Transportation arrangements were ensured for each child. School buses, extra KSRTC services, and conveyance arranged by SC/ST departments were used to ferry students to school. Director of General Education K. Jeevan Babu said what made the examinations novel was that the government had no experience of conducting such a large exercise during the unusual pandemic situation. Students’ role Community participation was critical to the success of the examinations. Children, significantly, had lived up to their responsibilities of preventing disease transmission, so had others. Department officials, including teachers, had gone the extra mile with the support of district authorities, including Collectors, and people’s representatives, to put plans into action. The challenges were many for all stakeholders, be it arranging a boat for a single student to take the exam, arranging 5,000 thermal scanners within a week or gloves for teachers and staff in exam centres and arranging for their safe disposal, Mr. Babu said. The nitty-gritty had to be worked out. It was not enough to allot new exam centres to 11,000 students; question papers, often with different subject combinations, in the new centres, he pointed out. “There was no model to follow. All we could do was act according to each new challenge that presented itself,” Mr. Babu said.
22 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ban on on-farm demos by pesticide firms||Widespread malpractices involving harmful pesticides have led the Kerala government to ban on-farm demos and experiments performed on the sly by pesticide companies in farms in the State. Malpractices have been detected in almost all the districts, but it is especially rampant in the cardamom plantations in Idukki, Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar told The Hindu . Incidents have come to light where representatives of pesticide dealers have been duping farmers by posing as government officers and coaxing them to try out their products. Elsewhere, pesticide companies were found to have carried out unauthorised experiments. Harmful to ecology In a June 17 order, the State government, acting on a letter from the Agriculture Director, categorically banned on-farm demonstrations and experiments illegally conducted by the companies. Such practices were harmful to the ecology and production of safe food, the government concluded. The Agriculture Director has also been instructed to prevent representatives of pesticide firms/dealers from masquerading as government officials to push their products. Earlier, the Agriculture Department had issued a circular stopping pesticide firms from approaching farmers directly to promote their products. The government was constrained to adopt sterner measures after studies by the Kerala Agricultural University consistently reported the presence of harmful pesticides in certain regions, Mr. Sunil Kumar said. Saudi’s refusal “Spices, especially cardamom, are the worst hit. For instance, Idukki accounts for 95% of the cardamom production. One of our biggest importers, Saudi Arabia, has been refusing consignments for some time now due to the pesticide issue,” he said. At a meeting, farmers in Idukki had apparently informed department officials that they were applying the pesticides on the advice of ‘supervisors.’ “We were initially under the impression that the supervisors were attached to the Spices Board. Eventually it turned out that they were people assigned by pesticide dealers,” Mr. Sunil Kumar said. A pesticide company was also found to have performed demonstrations of its new weedicide in farms in the Kole paddy lands. The decision has come at a time when the Union Agriculture Ministry has issued the draft ‘Banning of Insecticides Order, 2020’ with the intention of prohibiting the use of 27 insecticides.
22 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Teachers grow a green thumb during lockdown||Farming activities are at a standstill in most schools owing to the COVID-19 crisis, but at Government Lower Primary School, Thycaud, 60 cents of land that was overrun with wild growth is now a verdant patch. During the lockdown, the school hosted the city Corporation’s community kitchen. Once the relaxations started coming into effect, the school teachers, members of the Kerala School Teachers’ Association (KSTA), took up the Chief Minister’s call for farming wherever possible. Accordingly, 60 cents on the school campus was cleared of all growth using an earth mover, and the earth prepared for planting by five persons hired for the job. Manure was sourced from the poultry farm at Kudappanakkunnu. The planting was done by the teachers in mid-May. The cultivation was organic. Back to roots “The idea was to set up a model farm, with focus on going back to the roots. Hence, tubers such as colocasia, different varieties of yam such as ‘kachil,’ ‘nanakizhangu,’ and ‘cherukizhangu,’ sweet potato, and ‘nendran’ plantain were grown,” said school’s new headmaster and KSTA district joint secretary Shaji M. Vegetables such as amaranthus, ladies’ finger, brinjal, beans, ginger, turmeric, chillies, ‘cheeni amarakka,’ ‘cucumber,’ and ash gourd are also being grown. Minister for General Education C. Ravindranath will visit the school on Wednesday for the harvest of the amaranthus. After the harvest, the next crop of amaranthus will be sown, as also snake gourd, and salad cucumber. An initiative of the KSTA south sub-district unit, the farming project has another component — promoting cultivation in teachers’ homes. Three thousand growbags were ready for distribution the same day, Mr. Shaji said. The Krishi Bhavan at Kudappanakkunnu too has started cultivation at two schools — St. Thomas and Concordia — as part of the Agriculture Department’s vegetable development project.  Joseph T.M., agricultural officer at the Krishi Bhavan, said they had decided to plant seasonal crops, tubers in this case. Though no students were attending school, they would take it up once classroom teaching got under way.
22 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Waste disposal a challenge in quarantine centres||Waste management in institutional quarantine centres continues to be a challenge for the sanitation workers of the city Corporation, with the extra care involved in handling to prevent any kind of possible infections. The major kinds of waste generated at quarantine centres include food waste, large quantities of used water bottles and clothes, bedsheets and pillow covers. According to the civic body's health officials, the workers have been given clear instructions on safe handling of waste. “Before collecting the waste, they spray it with a disinfectant consisting of Sodium hypochlorite and leave it as it is. It is collected only the next day or so. We have asked those staying in these quarantine centres to take with them the bedsheets and clothes provided by the Corporation. This would save us the work of destroying these safely. But many still leave these behind,” says an official. The city Corporation had last month put in requests with the district administration for a laundry facility to wash these bedsheets and pillow covers. With no such facility being available now, the clothes left behind are burned in the same premises. The other kinds of biodegradable waste are also disposed off in the premises of the respective institutional quarantine centres. The sanitation workers who are involved in the routine sanitation work in public areas are also extra careful these days in handling waste. “Since all of our work involves handling a variety of discarded materials, we have to remain vigilant round-the-clock. As we use masks and gloves, we have some level of safety, but there is always the fear of infection,” said a sanitation worker, on condition of anonymity.  List sought The Health Department had last week requested the Corporation for a list of health wing staff and sanitation workers to carry out COVID-19 tests as part of sentinel surveillance. For the first phase of testing, the civic body had provided a list of 50 employees, including the health staff who were part of the burial of two persons who died due to COVID-19 in the district, those who are supervising institutional quarantine centres, sanitation workers and those who supply food to institutional quarantine centres. The samples are yet to be collected.
22 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Staff seek curbs in banks in hotspots||Trade unions in the banking sector have demanded implementation of restrictions and preventive measures in banks functioning in COVID-19 hotspots and containment zones in the State. In a statement, K.S. Krishna, joint secretary of the All India Bank Employees Association, said lack of surveillance to prevent crowding of customers was posing severe health risks. The United Forum of Bank Unions have represented to the Chief Minister requesting to restrict business hours in the containment zones between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.
22 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||16 more test positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Thrissur||With 16 more positive cases getting reported, Thrissur district recorded the most number of COVID-19 patients in the State on Sunday. Three of them who tested positive were infected through contact. With this, the total number of cases in the district has gone up to 272. The district, which has a sizeable number of Pravasis, has been reporting a spurt in cases from May 7, ever since they started returning home. Of the 16 cases reported on Sunday, three — a 45-year-old man from Poomangalam, a 46-year-old from Vellangallur and a 40-year-old man from Thrissur — contracted the virus through contact. Eights persons, including three women, arrived from the Gulf. They arrived from Dubai (1), Kuwait (3), Qatar (1), Abu Dhabi (1), Bahrain (1) and Oman (1). One person arrived from Africa. The four other patients came from West Bengal, Gujarat, Chennai and Delhi. 160 recover Of the 272 cases reported so far in the district, 160 have recovered. Currently, 105 persons are undergoing treatment at various hospitals. Another eight persons are undergoing treatment in other districts including Ernakulam, Malappuram and Kannur. In all, 14,750 persons, including 14,618 in home quarantine and 132 in hospitals, are under observation. This includes 16 persons admitted on Sunday. On Sunday, 327 samples were sent for test.  Containment zones However, the number of containment zones in the district has been reduced from 11 to 4. Some wards of four local bodies will continue as containment zones. Wards 3, 4, 8, 19 ,20 ,29 and 30 of Chavakkad Municipality; wards 2 to 6 of Engandiyur panchayat; wards 14 and 15 of Vellangallur panchayat and divisions 24 to 27 and 31 to 33 of the Thrissur Corporation will remain as containment zones. Cherpu, Agalappa Nagar, Thrikkur, Tholur, Vadanappally and Avanur grama panchayats and Irinjalakuda Municipality were excluded from the list. In Palakkad Fifteen more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Sunday. All but two cases were returnees from other States and abroad. Three of them each had returned from Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Dubai, while one each had come from Oman, Abu Dhabi, Egypt and Gujarat. The total number of COVID-19 cases under treatment in Palakkad district has risen to 149. Five infected persons from Palakkad are currently under treatment at Government Medical College, Manjeri, three at Government Medical College, Ernakulam, and one each at Medical Colleges in Thiruvananthapuram,Kozhikode and Kannur. In Kozhikode The number of active COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode reached 110 on Sunday when 10 more persons were declared positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district. Five persons, including a Kannur native, were cured of the infection too. According to a release by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, those infected include four persons who returned from Kuwait on June 19 and were admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, with COVID-19 symptoms. They are from Madavoor, Koduvally and Ramanattukara. The other patients are from Thondayad, Nadapuram, Purameri, Iringal, Changaroth, and Feroke. Meanwhile, the number of people under observation rose to 14,670, of whom 6,400 are expatriates. In Kannur Kannur district reported 10 more COVID-19 cases on Sunday. Among the patients, four came from abroad and six arrived from other States. The affected included a 45-year-old man from Sreekandapuram who arrived from Saudi Arabia, a 36-year-old resident of Muzhappilangad who arrived from Kuwait, a 39-year-old woman from Peralassery who arrived from Oman and a 59-year-old man from Mele Chovva who arrived from Kuwait. Three persons out of six who came from other States are Central Industrial Security Force personnel. Others came from Mumbai, Delhi, and Chennai. There are now 16,773 persons under observation in the district. New zones Five more wards have been declared as containment zones in Kannur district. District Collector T.V. Subhash declared wards 31 and 42 of Payyannur Municipality, ward 7 of Madayi Panchayat, ward 26 of Sreekandapuram Municipality and ward 31 of Panoor Municipality as the new containment zones. Naduvil-1, Panniyannur-6, Panur-32, Cherupuzha-14, Mattannur-19 and Muzhappilangad-8 have been excluded from the list. In Kasaragod Six more persons were tested positive for the virus in Kasaragod on Sunday. Three of them came from abroad and others arrived from Maharashtra, District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said. Those who came from Maharashtra included a seven-year-old child from Mangalpadi. A total of 4,729 persons are under observation in the district. In Ernakulam Five new COVID-19 cases were reported in Ernakulam on Sunday. Among them were a 28-year-old Chengamanad resident who came by a Kuwait-Kochi flight on June 11, a 32-year-old Mazhuvannur native who arrived on June 14 from Saudi, a 12-year-old child from Eloor who reached here on June 14 from Kuwait and a 21-year-old Pachalam resident who came by road from Chennai. A 43-year-old resident of Nayarambalam in the district who tested positive for the virus has no known source of infection.    (With inputs from Palakkad, Kozhikode, Kannur, Kasaragod and Kochi bureaus)
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Hide and seek||
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Where danger lurks||
22 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic robs elderly of small joys||The COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown have an adverse impact on the psyche of the elderly and those suffering from life-threatening diseases. In the district, bordering Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, the impact is more pronounced. Thousands of elderly people, particularly those in their late 60s and 70s, have been remaining indoors since imposition of lockdown following repeated medical advice and restrictions imposed by their family members on their daily strolls on the street or visit to the nearby temples. Casualties The entire stretch from Satyavedu to Kuppam, which borders Tamil Nadu for over 250 km, misses the presence of senior citizens on the road. With all the five COVID-19 casualties in the district being the elderly, there is heightened tension among the households. Interestingly, elderly people having a source of income are enjoying some freedom as they can been seen visiting the temples in the morning and evening. A positive feature is that a majority of them are wearing face masks and possessing hand sanitizers in their pockets. But those who are dependant on their children do not have such freedom as they are just confined to the four walls of their houses. “I am 73 years old. A major portion of my pension is spent on medicines. I know the consequences of the pandemic. What bothers me most is that my son and daughter-in-law have firmly told my grandchildren not to come near me. My own kin are not interested in talking to me. They just give me a mask and ask me to wear it even while sleeping,” says Ramachandra of Kongareddipalle. Poornachandra (69), a retired bank official, says the pandemic has robbed him of all happiness and small joys. “What is sickening is that I am not able to meet my friends. I know it is risky to move out. But it is equally risky to be alone,” he says. An elderly priest at the Lord Siva temple on the banks of the dried up Neeva river here says that the absence of elderly devotees is conspicuous.
22 June 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Narsapuram MP fears threat to life||YSRCP Narsapuram MP Kanumuru Raghu Rama Krishna Raju’s personal secretary K.U. Krishna Varma has lodged a police complaint seeking action against those who had burnt the MP’s effigies and threatened him, besides seeking foolproof security to him. A couple of days ago, activists said to be of the YSR Congress Party and some locals staged protests and burnt the effigies of Mr. Raju in the district, against the alleged remarks made by him against the party and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. In a complaint to West Godavari Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik, Mr. Varma alleged that the incidents took place at Undi, Akiveedu and Tadepalligudem. The protesters had abused the MP and threatened to attack him during his visits in the constituency. Complaints were also made at Achanta, Akiveedu, Undi and Tadepalligudem police stations, but no cases had been registered so far, said Mr. Varma in the complaint and appealed to the SP to book the accused. “Mr. Rama Krishna Raju is a ruling party MP but doesn’t have safety in his own constituency. There is a threat to his life from some ruling party MLAs,” Mr. Varma said. Plea to Speaker Meanwhile, it is learnt that the MP has made a representation to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla apprehending a threat to his life from some YSRCP activists and sought the protection of central forces. The Speaker is said to have forwarded the matter to the Union Home Ministry. Speaking to The Hindu on Sunday, Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao said that security had been stepped up at his residence and office, located at Akiveedu and Bhimavaram respectively.  Inquiry ordered: DIG Responding to the MP’s complaint, the DIG said that an inquiry had been ordered on the alleged inaction of the Station House Officers (SHOs) of Tadepalligudem, Undi, Achanta and other police stations. “Police will provide adequate security to Mr. Ramakrishna Raju. We will book the culprits who threatened the MP and insulted him,” Mr. Mohan Rao said.
22 June 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||War veteran bats for mandatory military training for youngsters||When soldiers are martyred, citizens offer lip service and show short-lived sympathy and politicians confine themselves to paying tributes at the martyr’s memorial. Neither the people nor the government look for solid steps to address the issue on a permanent basis. Ex-serviceman-turned-progressive farmer G. Venkatrama Raju (79), who hails from the Railway Kodur town in the district, wants compulsory drafting of the youth for a fixed number of years in the Defence services. As an Indian Air Force (IAF) sergeant, he had fought the Indo-China war in 1962, the Indo-Pak. war in 1965, and the Bangladesh liberation war in 1971 as a member of the ground crew. In an exclusive interview to The Hindu on the current scenario at Galwan valley, where Indian soldiers fell victim to the Chinese aggression, Mr. Raju appeals to the government to make armed services compulsory for youth so as to instil in them a sense of patriotism, responsibility and commitment towards the nation. “There are young people who join the NCC, National Defence Academy and Indian Military Academy for a career in the armed forces, but that is not enough. Military service should be made compulsory for a fixed term, similar to the five-year drafting in the U.S., which will definitely inculcate national integration and expand the horizons of knowledge and tolerance, especially when we view the young population as a demographic dividend,” he points out. Mr. Raju faintly recalls the plight of soldiers treading the hostile rocky terrains, snow-capped mountains, crossing gorges and valleys by carrying rifles. “We had no pistols, no solid boots and no motor vehicles those days. Many of my colleagues used to suffer from frostbite. That is not comparable to the modern weapons, safety gadgets and protective wear we have today,” he observes. “The Chinese had launched unprovoked attacks even during that time time,” he recalls. Natural farming Though he had received five service medals as an airman, the prestigious ICAR award received in 2007 for promoting diversified agriculture is equally close to his heart. Now, he is training fellow villagers on the nuances of Subhash Palekar’s natural farming practices. Mr. Raju’s rendezvous with the border does not seem to end. “I may not engage in warfare at this age. But, given an opportunity, I can certainly stay at the border to serve food to our soldiers,” says.
22 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Missing boys traced 200 km from home||Five boys, who reportedly ran away from home in Nagaram village in East Godavari district, were found by the police 200 km away in Mangalagiri of Guntur district on Sunday. The boys, aged 15-18, were reportedly addicted to a video-sharing social media platform, police said. “The five boys from Nagaram village were thinking of earning money by any means and left the village on Sunday. A note left behind by one of the boys said that he would return home within a few days after earning some money. The note gave us a clue on how to trace the boys,” Amalapuram DSP Masum Basha said. “Two of the boys had failed in their exams and the academic record of the other three is also not good. However, all of them are highly active on uploading videos on the social media platform,” Mr. Basha said. Anxious family members lodged a police complaint after the boys were found to be missing. The boys left home on a couple of two-wheelers and they were traced near Mangalagiri after the police registered a missing case under the Nagaram police limits. “Our teams constituted for the search operation are bringing the boys back to their native place. More details will emerge following the interaction with the boys,” Mr. Basha said. Officials said that the boys would be given counselling and added that the parents would also be advised to play a more proactive role in their children’s lives.
22 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chelluru becomes the latest hotspot in E. Godavari district||Chelluru panchayat in Rayavaram mandal has emerged as a new COVID-19 hotspot in East Godavari district. “The total number of persons who tested positive for COVID-19 till now is 59. A group of people from Chelluru had reportedly attended a wedding in Gollala Mamidaada village, where they came in contact with infected persons,” District Medical and Health Officer M. Mallik told The Hindu . Recently, district authorities had conducted medical tests on villagers in Chelluru after receiving information that some villagers had attended a wedding in Gollala Mamidaada village, which alone has witnessed over 170 cases. “Only one person has tested positive during primary testing. By Sunday, the virus began spreading across the panchayat. Of the 59 persons who tested positive for COVID-19, a total of 12 persons are elderly people who have been admitted to hospital,” Mr. Mallik said. On Saturday alone, the village had witnessed 17 cases. However, 42 patients have been permitted for home quarantine in the panchayat. The district authorities have intensified their efforts to prevent further spread of COVID-19 to neighbouring areas.
22 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||E. Godavari’s COVID toll rises to 9||A 50-year-old man who was rushed to hospital after displaying symptoms of coronavirus was declared brought dead by doctors, at Gollivilli village of Uppalaguptam mandal in East Godavari district on Sunday. Doctors later confirmed that the man was suffering from coronavirus. Amalapuram Revenue Divisional Officer Ch. Bhavani Shankar said that the man, along with his family, had returned to Amalapuram from Vijayawada on Friday. The family checked into a hotel in Amalapuram as he was suffering from COVID-19 symptoms. “The 50-year-old man was declared brought dead by doctors at KIMS Hospital in Amalapuram on Sunday morning. The total COVID-19 death toll in East Godavari district now stands at nine as of Sunday,” said District Medical and Health Officer M. Mallik. This was the first COVID-19 death in the Konaseema area of the district.
22 June 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLEs,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eclipse draws enthusiasts in big numbers||Taking necessary precautions, many enthusiasts came out to view the celestial spectacle of the solar eclipse in Nellore and Prakasam districts on Sunday. In Ongole, people came out in large to view the eclipse that lasted till 1.50 p.m. using solar filters and hand-held solar viewers. Major temples, including the famous Chennakeshavaswamy temple at Markapur and Tripurantakeswara temple at Tripurantakam in Prakasam district and Thalpagiri Ranganadha Swamy temple and Rajarajeswari temple in Nellore remained closed during the eclipse and were opened in the evening. Rain plays spoilsport in Vijayawada In Vijayawada, rain played spoilsport for the skywatchers who were eager to witness the ‘ring of fire’. “I rummaged almost every room of my house for the 3-D glasses I had preserved to view the eclipse but could not see anything in the grey, cloudy sky,” said W. Chandrakantha, a student from a local school. Meanwhile, members Jana Vignana Vedika (JVV) in Nellore, Eluru, Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Kurnool, West Godavari district organized viewing of the solar eclipse at their respective places in open grounds. “Monsoons eclipsed the celestial spectacle in Vijayawada. It was just visible in Vizag, in Nellore upto 46 % and in Kurnool 46-50 %. The visibility was only upto 60 % in both Andhra Pradesh and Telangana states,” said Tummala Srikumar, who is the State coordinator of the Science and Technology wing of the JVV.
22 June 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||New areas of Prakasam dist. in virus grip||Lockdown measures were tightened as 26 persons tested positive in Prakasam and Nellore districts in the last 24 hours. Eighteen of these were from Prakasam, where the cases spread across the city of Ongole, in colonies including Samata Nagar, Nirmal Nagar and Sujata Nagar apart from the hotspot of Islampet. The infected persons included two girls aged seven and eight who had returned from Hyderabad to Podili and a 79-year-old woman from Karumanchi village. A 30-year-old man from Ankabubalapuram village contracted the disease on his return from Chennai. Health officials were alarmed over the number of new cases coming non-containment zones like Ponnalur, Vemulakota, Chandavaram, Tangutur, Parchur and Mangamuru villages. A 35-year-old bus conductor from Donakonda mandal was among those who got infected, Prakasam COVID-19 nodal officer John Richards said. 519 quarantined Nellore district on Sunday reported eight new cases, pushing the tally to 557. As many as 519 persons were quarantined. Kotamitta, the hotspot in the city, accounted for three, while Sullurpeta reported two cases, according to a health bulletin issued by the Medical and Health department. Kaligiri, Vinjamur and Podalakuru recorded one case each. With this, the number of active cases went up to 211 in the district, where 339 persons were cured of the disease, while four persons had succumbed to it.
22 June 2020||Srikakulam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Traders observing lockdown voluntarily in Srikakulam||With the rapid spread of COVID-19, people in many areas are voluntarily observing lockdown in Srikakulam district. Despite facing losses, traders are also cooperating by closing down their shops in places like Palasa, Kasibugga and Tekkali. Palasa is known to be India’s biggest cashew market. This is a huge turnaround considering that the same traders had insisted on relaxing the lockdown till last month. “All cashew traders want to extend their support to the government in controlling the spread of coronavirus pandemic,” said Palasa Cashew Manufacturing Association president Malla Srinivasa Rao. The district which did not register a single COVID-19 case till April 25 has now turned a hotspot for coronavirus cases with 417 patients. According to an estimate, the number may cross 500 in a couple of weeks and 1,000 by July-August, thanks to the reverse migration of labourers in huge numbers. As many as 40,000 returnees are in quarantine centres, indicating the seriousness of the situation in the district. Pvt. hospitals cautioned Collector J. Nivas said that concerted efforts were needed to control the disease since it had entered the community transmission stage in the district. He said that those with fever, cough and other symptoms of COVID-19 should approach the primary health centres and other government hospitals immediately for medical tests. “Private hospitals should inform the government authorities immediately when patients with COVID-19 symptoms come for treatment and any laxity will result in cancellation of their licences. We have already issued a show cause notice to a nursing home in Narasannapeta in this regard,” said Mr. Nivas. Health survey With his directive, senior officials of the Medical and Health Department have been visiting containment zones in Srikakulam, Palasa, Tekkali, Mandasa, Burja and other places. They are collecting health data of all the residents of Burja, Mandasa and Tekkali where COVID-19 reportedly entered community level transmission stage. At least 30 persons without any travel history tested positive, sending the officials on high alert.
22 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Experts teach asanas online on International Day of Yoga||The International Day of Yoga was celebrated online across the country on Sunday as people remained indoors due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Students and teachers of yoga paid homage to Sage Patanjali - considered the proponent of the ancient discipline - via video-conferencing. National Sanskrit University (NSU) celebrated the occasion by offering prayers to Sage Patanjali. Experts performed ‘Yogasanas’ on the dais under the guidance of Vice-Chancellor V. Muralidhara Sharma, and the proceedings were video-recorded and uploaded on the internet for the benefit of thousands of viewers from across the State and abroad. Prof. Sharma stressed the need for a healthy respiratory system in order to keep pandemics like coronavirus at bay, and appealed to the public to inculcate yoga in their daily lives. “There is no lifesaving drug available for coronavirus as of now. The government has urged people to boost their immunity, which can be achieved by practicing yoga and meditation,” he said. He recalled that the varsity was also providing yoga therapy to students suffering from several disorders. At the Armed Reserve Parade grounds, police personnel of the Tirupati Urban District led by Additional Superintendent of Police E. Supraja performed yoga. “Yoga is not only about body postures or breath control techniques, but also a comprehensive tool to improve one’s intellect,” Ms. Supraja said. At Indian Institute of Technology Tirupati (IIT-T), students performed yogasanas by watching online videos. Director K.N. Satyanarayana said that the event was themed as ‘Yoga at home, Yoga with family’. Webinar held at SPMVV Sri Padmavathi Women’s University (SPMVV) conducted a webinar on ‘Role of Yoga in improving immunity’ under the banner of its NSS bureau, where its coordinator K. Katyayani spoke on the need for a balanced diet and yoga. R. Lakshminarayana, an academic from Sanskrit University, participated as a resource person and explained how yoga would improve physical and mental health. 30 Andhra Battalion (Kadapa) Commanding Officer Colonel S.K. Chauhan conducted a yoga session for the staff. Lt. Col. Ravi Chandran and Major C. Vijayabhaskar and NCC officers took part. Yoga festival in Ongole In Ongole, people performed various yogasanas at a yoga festival here on Sunday. Patanjali Yoga Peetam State president G. Balasubramanium led the yoga practitioners in performing difficult yoga postures online as a total lockdown was in force in the area. The yoga guru, who has trained thousands of students in and around Ongole, guided them in performing yoga postures including Suryanamaskarams coinciding with the solar eclipse and some yogic postures to keep respiratory diseases at bay.
22 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gambling on the rise among youth||Many students, young working professionals and businessmen are increasingly becoming addicted to online gambling and are putting large amounts of money at stake hoping to make a windfall, police said. College students are signing up in large numbers on cricket betting apps available online, and are transferring money using online payment interfaces. Bets are placed mainly on cricket and kabaddi matches. The youths, who believe they have a good chance of winning the bets due to their knowledge of the game, put a lot of money at stake and end up losing it all, said sources. “Desperate to recoup their losses, they bet more money hoping to win it all. This cycle repeats itself a few times by which the youths are sunk into large debts. They then go into depression, and unable to figure a way out of this mess, end up killing themselves,” a police officer said requesting not to be named. G. Ravi Teja, a cashier working for a nationalised bank at Nuzvid in Krishna district, was arrested for allegedly siphoning Rs. 1.50 crore from some inactive accounts and withdrawing the money to fund his addiction for gambling. “The cashier had on some occasions placed bets of over Rs. 3 lakh in a single day and suffered heavy losses, which prompted him to find a way to siphon money from inactive accounts. However, his actions were detected by bank officials who lodged a complaint. He was later arrested and the case is now under investigation,” the police officer said. In another case, Venkatesh (25), a native of Hanuman Junction, allegedly killed himself after he suffered huge losses while participating in online betting. He died at Tanduru in Telangana State. K. Srihari (24), who owned a chicken shop at Eluru in West Godavari district, ended his life after he was unable to repay a loan he had taken to bet on a cricket match in July last year. An engineering student named N. Lokesh Varma (20) consumed poison after he lost a lot of money betting on an India-Bangladesh cricket match a couple of years ago. He was a native of Kalidindi in Krishna district. Police registered a case against other punters in the case. “Police are trying to keep surveillance on online transactions. However, organisers are running the illegal business through various apps. We request the parents to keep a tab on their children and monitor their movements and financial transactions, and particularly their friends’ circle,” a cybercrime official said. Activists of various students unions staged protests demanding that the government take action to prevent online gambling and bettings and ban some social media groups to curb the menace.
22 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||66 new cases and three more deaths in Krishna||Krishna district reported three more deaths and 66 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours ending Sunday morning. Consequently, the tally in the district crossed the 1000-mark and stood at 1,048 and the toll went up to 36. The district now tops the State in the number of deaths and mortality rate (3.44%). Most cases and fatalities are reported in the city. While 559 patients are undergoing treatment, 453 patients have been discharged so far. The district has also seen an increase of nearly 200 cases in the last three days. Mobile testing vehicles Meanwhile, the district administration is gearing up to increase testing of samples. According to Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, the Health Department will deploy mobile testing vehicles – Intelligent Monitoring Analysis Service Quarantine (IMASQ). Mr. Imtiaz, in a review meeting with officials, said the district received 12 vehicles, and each of them had 10 counters where people could give their samples. He said the vehicles would be used to test people in Krishnalanka, Ajith Singh Nagar, Gunadala, IGMC Stadium, and a few other places in the city, besides Machilipatnam, Nuzvid, Jaggaiapet, Ibrahimpatnam and other areas in the district from Monday. Officials plan to test at least 3,000 samples per day.
22 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NTPC may acquire majority stake in RTPP||The acquisition of a majority stake by the National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) in the 1,650-MW Rayalaseema Thermal Power Plant (RTPP) located in Kadapa district appears to be well on its course going by the expert committee’s observations on the ‘problems relating to RTPP and steps to make it financially viable’. The AP-Genco sought the views of the AP Power Employees’ Joint Action Committee (JAC) on a host of recommendations made by the expert panel, which stated that the first option is to reduce costs by rationalising coal supply and staff, and that the AP-Genco may alternatively bring in a Joint Venture (JV) partner for achieving a turnaround. The JV partner is most likely to be the public sector behemoth NTPC having ‘management control immaterial of the JV structure’. NTPC did its homework in recent months by visiting RTPP and holding high-level deliberations with the Energy Department. Staff redeployed The expert committee (chaired by power sector veteran P. Gopal Reddy) advised that the JV be subject to the jurisdiction of the Central Electricity Regulatory Commission, including for tariff fixation. As far as the staffing pattern is concerned, the AP-Genco has already issued orders for deploying 282 employees, including 52 electrical, mechanical and telecom engineers of different designations, to Sri Damodaram Sanjeevaiah Thermal Power Plant in Nellore district. Coming to the proposed JV which looks imminent, the expert committee stated that the NTPC could make use of flexi coal supply processes and also blend imported coal with the domestic variety as it does at its Simhadri and Vallur plants. Significantly, the NTPC is expected to raise capital at favourable rates by leveraging its Maharatna status. Treatment of PPAs It was recommended that the existing Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs approved by AP Electricity Regulatory Commission) be re-assigned to the JV and they (PPAs) may be redesigned if power is to be sold outside. The AP-Genco will not be under the obligation to make further investments in the JV. The locational disadvantage of RTPP, which results in high coal transportation costs, was duly mentioned in the expert committee report, which has been thoroughly examined by the government before the JAC was asked to give its opinion.
22 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR extends parcel train services||The South Central Railway (SCR) decided to extend the services of special parcel trains in some routes due to increasing patronage. The parcel trains would run for six more months in selected routes, the officials said. Ten special parcel trains would run touching Vijayawada, Rajahmundry, Eluru and Anakapalli stations up to December. The railway parcel services were faster and capable of carrying larger volume of cargo to long distances in a short period. For instance, a 100-kg parcel booked for 500 km was being charged Rs. 163 and for 1,300 km the charge was just Rs. 370, the authorities said in a press release. 3,000 tonnes loaded The Vijayawada railway division had loaded more than 3,000 tonnes of essential goods through the special parcel trains during the lockdown period, including eggs, mangoes, frozen fish, ghee, milk and other perishable goods. “We transported 60 tonnes of medicines to various destinations from Vijayawada, Nellore, Eluru, Gudur, Anakapalle and other stations in the division. About 1,750 tonnes of fish and dry fish has been loaded to various destinations in different States,” said Divisional Railway Manager P. Srinivas. Senior Divisional Commercial Manager (Sr. DCM) P. Bhaskar Reddy said 109 tonnes of fruits, 134 tonnes of eggs, 158 tonnes of lime, 54 tonnes of ghee and other essentials had been transported through the special parcel trains during the pandemic. Interested people could dial the helpline (9701370083) or contact the zonal commercial control office, chief parcel supervisors or the nearest railway stations for loading essentials in the special trains, he said.
22 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Pensions being denied on frivolous grounds’||CPI(M) leader Ch. Babu Rao has alleged that the number of ration cards and pensions removed is far higher than the sanctioned ones as the government’s promises are confined to rhetoric. During a visit to Ajit Singh Nagar on Sunday, he said the government had announced that rice cards and pensions would be sanctioned within 10 days of applying, but that appeared to be far from reality. Many old-age and widow pensions were removed from the list of beneficiaries on frivolous grounds, he alleged.
22 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tulasi Reddy seeks fresh survey on ‘Kapu Nestham’||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee working president N. Tulasi Reddy on Sunday urged the government to include the names of Kapu women from Rayalaseema in the list of beneficiaries of the YSR Kapu Nestham scheme. In a statement, Mr. Tulasi Reddy said GO No. 4 was released on January 28 on financial grant of Rs. 75,000 (Rs. 15,000 in each of five years) to women aged between 54-60 years belonging to the Kapu, Telaga, Balija and Ontari communities with an aim to improve their living standards. The list of the beneficiaries is ready since the programme is proposed to be implemented from June 24. But the name of not a single Kapu woman from the Rayalaseema region has found place in the beneficiaries list, said the Congress leader. Mr. Tulasi Reddy said people who were called Reddys in the Rayalaseema region were actually Kapus, according to their caste certificates. Women belonging to the Kapu caste here eked out a living as farm labour, migrant workers or vegetable vendors in village markets. The leader said since all of them were eligible for the scheme, the government should order a fresh door-to-door survey. .
22 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Energy dept. to expedite supply of IoT devices to MSMEs||The Energy Department is contemplating to enter into an MoU with the Industries Department and IIT-Hyderabad for expediting supplying Energy Efficiency (EE) initiatives such as the Internet-of-Things (IoT) project to MSME clusters which paves the way for economic development and employment generation. It has been decided to extend the EE programme to around 97,428 MSMEs across the State on the back of the success of a pilot project in East Godavari district. The IoT technology helps in saving up to 11,000 units per annum in each MSME cluster with an annual monetary benefit of nearly Rs. 90,000, according to State Energy Conservation Mission (SECM) CEO A. Chandra Sekhar Reddy. He stated in a press release that the Energy Department has made enquiries with the IIT-Hyderabad about the possibility of supply of 50,000 to 100,000 IoT devices in a phased manner for installing in all MSMEs and the institute has expressed willingness to supply 10,000 devices initially in the coming five months. The SECM will assist the Industries Department in procuring and installing the cost-effective IoT devices.
22 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Light rain likely in State||Several parts of the State received moderate to heavy rainfall on Sunday. Many parts of Krishna, Kurnool, West Godavari and Guntur received heavy rainfall and a few areas in Guntur, Visakhapatnam, Anantapur and Prakasam experienced light to moderate rainfall, the State’s Planning Development Society said. Gannavaram in Krishna district received a rainfall of 55 mm as of 6 p.m, followed by Pedana, Machilipatnam, and Gudiavada mandals (50 mm). Light to moderate rain was likely for the next four days, said IMD. The AP State Disaster Management Authority issued a forecast for the next three days from Monday. Most of the 670 mandals were likely to receive light to heavy rainfall, it said.
22 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘TDP should introspect on defeat in RS polls’||MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has tweeted that the TDP leaders who made ‘uncharitable remarks’ against the YSRCP leaders elected to Rajya Sabha, should rather introspect their party’s defeat in the elections. He said that TDP leader K. Kala Venkat Rao claimed moral victory for the party saying that the TDP members were abided by the whip, while another TDP leader called MPs criminals. “The TDP leaders should remember that their party MLAs had voted by going against the whip,” he said.
22 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Appughar cluster an area of concern for officials||With 54 COVID-19 cases being reported from Appughar cluster containment zone,the health officials are on their toes here. This cluster has recorded maximum number of positives cases from one single cluster in the district. On June 13, a tea seller and two more members of his family tested positive from Appughar area. On June 16, 13 more persons tested positive and on June 18, 18 more cases were reported from this colony. Again in the last two days, 20 cases were reported taking the tally to 54, said Zonal Commissioner Srinivasa Rao. Household survey By the night of June 20, out of 207 active cases from the district, 54 cases, almost 26% of the total cases, belong from this cluster.  Health department along with ASHA workers, ANMs, ward volunteers are conducting household survey to make sure that all symptomatic persons area tested. Following the instructions from the district administration, all high- risk category persons like those above 60 years with and without health issues, persons with long term health issues and pregnant woman are being identified. Health workers have been informed to create awareness about the Dos and Don’ts in the wake of COVID-19 spike. “Due to the huge population and congested lanes, there was an outbreak. A large number of results are still awaited. There could be increase in cases,” said a health official.
22 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make yoga a part of daily routine, people told||The sixth International Yoga Day was organised by various associations, educational institutions and public sector organisations on Sunday. In view of the pandemic situation, mass gatherings were avoided and it was hosted through web sessions. The Waltair Railway Indoor Sports Enclave and East Point Rest House here saw a few participants in small groups at the Yoga Day organised by the Waltair Division of East Coast Railway (ECoR). A number of enthusiasts participated in the yoga from their residences. Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava, ADRM (Infra) Akshay Saxena, ADRM (Operations) P. Ramachandra Rao and some branch officers performed ‘asanas’ at the residence of the DRM. The DRM said that performing yoga at home and with family members would enhance mental well-being. Commandos for Railway Safety [CORAS] in Waltair Division also performed yogasanas. RPF personnel, sportspersons and, Scouts and Guides took part in the yoga from their units in small groups. Former MP K. Haribabu recalled that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had proposed at the United Nations Organisation (UNO) the holding of International Yoga Day every year. He was speaking at the Yoga Day conducted at the BJP office at Lawson’s Bay Colony. The UNO had resolved that it would be observed on June 21, which happens to be longest day during the year. Yoga master Ramesh called upon the gathering to make yoga a part of their daily routine to boost their immunity. Pranayama helps gain control over the mind, overcome menstrual problems in women, overcoming insomnia, stress and tiredness. BJP leader M. Ravindra said that awareness on yoga has increased among the public. MLC P.V.N. Madhav spoke on the usefulness of yoga in boosting immunity and keeping viral diseases at bay. The day was jointly organised by the NSS, NCC and Physical Education Department of Visakha Government Degree and PG College for Women through webinar. Principal S. Shoba Rani said the objective of the programme was to promote awareness among students. The family members of the students were also encouraged to participate. Yoga trainers Pushpa, Kavita and Suma explained the concepts. Physical Education Director Regani Kiranmai, NCC Coordinator K. Gitanjali, NCC Coordinator K. Sudha and computer science lecturer D. Aruna Padma were among those who were present.
22 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID puts temporary brakes on cruise terminal project||The COVID-19 pandemic has put brakes, albeit temporarily, on the construction of an international cruise terminal by the Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT) with funding from the Ministry of Tourism. Due to the lockdown, the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA), which should have been completed by now to finalise bids for the project to put Visakhapatnam in the global cruise tourism map, could not take off, VPT Chairman K. Rama Mohan Rao told The Hindu . ‘Outcome of studies favourable’ He said, once the situation eased, it would take three months to complete the EIA. The studies conducted by IIT-Chennai, the Central Water and Power Research Station in Pune and the Delhi-based Creative Group found the project quite promising. “In principle, we have finalised the project for nearly Rs. 77 crore, 50% of which will be funded by the Ministry of Tourism under the Central Sector Schemes,” Mr. Rao said. The facility is planned partly on land and partly on the sea side of the existing channel berth to accommodate vessels of the capacity of 1,00,000 gross registered tonnage (GRT) with 300-metre overall length (LOA), 36 m beam and 8.5 m draft. Salient features Mr. Rao said the salient features of the cruise-cum-coastal cargo terminal include a berth of 180 m length and 37.6 m width with four moorings, two each on either side of the berth, to make total length of 330 m. The total area under construction will be 15,000 square metres. The terminal building will have 2,000 square metres with all amenities, adequate parking and catering, refreshment and resting facility, and excellent road connectivity. In view of COVOD-19 pandemic, adequate space for social distancing will be provided. Bright prospects Visakhapatnam district, which is known for panoramic locales such as Rushikonda Beach, Erra Matti Dibbalu, 17th century Dutch township of Bhimili, Araku Valley and the million-year-old Borra Caves, is viewed as having bright prospects to become an important destination for cruise tourism. The VPT initially wants to develop a cruise terminal to facilitate dawn-to-dusk visit with a day-long halt for international tourists, and in the second phase convert it into a hub terminal.
22 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hindustan Shipyard has a bright future, says CMD||Hindustan Shipyard Limited (HSL) Chairman and Managing Director Rear Admiral L.V. Sarat Babu on Sunday predicted a promising future for the premier shipbuilding yard. Speaking at the celebration of 79th Foundation Day of the HSL here, he said with the all-out support of the workforce and the stakeholders, the position of the yard was improving. Since January, 2016, HSL has undergone a major turnaround and posted operating and net profits for the last four consecutive years after a gap of 65 years. Significantly, the HSL implemented revised pay and wage revision to all its employees in March. The Foundation Day celebration remained low-key due to COVID-19 pandemic. Earlier, the CMD along with all the directors, senior officers and representatives of recognised union paid rich tributes to the founder of HSL Seth Walchand Hirachand. He said Seth Walchand was a great visionary and a pioneer of shipbuilding in India. The shipyard was established by him in the city due to its strategic location. After his decision to lay the foundation stone for the shipyard by an Indian leader in the thick of the freedom struggle, the ceremony was performed on June 21, 1941, by Rajendra Prasad. Independent India’s first ship ‘Jala Usha’ was launched soon after Independence at the shipyard. The CMD conveyed his felicitations to all serving and retired employees on this occasion. He highlighted the fact that shipyard had transformed itself and achieved remarkable growth in all the spheres by receiving several awards.
22 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||700 kg ganja seized in Visakhapatnam district||Hukumpeta police on Saturday night arrested seven persons while they were allegedly transporting 700 kg of ganja in a van, in Visakhapatnam district. The seized ganja is estimated to be worth more than Rs. 70 lakh. According to reports, all the accused, hailing from Odisha, were heading towards the National Highway via Hukumpeta from Odisha with the ganja. In order to escape from police, the smugglers placed a large load of vegetables atop the ganja packets. Acting on a tip-off, police intercepted the vehicle near Tadigiri area and seized the ganja. Investigation revealed that the accused were unaware of the destination and were instructed to hand over the ganja on the NH, it is learnt. Cases have been booked and a probe is on.
22 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MSMEs see red over high electricity tariff||Resentment is brewing among industrial consumers in the MSME sector after they were forced to shell out hefty power bills, despite an assurance that they would be given a three-month waiver of fixed/minimum demand charges. Sources told The Hindu that though the per unit cost of power purchased from the Central Grid and independent power purchasers is less than Rs. 3, authorities are selling it at Rs. 9 to Rs. 10 per unit to MSMEs depending on their consumption by collecting minimum usage charges and transmission and distribution costs. On waiver of three months’ tariff, the distribution company is first insisting on payment of bills and asking the MSME units to claim the reimbursement later, it is learnt. When contacted, Superintending Engineer T.V. Surya Prakash said that after payment, one has to apply through a government portal and get certification by a committee headed by the General Manager of District Industries Centre for release of the amount to the eligible beneficiaries. ‘Manpower problem’ “Many of the units are turning sick due to steep overhead costs. We are asked to pay monthly bills first and later claim reimbursement from the government,” A.K. Balaji, president of Visakha Autonagar Industrialists’ Welfare Association, said. He said that of the 6,000 MSME units, many are facing a threat of collapse due to heavy losses suffered during the lockdown. Now, they are finding it difficult to restart operations as most of the workers are yet to return from their native places. “The tariff being paid by the industrial users is very high, thereby killing off many of the units,” said O. Naresh Kumar, director of A.P. Chambers of Commerce and Industry Federation. He said that power was available even from IPP (solar and wind) at less than Rs. 3 per unit and the benefits should be passed on to the MSMEs and industrial consumers. “We must mandate a uniform power policy. Ease of doing business would improve if the tariffs are brought down,” he said. While praising Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for his decision to write off minimum demand charges for three months to the MSME sector, Kankatala Mallik, president, Vizagapatam Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said the same benefit should also be extended to retail sector and malls which were shut down during the lockdown.
22 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB officials crack the whip against illegal sand mining, liquor smuggling||Officials from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) are cracking the whip against illegal sand mining and liquor smuggling in the district. In its first one month of formation, the SEB (Visakhapatnam Rural) has booked 1,117 cases and arrested 1,293 persons for their alleged involvement in various illegal activities. Teams from SEB (Rural) under the guidance of its Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Rahul Dev Singh had conducted raids on illegal ID liquor manufacturing units at various parts of the district police limits and seized 5,724 litres of ID liquor, apart from destroying 84,210 litres of fermented jaggery wash. The SEB teams also seized 68 litres of IML and 10 litres of beer, while being transported/sold illegally. A total of 404 vehicles were seized. A huge quantity of 3,743 tonnes of sand which was being illegally transported was seized. A total of 7,409 kg ganja and 15 kg hash oil was seized in various smuggling cases in one month. “A large number of awareness camps are being conducted in interior villages of the district appealing public to stay away from ID liquor, ganja smuggling and other offences. Strict vigil has been been kept on habitual offenders. Efforts are showing positive results,” said a senior official from SEB. Meanwhile, the SEB (Visakhapatnam Urban) led by ASP V. Ajitha conducted raids and seized 705 tonnes of sand which was being illegally transported. The teams have booked 60 cases in this regard. The SEB teams have also conducted raids on 412 belt shops and seized 889.05 litres of IML and 87.5 litres of beer.
22 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Assembly resolution against NRC, NPR hailed||The resolution adopted by the State Assembly against the National Register of Citizens (NRC) and the National Population Register (NPR) is ‘historic’, Constitution Protection Committee (CPC) convener Rahimtullah Baig has said. The NRC and NPRwould create discord among different communities and lead to several problems, the CPC convener said and commended the Chief Minister for taking the bold decision to oppose them. Apart from Muslim minorities, the NPR and NRC would also harm the interests of SC/ST and BC communities. The NRC and the NPR were against the basic principle of ‘unity in diversity’ , the CPC said.
22 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||35 new cases take tally to 443, one dies||As many as 35 new COVID-19 cases were reported from Visakhapatnam district here on Sunday, taking the tally to 443. Tension prevailed as one more person died due to COVID-19 consecutively on the second day in the district. The death toll from the district rose to three on Sunday. A 55-year old person from Palasa in Srikakulam district, who was admitted to a private hospital in the city with severe respiratory issues, died. According to Special Officer for COVID-19, P.V. Sudhakar, in the 35 cases which were reported on Sunday, most are from Peda Jalaripeta and Appughar. With the new cases, the total number of active cases in the district is 230. Meanwhile, with the discharge of 11 more persons after testing negative, the total number of discharged persons increased to 210. The total number of very active clusters is 33, while active clusters are 39.
22 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ministers used derogatory language against women’||Telugu Mahila State president V. Anita on Sunday took strong exception to the statements made by A.P. Women’s Commission chairperson Vasireddy Padma demanding arrest of former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu for his alleged derogatory remarks against the Commissioner of Narsipatnam Municipality in Visakhapatnam district. The Telugu Mahila president said the TDP would seek judicial remedy in the case. Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu was booked under Nirbhaya Act following a police complaint. Addresing the media, Ms. Anita alleged that Ministers P. Anil Kumar Yadav and Vellampalli Srinivas used derogatory language against women in the Legislative Council. “We have proof. Do you (Ms. Padma) have the guts to arrest them (the Ministers)?, Ms. Anita asked. Mr. Anita alleged that YSRCP activist Durga Reddy had made vulgar comments on a married woman in Anaparthi, which led to her being deserted by her husband. “Ms. Padma is saying that the arrest of Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu serve as an example for others. Why was she silent when the YSRCP leaders made derogatory statements against women?, she asked.
22 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID violation case booked against Delhi returnee||The IV Town police booked a COVID-19 violation case against a 20-year-old woman who allegedly left a swab collection centre ignoring quarantine rule. The woman, who came from Delhi, was supposed to undergo institutional quarantine. She was charged with leaving the place without informing the authorities. According to the police, as per the protocol, the woman has to undergo mandatory institutional quarantine, since she came from a high-risk area, but without giving any information, she just left the centre. The police alleged that she might have left the place intentionally. “Since she was not reachable, we contacted some of her relatives and explained them this is a violation of government order. The relatives promised her to bring her back in the evening,” the police said.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Employees urge RTC to release CCS funds||A Credit Cooperative Society (CCS) constituted for welfare of the employees of the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) who contributed certain amount monthly from their salaries and availed themselves of loans to fulfil needs such as children’s education or marriage, has stopped serving the purpose. The reason is that the cash-strapped RTC is said to have diverted the CCS funds for other expenses. Unable to avail loans , the workers have been urging the management to repay the money. ‘Loan applications await sanction’ “Since March 30, close to 3,000 applications seeking loans have been awaiting sanction. We want the RTC management to immediately repay Rs. 260 crore which it has diverted to meet other expenses, along with interest amount,” said P. Damodar Rao, general secretary of the APSRTC Employees Union (EU). Mr. Damodar Rao said the union was under pressure by the 52,000 employees to persuade the management to give them their money back. The union had submitted representations to the Transport Minister Perni Venkataramaiah and Principal Secretary, Transport and Roads and Buildings, M.T. Krishna Babu, urging them to solve the issue. The Minister had responded favourably, but the RTC management had not yet responded on the issue. “The RTC should release at least Rs. 100 crore immediately ,” he said. Mr. Rao allayed fears of depositors that the CCS was on the verge of bankruptcy. Referring to reports that dearth of funds had led to the bankruptcy of the Society, he said the CCS had set an example ever since its inception in 1952.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fitness mantra||
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Back to work||
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Picking up the threads||
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Treading warily||
22 June 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Slew of containment measures in coal belt||Vigorous containment measures to curb the spread of coronavirus were launched at Gowthampur Colony of Chunchupalli mandal on Sunday following detection of a confirmed case in the colony. A slew of preventive measures, including a disinfection drive and door-to-door survey, were conducted and the colony cordoned off to stem the spread of the deadly virus in the coal belt area, sources said. The medical teams have launched contract tracing exercise in the colony as per the instructions of Collector M.V. Reddy, sources added. Meanwhile, the admission of veteran Congress leader V. Hanumantha Rao at a private hospital in Hyderabad with suspected coronavirus on Sunday created a stir among those who moved closely with him during his visit to Bhadrachalam over a week ago. According to sources, the senior Congress leader aged about 70 years reportedly had darshan at the historic Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple during his recent visit to Bhadrachalam, despite the bar of entry of devotees aged more than 65 years into the temple for darshan as per the lockdown norms.
22 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||OGH junior doctors continue boycotting emergency duties||Around 27 Post Graduate students at Osmania General Hospital, who play a crucial role in attending to COVID-patients, boycotted emergency and elective duties on Sunday too. General Medicine junior doctors said that they would not attend to duties until PGs from other clinical departments treat COVID suspects admitted at the hospital. Stating that they were overstretched and not able to provide even basic treatment to patients admitted in critical stages, they boycotted the duties from Saturday morning. Apart from dearth of required work force, they have alleged that infrastructure such as oxygen ports were insufficient leading to loss of lives. However, hospital superintendent B. Nagender denied the allegations. “COVID suspects in terminal stages are brought to OGH, sometimes even from private hospitals. Some of them have co-morbidities. There will be little time left to save them,” Dr. Nagender said as a reason for the deaths, adding that the natural course of the disease too was a factor. Currently, COVID duties are distributed among 14 General Medicine faculty members, and around three are on duty at a time. There is a dire need to address this crisis at the earliest as COVID suspects in critical conditions are admitted at the State government tertiary care hospital. Patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) too are admitted here. On Sunday, there were around 50 patients. But there are only around 20 oxygen ports. And most of the patients need oxygen supply, sources in the hospital said. The hospital administration said that there were 24 oxygen ports in the isolation ward and 10 more would be added by Monday morning. “We already have around 30 oxygen cylinders and procuring 100 more,” Dr. Nagender said. Regarding additional workforce, he said they had allotted 30 house surgeons, and PGs from the anatomy and pathology departments. “A few more PGs from dermatology and orthopaedics, and one more Duty Medical Officer are given duties,” he said. For one shift in the isolation ward, six PGs, 10 House Surgeons, and one Duty Medical Officer are needed. “Work will be properly distributed if PGs from other departments too are allotted duties,” a General Medicine junior doctor said. As a result, doctors from all departments in OGH are full of cases to handle. They too have to attend non-COVID cases, officials said.
22 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flood into upstream projects kindles hopes downstream||With early rains within the State giving a jump-start to the agricultural operations this season, an early beginning of flood into the reservoirs in the upstream of Krishna and Bhima rivers in Karnataka and Maharashtra has given rise to the prospects of an early commencement of farming activity in the areas under canal irrigation in the basin. Against the commencement of inflows (flood) on July 3 into Almatti last year, the reservoir has already received over 25.5 tmc ft of fresh water from June 1 this water year. Similarly, against the availability of less than 40.5 tmc ft water, gross storage, in Almatti and Narayanpur dams as on June 21 last year, the water available in the two major projects above Jurala, the gateway of Krishna and Bhima water into Telugu States, in Karnataka this year is over 75 tmct ft. In its flood forecast for Almatti, the Central Water Commission has indicated that the inflows would in the range of 51,200 cusecs till 8 a.m. on Monday. Irrigation engineers stated that such a flood would add another 4 tmc ft of water by Monday morning to the Almatti’s storage of 51.4 tmc ft as on Sunday morning, although the trend of inflows is falling. Authorities have indicated that it is being proposed to draw water to the irrigation systems based on water stored in Jurala – Nettempadu, Bhima and Koilsagar lift schemes – from early July itself in case the inflows into Almatti and Narayanpur reservoirs in the upstream of Krishna continued further. The flood cushion of the two dams in Karnataka as on June 21 is about 92 tmc ft itself against 127 tmc ft on the same day last year. Ujjani dam in the upstream of Bhima, a major tributary of Krishna, has also received about 3 tmc ft of flood water so far this season. Inflow of flood has also commenced into the projects based on the other major tributaries of Krishna such as Tungabhadra, Malaprabha, Ghataprabha has also commenced. Flood monitoring officials, when contacted, stated that present water levels (storage) in all major reservoirs both in the Krishna and Godavari basins in Telangana and upper riparian States is also much better as on June 21 when compared to the same day last year.
22 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Centre diverted testing device from TS to Bengal’||Health Minister Eatala Rajender has accused the Central government of diverting a high-end diagnostic device, procured by Telangana to increase its COVID testing capacity, to West Bengal. “The machine has the capacity of 4,500 tests per day but was taken to West Bengal straight from Chennai and when the issue was taken up with Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and DG of ICMR Balram Bhargava, they defended it saying the situation in West Bengal is serious,” Mr. Rajender said at a press conference here. “Yet, without protesting we enhanced our internal capabilities,” he said. The Health Minister was visibly angry and said that people of Telangana were hurt at the remarks made by BJP national president J.P. Nadda, who alleged that the Telangana government’s response to COVID-19 was not satisfactory. Saying that Mr. Nadda’s remarks were purely political, he said that the BJP president should first explain the alarming situation in the BJP-ruled states like Gujarat, MP and UP. He further charged that BJP was busy toppling governments in various states rather than focussing on containing the virus spread in reference to Madhya Pradesh. “Even Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal appealed to the Central government for assistance and the BJP president being in Delhi should focus on helping the national capital,” he said. Mr. Rajender also said that CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao was one of the few in the country who supported PM Narendra Modi’s decisions on COVID when most of them mocked at lighting lamps and clapping. “Our CM always called for not politicising the COVID issue and continues to maintain it.” Calling the BJP’s attitude petty, he said instead of helping the Telangana government they were playing politics even with the pandemic but people of Telangana realise who works for them. He also took a dig at Mr. Modi saying several officials, including RBI governors, who worked in the NDA government, criticised its functioning. Mr. Rajender rejected the allegations of corruption on the irrigation projects and asked Mr. Nadda whether projects taken up in Gujarat were also for commissions. He said people of Telangana rejected the BJP giving just one seat in Assembly and almost nothing in the local body elections. “They could win a few in the Parliament elections as we are a bit relaxed.”
22 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PMFBY unlikely to be implemented in State||The Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana, the flagship crop insurance scheme launched all over the country in the kharif of 2016, is as good as over in Telangana because the State government was said to be of firm belief that the outgo from its side to the participating insurance companies was in hundreds of crores while the claims paid to farmers was much less. The government was credited with the view that there was no point in implementing the scheme after it was revamped earlier this year to make enrolment 100% voluntary for all farmers from ongoing kharif. This would drastically reduce the strength of the insured. Also, the government firmly believed that it was spending up to Rs. 41,000 crore annually on agriculture, including Rs. 14,000 crore on Rythu Bandhu, Rs. 6,225 crore on loan waiver, Rs. 11.000 crore on irrigation and Rs. 10,000 crore on free power, in the total State budget of Rs. 1.82 lakh crore. So, the scheme could be given a miss considering that it was also the demand of farmers for a long time seeking exemption from joining it compulsorily for availing crop loans, said a senior officer. The PMFBY was until now a voluntary scheme for non-loanee farmers. In the case of loanee farmers, banks deducted their share of premium (2 to 5%) against loan accounts on compulsory basis and remitted the same to insurance companies. The balance 95 to 98% was shared by the State and Central governments in 50:50 ratio. In these circumstances, the State government which was supposed to invite tenders from insurance companies in May for implementation of the scheme backed out. After the tenders were finalised, the government used to notify premium amounts for different crops which banks deducted from the loans payable to farmers. This year, however, the banks will remit the full loan amount under the revamped guidelines. The scheme had taken off well in the State in the launch year of 2016-17 and the next year but 2018-19 and 2019-20 saw the State government not releasing its share of premium. As a result, the Centre also did not release the matching sum and, therefore, the insurance companies failed to meet the claims of farmers amounting to Rs. 960 crore (Rs. 410 crore for 2018-19 and Rs. 550 crore for 2019-20). The State and Central governments were to share the premium amount payable to the companies in the two years to the extent of Rs.413.50 crore each but failed.
22 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KGBVs script a success story in Intermediate results||They are the daughters of the soil and some without parents, and those lucky to have parents are mostly first general learners. They may be the children of beedi workers, agricultural labourers and small farmers, yet their remarkable performance in Intermediate results, competing with the urban and rich peers, is noteworthy. Denied opportunities and aspirations suppressed since childhood, Ch. Chandrakala, Anjali, Chapala Srivani, Bukya Rajitha, P. Vyshnavi, M. Harika, Gadila Anoda and V. Lahiri, all from Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBVs) scripted a sweet success story by performing brilliantly in Intermediate exams this year, overcoming social, economical and parental backgrounds. These students are among the 3,500 who performed extremely well from the KGBVs, residential schools set up for girls from under-privileged and disadvantaged sections of the society in educationally backward blocks. They have showed their stuff registering 78.76 % passes as against the State average of 68.86%. The success is far more satisfying as they belong to the first batch of KGBVs Intermediate course introduced in 2018-19 academic year. To ensure retention of girls at senior secondary level, Inter education was introduced in KGBVs from 2018-19 by the Telangana government in a phased manner. In the last two years, 170 KGBVs were upgraded to Intermediate. The first batch of second year took the exams this year and out of 4,483 students from 88 colleges, 3,531 students cleared the exam. And among these 88, three colleges secured 100% results. “The performance is appreciable as most of them are first generation students and come from poor backgrounds from rural areas,” says Chitra Ramachandran, Special Chief Secretary, Education, Telangana. And she attributed the success to teachers and other staff who introduced innovative teaching methods keeping the students profile in mind. Three KGBVs that secured 100% results are KGBV Jinnaram, Sangareddy district; KGBV Palakurthy, Jangaon district and KGBV Dahegaon, Kumram Bheem Asifabad, and two of these are located in the remote areas. Four colleges secured 100% results in the first year exams that include KGBV Palakurthy, Jangaon; KGBV Gundala and KGBV Cherla in Bhadradri and KGBV Indervelly in Adilabad. She said that overall, 61 KGBVs got above 90% passes in second year results and 79 KGBVs secured above 90% passes in first year results. In the first year results, the average pass percentage was 71.13 as against the State average of 60.01%. There is an increase of 7.56% passes this year compared to 2019 at 63.48% in first year.  The performance is appreciable as most of them are first generation students and come from poor backgrounds from rural areas.  Chitra Ramachandran  Special Chief Secretary, Education
22 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TSRJC Sarvail steals the show||The Telangana State Residential Junior College, Sarvail in Yadadri Bhuvanagiri district, stole the show in Intermediate results among the 35 TSR junior colleges managed by the Telangana Educational Institutions Society (TREIS), by securing top marks in all the streams. Toppers from the MPC and BiPC groups were from Sarvail college with all the top four marks in the BiPC stream going to students from this institution. In the MEC stream too, the second highest mark was from this institution. The toppers include K. Omkar (989 marks) from TSRJC Sarvail, K. Shivani (988 marks) from TSRJC Hasanparthy, K. Mahalaxmi (987 marks) from TSRJC Choutuppal, T. Mohana Krishna (987 marks) from TSRJC Sarvail and M. Harshita (987 marks) from TSRJC Vikarabad in the MPC stream. In the BiPC group, S. Yeswath from TSRJC Sarvail topped with 987 marks and the next three — P. Mahesh (984 marks), B. Poonitha Reddy (984 marks) and K. Shiva Kumar (983 marks) also hail from TSRJC Sarvail. In the MEC group, K. Sai Chandana secured 976 marks from TSRJC Hasanparthy and S. Mohammed Saddam Hussain secured 974 marks from TSRJC Sarvail. According to secretary of TREIS S. Venkateshwara Sharma, the institutions secured 95.3% passes while the State average was 68.86%. Out of the 35 TSR Junior Colleges, nine colleges secured 100% passes. About 75% students got above 90% marks while eight colleges secured an average of above 98% and 71% of institutions secured above 95% results. In the first year results, two colleges secured 100% passes while overall pass percentage was 90.9%. The TREIS institutions were set up with an objective to impart quality education to rural talented children from below poverty line families.
22 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Techie found dead at home||A 26-year-old techie was found dead at her residence in Meerpet on Saturday night. Shiva Kumari, who got married to one Udutha Jayaram in 2010, committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan. “She informed her father over the phone that she will commit suicide, as she was unable to bear Jayaram’s harassment,” Meerpet police said. They have two children and for the past few months, Jayaram was harassing her for divorce, police said. Around 3 p.m. on Saturday, the victim went inside her bedroom and hanged herself. She was rushed to a private hospital in the area, where doctors declared her as dead. A case under relevant sections of the IPC was registered against Jayaram. In another case, Lavudya Santhosh (28), a private employee from Meerpet, committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan on Saturday night. Before he resorted to the extreme step, he made a video call to his aunt Santha Bai and informed her about his extreme decision owing to financial problems. Later, he switched off his phone.  (There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni.)
22 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Call for integrated help desk in hospitals||The Congress on Saturday demanded that the Telangana government establish an integrated help desk for people suspected to be suffering from COVID or other diseases to avoid confusion in seeking the services. “Confusion on admission of patients with COVID issues is leading to delay and sometimes death as well much before treatment is started and the government should immediately address this issue,” said Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy. In a statement here, he said that several deaths have been reported in Hyderabad in the last few days, wherein hospitals refused to admit patients, especially those with COVID symptoms. “People should be briefed that presently only a few private hospitals, approved by the State government, are admitting only the confirmed cases of coronavirus,” said Mr. Reddy, who is undergoing treatment for corona at a private hospital. Therefore, he said that the State government should establish a help desk, headed by a panel of senior doctors, to guide people during health emergencies. He added that the help desk should have complete information on availability of beds in both government and private hospitals in real time mode and this would save many lives. He also demanded that the government should authorise private hospitals to send samples of patients for testing to any ICMR approved laboratory. “This will save a lot of time and reduce the burden on Gandhi Hospital,” he said. Further, he said that the government should ensure widespread availability of pulse oximeters in the market.
22 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cable-stayed bridge for walkers on weekends||Durgam Cheruvu is going to be the next weekend destination in the city, after Hussainsagar, thanks to the decision taken by the government to make the cable-stayed bridge an exclusively pedestrian zone on weekends. The bridge is set to be launched by July-end, an official statement by GHMC said. No vehicles Chief Engineer (Projects) R. Sreedhar said vehicles would not be allowed on Saturdays and Sundays after the launch, and tourists would be allowed only to walk on the bridge. Vehicles should be parked in the area earmarked for the purpose, from where people should walk up to the bridge, to enjoy the view. Durgam Cheruvu is being touted as the world’s largest extradosed cable-stayed bridge in concrete. While the bridge was in place as early as in February, the remaining works such as installation of side railings and lighting have been delayed owing to the lockdown imposed for controlling COVID-19 spread. Flyover Besides, launch of the bridge has to be clubbed with completion of the flyover on Road No.45 in Jubilee Hills, if it is of any use for the commuters. The flyover would take more time, up to July-end, officials said. Once launched, the cable-stayed bridge would reduce the distance between Madhapur and Jubilee Hills and ease traffic congestion on Road No.36, Jubilee Hills, officials said. Cost of its construction is Rs. 184 crore.
22 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Covid patient wrongly declared dead, say kin||Family members of a 55-year-old patient admitted to Osmania General Hospital took objection after police called them informing that the patient died, when her daughter herself was attending to her at the hospital on Sunday. Around 6.30 a.m. Afzalgunj police called Meharunissa’s daughter and told her that the former died of COVID-19 and they want to coordinate with them for last rites. “This is pathetic,” the daughter told the media. Meanwhile, Punjagutta police registered a case against the family members of Ms. Meharunissa for creating ‘nuisance’ at Care Hospital, Banjara Hills, after they refused to admit her due to lack of beds and ventilators.
22 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||5 more policemen test positive||Five policemen, including an inspector with a police station in the city’s west zone, tested positive for coronavirus. While the inspector was diagnosed with the infection on Saturday, four constables were tested positive a few days ago. “At every police station in our zone, at least four to five officers got infected with the virus,” a senior officer said, adding that all of them were under quarantine.
22 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Centre insensitive to fuel price hike’||Petrol prices have risen by Rs. 7 in the last 14 days and this reflects how the Centre is least bothered about people from all sections, who are already suffering from loss of income due to corona-related lockdown, said AICC secretary and former legislator Vamshi Chand Reddy. Speaking to reporters, he said with the latest hike, petrol prices have touched Rs. 81.88 per litre in Hyderabad and diesel prices have touched Rs. 75.91 per litre. He said the Congress has been demanding rollback of the prices but the government is ignoring it. He recalled a letter written on June 16 by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying his government’s decision to increase prices on petrol and diesel during the coronavirus pandemic is “wholly insensitive”.
22 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Excise officials||Telangana Prohibition and Excise department officials arrested three persons, including a former software professional, for allegedly procuring and selling drugs and narcotics. The three were caught by the Excise department’s Enforcement Team at Ameerpet on Saturday night. The team seized 105 gm MDMA, 25 grams of cocaine, 25 grams of hashish oil, four blots of LSD, and 250 grams dry ganja.
22 June 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Closure of pvt. schools is gain for govt. schools||Majority of budget private schools in the undivided Karimnagar district are on the verge of closure following the outbreak of coronavirus and the subsequent lockdown during the current academic year 2020-2021. On the other hand, it would come as a blessing in disguise for government schools, which were struggling for enrolment. Following the closure of private schools, they are seeing a steady increase in enrolment. With lockdown in force, many private school managements were unable to pay salaries to their staff since April as parents were unable to pay the fees. As such, staff of many of these schools vacated their rented houses, returned to their native places and took up other works, including working on agricultural fields. Some of them took up NREGS works while women teachers opened eateries. As for school managements, they were unable to repay bank loans and power bills. “We are ready to sell away our school, but still we are not in a position to clear the debts,” said a private school correspondent in Rampur locality. He said parents would not send their wards to private schools as they were not in a position to pay dues and the fees of the new academic year; they would prefer to send their children to government schools which also provide free English medium instruction, books, midday meals etc, he said. Telangana Recognised Schools Management Association (TRSMA) president and correspondent of a school in Karimnagar Y Shekhar Rao said already about 500 private schools were closed out of a total of 1,470 schools in the district. He demanded that the government provide at least six months’ salaries to private teaching and non-teaching staff to help them resume operations.
22 June 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Policemen celebrate International Yoga Day||On the occasion of International Yoga Day on Sunday, the Commissionerate of Police organised a mass yoga programme at the police headquarters in Karimnagar town. Under the leadership of Commissioner of Police VB Kamalasan Reddy, around 500 police personnel of various ranks participated in the 75-minute programme. Additional DCP (P&O) Chandramohan, ACPs Vijayasarathi and Srinivas, SIB Indrasena Reddy, inspectors Laxman Babu, Vijay Kumar, Vignan Rao and others were also present.
22 June 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Wyra rythu sangham in protest mode||Upping the ante against the alleged encroachments on floodplains of Wyra river adjoining the reservoir of Nizam-era at Wyra town, the Telangana Rythu Sangham has called for a sustained farmers’ movement to protect the interests of the ayacutdars of the Wyra medium irrigation project. The Rythu Sangham is readying to launch a joint stir by involving the Wyra Project Ayacut Parirakshana Committee and other farmers’ organisations to press for removal of alleged encroachments on the floodplains of the Wyra river and the surroundings of the reservoir. Site visit A delegation of the Rythu Sangham led by its district president B Rambabu on Saturday visited the alleged "encroached portion" of the river’s floodplains near the reservoir at Wyra as a prelude to launch an agitation over the issue, sources said. Various farmers’ organisations have long been demanding concrete measures to protect the areas along the riverbed and reservoir site from alleged encroachments. The Wyra medium irrigation project, encompassing about 25,000 acres of ayacut spread in Wyra, Thallada and Bonakal mandals, is the lifeline for farmers in the three mandals, said Mr Rambabu. An unauthorised fish pond has come up on the floodplains of the river close to the reservoir recently, he charged, alleging that the fish pond will not only cause pollution but obstruct the flow of water and reduce the water carrying capacity of the reservoir. The Wyra reservoir is the prime source for the Mission Bhagiratha project’s Wyra segment comprising about 12 mandals, he noted. We have already brought the matter to the notice of the officials concerned seeking urgent action to remove all the encroachments along the reservoir site, Mr Rambabu said. He said efforts are on to launch an agitation in a phased manner to press for restoration of the original irrigation potential of the Wyra project. All the elected representatives of the Wyra constituency should join hands to protect the river ecosystem and the ayacut spanning 25,000 acres in three mandals, he urged.
22 June 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Many gather to watch partial solar eclipse||Partly cloudy skies failed to deter several curious denizens, who gazed at the skies with solar filters to catch a glimpse of the partial solar eclipse here on Sunday. Some of the sky-watchers managed to view the astronomical event and click pictures of the celestial spectacle on their mobile phones when the clouds moved out in the afternoon. Several enthusiastic sky-gazers including the members of Jana Vignana Vedika (JVV) gathered at the Yellandu cross roads and spent some time watching the celestial event together in strict adherence to safety precautions. The JVV activists explained about the astronomical phenomenon to the local youth . Meanwhile, the famous temple dedicated to Lord Sitarama in Bhadrachalam was closed due to the solar eclipse till 2.30 p.m. on Sunday. The temple was reopened after the ‘Samprokshana’ and other rituals, at 5 p.m.
22 June 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Minister pays homage to Prof. Jayashankar||Minister V. Prashanth Reddy said that Telangana ideologue Prof. Jayashankar till his last breath fought against the injustice to the region, and hence his services should be an inspiration for future generations. Paying homage to Prof. Jayashankar on his death anniversary on Sunday, the Minister said that the former always used to say that the woes of Telangana farmers would go when water flows in their barren lands. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao filled light in the lives of farmers by fulfilling the dreams of Prof. Jayashankar, he said.
22 June 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||No mask, pay Rs. 100 at this village in Sangareddy||“Corona will be there for long. Despite all efforts, it has been spreading. We are yet to understand how it has been behaving. We need to take all precautions. Always wear a mask and maintain physical distance. We have to live with it,” was what Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has been reiterating. Following the Minister’s words in true spirit, the Munipally mandal headquarters village decided to strictly implement the norms suggested by the government. A resolution was passed in this regard at a meeting held on Sunday morning. “Everybody in the village should wear a mask. Violators will be imposed a fine of Rs. 100. Check-posts will be erected around the village at three connecting points. All hotels must be closed and a fine of Rs. 1,000 will be imposed if rules are not followed. Belt shops should also be closed and a penalty of Rs. 5,000 will be imposed if violated. If anyone from outside enters the village without mask, those related to them will be fined,” read the resolution taken at the meeting attended by a large number of villagers. Rise in the number of COVID cases had created fear among villagers and hence, these decisions were taken. “The number of cases around our village have been increasing. Positive cases were reported from Kamkol and Polkampally villages. As a precautionary measure, we have erected check-posts around the village and arranged for water and soap. People have to wash their hands before entering our village,” village sarpanch K. Ramesh told The Hindu . The village has a population of about 5,000.
22 June 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||One killed, three injured in road accident||One person was killed and three others were injured in a road accident that took place at Annasagar under Jogipet police station limits on Sunday. According to Sub-Inspector A. Venkataraju Goud, an auto on its way from Rangampet to Neredigunta was hit by a bus coming from Narayanakhed resulting in the accident. B. Eswaraiah (58) died while being shifted to the hospital.
22 June 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Cattle hostels in 8 villages||With an aim to ensure greater well-being of the cattle owned by individuals and also improve the hygiene of the village the government is setting up cattle hostels with a capacity to host 200 animals in eight villages in Siddipet district. The individually owned cattle would be hosted in the common facility which would have a separate section for animals ready to give birth and also animals that are sick. Each hostel is being built on three acres of land on the outskirts of the village at an estimated cost of Rs. 1 crore. The initiative of the Siddipet district administration to establish a paid facility is is likely to be emulated by others. The charges are yet to be finalised, however, officials indicate that it would be based on the services farmer wants to avail. The cattle hostels are coming up in — Irkod in Siddipet rural mandal, Ponnala and Mittapally in Urban mandal, Ibrahimpur, Jakkapur and Gurralgondi in Narayanaraopet mandal and Narmetta and Gatlamalyala in Nanganoor mandal. These villages were identified based on the existing population of the cattle. Three acres of land was allotted in each of these villages for this purpose and the construction activity is fast progressing. Each hostel will have 10 sheds each and each shed can shelter as many as 20 cattle thereby accommodating about 200 cattle in each hostel. By ensuring all the cattle population of the village is kept at one location the village would be rid of animal dung spread everywhere. The facility would have a veterinary doctor available on call, required facilities would be provided to the animals, timely medical tests for the cattle and special attention to calves for better feeding. These sheds will have round-the-clock protection, power and water supply and fodder availability. “With such good facilities the cattle are expected to give good yield,” an officer explained. The farmers would have to feed their cattle and clean the shed where their cattle is being kept. They can also share the fodder among cattle when required. “Self help groups (SHGs) will run these hostels. A gopala mitra will be appointed here. The village sarpanch will be the chairman of the committee that would run the hostel with five farmers as members. It has been estimated that watchman salary will amount to Rs. 20,000 for two persons, power bill Rs. 20,000 and other expenditures will be another Rs. 20,000. Charge per cattle per month would be between Rs. 200 to Rs. 250,” the officer added.
22 June 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Galwan Valley sacrifices will not go in vain: Kishan Reddy||Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy called on the bereaved family of Col. Bikkumalla Santosh Babu here on Sunday. The Minister returned from his Delhi trip on Sunday afternoon, and took the NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) along with former State BJP president K. Laxman and MLC Ramachander Rao and others, and reached Suryapet. At the Bikkumalla family residence at Vidyanagar, he garlanded the Colonel’s portrait to pay his respects and later sat down with the family members, remembering Santosh Babu’s life in the Armed Forces and outside, and offered words of comfort for the loss. Country’s loss Wishing strength and courage to the Colonel’s widow Santoshi and parents Upender and Manjula, Mr. Reddy said Prime Minister Narendra Modi had specially directed him to visit the family and convey condolences on his behalf. He reassured them that the Centre would stand by them in all respects. “Losing a young officer who had a great future is not only the family’s loss, but also of the country. None of the sacrifices at the Galwan Valley will go in vain,” he asserted. Keeping in view the ground situation, the Minister, speaking to press persons stressed that the “Indian Army was given full and unconditional freedom” at the borders to safeguard the territorial integrity of the country. “Even as talks with China were in progress, they acted against us by breaking the trust. Already people across the country are discarding China products, it is required that we boycott using all Chinese products,” he said. Meanwhile, District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy and Superintendent of Police R. Bhaaskaran reviewed final arrangements for Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s visit to Suryapet on Monday. According to information, KCR will arrive at Vidyanagar in the afternoon, pay tributes to the Colonel and offer condolences to the family. As announced earlier, the State government will offer the family a relief of Rs. 5 crore, a residential plot and Group-I equivalent job to the Colonel’s wife. The Chief Minister would hand over the relief cheque and the job appointment letter to the family in person.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Policeman promotes himself in video||At a time when the entire police force was on the battling front, it is amusing to note that only one police officer valiantly poses as waging a war - euphemistically called a ‘Corona fight’. This trailer of the documentary, which focuses on the police work during the lockdown, bravely showcases only one officer in opposition to a battery of senior officials. The trailer has become a hot topic among the corridors of power as it was launched by a Minister but misses the videos or images of the Minister or other officers in the Commissionerate. “It’s a novel way of promoting oneself during the crisis situation,” quipped one officer. The documentary is to be released very soon.’   Coronavirus has become the most dreaded word among the rank and file of the police force in Telangana as the number of positive cases in the department are alarmingly rising. Even the top brass are keeping their immediate subordinates at arm's length and were confined to protect their health first. Though four police personnel in the State capital have succumbed to the deadly virus, the palpable fear among the police is such that they stopped sharing the new ‘hotspots’ within the department. Of over 200 positive cases across the State, including 3 IPS officers, Hyderabad police commissionerate emerged as the scariest hotspot. The opaqueness in not sharing information about the pandemic situation within the department has become a cause of worry. Comparisons are drawn with other States where police COVID-19 warriors were cheered-up and given all the support to fight it, the manifest taciturnity of Telangana police has come in for sharp criticism among the affected.   In response to BJP president J.P. Nadda’s comments at a virtual rally of the party cadre in the State on Saturday that the State government failed to contain the spread of COVID-19 and that Chief Minster K. Chandrasekhar Rao is responsible for it, Health Minister Eatala Rajender’s reaction was “how many ventilators, PPE kits and N-95 masks has the Centre sent to the State after repeated requests?” Seeking to know whether Prime Minister Narendra Modi would take the responsibility for the spread of coronavirus in Gujarat and Delhi, Mr. Eatala Rajender also reminded Mr. Nadda that it was Telangana State governmentthat had first informed the Centre and Delhi governments about the spread of COVID-19 from the markaz meeting held in Delhi.  (Abhinay Deshpande, & B. Chandrashekhar)
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Standing tall||
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Reader's Mail||Secunderabad Cantonment Board relaid all damaged roads in its jurisdiction recently. But a few metres of road under railway bridge in Doveton Bazar in Macha Bolarum was untouched and this links Alwal Municipal area and SCB. For past two decades the Cantonment Board has ignored pleas to repair this small patch on which a large number of vehicles pass. It is high time the government takes up the issue with SCB. N.S.R. Murthy M. Bolarum   Power bills have been issued based on the higher tariff slabs. As the readings have not been taken for about three months, the accumulated readings have pushed all customers into higher slab. It is absurd that the TSSPDCL calculated the bill based on higher slab tariff. Many have had their earnings slashed and many more have lost their livelihoods due to the outbreak of coronavirus. The authorities should rectify and reissue the bills based on average consumption, instead of insisting to pay on the higher slab. N Ramanathan Hyderabad   While GHMC is making efforts to develop greenery by planting trees on the roadside under ‘Haritha Haram’ project on the other hand the Discom has taken up indiscriminate cutting of trees on the grounds that they disrupt power supply. I fail to understand why the Discom does not take up training trees instead of cutting them down to safeguard the greenery, developed at a cost. Ch Ravinder Reddy Gachibowli    My land line is dead since 13 April and despite repeated requests it has not been restored. Yet, I got a bill for month of May, the staff told me that it would be waived if the line was not restored. K.Vasant Kumar Telecomnagar (Readers are welcome to write to us about the civic issues in their respective areas to be highlighted in these columns. They can be sent along with photos to hyderabaddesk-at-thehindu.co.in. You can also post them on our Twitter handle @THHyderabad)
22 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||RWAs face challenges in setting up isolation centres||Though the district administration has been encouraging Residents’ Welfare Associations (RWAs) to set up their own isolation centres in the fight against COVID-19 in the Millennium City, the groups face a host of challenges. Expenses for setting up these centres, difficulty in arranging doctors and paramedical staff, power cuts, responsibility in case of mishaps and disposal of medical waste, are a few to mention. Bajrang Jain, a resident of Godrej Summit group housing society in Sector 104, said a four-bedded isolation centre had been set up inside their society, but residents have mixed opinions. Mr. Jain added that the government should come forward to help the RWAs in setting up these centres since they could not bear all the responsibilities alone. Expenses to bear “We have an oxygen cylinder for the pool in the society. We have kept that for the isolation centre. But there is no clarity as to who would provide us another cylinder after this exhausts. Expenses on infrastructure and doctors and paramedics is the main concern. The cost could run into thousands or even more,” said Mr. Jain. He added that four beds had been arranged free of cost from a charitable trust, but there was no clarity on the expenses ahead such as electricity, food and staff. He also questioned as to who would be held responsible in case of any mishap, demanding that the administration must take responsibility for providing emergency services. He added that there were no alternative arrangements for power supply in case of outages in some societies. Fear of infection A resident of Ramprastha City said disposal of bio-medical waste and recreation of patients also remained some of the challenges. “A patient inside his house can watch television or interact with the family members from a distance. But this is not possible at the isolation. Proper disposal of waste is also important,” said the resident. In some group housing societies, the residents are also opposing the setting up of isolation centres, fearing the spread of infection. Sudhir Garg of India Bulls Centrum Park favoured setting up isolation centres, saying residents must share the cost among themselves. Municipal Corporation of Gurugram Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh, on Friday claimed that only around a dozen associations had set up isolation centres so far.
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Railway coaches in new role||Of the 503 ‘COVID-19 care railway coaches’ allotted to the Capital by the Ministry of Railways for treatment of mild or very mild cases, more than half (267) will be stationed at the Anand Vihar railway station in east Delhi. A skeletal crew in charge of preparing the coaches are the only personnel at the station, which used to see thousands of passengers daily before the lockdown was imposed. The nearby metro station is not operational and the ISBT also wears a deserted look. As authorities implement contingency plans across the city ahead of “peak” in cases, labourers at the railway station are busy cleaning, fixing signboards and preparing the area for its new role. Carrying signboards that read ‘Green Zone’, ‘Red Zone’, ‘Donning Room’ and so on, Jai Narayan, a contractor, said: “We have been working for the last two-three days and mainly fixing the boards at various places across the station according to the instructions we get. A group of workers from the New Delhi railway station have also been brought here to assist us.” A separate set of people are deployed for the coaches to ensure they are sanitised and prepared to take in patients. One Indian-style toilet has been converted into a bathing room. One cabin will be used by paramedics and also serve as a storage area, and will have two plastic curtains to screen it from the rest of the eight ‘bays’. The middle berths in the rest of the coach have been removed so that each bay can accommodate two patients on the lower berths — a capacity of 16 per coach. “The coaches are almost ready and we are not entering them. We will leave once our work is done; and then one needs to wait to see when the patients start coming. Once they do, we will start working in shifts. There will be three shifts and one person needs to be there at all times to ensure water supply to the coaches is not interrupted,” said Pawan Kumar, another worker. The 267 coaches will be able to accommodate 4,000 patients, said officials. In a statement issued on Friday, the Ministry said: “These isolation coaches, serving as COVID Care Centres, shall offer care only for cases that have been clinically assigned as mild or very mild; or COVID suspect cases. Each isolation train must be mapped to one or more dedicated COVID Health Centre and at least one dedicated COVID hospital for referral purpose where the patients can be shifted in case their condition starts to deteriorate.” On June 17, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia had inspected the isolation coaches at the Shakur Basti railway station and expressed concerns over the high temperature inside the bogies. On Friday, the Railways clarified that non-AC coaches were chosen due to the “unsuitability of AC coaches in view of the potential transmission risk of COVID-19 virus through AC ducting... and generally a higher temperature was expected to assist in fighting the virus”. Films of bubble wrap, water mist systems and portable coolers are being set up inside the coaches to reduce the ambient temperature, said the government.
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||With 3,000 fresh COVID-19 cases, Capital nearing 60,000 mark||The Capital reported 3,000 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number to 59,746, stated health bulletin by the Delhi government. In the last 24 hours, 63 deaths were reported and the number of deaths were revised to 2,175 The bulletin also stated that 1,719 patients have recovered, taking the total recoveries to 33,013. There are 24,558 actives cases in the Capital. Also, 18,105 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of tests conducted to 3,70,014. There are 260 containment zones and 12,106 patients are in home isolation. Meanwhile, a day after rolling back an order for five-day mandatory institutional quarantine for COVID-19 patients, the government issued modified guidelines for allowing home isolation. An order issued by the Health Department states that all individuals who are positive will be “referred to the COVID-19 care centres for assessment of clinical conditions, severity of illness and presence of co-morbidities”. Home isolation Simultaneously, an assessment will be carried out about whether adequate facilities are available for home isolation, including a minimum of two rooms, a separate toilet so that family members and neighbours are protected “and a cluster of cases does not develop in that locality”. Patients will be allowed to be in home isolation only if these conditions are met and it is found that they don’t have any co-morbidities or require hospitalisation. In such a situation, the order states that patients would be offered to either continue to stay in COVID-19 centres or paid isolation facilities such as hotels. Shah holds meeting Meanwhile, at a meeting chaired by Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday to take stock of the COVID-19 situation in the Capital, it was decided that delimitation of containment zones will be carried out with strict monitoring and control of the activities within them to effectively contain the spread of virus. Steps were also discussed to increase contact-tracing of those who have tested positive with the help of the Aarogaya Setu app. At the meeting, recommendations made by a committee formed by the Home Minister on June 14 and chaired by Vinod Paul from NITI Aayog on coming up with a containment strategy for the Capital were discussed, the Home Ministry said. The Home Minister has directed the Delhi government to follow the recommendation of the committee, the Ministry said. The Home Ministry said that a serological survey will be conducted between June 27 and July 10 in the Capital in which 20,000 samples will be tested to make an overall assessment on the spread of infection so that a comprehensive strategy can be determined. After the meeting, AAP said that the Delhi government was closely monitoring the situation and that the CM and Deputy CM discussed key strategies with the Mr. Shah.
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||4 arrested for killing, robbing senior citizen in south Delhi||A security guard and his three associates have been arrested in connection with a robbery-cum-murder case in south Delhi, the police said on Sunday. On Saturday, 94-year-old Baldev Raj Chawla, a retired External Affairs Ministry official, was attacked and his wife Kanta Chawla (88) was stabbed to death during a robbery bid allegedly by their personal security guard at their home in Safdarjung Enclave. The accused guard has been identified as Rakesh (18) and his associates are Gyanender (22), Om (18), Pramod (26). All the three associates are from Nepal, said an officer, adding that the four accused were nabbed from Gauriphatta in Indo Nepal Border.  Accused barged inside The couple lived in the upper ground floor of the building after the death of their two children a few years ago. The incident took place at 9 p.m. when their guard, who they hired on June 5, barged inside their home with his associates, the police said. The accused then tied up Chawla with ropes. When his wife tried to resist, one of the accused stabbed her, the officer said. The men then decamped with cash and jewellery from the victim’s cupboard. Chawla then managed to alert their neighbours, who then informed their Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA) president. The police were then informed. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South-West) Devender Arya said when on reaching the spot, the officers found that the man was sitting in a room while his wife was lying on the bed with stab injuries in another room. The couple was rushed to Safdarjung Hospital where she was declared brought dead. During the probe, it was found that Rajesh was working as a guard in the same premises for a year. A team was then sent to Indo-Nepal Border to nab the culprits. Through local intelligence, it was found that most of the residents of Nepal, who are residing in that locality, often used a fixed cab service for going to Nepal. With further technical intelligence, it was found that the accused too had hired a cab to go to Nepal. The driver was then identified and his location was traced to Gauriphatta. The accused had paid Rs. 12,000 to the driver, the officer said. Two teams were dispatched to Gauriphatta. Meanwhile, a contact was established with the Police Circle Officer ( police station Palia Kalan) and SSP Lakhimpur Kheri of Uttar Pradesh police and all the relevant information was shared with them. During interrogation, it was found that the accused worked as guards, domestic help or at Chinese restaurants in Delhi and Ghaziabad. Four to five days ago, Rajesh along with the other accused hatched a conspiracy to rob Chawla. Gyanendra had brought a knife and a screwdriver for the purpose. Building under watch The building guard, Jitendra Kumar, said the society is under 24x7 watch and has eight CCTV cameras. RWA president V.K. Malhotra said the couple was registered with Delhi Police’s Senior Citizen Scheme. The couple’s personal guard was not verified by the police, he added. The police claim to have recovered Rs. 55,000 cash, jewellery and knife used in the commission of the crime.
22 June 2020||New Delhi,||7 pvt. hospitals to charge own rates on portion of reserved beds||Seven private hospitals in the city, which has over 60% of total beds reserved for COVID-19, will get to charge their own rates on a portion of these beds, an order by the Delhi government on Saturday read. At Max Super Speciality Saket, Sir Ganga Ram Kolmet Hospital, Maha Durga Hospital, Saroj Super Specialty Hospital, Sir Ganga Ram City Hospital, Cynus Orthocare and at Bansal Global over 80% beds have been set aside for COVID-19 patients. These hospitals can charge their scheduled rates on 40% of the beds reserved for COVID-19 patients instead of rates capped by the government, the order reads. Hospital authorities will have to get written consent from the patient. The same rules will apply to other hospitals in case they increase the percentage of total beds reserved for COVID-19 treatment. Apart from this, at 108 private hospitals, where the percentage of beds reserved is less than 60%, rates capped by the government in a separate order would apply. Here, depending on the type of hospital and the severity of symptoms, costs can range from Rs. 8,000 to Rs. 18,000 per day. Hospitals which have been allotted land at concessional rates will be required to give free treatment to EWS patients on 10% of beds, the order states.
22 June 2020||New Delhi,||Court orders government to conduct probe on hospital||The Delhi High Court has ordered a probe against Primus Super Speciality Hospital in Chanakyapuri for allegedly denying admission to a disabled woman, despite its website showing availability of beds for COVID-19 patients. Noting that the allegations was of “a grave nature”, Justice Navin Chawla ordered the Delhi government to take appropriate action in case the hospital was found to have ‘derogated in its duty in any manner’. The order came while hearing a plea by a man complaining that his wife died due to COVID-19 on June 14. Asked to shift The man said his daughter who is 34-years-old and is 85% disabled, started suffering from fever and breathlessness. As her condition worsened, she was admitted to the Primus Super Speciality Hospital on June 18. While it was suspected that she was also suffering from COVID-19, the hospital did not carry out any test and in fact, taking an excuse that there was non-availability of beds, asked the petitioner to shift her to another hospital, the plea said. After filing the plea, the man was able to admit his daughter to Max Super Speciality Hospital in Saket.
22 June 2020||New Delhi,||Head constable succumbs to COVID-19||A 47-year-old Delhi Police head constable died of COVID-19 infection on Sunday, taking the death toll in the police force due to the virus to nine. The deceased, identified as Lalit Kumar, was posted with the 4th Battalion of Delhi Police Armed Forces. He was tested for the virus on June 17 at GTB Hospital after he fell ill and was advised home quarantine, an officer said. His reports came on Saturday and his test results were positive. The same day, after his condition worsened, he was rushed to the hospital where he succumbed on Sunday, the officer said.
22 June 2020||Ahmedabad,||Count in Gujarat crosses 27,000; 25 more deaths||With Gujarat reporting 580 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, the number of patients in the State crossed the 27,000-mark, the health department said. The State tally now stands at 27,317. Gujarat also reported deaths of 25 coronavirus patients, taking the fatality count to 1,664, it said. As 655 patients were discharged on Sunday, the tally of recovered cases went up to 19,357. The total number of active COVID-19 cases in the State is now 6,296. Of these, 59 patients are on ventilator, while the condition of all others is stable. Ahmedabad alone reported 273 of the total 580 new cases, while there were 176 cases in Surat, its highest single-day spike. These two districts alone accounted for 449 of the total number of new cases in the State on Sunday. With this, the count of COVID-19 positive cases in Ahmedabad rose to 18,837, and in Surat, it rose to 3,233. Vadodara’s tally went up to 1,854, with 41 new cases. Of the 21 other districts that recorded new cases during the day, Gandhinagar reported 15, Bharuch 10, Aravalli nine, and Bhavnagar and Jamnagar eight each. Also, of the 25 patients who died in the State on the day, 20 succumbed to the infection in Ahmedabad, three in Surat, and one each in Aravalli and Chhota Udepur.
22 June 2020||Mumbai,||City says ‘thank you’ to COVID-19 warriors through art at Mahim||A riot of colour at Mahim station is expressing what every Mumbaikar is thankful for: the efforts of essential service providers in the face of rising COVID-19 cases. The large, continuous set of murals titled, ‘Heroes of Mumbai’ have been painted on the façade of Mahim railway station as an initiative of Western Railway (WR) in association with the ST+ART India Foundation and Asian Paints. The mural depicts doctors, nurses, police personnel, vegetable sellers, delivery persons and sanitation workers who have worked throughout the lockdown, exposing themselves to the risk of infection. The murals cover the walls at both the entrances of the station, on the facades of the station building as well as the boundary wall running parallel to the road. The boundary was in a dilapidated condition and was repaired, after which it was decided to undertake the beautification of the station. Chief public relations officer of WR, Ravinder Bhakar said the ‘Heroes of Mumbai’ Project at Mahim station not only enhances its beauty but is also a unique way to express solidarity with, and gratitude to, COVID-19 warriors. “We look forward to many more such beautification drives across various suburban stations of Western Railway,” he said. The art has been designed by Gujarat-based street artist Nikunj Prajapati, popularly known as Do, and was brought to life by artist Munir Bukhari over 15 days. Set against a colourful background, Do’s monochromatic subjects stand out while everyone is shown engrossed in their work. Mr. Bukhari, who specialises in murals, said of the 28 murals, 22 had been completed. “The remaining will be completed in the next four to five days,” he said. Amit Syngle, MD and CEO, Asian Paints Limited, said the project is a way to thank the exceptional individuals who have put themselves at great risk to protect and serve others during these turbulent times.  We look forward to many more such beautification drives across various suburban stations of Western Railway Ravinder Bhakar Chief public relations officer (WR)
22 June 2020||Mumbai,||Police, BMC disagree over lockdown in north Mumbai||Even as COVID-19 cases continue to rise in north Mumbai, the police and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) are not on the same page about imposing a restriction-heavy lockdown to contain the outbreak, officials admitted. While the police wants a total lockdown to be enforced in the region to stem the rise in cases, a senior BMC official on Sunday said the proposal was “disastrous” as the civic body was tracking the virus spread and taking measures to contain it. He said new cases are coming in from high-rises in the region rather than slums and the civic body was aware of the situation. BMC data revealed that the case doubling rate in Borivali was 18 days compared to 34 days for Mumbai as a whole, while neighbouring Dahisar, was even worse with numbers doubling every 16 days. As per police, 431 FIRs have been registered in the north region of Mumbai between June 13 and 18 for offences like not wearing masks, not shutting shops in time among others.
22 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Navi Mumbai records 154 new cases, 7 deaths||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) reported 154 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking its case tally to 4,841. Seven more deaths were also recorded, taking the death toll to 164. Meanwhile, its recovery rate went up from 57% to 58% on Sunday after 105 people — the highest in the last nine days — were discharged. The total number of recovered patients is now 2,788. Navi Mumbai currently has 1,889 active patients and its mortality rate is 3.38%. Till date, 16,953 people in NMMC limits have undergone COVID-19 tests, of which 11,325 were found to be negative and reports of 726 people are still pending. Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC), reported 62 new cases on Sunday, taking its tally to 1,267. Two more deaths were also reported. The death toll is now 56. The recovery rate in PMC, too, went up from 67 % to 68% with 18 more people being discharged. A total of 867 people have recovered till date while there are 406 active cases. The mortality rate under the PMC is 4.4%. In Panvel rural, 26 more people tested positive, taking the case tally to 569. Massive surge in Thane The number of COVID-19 cases in Thane district reached 21,588 as 1,023 people tested positive on Sunday, with Kalyan-Dombivali area racking up 200-plus numbers for the fourth day in a row. The death toll reached 745 in the district as 81 people lost their lives. “Thane city accounted for 29 deaths. The death figure was more due to a number reconciliation exercise,” an official said. Neighbouring Palghar has 2,629 cases, and 97 people have died, he said. Meanwhile, Palghar collector Kailas Shinde visited Wavar-Wangani on Sunday and asked primary health centre officials to ensure the predominantly tribal population gets top priority amid the COVID-19 outbreak. The area is known for malnutrition among children.  With inputs from PTI
22 June 2020||Pune,||Pune reports over 500 new cases, death toll now 584||The surge in COVID-19 cases across Pune district continued, with over 500 new cases being reported till Sunday evening. The district’s cumulative case tally surged to 15,511, said authorities. The district reported 504 fresh cases since Saturday evening, while its total death toll has risen to 584. Pune Divisional Commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said only 5,670 cases out of the total tally were active and 9,257 persons had been discharged across the district till now. The current recovery rate stood at 59.83% — a reduction from the 62% figure of the past few days. The latest spike in the district and in Pune city is in keeping with a trend in high case surges since the past week, with the district witnessing an average daily surge of 400 cases. On Saturday, Pune district had reported its highest case surge till date with a whopping spike of 823 new COVID-19 cases. Spurt in PCMC Of these, 403 cases had been reported within Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits. More worryingly, 381 cases were reported in Pimpri-Chinchwad. Until a month ago, the active case count under the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) was less than 100 with barely a few containment zones. Presently, there more than 120 ‘containment zones’ in the PCMC area. With the contagion spreading rapidly in slum clusters, the number of active cases in the township has exceeded 650, while its total case tally stands at 1,711 with 42 deaths. Meanwhile, along with Pune’s total fatalities, the total death toll in Pune division has now risen to 811. The division’s total case tally is inching towards the 20,000 mark, currently standing at 19,408. “Of these, 6,628 are active cases while 11,969 people have been discharged till now,” Dr. Mhaisekar said. 342 people critical A total of 342 people in the division are critical, of whom 323 are from Pune district, which saw its ‘critical’ patient numbers increase by over 40 in the past two days. Meanwhile, Aurangabad district in Marathwada, too, reported a sharp overnight spike of 137 new cases as its total case tally reached 3,497. The district has reported nearly 300 active cases in the past 48 hours. Officials said of the total cases, 1,470 were active while 1,840 persons had recovered. A total 187 persons have succumbed in the district, a hotbed of the virus.
22 June 2020||Ahmedabad,||Hospital gets show cause notice over 73-year-old COVID-19 patient’s death||Two days after a 73-year-old COVID-19 patient died allegedly due to delay in admitting him in a private hospital and putting him on ventilator, the civic body on Sunday issued a show-cause notice for the “grave negligence”. As per the notice issued by the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC), the patient was forced to wait at the gate (apparently in an ambulance) of Rajasthan Hospital for approximately 20 minutes on June 18, as staffers took time to open it. They also allegedly took another 10-15 minutes to bring the stretcher. Critical condition The patient, who was in a critical condition, was rushed to Rajasthan Hospital from another private facility as he was in need of a ventilator, the notice stated. Authorities at Rajasthan Hospital had confirmed the availability of ventilator in advance, as per the notice. The notice asked why a criminal complaint not be filed under Section 188 and other relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code against the hospital or legal proceedings be initiated. It also asked why a heavy penalty not be imposed or “C” form registration of the hospital be cancelled on the account of a “grave negligence”.  Reserved beds The AMC has requisitioned 50% of the total beds available in 52 private hospitals in Ahmedabad for treatment of COVID-19 patients, including Rajasthan Hospital, where 23 beds are assigned for coronavirus patients, it said. Meanwhile, despite repeated attempts, the hospital could not be reached for comment. The AMC said the patient had to wait for approximately 20 minutes at the gate of the hospital, as the staff took time to open it. After the gate was finally opened, the staff took another 10-15 minutes to bring the stretcher, which is evident from the incident report and CCTV footage, it said, adding this “serious lapse of duty” led to the death of the patient. The AMC said hospital authorities also responded “casually and in a very irresponsible way” to the process of its requisition by the civic body. As per the AMC, 786 of the total 1,025 beds in the 52 private hospitals are currently occupied, including 57 of the 75 ICUs with ventilators. Ahmedabad city has so far reported 17,873 coronavirus positive cases, as per the COVID-19 bulletin released on Sunday afternoon. Cumulative death toll stands at 1,282. There are 3,561 active cases in the city.
22 June 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Policeman uses fake receipts to ‘collect’ fines||A police constable allegedly involved in printing of fake receipt books for collection of fines from people violating lockdown norms was arrested by personnel of the Baidyanathpur police station in Odisha’s Berhampur on Saturday night. The arrested police constable, Krushna Nayak, was posted on traffic duty. He was allegedly involved in printing of fake Red Cross donation books with receipts worth Rs. 200 and Rs. 500. The arrested constable had used a printing press at Aska in Ganjam district for printing of forged receipt books. Ganjam district administration has provided receipt books of the Red Cross Society to police personnel and administrative officials for collection of fines from violators of lockdown norms. Ganjam district collector is the president of the district Red Cross Society, while the secretary of Berhampur Development Authority (BeDA) is its secretary.  Illegal printing All police stations of the district have received these receipt books of the district Red Cross Society for collection of fines. It was alleged that the arrested constable had illegally taken away receipt book from a police station to hand it over to the press at Aska for printing of similar looking forged receipt books. In the recent past, people had started complaining that fines were being collected unnecessarily in the name of lockdown violation through fake receipt books. Secretary of BeDA had registered a complaint at the Baidyanathpur police station regarding it. Investigation led to the arrest of the police constable.
22 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Police claim inroads into Maoist stronghold of Swabhiman Anchal||The Odisha police has claimed a big success in ensuring development by strengthening security infrastructure in Swabhiman Anchal, formerly known as Cut-off area, in Malkangiri district — a Maoist stronghold. Director General of Police Abhay on Saturday flew down to Swabhinman Anchal to take stock of the security preparedness against the extremists. The area which was covered by water from three sides and inhospitable terrain by another had long been a stronghold of naxalites. Many of them from Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh used to slip into Swabhiman Anchal to take refuge. The State police was afraid of venturing into the area. “The Jodambo police station has started functioning from Jodambo in Swabhiman Anchal. Till now, it was functioning from Chitrokonda. It will provide service to the people of five gram panchayats — Jantri, Andrapalli, Panasput, Jodambo and Gajalmamudi -- and facilitate uninterrupted developmental activities in the area,” Mr. Abhay said. According to the State police, the establishment of Company Operating Base (COB) in December 2019 at Hantalguda and another COB at Darlabeda in March 2020 has plugged the security vacuum in the area. “Development activities have picked up due to strengthening of security network in the area. At least, nine roads have been taken up. The Badapada to Janatapayi road has been completed while others are in different stages of completion,” said a senior police officer. “Due to construction of roads, now auto-rickshaws and other mode of public transports have started plying. It is pertinent to mention that till some months ago, two-wheelers or mules were only mode of transport in the area,” he said.  Roads of progress These roads have not only helped in improving public transport but have also encouraged other development activities. Trucks and tractors are reaching interior places now. Heavy duty machines can also be taken into remote pockets. Ambulances, availing of which used to be distant dream, have been placed at Jodambo and Janatapayi.
22 June 2020||Chandigarh,||MP questions Punjab govt.’s move on fixed term for IAS officers||Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa on Sunday questioned the Punjab government’s move to set up a board to ensure a fixed term at a post to IAS officers, saying it will make them less answerable and accountable to legislators. The State government decided to set up the board to provide a fixed two-year tenure to an IAS officer at a posting. Any decision to cut short the term will be examined by the board. In a letter to Chief Minister Amarinder Singh, Mr. Bajwa said the June 2 order of the State government has sent a disturbing and negative signal to already demoralised elected representatives. Referring to the last month’s face-off between two State Ministers and the Chief Secretary during a meeting, Mr. Bajwa said the timing of the move is ominous. “Just when your Cabinet Ministers have been recently humiliated by the Chief Secretary, you have now set up an all-powerful civil services board headed by the Chief Secretary, with a few bureaucrats as its members, to ensure that the bureaucracy becomes much less answerable and accountable to elected representatives, the MP said. Mr. Bajwa claimed that several Ministers and MLAs had many a time complained against the overbearing, unresponsive and intemperate behaviour of many officers because of undue importance and support they enjoy from the Chief Minister. “This move of assuring them of a fixed tenure of postings and other immunities under the umbrella of the civil services board has tilted the scale decisively against the elected representatives, he said. The bureaucracy in the State has staged a coup through your June 2 orders to render the Ministers and MLAs helpless in raking up neglected issues of public importance and timely planning and execution of development works, Mr.Bajwa alleged. ‘Good ties critical’ He further claimed that a healthy working relationship between Ministers, MPs, MLAs and civil servants is critical for good governance, which has been compromised in Punjab at the moment. Mr. Bajwa urged the Chief Minister to look into the prevailing state of affairs and take necessary steps to restore the sagging morale of the political class in Punjab.
22 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab records 122 new cases||Punjab recorded 122 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday and reported one more death, taking the toll to 98, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 4,074. The patient who died was from Ferozepur district. The major chunk of new cases, 54 and 16 were reported from Ludhiana and Pathankot districts respectively. The Health Department said there are 1,275 active cases and 2,700 patients have recovered so far. In Haryana, 412 new cases surfaced on Sunday, taking the total tally of cumulative cases to 10,635. The State also reported 11 deaths taking the toll to 160. The major chunk of new cases, 137 and 120 were reported from Faridabad and Gurugram districts respectively.
22 June 2020||Dibrugarh,||Man killed over love affair in Assam||A 20-year-old man allegedly involved in an inter-faith love affair was stabbed to death in Assam’s Dibrugarh district and three persons, including the parents of his teenage girlfriend, were arrested in connection with the incident on Sunday, police said. Prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the CrPC have been clamped in the disturbed areas to prevent any communal clash after a fringe group damaged a police vehicle and burnt a motorcycle during a protest on the National Highway-37 on Saturday. Dibrugarh Additional Superintendent of Police Padmanabh Baruah said the man was allegedly stabbed to death and his body was thrown in the Sesa river by the father of the girl at Lezai area on Friday night.
22 June 2020||Kolkata,||15 COVID-19 deaths in West Bengal||West Bengal recorded 15 deaths due to COVID-19 and 414 new cases on Sunday as the recovery rate touched almost 60%. The active cases in the State remain at 5,093. The number of people who have recovered stands at 8,297. With 15 deaths the total number of people who have died of the virus has increased to 555. Six deaths were recorded from Kolkata, four from North 24 Parganass, three from Howrah and one each from Purba Medinipur and Hooghly district. The State government has started to make public the number of vacant beds available for treatment at private hospitals. The number stands at 279 in Kolkata.
22 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||57 girls of Kanpur home test positive for COVID-19||Fifty-seven girl inmates of a government shelter home in Kanpur have been found positive for COVID-19, the district administration said on Sunday. Amid reports that some of these girls were also found to be pregnant, the administration clarified that they were recorded as pregnant during their arrival at the Rajkiya Balika Grah in Swarup Nagar. Five girls among the positive cases were found to be pregnant, said District Magistrate Kanpur Brahma Deo Ram Tiwari. The girls were already pregnant at the time they were brought to the shelter, he added. “These girls were brought from different districts on the directions of the CWC (Child Eelfare Committees) under POCSO Act,” said Mr. Tiwari. The girls came from Agra, Kannauj, Firozabad, Etah and Kanpur. Two other pregnant girls have been found negative, he added. Poonam Kapoor, state women commission member, said many girls are brought to the shelter home under the POCSO Act. “They are minors, 16-17 years of age. So they are kept there,” she said. Ms. Kapoor said that the girls probably got infected after some staff members who had gone to Hailet hospital in Kanpur with two girls came in contact with some COVID-19 positive persons.  In relation to the pregnancy cases, Ms. Kapoor dismissed the possibility of any lapses and said she inspects the shelter home every month.
22 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Woman spends partner’s money to clear debts, cooks up a burglary tale||Investigations into a Rs. 4.07 lakh burglary case by the Koparkhairane police have revealed that the complainant was told about a fake house break-in by his live-in partner, who had used up his money for clearing her debts. A 48-year-old builder had lodged a police complaint on June 17, claiming that valuables worth Rs. 4.07 lakh were missing after a burglary at his residence at Bonkode, where he stayed with his live-in partner. The builder also claimed that his partner was in a hospital from June 14 to June 17, and during that period, unidentified people made away with Rs. 3 lakh in cash and jewellery worth Rs. 1.07 lakh from his house. The complainant also said that the accused could have stolen by mending the tin sheet of the window. “During investigations, we procured CCTV footage of the housing society and found no suspicious person entering the building. The windows too as claimed had no signs of any damage. There was no evidence of anyone entering the house,” Pankaj Dahane, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Zone I, said. The police then interrogated the woman, who confessed that she had mortgaged the jewellery claimed to have been stolen, and used the cash of Rs. 3 lakh to pay off her debts. “The cash belonged to the complainant who had given her for its safe-keeping. She, without the knowledge of her partner, used it up. When he inquired about the money, she made up the story of theft,” senior police inspector Suryakant Jagdale from Koparkhairane police station said.
22 June 2020||Panaji,||Stakeholders seek phase-wise unlocking of Goa tourism||Tourism stakeholders in Goa urged the State government on Sunday to facilitate a phase-wise unlocking of the industry, saying if the shutdown continues, it will result in job and revenue losses. The tourism industry accounts for 40% of Goa’s GDP and is important for the country’s economy, the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG), an umbrella body of tourism stakeholders in the State, said in a statement. Goa’s tourism industry has been shut since March when the lockdown was enforced in the country in view of the COVID-19 outbreak. The State government earlier this month said hotels would be allowed to reopen from June 8, in adherence to the standard operating procedures (SOPs). However, most of the hotels still remain closed. The TTAG appealed to the government to unlock Goa’s tourism industry “in a phased manner at the earliest”. The industry cannot remain closed much longer as there will be substantial jobs and revenue losses for Goa, it said. “Tourism activities are reopening gradually in various parts of India. We in Goa also have to follow suit and bring in guidelines and protocols for the reopening of hotels, restaurant, bars and all ancillary industries connected with tourism,” the TTAG said. Though the protocols and guidelines require hotels to reopen, they cannot successfully do so unless bars and restaurants are also given permissions to reopen. Therefore, there is a need to reopen hotels together with restaurants and bars, it said. The association said hotels and restaurants were required to open from June 8 and applications were invited for seeking permission for it. However, the industry is still waiting for the government’s nod to start operating all its units, it said. Of thousands of hotels waiting to reopen, only about 200 have applied for permission and several others are waiting to see what is going to happen, it claimed. The tourism industry is ready to cooperate and follow the SOPs for reopening, but there has to be a practical and sustainable solution. “If there is any further delay, a lot of people would start losing jobs and they will have mental health issues along with starvation,” it said.
22 June 2020||Panaji,||Yoga practitioners less prone to COVID-19: Naik||Yoga practitioners have less chances of getting infected by COVID-19, Union AYUSH Minister Shripad Naik said on Sunday. Talking to PTI on the occasion of International Day of Yoga, Mr. Naik also said the propagation of yoga across the country and the world during the Narendra Modi-led regime has helped in the fight against COVID-19. “I am sure that propagation of yoga across the country and the world during the Modi-led government’s tenure has helped in a big way to fight back COVID-19. Those who are practising yoga have less chances of getting infected with COVID-19,” the minister claimed. The BJP leader, who performed yoga at his home at Ribandar village near Panaji in North Goa district, said yoga boosts immunity and strengthens the respiratory system, which helps build resistance against diseases like COVID-19. Mr. Naik said the International Yoga Day function, which was scheduled to be held at Leh on Sunday, was cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which has made physical distancing a necessity. People were advised to practise yoga while staying at home, the Lok Sabha member from North Goa said. “We got a tremendous response. People participated by practising yoga at home. We recommended that there should not be more than 20 people if they are performing yoga in a public place,” he said. Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant, who participated in a function held in his constituency Sankhalim in North Goa district, said yoga helps a person perceive things around him in a positive way. “Yoga cannot control what goes on outside. But it can control what goes on inside, transforming how a person perceives things around him in a positive way. Lets adopt a healthy way of living,” Mr. Sawant tweeted. State Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said yoga has been known for enhancing mental and physical health. “This years focus is to practice yoga at home to inculcate healthier habits. This #InternationalYogaDay take a pledge to take out at least an hour for yoga every day,” he tweeted.
22 June 2020||Panaji,||Locals block roads leading to famous waterfalls, urge visitors to go away||Residents of some villages in Goa have blocked roads leading to the picturesque waterfalls in the State to prevent visitors from going there in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and to avoid nuisance at those places. A number of waterfalls are located in Sattari, Sanguem and Canacona talukas, which spring to life during the monsoon season, attracting tourists. Most of the waterfalls under Sattari taluka of North Goa district fall within the Mahadeyi Wildlife Sanctuary area. On Sunday, residents of Brahmakarmali village in Sattari blocked roads leading to a waterfall there by laying trees. They also put up boards, cautioning visitors not to go to the waterfall or indulge in merry-making. Parag Khadilker, a member of the Nagargao panchayat in Sattari, said picnickers and trekkers created nuisance by throwing garbage, plastic and broken liquor bottles near the waterfalls and in other forest areas. Pandemic outbreak “The outbreak of COVID-19 is also one of the reasons why we are prohibiting visitors here. Let the COVID-19 situation normalise, then we can think of welcoming people,” he said. Suresh Naik, a local from Sanguem taluka in South Goa district, said villagers have put up boards on roads leading to the waterfalls to stop the entry of visitors. “We were shocked when the first COVID-19 case was detected in Sanguem earlier this month. We don’t want the virus to spread further,” he said. Similarly, locals at Cotigao in Canacona taluka of South Goa were also prohibiting people from visiting waterfalls in the area. ‘Collective decision’ “It was a collective decision of the villagers not to allow visitors to the waterfalls,” said Shivkautuk Desai, a resident of Cotigao. Though legally no one can be banned, villagers urge visitors not to enter the area and most of the times the travellers listen and go away, he said. Till Saturday, Goa reported 754 COVID-19 cases.
22 June 2020||Panaji,||Annular solar eclipse: no ring of fire seen from Goa||Many Goans watched the annular solar eclipse on Sunday though dark monsoon clouds blocked a clear view at many places. However, formation of a “ring of fire”, the main attraction of the celestial event, was not visible from the coastal State. Many enthusiasts watched the celestial event from their homes due to restrictions on gatherings. Atul Naik, former president of the Association of Friends of Astronomy, Margao, said the observatory located in Panaji remained closed due to lockdown restrictions. “We could see the eclipse at 11.02 a.m. and 1.24 p.m. though sky was overcast. We could view all phases of the solar eclipse though the ‘ring of fire’ could not be seen in Goa,” he said. Mr. Naik said the formation of the “ring of fire” was observed in most of the northern India. He said many people watched the rare celestial event from their homes through online links and live streaming. For photographers, it was a rare event to freeze in frames. “This is a lifetime experience for a photographer like me and I did not want to miss it. I could click many pictures as I perched myself on the rooftop of my house from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.,” said Vivek Naik. An annular solar eclipse occurs when the angular diameter of the moon falls short of that of the sun so that it cannot cover up the latter completely. As a result, a ring of the sun’s disk remains visible around the moon. This gives an image of a ring of fire.
22 June 2020||Pune,||Suit filed in Pune court seeking to bring PM CARES Fund under RTI||A civil suit has been filed in a local court in Pune seeking to bring the PM Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations (CARES) Fund under the purview of the Right to Information (RTI) Act, 2005. The suit, filed on Saturday by city-based lawyer Tosif Shaikh on behalf of social worker Rajesh Bajaj and Satish Gaikwad of the Republican Party of India (I) at the city’s Senior Division Court in Shivajinagar, has also sought that the PM CARES Fund be declared “null and void” if the Centre did not bring it under the ambit of the RTI Act. Mr. Gaikwad, one of the petitioners, said that after declaring it void, all donations be refunded to respective donors or alternatively, the money could be given to the Maharashtra government as “financial aid in combating the COVID-19 crisis” as the State had the highest cases and fatalities in the country. “With the surge in COVID-19 cases in India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 28 had announced the creation of the PM CARES fund despite the fact that there already was a Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) to deal with emergencies, calamities and emerging medical expenses. The PMNRF was established more than 70 years ago. There was no need for the PM CARES, which till date has not been subjected to any external audit despite repeated demands,” Mr. Shaikh said. Mr. Shaikh said the petitioners had issued a notice regarding the same to the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on May 5, to which no reply had been forthcoming from the PMO. “On May 21, we had sent a reminder to the PMO, but received no reply again. Hence, we have filed this suit,” he said. The suit further contended that despite the creation of such a fund, the Centre failed to provide any relief to migrant labourers stranded by the lockdown and who were constrained to walk for hundreds of kilometres to their home towns, resulting in several labourers losing their lives in the process. “The Central government under the leadership of Prime Minister Modi even failed to provide adequate personal protective equipment kits, ventilators, beds and other materiel to combat the pandemic across the country, resulting in the deaths of many patients, especially in Maharashtra,” the suit alleged. Advocate Shaikh said the Shivajinagar court had set the date of hearing the suit on June 23.
22 June 2020||Shillong,||Meghalaya government extends night curfew||The Meghalaya government has extended the night curfew from 9 p.m. to 5 a.m. till June 30, officials said on Sunday. The night curfew was to be in force till Monday. The State government has also extended the ban on inter-State movement of people till June 30, they said. “District Deputy Commissioners have been asked to issue extension of night curfew orders and directives to extend ban on inter-State movement of people,” a senior government official said. The official orders, however, will not apply to security forces, medical teams on duty, wholesale and retail pharmacies and other essential services, he said. As part of measures to ease the lockdown norms, the Meghalaya government has allowed operationalisation of over 400 shops out of the 1,222 shops identified at the IewDuh market, from Monday.  Barber shops to open It has also allowed operations of beauty parlours, salons and barber shops but in strict adherence to social distancing norms and stipulated time limits, the official said. Weekly markets across the State, except the ones in areas along the India-Bangladesh border and the inter-State border with Assam, have got the nod to open, too. Educational institutions will continue to remain closed along with religious places, he said, adding, large public gatherings are also not allowed. Meanwhile, the State’s COVID-19 recovery rate rose to 84% after five more patients recovered on Saturday, a health official said.
22 June 2020||shillong,||Quake rocks Northeast||A medium intensity earthquake rocked Mizoram, Meghalaya, Manipur and the other northeastern States on Sunday, the Regional Seismic Centre here said. The 5.1 magnitude quake hit around 4:15 p.m. and was tracked at a depth of 35 km from the earth’s surface at a place near Aizawl in Mizoram, an official at the Regional Seismic Centre here said. The tremor was also felt in the State capital of Meghalaya, the official said.  No damage There was no report of any casualty or damage to property in the any of the States. The Meghalaya police said there was no immediate report of any casualty or damage to property in the State. The Manipur DGP Control Room said there was no report of any casualty.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||All hands on deck||
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Ominous clouds||
22 June 2020||Madrid,||As Spain reopens border, Latin America count crosses 2 million||Spain reopened its borders with France on Sunday, getting rid of one of the most potent symbols of Europe’s battle against COVID-19, as infections in Latin America surged past two million. Europeans are just emerging from some of the world’s toughest lockdowns, with cars trickling across the reopened Spain-France border early on Sunday a day after Italy enjoyed its first top-flight football match in 103 days. U.S. President’s remarks In the United States, which has also been taking stuttering steps to reopen even as 20 States have reported a rebound in infections, President Donald Trump held his first rally in months on Saturday. He boasted to the audience in Tulsa, Oklahoma, that he had told his team to slow the rate of testing to reduce the number of registered cases. “When you do testing to that extent, you are going to find more people, you will find more cases,” he said, even as six members of his advance team tested positive for COVID-19. He faces re-election as the U.S. deals with a tanking economy and the world’s worst virus outbreak, with almost 1,20,000 deaths out of more than 2.2 million cases. Brazil is the second worst-affected country with almost 50,000 deaths and more than one million cases, helping to push Latin America’s total infections beyond the two million mark, according to an AFP tally early on Sunday. The virus has now killed more than 4,60,000 people and infected almost nine million worldwide. Although the spread has slowed in Europe, the continent is still the worst-affected with more than 2.5 million cases. Opening of borders Spain has been among Europe’s hardest hit nations, but on Sunday it lifted a slew of restrictions in a bid to get its tourism industry back up and running. As well as opening its border with France, officials confirmed that EU nationals, those from the passport-free Schengen zone and Britons would not have to quarantine. “We must remain on our guard and strictly follow hygiene and protection measures,” Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said on Saturday, highlighting that the danger has not passed. In France, millions of children were preparing to return to school on Monday after three months away. Cinemas and other cultural institutions were also getting set for reopening. Concert halls and other institutions in Germany, however, have had to slash their events calendars and drastically reduce capacities. Thousands of miles away on the fringes of Eastern Europe, cases have spiked again in Azerbaijan, forcing the government to institute another lockdown — much to the irritation of local workers. Clusters have also emerged in Morocco, which was opening a field hospital on Sunday capable of handling 700 patients, and in Beijing. Local authorities in the Chinese capital have set up more than 2,000 testing sites across the city that had obtained 2.3 million samples, according to state news media. Infections in Palestine The Palestinian Authority announced on Saturday it was temporarily closing the cities of Hebron and Nablus in the occupied West Bank after a sharp rise in infections. Only goods will be allowed in, Palestinian Prime Minister Mohammed Shtayyeh told journalists. Authorities have reported a total of 687 cases in the West Bank, including two deaths so far. A vaccine remains months off at best despite several trials. Scientists are still learning more about the virus, its symptoms and the extent to which it may have spread before being identified.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||‘For minor tactical gains on the ground, China has strategically lost India’||The June 15 clash at Galwan Valley, which claimed 20 Indian soldiers in the worst violence since 1967, has left the entire border architecture, carefully built by India and China to maintain peace, in the heap of history, says Gautam Bambawale, former Indian Ambassador to China. Edited excerpts:  Having worked on the relationship over so many years, did you ever expect what happened on June 15? I never expected such a thing to happen. And the reason why I didn’t expect such a thing to happen is because ever since 1993, when India and China signed the Border Peace and Tranquillity Agreement (BPTA), and there have been many agreements following that, we have put in place certain tenets, certain operating procedures, which were aimed at maintaining peace and tranquillity on the border. Unfortunately that entire architecture has collapsed, and is now in the heap of history. If all these agreements that have helped keep the peace have collapsed, where does that leave us going forward? Both countries have agreed that there are differences in our opinion of where the line of actual control (LAC) lies. Therefore, it was important to ensure that peace and tranquillity is maintained. Now, this time, what the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has done is that they have moved their ground positions towards what they believe is their LAC. And by doing so, they have tried to unilaterally define the LAC. Now, the movement of troops, to move your ground positions towards what is your conception of the LAC, in my opinion is a major change in the status quo, where the Chinese have come in with large numbers of troops, have moved them right forward, have built embankments, gun placements, observation towers. India’s bottom line has to be, and will be, restoration of the status quo ante. What realistic options does India have? First, to address what is happening on the ground, we have to have a very strong military posture, which we do. There must also be room for talks. There is no doubt that when two nation states disagree about the boundary, it can only be done through discussions with each other, it cannot be done unilaterally as the Chinese are attempting to do. We should have discussions at the diplomatic and other levels to try to move ahead on where the LAC lies and come to some kind of agreement which is difficult, but which has to take place. As far as the broader relationship is concerned, because of these reasons — one, that the Chinese have fundamentally violated all our agreements; two, they are trying to unilaterally define the LAC; and three, the fact that lives have been lost on both sides after a gap of many decades — I think this is an inflection point in India-China relations. What I would recommend is that India as a country, as a people, including, of course, the government in the lead, must make a fundamental reassessment of its China policy. Since 1988, the model has been to separate differences from other areas such as trade. Will that change? It cannot be business as it was earlier. One suggestion that I have made is that I firmly believe that Chinese firms must be kept out of the 5G trials and roll-out in India. That is where it will hurt in the pocket. I think that is a suggestion that I would definitely make to the government. Finally it is for the Government of India to decide what is the package of a new policy. I am not advocating a complete break. Normal trade and investment can continue. But on the 5G question, it is very important to take the decision.  Some Chinese observers have linked recent developments to Beijing’s concerns about India’s recent infrastructure building in Ladakh that they see as threatening, and to the dilution of Article 370. Is this plausible?  It is plausible. My question is, need the current situation have gone to the levels that it did? There have been other situations where we have managed and done a peaceful kind of resolution, including at Doklam, Chumar and Depsang. This time it has crossed the limits. I do not see what gain China has had, because for some minor tactical gain on the ground, I believe they have strategically lost India. I believe if there are these kinds of anxieties they could have been discussed over the table and spoken about, even between the two militaries, even the road building could be discussed. This leads me to think this particular action by the PLA is purely something where they are trying to actually control territory which they believe in their conception is theirs. It is purely to do with territory, but its implications are both tactical as well as strategic. Are we looking at an inflection point as significant as 1988, which marked the normalisation of ties? I believe that it is. In the long term, the way I look at it is that the diametrically opposite values that India holds vis-à-vis China, and the values which we share with other democracies, are going to assert themselves and are going to dictate India’s position. I am afraid that the India-China relationship has not merely deteriorated, but will deteriorate further.
22 June 2020||Colombo,||Concerns grow over ‘lapses’ in Sri Lanka’s Easter attack probe||As investigators in Sri Lanka move into the “final stages” of the probe into the April 2019 Easter terror bombings, concerns over lack of adherence to due process have risen from several quarters. Sri Lanka police recently said they are about to conclude investigations of the deadly serial bombings that claimed 279 lives last year; having arrested over 200 suspects in connection with the case. However, as more arrests make headlines, lawyers, civil society activists and rights groups flag apparent lapses in adherence to the law. In particular, the April 14 arrest of attorney at law Hejaaz Hizbullah has drawn much attention. The lawyer has been in detention for two months after he was arrested under Sri Lanka’s draconian Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA) that civil liberties activists have long wanted repealed. The former Maithripala Sirisena-Ranil Wickremesinghe government, having promised to repeal the Act, didn’t. Arrested on June 24 Neither was a reason given at the time of his arrest — police later told media that it was in connection with Easter bombings — nor has he been produced before a magistrate since his arrest nine weeks ago. The Colombo Fort magistrate recently instructed the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) to produce him on June 24. After multiple requests, Mr. Hizbullah was granted access to his lawyers for a few brief meetings, that too in the presence of CID officials, in whose custody he has been. According to police sources, the lawyer’s detention order was signed by President Gotabaya Rajapaksa. “Investigators will not detain someone without reason or evidence. There has been no violation of due process in this probe,” police spokesman Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Jaliya Senaratne told The Hindu . Meanwhile, his family has filed a fundamental rights petition at the Supreme Court, challenging his detention. Further, the arrest of the lawyer — an establishment critic, who rose to prominence after the 2018 constitutional case challenging then President Sirisena’s abrupt dissolution of the Parliament — sparked concern among local and international actors. “Most alarmingly, Mr. Hizbullah has been denied access to his family and even lawyers except for a brief 15 minutes with an Attorney-at-Law under the scrutiny of an eavesdropping CID officer. This does not constitute due access to one’s lawyer,” a statement signed by 158 lawyers said. Civil society representatives issued a statement saying, “the most troubling aspect” of the arrest was CID officers having allegedly accessed two case files of Mr. Hizbullah, which amounted to a “severe impingement of attorney-client privilege”.  EU’s remarks In a tweet on May 26, the Delegation of the European Union to Sri Lanka said it had written to Sri Lankan authorities expressing “deep concerns” over Mr. Hizbullah’s arrest, while renewing calls to review Sri Lanka’s 40-year-old counterterrorism legislation [PTA]. Citing his arrest, among other incidents, in its recent report on ‘eliminating religious intolerance’, Human Rights watchdog Amnesty International said: “With the new government still in its first year, the frequent incidents of demonisation, vilification and scapegoating of Sri Lanka’s Muslim population are a cause for great concern,” referring to different instances of discrimination and violence targeting Sri Lanka’s Muslims in the last few years. This is not the first time Mr. Hizbullah has been questioned in connection with the terror blasts. In May last year, the CID team probing the case — it was reshuffled after the November 2019 elections — obtained statements from him “a few times”, a source familiar with the investigation told The Hindu . Mr. Hizbullah had been counsel for spice trader Y.M. Ibrahim’s family — his two sons were among the nine suicide bombers who carried out the Easter attacks — on business matters. Investigators found “no evidence of any other link” with the Ibrahims, the source told The Hindu , requesting anonymity. It is not only Mr. Hizbullah’s arrest that is being questioned. Last month, at least three fundamental rights petitions were filed in the Supreme Court of Sri Lanka, on behalf of minor boys, challenging the “intimidation” and “oppressive behaviour” of the CID, when it interrogated them on the activities of a charity that Mr. Hizbullah was involved with, which reportedly funded the madrassa they attended in Puttalam town. While Sri Lankans, including government critics, would like to see the Easter investigations completed, it is due process that will inspire public faith in the outcome, legal experts observed.
22 June 2020||Stuttgart,||Shops vandalised, police attacked in Stuttgart||German authorities expressed shock on Sunday over a rampage of an “unprecedented scale” overnight in the city centre of Stuttgart, where hundreds of party-goers ran riot, attacking police and plundering stores after smashing shop windows. Two dozen people, half of them German nationals, were arrested provisionally, as police reported 19 colleagues hurt. “They were unbelievable scenes that have left me speechless. In my 46 years of police service, I have never experienced this,” said Stuttgart police chief Frank Lutz. Tensions built up shortly after midnight when officers carried out checks on a 17-year-old German man suspected of using drugs, said Stuttgart deputy police chief Thomas Berger. Crowds who were milling around at the city’s biggest square, the Schlossplatz, immediately rallied around the young man and began flinging stones and bottles at police. The groups of mostly men also used sticks or poles to smash windows of police vehicles parked in the area. “I sharply condemn this brutal outbreak of violence, these acts against people and things are criminal action that must be forcefully prosecuted and condemned,” Baden-Wuerttemberg State Premier Winfried Kretschmann said. At the height of the clashes, some 400 to 500 people joined in the battle against police officers and rescue workers. As officers pushed back against the crowd, they broke up into small groups, carrying on their rampage around the city centre, smashing shop windows and looting stores along nearby Koenigstrasse, a major shopping street. In all, nine shops were looted while 14 others suffered damage. Only four and a half hours later were police officers able to quell the violence.
22 June 2020||New Delhi,||Madhesis oppose new Nepal rule||Nepal’s chief Opposition Nepali Congress, and leading figures of Nepal’s plains have opposed the planned changes in the existing citizenship rules that will most notably affect the families in Nepal’s plains also known as the Madhes region where cross-border kinship with India is common. “We believe these changes will introduce uncertainty and tension in the society and families...” said Madhesi leader Rajendra Mahto. The issue came to the forefront after the ruling Nepal Communist Party’s Secretariat decided that it will support a seven-year waiting period before foreign women married to Nepali men can acquire Nepali citizenship. Madhesi critics have termed the changes as racially motivated.
22 June 2020||Tehran,||Tehran, June 21, 2020 (AFP) -||Afghanistan’s interim Foreign Minister Mohammad Hanif Atmar met with his Iranian counterpart Mohammad Javad Zarif on Sunday in Tehran as tensions persist between the two neighbours after the deaths in May of Afghan migrants at the border.AFP
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||India’s continuing two-front conundrum||Since 1959, when India-China relations sharply deteriorated, India has known that it has two geopolitical adversaries. Concerning China and Pakistan, the American academician, Professor Wayne Wilcox of Colombia University, famously stated in an article in Survival that India has to “hedge all bets and cover all contingencies”. Recently, India’s Chief of the Army Staff, General Manoj Mukund Naravane, reassuringly said in May at the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses that the Indian Army remains “alive” to a “two-front” war. Strategy and two wars Whenever India has forgotten that it has two antagonists and let its guard down, it has paid dearly for it. Conversely, whenever India has accounted for the prospect of a possible threat from both quarters, it has done well. The two obvious examples are the 1962 and 1971 wars. In 1962, India’s Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru and Defence Minister V.K. Krishna Menon had both believed that the threat to India’s security came principally from Pakistan. In 1971, Prime Minister Indira Gandhi took account of a possible Chinese move in support of Pakistan. India, therefore, took out an insurance policy in the form of the Treaty of Peace, Friendship and Cooperation between the Government of India and the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. The mistake made earlier is instructive today. There has been an obsession concerning the threat from Pakistan, together with a degree of complacency vis-à-vis China, in part because the recent stand-offs in Depsang, Chumar, and Doklam were defused. The interactions between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Xi Jinping at Wuhan (April 2018) and Mamallapuram, Tamil Nadu (October 2019) further blind-sided those involved in foreign and security policy planning in New Delhi. The lessons of 1962 In the India-China interactions leading up to the 1962 China-India war, India had demonstrated friendliness without reciprocity and firmness without force. Despite deteriorating India-China relations in the late-1950s, neither Nehru nor Krishna Menon had contemplated a war between the two countries. A contemporary observer, Raj Thapar, founder-editor of the journal, Seminar , described in her autobiography how Mr. Menon, “firmly opposed moving a single man from the Kashmir front, so convinced was he that Pakistan would attack at any opportune moment”. She wrote that it was his immutable belief that Pakistan was the threat, not China. Krishna Menon could go to any lengths to convince others of this point of view. He asked India’s High Commissioner to Pakistan, Rajeshwar Dayal, to brief a group of senior Indian Army officers about Pakistan’s war preparations against India. Warned that projecting a danger from Pakistan was part of the Defence Minister’s larger plan, in the meeting Ambassador Dayal said that he had detected nothing about the Pakistani preparations. According to witnesses, Krishna Menon was visibly annoyed. Nehru too shared the view that Pakistan posed the greater threat to India. He and Krishna Menon reinforced each other’s slant in this respect. “To be frank about it,” Nehru had acknowledged in parliament soon after the 1962 war, India’s defence dispositions “were based on our unfortunate position vis-à-vis Pakistan.” He was misled also by the good equation he had developed with Premier Zhou En-lai, forgetting that countries seldom predicate their security interests on the personal predilections of their leaders. India’s complacency and misjudgment in 1962 were not for want of warning signs from China. Indian leaders had apparently convinced themselves that the Chinese would not attack. Indeed, it was Nehru who told Krishna Menon and India’s Chief of the Army Staff that he had reliable information that the Chinese forces would not offer resistance if there was a show of force from India. Well over a year before the outbreak of hostilities, Krishna Menon took to denying that there was any problem with China, or that China was in occupation of what the government of India considered Indian territory. Addressing officers of the Indian Air Force Station, Agra, he had declared: “I am not aware of any aggression, incursion, encroachment or intrusion by the Chinese of any part of Indian territory.” The then Chief of the Army Staff, General P.N. Thapar, had told Krishna Menon that the Indian Army did not have the necessary strength to evict the Chinese from their posts. With the troop deployment of six Chinese soldiers to one Indian, the Indian Army could have been facing an adventure. Krishna Menon reassured him that the Chinese Deputy Premier, Chen Yi, had told him that China would never fight India over the border issue. General Thapar had wanted to share his misgivings with Prime Minister Nehru, but was dissuaded by the Cabinet Secretary on the ground that Nehru might consider that General Thapar was “afraid to fight”. Later, when a prominent Indian journalist checked from Krishna Menon whether General Thapar had brought up his concerns, Krishna Menon had replied with an acid tongue: “That toothless old woman; he did not know how to fight a war.” Full aggression On October 20, 1962, the People’s Liberation Army struck simultaneously, all along the India-China frontier — a move smacking of long preparation. The 13 forward Indian posts, from Galwan Valley up to north of Daulat Beg Oldi were attacked by the Chinese forces. Concurrently, in the eastern sector, they launched an attack on Indian forces deployed along the Namka Chu river and at Khinzemane, eventually enveloping in their attack on four out of the five frontier Divisions of the North-East Frontier Agency (NEFA), namely Kameng, Subansiri, Siang, and Lohit Divisions. In his biography of Prime Minister Nehru, Professor Sarvepalli Gopal suggested that when Nehru issued instructions in November 1961 for the management of the India-China border, it was based on advice from the Intelligence Bureau that while the Chinese would move into areas where there was no Indian presence, they would keep away where Indian personnel had established themselves. It was assumed that the Chinese would not do anything against Indian forces when “even in a position to do so.” Professor Gopal also suggested that Nehru was perhaps unaware of the warning by the Indian Army’s General that the Indian Army was in no position to sustain an operation across the entirety of the India-China border. China’s march to dominance It would not be out of place to remind ourselves why India became the object of Chinese aggression. Nehru had explained in an interview aired just nine days before his death in 1964 that the Chinese acted the way they did principally as “they wanted the Asian world to realise that they are the top dog in Asia and that any person or any country in Asia should remember that”. Months earlier, Nehru had written to U.S. President John F. Kennedy that China was making a bid for leadership, not just of Asia, but “as a first step in their bid for world leadership”. So far as India was concerned, continued Nehru, China’s aim was not to acquire territory: the real aim was “to force on India a political settlement which will involve India re-orienting its policies to suit the pattern of Chinese global policies”. Although circumstances are different today, India continues to face the two-front conundrum. The last word on the present crisis is yet to be said. India must meanwhile assess its options in a balanced way. While remaining clear-eyed about Chinese intentions, India must resist the temptation to remedy past errors by precipitate action. These need a long-term vision, executed with patience and perseverance. Jayant Prasad, a former diplomat, served as Director General of the Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Changing our approach towards mask use||Lately, a series of studies has provided evidence that widespread mask use can help reduce the spread of COVID-19 and considerably slow the pandemic. With world opinion coming round in favour of mask use, early this month the World Health Organization (WHO) adopted a slightly more favourable position towards widespread mask use than earlier. India’s initial scepticism towards widespread mask use continues to linger at a time when this simple public health intervention is more crucial than before. Conventional wisdom Evidence forms the substratum of the scientific approach. In emergencies, however, demand for hard evidence can prove painful — and it is indirect evidence and conventional wisdom that often guide preliminary responses. It is such indirect evidence and conventional wisdom that inspired far-reaching measures like nationwide lockdowns, at least in the early days of the pandemic. The same, however, failed when it came to making masks ubiquitous early on, except for nearly half a dozen small nations which had done so by the end of March. This looks all the more surprising given that there existed a range of legitimate reasons to back such a decision: available evidence on mask use from similar other respiratory infections; the implication of large droplets in COVID-19 spread; the possibility of pre-symptomatic and asymptomatic transmission; pervasiveness of contexts that are unconducive to mass quarantine; and the far more benign nature of widespread masking than lockdowns. The WHO’s position on masks is an apt case in point. The WHO’s own NPI (non-pharmaceutical interventions) guidance on pandemic influenza recommends mask use for the public during severe pandemics. The WHO’s harping on hard evidence and an overly circumspect approach towards widespread masking in its April advisory came at a time when the virus was rampaging through dozens of countries. The global deepening of the pandemic today has been able to attract only paltry concessions in this attitude. This is apparent in the WHO’s June advisory on masks. It has treated widespread masking like some potentially unsafe therapeutic agent which requires very careful weighing of risks and benefits. Also, its enumeration of potential risks and disadvantages of public masking served to severely underplay the overall benefit that could accrue from it. Another counter-intuitive aspect is the organisation’s fixation on ‘healthy’ individuals while contemplating ‘public’ masking. Social/physical distancing is prescribed for everyone without reservation since inapparent carriers can also spread infection. However, community-wide mask use is dismissed citing lack of evidence on masking healthy persons — disregarding the fact that it includes masking inapparent carriers too. Perhaps what is most unfortunate is that a useful mass-level measure was reduced to a predominantly personal protection measure. Early recommendations on masks predominantly involved using them to protect either health workers or high-risk individuals. This, along with scepticism towards widespread mask use, has nourished an approach that continues to underrate the ability of masks to deliver significant population-level results, like slowing down the pandemic across a whole geography and doing away with the need for a complete lockdown. And it is such an approach that still characterises India’s mask use policy. One may say that India ‘copied’ its first lockdown from other nations, but lockdowns in no part of the globe were driven by robust evidence either. What is disappointing is that local, contextual thinking was diluted. When India declared the lockdown on March 24, there were few other nations under lockdown whose social demographic features warranted widespread mask use more than India’s did. The Ministry of Health advisory on widespread use of home-made masks came on April 3, learning from certain nations like the Czech Republic which had made masks mandatory much earlier. Then, States such as Maharashtra and U.P. made masks compulsory, and the Ministry of Home Affairs did so as part of lockdown rules. However, a concerted nationwide drive to ensure universal mask use has remained lacking. Did appropriate masking practices receive enough airtime and space in newspapers? Did we configure locally customised strategies to ensure widespread adherence and adequate provisioning? Did we strongly counter pervasive instances of improper mask-wearing, particularly those televised daily? It is possible to become complacent looking at the large numbers wearing masks in public places, and this could hide many dangers. Certainly, masks are yet to receive the kind of emphasis that physical distancing or mass quarantine have, in a country where the latter are a luxury. The explanation is simple: the population-level significance of masks has not been fully appreciated. All the more crucial now The continuing indifference despite today’s changed times is even more staggering. The lockdown has now been relaxed in most places. The peak looks far away. With community spread presumably rife in many parts of the country, measures like contact tracing and increased testing are increasingly becoming irrelevant. Preparing hospitals for a deluge of patients and holding down deaths is the new priority. Additionally, a stream of fresh evidence has emerged on widespread mask adherence helping to reduce community spread, resume economic activity, and tide over the crisis without needing a total lockdown. It is anybody’s guess that all these should have prompted renewed attention to widespread masking, but the same is elusive. Again, the imported mantra of ‘test, track, and trace’ continues to consume a disproportionate share of attention. With the highest government echelons still in denial of community transmission, this shouldn’t entirely come as a surprise. A change in our approach towards masks is imperative. Only when its population-level significance is fully comprehended will comprehensive strengthening on policy, promotional, and regulatory fronts follow. The additional lesson, considering that this a long-drawn-out battle, is that dilution of local thinking cannot be afforded at any step. Soham D. Bhaduri is a Mumbai-based physician, healthcare commentator, and editor of ‘The Indian Practitioner’
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Fighting a double pandemic||Waking up to screams, thuds, angry shouting and the sickening sound of someone crashing into a wall, a table, a door. This is the cruel reality of many children and young people across our Commonwealth. And as economies, institutions and social welfare sectors continue to buckle under the strain of the unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic crisis, there is a dangerous escalation in the risk to the millions of people caught in the clutches of domestic and gender-based violence. Emerging evidence on the impact of essential lockdown measures and the economic fallout of the pandemic on gender-based and domestic violence, paints a frightening picture. The crisis has led to an alarming escalation of violence in the home, with women bearing the brunt of the frustration and anger. In some areas, there have been reports of women being prevented from seeing doctors, and female doctors being spat on while testing other women for COVID-19. We are seeing surging numbers of emergency calls to helplines — with rises of anything between 25% and 300%, dramatic increases in Internet searches for support for those affected by domestic violence, and higher numbers of domestic homicides. These are extremely disturbing trends, which must not be ignored. Barriers to care Experience teaches us that women tend often to be at a disadvantage during crises, epidemics and now this pandemic, and that domestic violence tends to increase. In West Africa, 60% of total deaths in the 2014 Ebola virus outbreak were women. Following the Canterbury earthquake in New Zealand, there was a 53% rise in domestic violence. In many cases this is because gender roles and harmful practices, including customs such as early and forced marriage, limit women’s access to health services. Women do three times as much unpaid care work at home compared to men, and make up 70% of workers in the health and social care sectors. They are squarely in infection’s path. During the present COVID-19 pandemic, mass school closures are tending to entrench learning gaps between girls and boys, and putting many more girls at risk of sexual exploitation, early pregnancy and early or forced marriage. They also mean that children are unable to report abuse to a trusted teacher. And with restrictions on home visits by police and health workers, violence shelters being converted into health facilities, and courts being forced to close, many victims may find themselves trapped and feeling abandoned. Mitigating the devastating impacts of this hidden pandemic of domestic violence requires strong and concerted action. So the Commonwealth Secretariat is working alongside partner organisations on measures which will help our 54 member countries to stem the rising tide of gender based violence. In meetings with counterpart organisations such as the Organisation Internationale de la Francophonie, the Pacific Islands Forum, the Council of Europe and the Community of Spanish Language Countries, we have explored collaboration and mechanisms to ensure that women are at the centre of post-COVID-19 recovery planning. We will work with our respective members to implement policy responses and interventions to safeguard victims and those at risk. These discussions allowed us to share concerns and ideas conveyed by our member governments, and to outline key considerations for the upcoming ministerial meetings being arranged by the Commonwealth. Health systems link It is clear, for example, that an important priority is the provision of basic health care to all individuals and communities free of charge at the point of delivery. All evidence points to a clear link between weak health systems and vulnerabilities to domestic violence. So urgent action needs to be taken to ensure that during this COVID-19 pandemic, victims of abuse are able to access the health care they need, including mental health services. Financial independence It is also key that post COVID-19 strategies include dedicated funding and support for micro, small and medium sized businesses and the informal sector, which are predominantly led by women — many of whom need the assurance of financial independence to escape from dangerous domestic situations. I would lay particular emphasis on the importance at present of creating opportunities through virtual meetings and seminars for Commonwealth countries to share knowledge, resources and experience on how best to navigate through the rapidly evolving processes and circumstances within which we now operate. It is encouraging, in this regard, that throughout the Commonwealth, we already see evidence of renewed commitment and action to end violence against women and girls. Much is being done in our member countries to keep domestic violence refuges open during the outbreak. There are also examples of innovative partnerships with businesses and organisations to provide alternative locations for victims to use as shelters. Some governments have been able to provide additional resourcing and funding to organisations supporting victims, so they can upscale operations and continue providing services in a safe manner. Other useful innovations such as virtual hearings and legal advice, are allowing survivors to continue to access justice. What is clear from my meetings with officials and development leaders is the immense urgency of taking action to protect women and girls who are being abused, isolated, punched, kicked and even killed in their homes. Sadly, children living in violent homes not only witness violence but may themselves suffer abuse. Violence in the home is one of the most pervasive human rights challenges of our time. So, the Commonwealth collectively stands ready to bring the power of its advocacy and support to the planned UN Declaration on Women and COVID-19. We are increasing our ongoing advocacy through a range of initiatives, including creating a strong economic case for addressing gender-based violence by identifying the significant economic costs if we fail to act. Research from the Commonwealth project, The Economic Cost of Violence against Women and Girls: A Study of the Seychelles, carried out in 2019 before the pandemic, shows that gender-based violence leads to estimated costs of 4.625% of GDP. We will also hold a virtual follow-up session to the Women Affairs Ministerial Meeting that was held last September, to set out an action plan to support women and girls during the COVID-19 crisis, because we simply cannot allow victims of domestic abuse and gender-based violence to feel trapped and helpless during this hidden parallel pandemic. Patricia Scotland is the Secretary-General of the Commonwealth
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||A premeditated act is not an unintended error||‘Open Page’ is a section for our articulate readers to express their opinions on a range of issues. They not only bring in new details but also explore areas that are often overlooked by regular opinion writers. Over the years, the page has grown to become a site for new voices. Though the articles are contributions from readers, the rules that govern the page are no different from the rules governing the other pages of this newspaper. The Hindu expects the same exacting standards from the contributors to the Open Page. No tolerance for plagiarism Talking to young journalists I often cite the words of caution of my predecessor K. Narayanan: “Plagiarism is a dread word for newspersons. But that does not prevent subtle resort to the practice by some, in the hope that they will not be found out. And when they are, the ignominy sticks and sticks.” At the cost of repeating myself, let me assure readers that there is zero tolerance for ethical breaches in this newspaper. Proven plagiarism by journalists has led to termination of employment, and in the case of external contributors, the offending article is taken down from the website and the writer is named and blacklisted. In journalism, there is no time limit, as in the legal circles, for correction and clarification. This week, we received a complaint that a web exclusive in the ‘Open Page’ section, “It’s in the family” (April 5, 2020), by Partha Pratim Mazumder, was plagiarised. The article had reproduced sentences word-for-word from a lead article written by Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu in our sister publication, The Hindu BusinessLine, way back in May 2018 under the headline “Why the Indian family is a great institution”. When our examination revealed that there was an ethical breach, the Editor blacklisted the contributor and took down the article from our website with a disclaimer: “This article has been withdrawn from publication since parts of it were found to have been plagiarised.” While we are on the topic of corrections and setting the record straight, let me share another issue which we examined this week. “Gentleman in flannels and fatigues” (June 14), an interesting short essay by S.G. Vombatkere, dealt with how colonel-cricketer Hemu Adhikari dealt with ‘indiscipline’ in his ranks. The problem was not with the article but with the archival photograph that accompanied the article. The caption for the photograph read: “Former Test cricketers Hemu Adhikari (left) with Mushtaq Ali (right)”. Sportswriter Gulu Ezekiel wrote to us saying, “The person on the left of the photo is not Hemu Adhikari, it is Chandu Sarwate. The one on the right is not Mushtaq Ali as he did not wear glasses.” Vombatkere wrote to us to flag the same issue. He wrote to us, after consulting his friend who happens to be Nana Joshi’s nephew, that the photograph featured Joshi. How did the error happen? Archives need to be scrutinised too  The Hindu has an enviable collection of photos in its library. Our archives are a researcher’s delight. Old bromide photographs have been scanned and labelled for digital use. Photographers used to write captions behind the photographs in the earlier days. Those captions are now tagged to the digitally stored images. The desk, in good faith, trusted the original caption writer and decided to use the vintage photograph. While issuing corrections, one of the tasks we perform is ensuring that mistakes do not recur. But how do we check nearly millions of old photographs for their captions? While archives are a goldmine of information and images, they are not free from errors, wrong classifications and attributions. Academic Nicholas B. Dirks’s anthology of essays, Autobiography of an Archive, is widely seen as a documentation of the scholarship in the intersection between history and anthropology dealing with both colonial and post-colonial India. Mr. Dirks’s personal encounters with archives show that collected documents not only provide sources but also lay out the boundaries for research on subjects. He asks academics to shun single disciplinary perspectives. Archival material also deserve close scrutiny by the desk before publishing. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||China policy lacks perspicacity||There is an uncanny resemblance between what is going on now on the India-China border with the events in the run-up to the 1962 war. The debacle in that war was rightly blamed on the Nehru government for its military unpreparedness and for its inability to fathom China’s larger strategic objectives. In fact, the former failure was but a corollary of the latter. With India much better prepared now to face China’s challenge on the ground, the situation in terms of the military equation is not the same as in 1962 but that is a secondary issue. China’s strategic objectives In both cases New Delhi failed to fully understand China’s fundamental strategic objectives regarding India. Nehru could be impugned for his idealistic notion of Afro-Asian solidarity and his suspicion of America’s strategic designs that influenced his thinking on China. However, the present government, which by its own admission is firmly committed to national security above everything else and whose foreign policy actions are driven by transactional rather than idealistic considerations, seems to be equally naïve about Beijing’s long-term strategic objectives. New Delhi has compounded its failure by indulging in reckless rhetoric regarding Aksai Chin and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) that have painted the image of India as a revanchist power in utter disregard of the country’s capabilities that preclude any attempt at changing the status quo on either front. Senior Cabinet Ministers’ declamations about liberating Aksai Chin and recovering PoK, while justifiable in terms of India’s legal rights to these territories, were ill-timed. They were made when Beijing was feeling alarmed at the Indian government’s decision to separate Ladakh from Jammu and Kashmir that augmented its perception that it was a prelude to India’s attempt to change the status quo in Aksai Chin. Beijing was also worried about India’s renewed assertion of its claims on PoK that in China’s perception threatened the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor project. But these missteps were merely the icing on the cake. While the military is more cognisant of China’s tactical goals in terms of creating facts on the ground and making them the base line for future negotiations, the political leadership, it appears, has failed to fully comprehend China’s strategic objectives. These strategic goals include (a) ensuring that India understands that it is not in the same league as China and driving home the lesson by periodic localised assaults across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) if it tries to assume a position of equality; (b) warning India not to actively oppose Chinese designs to dominate the Indo-Pacific region by aligning with the U.S. and its allies — Japan and Australia, in particular — in an attempt to contain China; (c) keeping India preoccupied with problems in its immediate neighbourhood so that it cannot act as an alternative pole of power to China in the broader Asian region; and (d) as part of the last objective, supporting Pakistan economically and militarily, including the sharing of nuclear weapons designs, to neutralise India’s conventional power superiority vis-à-vis that country. An understanding of these objectives is essential to fashioning a realistic Indian response to China’s aggressive policies in Ladakh and elsewhere along the LAC. Pakistan is at best an irritant for India that can be managed with the use of diplomatic tools, international opprobrium, and superior military force. In fact, the Pakistani challenge to India has become magnified because of its nexus with China. What India should do China is undoubtedly India’s principal long-term adversary. Wining and dining with its leaders creates confusion and hinders a clear perception of this reality. India’s main strategic goal should be the adoption of carefully calculated policies that neutralise China’s diplomatic and military clout in the Asia-Pacific region without making India appear as a surrogate for other powers and without sacrificing India’s autonomy of decision-making in foreign policy. Mohammed Ayoob is University Distinguished Professor Emeritus of International Relations, Michigan State University
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Lost in clarifications||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s comments to an all-party meet on Friday, claiming there had neither been any intrusion by China nor was any intruder present, expectedly caused a political storm. Not only was the violence on the night of June 15 that claimed 20 Indian soldiers triggered by China erecting structures on India’s side of the LAC in the Galwan Valley, Chinese troops still remain present on Indian territory elsewhere in Ladakh, including on the northern bank of Pangong Lake. After the problems with his remarks were highlighted by the Opposition, the Prime Minister’s Office was moved to issue a much needed clarification on Saturday, stating the PM was only referring to the situation in the Galwan Valley “as a consequence of the bravery of our armed forces” that foiled a Chinese transgression. Even if the PMO attributed the political storm to “a mischievous interpretation”, it is more than clear that the PM did not choose his words carefully. In fact, his remarks have already been seized upon by the Chinese state media, and were seen as endorsing Beijing’s claims that its troops did not cross the LAC and justifying the People’s Liberation Army’s recent actions. The MEA issued its own statement on Saturday, reiterating that the Chinese had crossed the LAC and erected structures across the line. While it should be obvious that any speech that requires no less than two clarifications has serious problems with its messaging, the controversy has only underlined the government’s poor communication on the border issue. The tragic loss of lives followed more than six weeks of tensions in the Galwan Valley. During this time, the public was kept in the dark about what was transpiring along the LAC. True, sharing every detail in the public domain is not possible when it comes to negotiating sensitive issues of national security. Indeed, the solution to the current crisis, and the disengagement that is needed urgently at various points along the LAC, can make progress only through diplomacy. At the same time, a blanket of silence hardly serves the government’s interests. The absence of timely and credible information will only fuel speculation and alarm. The silence has also triggered unseemly domestic politics and a blame-game, at a time when India is confronting possibly its biggest national security challenge since Kargil. Friday’s all-party meet was certainly a step in the right direction, even if it perhaps came a few weeks too late. India’s China policy may be approaching as significant an inflection point as 1988, which marked the normalisation of ties after 1962. Crafting the way ahead for the relationship after the worst violence since 1967 will require a measured appraisal of how to purposively engage India’s biggest and most powerful neighbour. This cannot happen by being in denial or by attempting to obscure facts. The first step to a solution is a realisation of the nature and the magnitude of the problem.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Members as numbers||The ruling BJP now has 86 members in the Rajya Sabha after elections to 19 seats across several States on Friday. This is the highest number for the party in the Upper House, though it is still short of the halfway mark. Of a total of 61 vacancies, 42 were filled unopposed earlier and of the 19 contests, the BJP won eight while the Congress won four. Of the 61 outgoing members, 17 were from the Congress and 15 from the BJP. With this round of elections, the BJP’s tally increased by 11, from 75. The Congress now has 41. The Opposition benches will now have veterans such as H.D. Deve Gowda, Mallikarjun Kharge (both from Karnataka) Digvijaya Singh (from Madhya Pradesh) and Shibu Soren (from Jharkhand) and K.C. Venugopal (from Rajasthan). A noticeable addition to the treasury benches is Jyotiraditya Scindia, whose defection from the Congress in March brought down the Kamal Nath government in Madhya Pradesh, and brought the BJP back to power there. Bhubaneswar Kalita, the Congress’s chief whip in the Rajya Sabha until August last year, is now returning as a BJP member from Assam. All this point to a pattern of the BJP’s frenzied approach to increasing its Rajya Sabha strength. After the elections were announced, eight Congress MLAs left the party in Gujarat, and enabled the victory of an extra BJP candidate to the Rajya Sabha. In Rajasthan, the party fielded two candidates though it had the strength to elect only one, leading to speculation that plans were underway to poach Congress MLAs. The sight of political parties hauling in MLAs to luxury confinements ahead of the Rajya Sabha polls has become common. The Council of States institutionalises the sharing of power between the Centre and the State under India’s federal structure. The House of the elders is also considered an exalted forum of scholarship and statesmanship. But this majesty has taken a beating due to factors, including but not limited to machinations that go into its making. The steady ingress of celebrities and business tycoons has not made a serious contribution to the Rajya Sabha’s working. The BJP, under its current leadership, has demonstrated an aversion to deliberations of all types, and the Rajya Sabha has been a particular target. In a country as vast and diverse as India, deliberations are critical. The government has arbitrarily labelled bills as money bills to bypass scrutiny and passing by the Rajya Sabha. And some pieces of legislation with far-reaching effect on the country — to change the status of Jammu and Kashmir, for instance — have been pushed through both Houses. In such a scenario, it is imperative that members work across party lines to uphold Parliament’s constitutional role.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Ceylon’s rigid stand on citizenship||Ceylon is expected to insist on actual repatriation of those registered as Indian nationals under the terms of the Sirimavo-Shastri Pact before granting Ceylon citizenship to stateless people. Quoting sources the Daily Mirror said to-day [June 21] that Ceylon’s position was completely tenable with the terms of the pact. It is pointed out that the Indo-Ceylon Agreement Implementation Act enacted by the last Government was only a vehicle to carry out Ceylon’s obligations and not part of the pact. The Act itself was a strictly internal matter. The present Prime Minister, Mrs Sirimavo Bandaranaike, has always been consistent in her view on this question and she had always urged that legislation enacted by the previous regime was not in keeping with the letter and spirit of the agreement signed by her with the late Mr. Lal Bahadur Shastri. It is learnt that the Ceylon Government has called for a meeting of the Indo-Ceylon Joint Committee for June 29 when Ceylon’s new policy in respect of repatriation and granting of Ceylon citizenship will be explained.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Are stock specific SIPs better, or SIPs in MFs?||With the Systematic Investment Plan (SIP) route taking off for mutual funds, stock brokers are now offering SIPs that allow you to dribble equal monthly sums into a stock of your choosing over several years. But stock SIPs, for retail investors, are not as hot an idea as mutual fund SIPs. Before you sign up for them, here are some things to be aware of. Stock choice matters When plugging stock SIPs as a wealth creation tool, you are often provided examples of X or Y stock that transformed an investment of a few thousands into a few lakhs. For instance, had you done a SIP of just Rs. 5,000 a month in the Hindustan Unilever stock over the last five years, you’d be sitting on shares worth Rs. 5.1 lakh today, against an investment of Rs. 3 lakh. But such examples tend to be coloured by survivorship bias. For every HUL that has created wealth, there are scores of other equally well-known names that have decimated wealth in the same period. Had you chosen Zee Entertainment (which was equally fancied five years ago) instead of HUL for your SIPs, your Rs. 3 lakh investment would be down 56% and worth Rs. 1.31 lakh today. Leverage problems for Zee’s promoters have badly impacted the stock’s performance. While investing in stocks, therefore, it is not really the SIP mode of investing that helps you create wealth but selecting the right stocks to buy. It is your ability to scour businesses and stock valuations to spot potential wealth creators in the market that delivers results. What’s quality Advisers promoting stock SIPs usually assure you that if you choose ‘quality’ stocks to invest in, you can’t go wrong. Just pick companies that are delivering strong earnings growth with good governance and high shareholder return ratios, and you’ll be assured of long-term wealth creation. But this oversimplifies the process of stock selection, because the market’s definition of what is ‘quality’ and its assessment of the sectors that can deliver sustained growth changes quite often. The Indian market, in the last two decades, has seen three big bull markets — each with a completely different set of sectors leading. In 1997-2000, technology, media and telecom stocks were considered the very epitome of quality with scorching earnings growth and high return ratios. But had you picked from some of the top ‘quality’ stocks of that time — Infosys, Satyam Computers, Digital Globalsoft, Zee Telefilms — you may have found yourself poorer as two of the four haven’t even survived till date. Between 2003 and 2008, capital goods, real estate, power and infrastructure stocks, were deemed the best bets. But when India’s growth story hit a wall after the global financial crises, capex came to an abrupt halt, leaving those companies saddled with high debt and rapidly deteriorating earnings. Favourites of this era such as Unitech, BHEL, Suzlon Energy, Lanco Infra and Reliance Communications have barely survived the decade. If you had run a monthly SIP in BHEL for 5 years from June 2005 to June 2010, your investment of Rs. 5 lakh then would be worth only Rs. 50,000 today. Yes, mutual fund managers can err by chasing after the wrong stocks. But they are usually forced to correct their mistakes quickly when market preferences change. This ensures that even if you continue your SIP in the same fund, its portfolio is dynamic, and you don’t keep pouring money into dud businesses. To achieve a good balance of risk and returns in your portfolio, you need to closely watch the weights that individual assets and stocks take up in it. With SIPs, you can keep pumping money into a single stock for years bloating its weight in your portfolio. Consider a person with a Rs. 10 lakh portfolio who runs a Rs. 5,000 monthly SIP in a single stock for 5 years. After the five-year period, his exposure to the stock will amount to Rs. 3 lakh, as much as 23% per cent of his portfolio, assuming the stock moves in tandem with the rest of the portfolio. Had the stock outperformed, its portfolio weight can rise even more quickly. Unless you a keep close watch on your portfolio weights while running SIPs, you can run a big concentration risk. Just like stocks, unmonitored SIPs in mutual funds can also lead to a single fund occupying a very large weight in your portfolio, which is risky. But given that funds own a basket of stocks, this still exposes you to lower concentration risks than stock SIPs. Finally, the secret to creating enduring wealth from stocks is regular tracking of the business you have invested in. Having bought a stock based on an investment thesis, you will need to check into its quarterly results, statutory filings and events relating to its governance to ensure that your money is in good hands. SIPs tempt you to put your investments on autopilot. Let’s also admit that to really generate wealth from stocks, timing your entry and exit is critical. No stock is a perpetual ‘buy’ at any price and valuation. A SIP offers you the means to avoid timing risks on entry, but you still have to know when to exit.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Life is about second chances||Insurance is perplexing. There is so much information and hard sell that, ironically, buying a policy feels like taking a shot in the dark. This is a common feeling and many prospective buyers dilly-dally, back off, or simply make a wrong decision, only to rue it over the years or face a loss of the premium paid by allowing the policy to lapse. If you realise that the policy you bought is not what you thought it was; if you are having second thoughts; if you find that something about the policy has been misrepresented to you; if there has been a partial or total holding back of pertinent information, don’t worry, all is not lost. There is a second chance to exit this policy and buy a more suitable one. Enter the Free Look option, available on all life insurance policies. On health insurance policies it applies if the period of insurance is not less than one year. This provision offers a sense of relief and a real way to deal with an unwanted policy purchased in error, but this should only be your very last resort. Nothing substitutes for good research and information before deciding which policy to buy and which terms, conditions, exclusions and premium burden are best suited to you. Free look cancellation of life insurance policies is a provision in the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (Protection of Policyholders’ Interests) Regulation, 2002 (amended in 2017). In life insurance, how does the free look option work? The insurer has to inform you about this option in his covering letter when he delivers the policy to you. From the date you receive the policy, you have 15 days to review and return the policy for cancellation. If it is an electronic policy or one bought through distance mode, you have 30 days. You should make a written request to cancel the policy under the free look period if you disagree with any of the terms or conditions of the policy. You need to mention the reason for the objection and you will be entitled to a refund of premium, subject to certain expenses, including risk premium for the period already covered and expenses like medical examination before the policy was issued and stamp duty charges. All this comes into play only if you have not made any claim during the free look period. You should receive your premium refund within 15 days of your insurer receiving the cancellation request. If there is a delay, you are entitled to interest on the refund amount. If the life insurance policy being cancelled is a unit-linked product, the insurer would be entitled to repurchase the units at the price on the date of the cancellation. If you are cancelling a health insurance policy, you are entitled to a 15-day Free Look period only on inception of the policy, and not during renewals. All health policies like indemnity policies and benefit policies, namely critical illness plans and personal accident policies, are covered under this option.  (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history)
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Fear holds the key||A reader asked an interesting question: would it be beneficial to exit the market in anticipation of a decline even if the portfolio is created to achieve a long-term goal? In this article, we discuss the benefits and the consequences of moving out of your equity investments in anticipation of a market decline. Avoiding losses As humans, losses typically cause twice as much pain as gains give us happiness for the same amount. That is, losing Rs. 10,000 will cause you twice as much suffering than gaining Rs. 10,000 will give you happiness. This suggests that avoiding losses is typically good for your emotional well-being. It is also good for your financial health. How? Suppose your portfolio, created two years ago to make a down payment for a house in 2028, carries unrealised gains of 20%. Now, suppose the market declines by 25%. Your equity investments have to increase by 33% to recover the unrealised losses. In addition, these investments would have to earn the expected post-tax return (say 10%) for that year to be on track to meet your goal in 2028. Such returns could be difficult to achieve. By moving out of equity investments before a market decline, you could avoid large losses. That means you are under no pressure to reinvest any time soon to recover losses, which is good for your emotional and financial health. Emotional stress But, that is only one side of the story. When you move from equity and into bank deposits, your portfolio’s expected return falls. Why? Suppose the expected return on equity is 10% and that on bonds is 4%. Assuming your portfolio has 60% allocation to equity, your portfolio’s expected return would fall by 3.6% (that is, 60% of 6%, the return differential between equity and bonds). So, you have to save more every month to bridge this difference. That is not the only issue! What if the stock market does not decline as anticipated and instead climbs up? At some point in time, you have to reinvest in equity to bridge the return differential mentioned above. But, you could lack the confidence to reinvest, given that your initial decision to exit proved wrong. Further, what if the market declines after you reinvest? You could suffer a significant emotional stress from another bad decision! In a bid to avoid losses, your decision to move out of equity investments could hurt you!  So, what should you do? The answer depends on your emotional state because managing personal investments is more than just a financial decision. If you believe that the market has been climbing up for too long, or too fast, and you fear giving up your unrealised gains, then exit your equity investments. You will suffer from regret if your decision proves wrong. But that is the trade-off for yielding to your fears; for carrying such fears for too long can harm your physical well-being. Go for SIP You should reinvest when you believe the market has declined to a reasonable level. It is better to set up a short-term systematic investment plan (SIP), preferably 6-10 months, to average your reinvestment through the ups and downs of the market. Importantly, as an automatic debit from your bank account into an already-selected equity fund, SIP takes away the need to make a decision each time you reinvest. Such active distancing substantially reduces your regret from reinvesting. So, to answer the reader’s question: Your fear is the key to exiting your equity investments, and SIP is the process to get back in.  (The author offers training programmes for individuals to manage their personal investments)
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||
22 June 2020||Madrid,||Atletico moves into third||Atletico Madrid boosted its Champions League push on Sunday with a 1-0 win over Valladolid which moved it into third place in LaLiga. A goal from substitute Vitolo with nine minutes remaining gave Diego Simeone’s side the three points. It now has 52 points and a four-point edge over Getafe in its Champions League pursuit.  The first Serie A goal in 103 days was marked by scorer Nicolas Nkoulou — who scored for Torino via a header — taking a knee in support of the Black Lives Matter movement as the Italian league resumed with tributes for the country’s healthcare workers and victims of the coronavirus pandemic.   The results: Premier League: Newcastle 3 (Saint-Maximin 55, Ritchie 69, Joelinton 78) bt Sheffield United 0.   LaLiga: Celta Vigo 6 (Murillo 14, Aspas 21-pen, Rafa 40, 41, Nolito 78-pen, Lorenzo 86) bt Alaves 0.   Saturday: Premier League: West Ham 0 lost to Wolves 2 (Jimenez 73, Neto 84); Bournemouth 0 lost to Crystal Palace 2 (Milivojevic 12, Ayew 23).   LaLiga: Athletic Bilbao 1 (Martinez Berridi 7) bt Real Betis 0; Getafe 1 (Etebo 30) drew with Eibar 1 (Charles 45+6); Atletico Madrid 1 (Vitolo 81) bt Real Valladolid 0.   Serie A: Torino 1 (Nkoulou 15) drew with Parma 1 (Kucka 31); Hellas Verona 2 (Di Carmine 14, 26) bt Cagliari 1 (Simeone 43).
22 June 2020||New Delhi,||Gopi Chand recommends Prannoy for Arjuna Award||Indian shuttler H.S. Prannoy has been recommended for the Arjuna award by chief National badminton coach P. Gopi Chand after the Badminton Association of India ignored him for a second successive year due to disciplinary issues. On June 2, BAI had recommended Satwiksairaj Rankireddy, Chirag Shetty and Sameer Verma for Arjuna award, leaving out Prannoy. “Same old story. Guy who has medals in CWG and Asian Championships not even recommended by the association. And guy who was not there on any of these major events recommended. #waah #thiscountryisajoke,” Prannoy had said in his now-deleted tweet. It has emerged now that Prannoy’s name was recommended by Gopi Chand on June 3 in his capacity as a Khel Ratna Award recipient. “Gopi Chand recommended Prannoy for Arjuna on June 3 after BAI decided not to send his name. He did it as a winner of Khel Ratna and not as the chief India coach. He was not aware of the disciplinary issues,” a source close to the development said. Gopi , however, refused to comment on the issue, while Prannoy didn’t respond despite repeated calls. On Friday, Prannoy was served a showcause notice asking him to respond for his outburst against BAI within 15 days. “There are several instances of disciplinary issues with Prannoy. The Federation had been very tolerant all this while but in the recent past, his attitude has forced BAI to take action and also relook at the disciplinary policies,” BAI secretary Ajay Singhania had said.
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Harikrishna ends bad day with win||In what turned out to be a sub-plot involving two debutants, P. Harikrishna slumped to the bottom of the Group A while Russia’s Vladimir Artemiev rose to the top on the opening day of the $150,000 Chessable Masters on Saturday. In Group B action, on Sunday, Artemiev’s compatriot Ian Nepomniachtchi defeated Teimour Radjabov in the first round to be the early leader. Gathering his wits Hari, who started with a loss to Artemiev, let Carlsen off the hook and lost again. Outplayed by Daniil Dubov in the third round, Hari gathered his wits to hold Hikaru Nakamura and then scored a confidence-building victory over Alexander Grischuk. “I can’t complain,” said Harikrishna after the games. About missing a winning continuation against Carlsen, Harikrishna said, “It was disappointing but of course, I was happy to draw against Hikaru. I was completely lost, but it was just lucky.” Harikrishna was “very happy” to win the last round and added, “after two games, everyone wanted to win against me.”  The results:   Group B: First round: Fabiano Caruana (USA) drew with Ding Liren (Chn); Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) bt Teimour Radjabov (Aze); Maxim Vachier-Lagrave (Fra) drew with Anish Giri (Ned).   Group A: Fifth round: P. Harikrishna (1.5) bt Alexander Grischuk (Rus, 2); Vladimir Artemiev (Rus, 3.5) drew with Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 2.5); Daniil Dubov (Rus, 3) drew with Hikaru Nakamura (USA, 2.5); Fourth round: Nakamura drew with Harikrishna; Carlsen lost to Dubov; Grischuk drew with Artemiev.   Third round: Dubov bt Harikrishna; Nakamura drew with Artemiev; Carlsen drew with Grischuk.   Second round: Harikrishna lost to Carlsen; Artemiev bt Dubov; Grischuk drew with Nakamura .
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajinder Goel passes away||Rajinder Goel, one of the finest left-arm spinners never to have played for the country, passed away on Sunday. Rohtak-based Goel, 77, lost the battle against age-related health issues. He is survived by his wife and son. Goel, whose cricket journey began with Patiala (later Southern Punjab) during the 1957-58 season, played his last Ranji Trophy match for Haryana in 1984-85. Most wickets in Ranji During his illustrious career, Goel took 750 First Class wickets, including a record 637 in Ranji Trophy. Part of an era when the spin quartet of Bishan Singh Bedi, B.S. Chandrasekhar, E.A.S. Prasanna and S. Venkataraghavan performed with distinction for the country, Goel was destined to remain the most prolific left-arm spinner in domestic cricket in a career spread over 28 seasons. In 2012, Goel was bestowed the Lifetime Achievement Award by the BCCI. In fact, former captain Sunil Gavaskar devoted a chapter to Goel in his second book titled Idols . Immense respect Goel, who earned immense respect from cricketing greats and former Indian captains like Mansur Ali Khan Pataudi, Bedi, Gavaskar, G.R. Viswanath and Kapil Dev, among others, must have rued missing out on a chance to make the Indian squad against the visiting West Indies team under Clive Lloyd in the 1974-75 season. Ahead of the first Test at Bangalore, where Viv Richards and Gordon Greenidge made their debut, National selectors preferred two off-spinners and a leg-spinner, thereby leaving no room for Goel’s selection. A disappointed, but not disheartened, Goel continued to torment batsmen in domestic cricket. He did regret not being able to help Haryana win the Ranji Trophy. But he always cherished the memories of the Kapil Dev-led squad humbling host Mumbai by two runs in the 1990-91 Ranji Trophy final. ‘Born in the wrong era’ Goel would often say, “I was born in the wrong era.” His passing has ended an era.
22 June 2020||Kolkata,||Sarita Mor keen on earning an Olympic spot||Even as she indulges in gathering mangoes from the orchard and looking after her household during the lockdown, Asian champion wrestler Sarita Mor is working on improving her game. Sarita is lucky to have husband Rahul Mann, a former Asian championships medal winning wrestler, as her training partner. “Rahul tells me where to focus and areas that need my attention. Since he is there, I don’t need to look for a training partner,” Sarita told The Hindu on Sunday. “The focus is on physical fitness. I also work to improve my techniques.” The 25-year-old is enjoying a refreshing break. “Since my life revolved around training, competitions and camps, I never got such a relaxed break.” Sarita is keen to earn a spot in the Olympics. “I may have won the Asian title in a non-Olympic weight category (59kg), but my focus is on bagging a quota place in 57kg. “Many wrestlers across the world do that. You need to participate in good competitions. “Switching a kilogram or two is no big deal.” About the keen competition in 57kg among some top wrestlers — also including Worlds bronze medallist Pooja Dhanda, Asian bronze medal winner Anshu Tomar and Asian junior silver medallist Mansi Ahlawat — in India, Sarita said, “Indian girls are good at strength and stamina, while the others are good at techniques. “When we fight among ourselves, one side of our game is taken care of.”
22 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Need for professional State league emphasised||Organising an annual State volleyball league with professionalism and attractive prize money will be the way forward for the sport to grow in Tamil Nadu, said former and current India players during a webinar organised by Goalquiz on Saturday. P. Sivabalan, a former beach volleyball International, said Tamil Nadu not only has the talent but also a huge audience base, which plays a major factor in the league becoming a hit. “It (the league) can be held regularly. TN has a lot of sponsors and qualified coaches. If we can promote it properly, we can organise it on a grand scale,” he said, adding, “of course with the support of the TN State Volleyball Association.” According to R. Kamaraj, former International setter, conducting the league in several districts would help in identifying talent and develop the sport at the grassroots level. “If we conduct one in Madurai and get all local organisers to be involved, and promote it aggressively, I am sure TN volleyball will get better,” he said. Current India spiker Naveen Raja Jacob said as Tamil Nadu has more players than most other states in the country, more matches need to happen in districts zone-wise. “That way, more players will emerge,” said Naveen. Sivabalan was of the opinion that State league should be held in districts that have good quality indoor stadiums. Shelton Moses, captain of the Chennai Spartans team in the Pro Volleyball League, said the State league should be held only with a promoter similar to Baseline Ventures, which promoted the Pro Volleyball League. “The State association should give the league to a private partner so that professionalism will creep in. Pslayers should be given the best of everything,” he said. Chennai Spartans manager J. Nadarajan said getting the audience in large numbers to the stadium to watch the league will be the biggest challenge.
22 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,||This too will pass, says Henry Kisekka||“This,” says Henry Kisekka, “is really a difficult time for me.” He could as well be speaking for any athlete, or anyone from any walk of life. The Gokulam Kerala striker, who was one of the leading scorers in the I-League season truncated by the coronavirus, is stranded here and is yearning to return home to Uganda. His contract with Gokulam ended on May 31, but the club is still taking care of him and other foreign players. “We are still staying at the club facility,” he says. He spends his time chatting with family and friends back home. “I have never taken this much time off from the field,” he says. “I know this too will pass. I have to be fit, so I have started training indoors.” Relieved Kisekka is relieved that no death has been reported in Uganda due to COVID-19 and that there have been less than 800 positive cases. “I wish to be at home,” he says. “It is really hard for us to be here after the season. A footballer can spend time with his family only during the off-season. I wish international flights resume soon and I can go home.” He has been happy in his two seasons with Gokulam. “The first season was a breakthrough one for me and I think I was able to contribute to the club's campaign this season,” he says. “The Durand Cup and the Sheikh Kamal Cup were memorable for me.”  He is disappointed the season had to be stopped midway. “Had it continued, we had a chance to finish second,” he says. “That would have been a great achievement.” Impressed He is impressed by the quality of the I-League. “It is very competitive and is one of the best leagues I have played so far,” he says. “I really liked the intensity in each game. “And the league provides a lot of opportunities for Indian youngsters.”
22 June 2020||KOLKATA,||East Bengal’s plans up in the air||East Bengal’s effort to grandly celebrate its centenary year — its foundation day is less than a month away — has been seriously hampered by the lockdown, as has been its attempt to secure an ISL berth. The club is currently managing without a patron after its ‘investor’ in the previous two seasons, Quess Corp, severed ties prematurely. Then Manchester United cancelled its plans of playing a pre-season friendly here in July. The prolonged lockdown has also put paid to the possibility of a new financial tie-up. There is a sense of disenchantment among members and fans as the club continues to remain in the I-League while traditional rival Mohun Bagan has an ISL berth after being acquired by ATK, the reigning ISL champion. “We will act once the AIFF announces a proper calendar. Everything is still uncertain because of the pandemic. We had our plans before the season and will definitely decide on which way to go once the new season is given a proper shape,” said Debabrata (Nitu) Sarkar, an influential name in the club’s hierarchy. After the AIFF ended the previous season, East Bengal began signing some big names from both the ISL and I-league sparking talks about its preparation to bid for an ISL berth. “We have definitely signed the players with a tournament in target. But everything now depends on how the football calendar in the country shapes up. We hope to decide something by July,” Sarkar said.  Sense of disenchantment among members and fans as the club continues to remain in I-League while traditional rival Mohun Bagan has an ISL berth
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cash prizes galore for World carrom challenge||The president of the International Carrom Federation (ICF), Josef Meyer of Switzerland, has announced a purse of Rs. 140,000 for the World carrom challenge to be contested online from June 25. The top three finishers in the men’s section will get Rs. 30,000, 20,000 and 15,000 respectively, while for the women it would be Rs. 20,000, 15,000 and 10,000. A consolation prize of Rs. 10,000 each has been announced for Europe, US/Canada and Asia. Synco, the carrom equipment maker, has announced Rs. 2,000 for every ultimate slam (white and black slam in the same board) and Rs. 1,000 for a white slam. The best ultimate slam in each section will get Rs. 3,000. The All India Carrom Federation (AICF) has announced A. Maria Irudayam, Suhas Kambli and Arun Kedar as the judges for adjudicating the best slams.
22 June 2020||Chennai,||Vasudevan and the triumph of 1987-88||Self-effacing to the core, S. Vasudevan was a precocious talent. A wonderful left-arm spinner with guile, deception and a deadly arm-ball. A languid, capable bat with strokes and substance, he made runs when it mattered. And Vasudevan was an effortless catcher in the slips. The naturally gifted cricketer was also the skipper of the last occasion Tamil Nadu lifted the Ranji Trophy — in the 1987-88 season. Perfect blend Vasudevan recalled to The Hindu , “We had a blend of experience and youth. We had youngsters such as M. Venkataramana, U.R. Radhakrishnan and M. Senthilnathan.” Vasudevan added, “We also had men who had played a fair amount of First Class cricket in V. Sivaramakrishnan, B. Arun, V.B. Chandrasekar, L. Sivaramakrishnan, Robin Singh, P.C. Prakash, D. Girish and myself. And internationals K. Srikkanth and W.V. Raman too figured in a few games.” Talking about his style of captaincy, Vasudevan said, “I was not a control freak. The players were given the freedom to express themselves. Every suggestion was welcome.” Quick off the blocks Importantly, Tamil Nadu was quick off the blocks winning its first three games. “That gave the team momentum.” Then, in the knock-out matches against Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Indian Railways (final), the side made big runs, giving the bowlers the opportunity to apply pressure. Vasudevan said, “We batted deep. We had Robin Singh, B. Arun, L. Siva and myself who could all bat.” Apart from having a formidable batting unit, Tamil had two useful pacemen in B. Arun and Robin Singh, and a varied spin attack of off-spinner Venkataramana, left-arm spinner Vasudevan and leg-spinner L. Siva. Brilliant cordon And then with Vasudevan, VB, Robin, V. Siva and L. Siva around, the side had a brilliant close-in cordon. Why has Tamil Nadu not been able to replicate the feat? Vasudevan explained, “We don’t play tournaments such as Buchi Babu and Moin-ud-dowla which would be ideal preparation for the Ranji season. Instead we go straight into the season from Twenty20 competition. “Also there is too much chopping and changing in the team. “Cricketers need to be secure of their places to develop,” he said. A man of few words, Vasudevan knows what he is talking about.
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bopanna excited about response to his academy||Rohan Bopanna, who wants to lay a strong foundation for the future of Indian tennis, is excited about the response to the 60 full scholarships he is offering at ‘The Sports School’ in Bengaluru. “We have been overwhelmed by the response and have shortlisted about 60 players for selection trials for the the first batch at the school by July 15,” said Bopanna. The trials would be for at least three days. The plan is to choose 10 boys and 10 girls each in the under-12, 14 and 16 categories. “We may change a bit depending on the talent we get to see,” said Bopanna.
22 June 2020||Chennai,||C.R. Kumar applies for Dronacharya||C.R. Kumar, former India hockey coach, has applied for the Dronacharya lifetime award through his employer Railway Sports Promotion Board. Kumar has a rich experience of coaching the country’s men and women’s teams for more than two decades. Kumar started his coaching career by assisting V. Baskaran in the Utrecht men’s World Cup in 1998. He had coached the National men’s team in the 2002 World Cup in Kuala Lumpur. He was also the head coach of the Indian women’s team from 2011 till the middle of 2012 and the coach of the Indian women’s team which won silver in the 2018 Asiad.
22 June 2020||Sydney,||Starc provides video footage to prove injury for USD 1.43 million IPL insurance payout||Australian pacer Mitchell Starc has furnished video footage of the second Test against South Africa in 2018 to prove that he got injured real-time and deserves an insurance payout of $1.53 million for losing his IPL deal with Kolkata Knight Riders. Starc had filed a lawsuit against his insurers in April last year. The insurers, however, had disputed the timing of the injury in second Test at Port Elizabeth. The Sydney Morning Herald reported that civil trial has been rescheduled to August 12 after mediation talks broke down last month.PTI
22 June 2020||Chennai,||Dakshinamoorthy nominated for Dronacharya||Tamil Nadu State Volleyball Association has recommended S. Dakshinamoorthy for Dronacharya Award while nominating M. Ukkrapandian and Naveen Raja Jacob for the Arjuna Award.
22 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Even Golden Langurs suffer forced abortion, infanticide||An endangered species of monkey, found only in Assam and parts of Bhutan, has a far-from-golden trait — forced abortion. Primatologists have observed that the Gee’s golden langur (Trachypithecus geei), endemic to the semi-evergreen and mixed-deciduous forests straddling India and Bhutan, induce stillbirth of babies killed inside the womb of females, besides practising infanticide. Foeticide in the natural world is, however, quite different from one of the first cases of abortion due to electrocution of a female in Nayekgaon near Kokrajhar, about 225 km west of Guwahati, on June 5. Largely encroached upon, Nayekgaon is one of 11 fragmented habitats of the golden langur, excluding the 500 sq. km. Manas National Park. “Golden langurs use the upper canopy of trees to travel but the three-phase electric wire came in the female’s way,” said Daoharu Boro, a wildlife veterinarian. The female had fallen about 15 feet after the wire burnt her limbs and chest. She died within 24 hours of delivering a still baby due to the impact. Killer wires The golden langurs in Assam are hemmed in by three rivers — Brahmaputra in the south, Manas in east and Sonkosh in west. Their northern limit is the range of hills in Bhutan up to 2,400 metres above sea level. Primatologists say their habitat in Assam has fragmented drastically in the last 30 years but electric wires began to be strung through them mostly after a thrust on rural electrification six years ago. “Unlike the Hanuman langurs elsewhere, golden langurs are yet to adapt to the wires, and they use the upper canopy of trees to travel because of fear of dogs on the ground. Electrocution has also killed the monkeys in groups,” said Jihusuo Biswas of Guwahati’s Primate Research Centre. Obstructions such as wires, and gaps in the forest due to felling, have increased the threat of inbreeding among golden langurs. “This is happening in the highly fragmented Kakoijana forest. This is not a serious issue now, but could explode into a major problem later,” he said. “Avoiding inbreeding is the reason why golden langurs live in specific groups, Mr. Biswas said. Forced abortion and infanticide happen when a new male takes over. He often kills the baby of a lactating female or hits the abdomen of a female impregnated by the deposed male till the point of abortion. Golden langur females maintain a gap of at least two years between babies. This gap can increase to three years depending on habitat conditions, which is a cause of concern for primatologists. “They survive mostly on a variety of juicy leaves. But fragmentation of forests and selective logging is making their food scarcer,” Mr. Biswas said. In 2019, Bhutan recorded a drop of 62% in the population of golden langurs over the 2009 census. The recorded estimation in Assam in 2009 was 5,140. This year’s census could not be completed due to the lockdown.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The name that saves||In the Vishnu Sahasranama, there are 32 names that are in praise of Rama. The name Parardhih refers to Rama, the Supreme One with auspicious qualities, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan in a discourse. When Dasaratha decided to crown Rama, the members of the assembly he had invited said Rama was the right choice because of His noble qualities. Parasara Bhatta, in his commentary on the Vishnu Sahasranama, says Rama charitam is mrita sanjeevanam, for it restores people to life. Parvati asked Lord Siva which name of Lord Vishnu would give the same benefits as reciting all one thousand names. Lord Siva replied that reciting Rama nama would confer the same benefits as reciting all names. Even in the Ramayana, we find instances where the name of Rama revives people. We see this in the case of Sita Herself. Hanuman has located Sita in Asoka vana, but remains hidden in a tree. Ravana threatens Sita and when he leaves, Sita thinks of giving up Her life. Hanuman decides to intervene to prevent this catastrophe. Hanuman then narrates the story of Rama, and Sita’s heart fills with hope, and all thoughts of death are forgotten. Another instance of the efficacy of Rama charita is seen after the killing of Ravana. Rama and Sita are returning to Ayodhya, and they stop over at the ashram of sage Bharadwaja. The sage wants Rama to eat a feast at his ashram. Bharata has threatened to immolate himself if Rama does not return to Ayodhya as soon as the period of exile ends. So, Rama sends Hanuman to inform Bharata that He has been delayed. Hanuman arrives just when Bharata is about to enter the fire. Hanuman narrates Rama’s story, and Bharata gives up his attempt. Thus, even in the Ramayana, we see clearly how the name of Rama saves people.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 08:03 IST,||Sudoku - June 22, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Traffic violations rise on empty roads||A 35-year-old chartered accountant was sitting at home when he received a WhatsApp message from a friend asking him to check his traffic violation challans online as the latter had received a few. Tushar Jain, a resident of east Delhi’s Bhajanpura, was shocked to see 13 violation receipts issued against his registered vehicle in the last two months. “I was shocked because while driving I didn’t realise there were cameras installed at certain locations,” he said. Mr. Jain received all challans for overspeeding; three of them were of Rs. 2,000 each and the rest were to be settled in court. According to data received by The Hindu from Delhi traffic police, over 16 lakh challans were issued during lockdown between March 23 and June 15.  Overspeeding challans   While 15,75,183 challans were issued for overspeeding, 37,451 were issued for improper parking and 2,853 challans were for lane violation. All the violations during the period were caught on camera and the details were uploaded on the Delhi traffic police website against the vehicles’ registration numbers. The number of challans, which had come down significantly after the new Motor Vehicles Act came into force last year on September 1, went up during the lockdown. The total number of challans issued from September to December last year stood at 7.14 lakh – 1.75 lakh in September, 1.87 lakh in October, 1.66 lakh in November and 1.86 lakh in December. During the same period in 2018, the total number of challans stood at 20.08 lakh.  Less traffic   Special Commissioner of Police (traffic) Taj Hassan said the number of challans increased during the lockdown because there was less traffic on the roads. “These challans were issued based on violations recorded on camera, without any interaction. Drivers tend to drive fast on empty stretches,” he said. Explaining further, Mr. Hassan said the speed limit has been set considering the vehicle volume on city roads and depending on pedestrian safety, market complexes and commercial activity at certain points. Those places are relatively less crowded now due to which people tend to violate speed limit. “Another reason is that earlier we did not have so many cameras as we do now. The challans issued in January and February this year were relatively less also because there were vehicles on the road to maintain speed limit,” he added. Mr. Hassan said that earlier, during night, there was hardly any traffic monitoring, but now cameras work 24X7, recording violations at all hours. A 28-year-old Noida resident who didn’t wish to be identified said that she received 15 violation receipts for overspeeding and was puzzled about how to proceed with court challans. “I had difficulty paying the online challans too because the payment getaway kept crashing. But the bigger problem is I don’t know what to do with court challans – when and where to visit, what to do,” she said.  Virtual courts   The Delhi traffic police have 389 CCTV cameras installed across the city to digitally capture violations involving overspeeding and signal jumping. The details were shared by the Delhi High Court while inaugurating two virtual courts here for online settlement of traffic challans for violations captured on CCTV cameras. The virtual courts, as per Section 208 of Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, will issue special summons to the violator via her/his mobile phone. Once a violator receives an intimation on the mobile phone, she/he would have the option to either contest the summons or pay by visiting the web portal https://vcourts.gov.in. The requisite minimum fine can be paid online on the day and the time of the violator’s choosing within the stipulated period. The two new virtual courts are an addition to the first virtual court in the country, established in the Capital on July 26 last year. The existing virtual court dealt with “on-spot traffic challans” generated by the Delhi traffic police through E-Challan application developed by the National Informatics Centre. It has so far disposed of 7,30,789 challans, resulting in online collection of Rs. 89.41 crore fine till May 7 this year.  Lok adalats   Another way of settling traffic challans is through lok adalats, which encourage parties to settle cases outside the formal court system. Cases where parties can reach an amicable settlement such as bounced cheques, bank recovery cases, civil suits, motor accident claims, service matters, family matters and traffic challans are taken up by lok adalats. However recently, the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) cancelled the National Lok Adalat scheduled for July 11, 2020 in view of “the unprecedented scenario” caused by COVID-19 pandemic. Last year, four National Lok Adalats were held in which 52.93 lakh cases were disposed of. Of them, 26,16,790 cases were pending in courts and 26,76,483 were pre-litigation cases. NALSA said the National Lok Adalats scheduled for September 12 ,2020 and December 12, 2020 will be held as per the approved dates.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandemic parenting with an only child||It has been over three months since my 11-year-old son has seen another child. Like most children in the country, he has been confined to the house. Playdates, even now as lockdown eases, are out of the question. As an only child, he is used to keeping himself occupied. Books, Lego, playing by himself, all served to fill the endless days. The “What should I do now?” litany soon began in earnest, though. He wasn’t missing school, but he did miss the physicality of meeting other children. To tackle this, we have been organising mock wrestling matches and fake-boxing. Only-children across India are coping with solitary confinement in various ways. Gurgaon-based poet Sahana Ahmed’s nine-year-old daughter had her birthday two weeks into lockdown. “The first few days were spent explaining why we couldn’t invite her friends and she had a Zoom party with them on the big day,” says Ahmed. In Kolkata, Vinita Garg says the lockdown has been liberating for her seven-year-old and “infuriating for me”. The writer admits, however, that she was initially glad at the dismantling of structure and routine. “We would walk together on the terrace, study, watch films. Just as the boredom started to set in, online school began, so that helped hugely.” Conversations around Covid Meanwhile, down South, in Bengaluru, book editor Ganesh Vancheeswaran says his nine-year-old was curious to know what lockdown and Covid-19 were all about. “He was mildly anxious about not being able to go downstairs to play and not meeting his grandparents who live in Chennai. We had a number of conversations about why it was important to stay at home,” he says. This is key, says psychologist Trishna Agarwala, adding that talking to children at their level is helpful. “Give them information they can digest. It is important to empathise and validate their feelings. Let them know that it is normal to feel anxious.” Kids may also quietly worry about parents and grandparents falling sick at this time. “They might fret about what will happen to them if a parent is ill,” she cautions. “Talk to them about what will happen in such a situation. This will lower their anxiety. Let them know the adults have a plan in place.” Teen speak Children need other children to play with, to learn how to negotiate and compromise. “The lockdown period is taking away these vital opportunities. It might be especially hard on children who are shy and who might cling even tighter to their parents,” explains Agarwala. In the absence of siblings or friends, parents must double up as playmates. The question is, are parents adequate substitutes? “Families with only children do have a slightly more difficult deal,” says Garg, “You find ways around it, though. My son is productively engaged for a good part of the day. I study with him, and my husband is teaching him chess and coding.” If you’re going online, Agarwala recommends trying something active like charades, Pictionary or storytelling. While younger children may welcome extra parental attention, teenagers are a different story. With school plus a hectic schedule as a state and national level footballer, Thaïs Mascarenhas, 15, is usually quite busy. “When news of the quarantine first came out, I was thrilled because at that time I had exams and I was praying they would cancel them, and they did!” she says. “I am enjoying myself at home, especially not having to wake up early for school. I keep in touch with friends on social media. The thing I miss terribly is football.” Like my son, Mascarenhas hasn’t given school a second thought over the summer. “I didn’t really think about school until today, when my mother and I went to pick up my books and I met a few of my friends,” she says, adding that she has her dog for company, though. “Frankie is always there to put a smile on my face. Mama refers to him as my brother.” Talk quality, not quantity There are no studies to show how children fare when they’re away from other kids for long periods of time. The single-child families we have spoken to sometimes struggle with demands for parental attention and the guilt can be crushing. “I realise my son needs a playmate and I try my best to engage with him in his world of make believe,” says Garg. Agarwala advises that parents aim for quality over quantity. “If you are rushed for time, let your child know when you will be available to play with them. When you are playing, avoid getting distracted,” she says. Journaling might also help focus thoughts. When lockdown began, my son wrote every night with a vengeance. It alleviated his confusion about low food supplies and the uncertainty of what was going on. He still journals, but apparently his nightly notes are now all about Minecraft.
22 June 2020||New Delhi,||Over 57,000 register for DU admissions||A total of 57,312 prospective students have registered for undergraduate programmes at Delhi University as of Sunday evening, the second day of registrations, which will stay open till July 4, officials at the university’s admissions branch said. With the admissions taking place entirely online this year as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic, ‘open days’ typically held by the university, where various queries of students and parents are addressed, will also be held online. The admissions branch of the university will hold a live webinar on Tuesday morning to explain the procedure involved and to answer doubts that may not be clarified in the bulletin of information on admissions issued by the university. Students will only be required to come to the college at the very end during final verification of certificates, the bulletin states. Admission criteria to various merit-based courses have remained exactly the same as that of last year, said Shobha Bagai, Dean (Admissions), adding that colleges have been asked not to penalise students, who change streams to take up BA courses. Significantly, admissions will not take place under the extra curricular activities quota apart for NCC and NSS, which will be picked on the basis of certificates. In the same vein, admissions under the sports quota will only be taking place through certificates and no trials will be held. Only in the case of BA Music course, for which admissions take place only through trials, Ms. Bagai said that a two-tier process would be involved, in which students will be required to first send a pre-recorded clip through an online link after which they will have to perform over a live stream. In at least 15 postgraduate programmes, where admissions would be decided partially through an interview, this year no interview will take place, Ms. Bagai informed. To facilitate students, this year, the admissions branch has made it so that students are registered for all courses. This way, they would be eligible to apply to all colleges depending on their marks and there would be fewer grievances, and give them more flexibility Ms. Bagai said. Helpline numbers The university has also set up multiple helpline numbers and given out email IDs to resolve students queries, apart from which it informed that individual colleges will be organising counselling sessions and set up online help desks as well during the admission process. Apart from undergraduates, 18,837 postgraduate registrations and 2071 PhD registrations have also taken place.
22 June 2020||June 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Chaman Bahaar: it’s raining men||Of late Hindi cinema has been travelling — into the Indian heartlands, not so much abroad — and taking viewers to cities, towns and villages they may have never even heard of before. Chaman Bahaar is located in one such unique spot — Lormi in Mungeli district of Chhatisgarh. The film captures on screen the region’s distinct topography, culture, language and people; young men to be specific. A paan shop in Lormi’s outskirts becomes the hang out for the town’s young men to gape at the girl—Rinku (Ritika Badiani) — who has shifted in the house across the road. The paan shop owner Billu (Jitendra Kumar) is secretly in love with her while she is clueless about his affections. Atmanirbhar romance anyone? Kumar is in good form as the common “lover” man next door. However, the film doesn’t go beyond being an exhaustingly static sketch of the small town male centric world. So much so, that the woman at the core remains just an apparition — a fair vision in shorts riding the bike or taking the dog out for a walk — and doesn’t even get to utter a line. The wallowing in the lives of an assortment of aimless drifters, ineffectual dreamers, needlessly angst-ridden whiners, romantic losers, political players, testosterone-charged aggressors and idiotic stalkers, who all call each other “daddy” in local speak, tests the limits of patience. All a bunch of men who refuse to grow up, prefer staying eternally stupid boys, and then wonder why women run away from them. Is there a better option available to them than that? By all means, play us the melody of male psyche if that’s what you’d want to call it but don’t give us a scratched record in the bargain with the needle perpetually stuck at one point. All we get to see at the start are repetitive scenes of eyeing and gaping at the woman. And dialogue which plays on balatkar (rape) and talks stuff like “ pagalpan sachche aashiq ki nishani hoti hai (madness is the sign of a true lover)”. Two thirds down the narrative things do pick up, but it’s all to try and build sympathy for these supposedly innocent men. Everything possible is thrown into the plot—from vague references to Operation Majnu to a hotheaded policeman to an opportunistic politician to a sadhu who rues about being ditched by his love. All of which eventually turns out to be a forgettable mess. The only other element that I liked about the film, apart from a sincere and invested Kumar, was the opening credits sequence. It’s a nice touch, that!
22 June 2020||Noida,||Noida Metro seeks suggestions on facilities for transgenders||Noida Metro Rail Corporation (NMRC) has invited suggestions from the public and NGOs for upgrading facilities for transgenders on its Aqua Line, officials said on Sunday. The NMRC, which operates the Noida-Greater Noida metro, also known as the Aqua Line, had last week announced to convert its Sector 50 metro station into a ‘she-man’ station with special facilities and employment opportunities for the transgender community. Individuals and NGOs can send their suggestions on nmrcnoida@gmail.com for the transgender station by July 6, NMRC Deputy General Manager, Corporate Communications, Sandhya Sharma, said. The NMRC wishes to take a step for the inclusion and meaningful participation of transgenders and want the community to travel with pride on the Aqua Line, she said. A few actions have been planned, like creating awareness among metro commuters through messages or signages and announcements at station and within train coaches pertaining to the transgender community. Also, there will be sensitisation of existing employees on engaging transgender people at metro stations post required training, Ms. Sharma said. The possibility of a change in the restroom infrastructure and creation of a separate frisking facility for the community are being explored at the Sector 50 station, she said.
22 June 2020||New Delhi,||Cloudy skies hamper viewing of annular solar eclipse in Delhi||With clouds shrouding the skies in the national capital on Sunday, sky gazers missed a clear view of the annular solar eclipse that would have showed them the Sun look like a ring of fire. The annular phase began at 10.19 a.m. and ended at 1.58 p.m. The eclipse was at its peak at 12.01 pm. The annular phase was visible from some places within a narrow corridor of northern part of the country (parts of Rajasthan, Haryana and Uttarakhand). A few prominent places within this annularity path are Dehradun, Kurukshetra, Chamoli, Joshimath, Sirsa and Suratgarh. It was a partial solar eclipse from the rest of the country. The annular path also passed through Congo, Sudan, Ethiopia, Yemen, Saudi Arabia, Oman, Pakistan, and China. Obscuration of the Sun by the Moon at the time of greatest phase of partial eclipse was around 94% in Delhi. N. Rathnashree, Director of Nehru Planetarium, said the visibility of the eclipse was hampered due to the clouds. The viewing was also affected due to social distancing norms in place due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Rathnashree said although they had set up an equipment in the lawns of Nehru Planetarium, images were live-streamed and webcast on their YouTube page. The next annular eclipse will be seen from South America in December. Another annular eclipse will occur in 2022 but that will be hardly visible from India. A solar eclipse occurs on a new moon day when the Moon comes in between the Earth and the Sun and all the three celestial bodies are aligned. An annular solar eclipse will occur when the angular diameter of the Moon falls short of that of the Sun so that it cannot cover up the latter completely. As a result, a ring of the Sun’s disk remains visible around the Moon. This gives an image of a ring of fire. Harpreet Kaur, a teacher with the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC), had arranged a telescope and created ball mirror image for viewing the solar eclipse. But the clouds had covered the Sun. “I could not see the eclipse properly due to clouds,” Ms. Kaur, who is the coordinator of the science club at her school, said. However, Ms. Kaur managed to take some photographs and videos, which she will share with her students on her school’s WhatsApp group. She said there was also a point when the sky appeared like it was evening, especially when the eclipse had reached its peak. “I could see a lot of avian activity in the sky during that time,” Ms. Kaur said. However, there were a few who travelled to Kurukshetra in Haryana, where the eclipse was clearly visible. Arvind Ranade, a scientist with the Department of Science and Technology, was among those who went to Kurukshetra, 150 km from Delhi. “We could see the eclipse clearly, especially the Baily’s beads,” Mr. Ranade said. Named after English astronomer Francis Baily, Baily’s beads are an arc of bright spots seen during total and annular eclipses of the Sun. Just before the Moon’s disk covers the Sun, the narrow crescent of sunlight may be broken in several places by irregularities (mountains and valleys) on the edge of the Moon’s disk. The resulting array of spots roughly resembles a string of beads.
22 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi prison witnesses first COVID-19 death||Delhi prison witnessed its first COVID-19 death after a 62-year-old inmate, who was lodged in Mandoli jail passed away on June 15 in his sleep. There was no apparent cause of death. Later, he was tested positive for COVID-19 on June 20. Following the due procedure, Director General (Delhi Prisons) Sandeep Goel said, inquest proceedings were conducted by Metropolitan Magistrate and a COVID-19 test was conducted on the body, the result of which came as positive on Saturday. Shared barrack with 28 The deceased identified as Kanwar Singh, was lodged in Central Jail number 14, Mandoli, and he was asymptomatic. He was lodged in senior citizen barrack and 28 other inmates were sharing the barrack with him. The matter came to notice after some of the members of his barrack tried to wake him up. When he did not respond, the jail staff took him to the doctor who then declared him dead, officials said. Singh was sent to the jail on July 6, 2018, after being convicted in a murder case at Aman Vihar police station, he said. A COVID-19 test is being conducted on all the inmates of the barrack. However, the health of the other inmates are fine, the official said. A medical team is keeping watch on other inmates as well. Delhi Prison comprises Tihar, Rohini and Mandoli Jail. Till now, 23 inmates of Delhi Prison have been found positive for COVID-19. Of them, 16 recovered, while Singh died. While 45 prison staff have tested positive so far, seven of them have recovered, said jail officials.
22 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Take extra precautions with inmates over 55 years’||A high-power committee (HPC), set up to look into decongesting jails pursuant to the COVID-19 outbreak, has directed prison authorities here to take extra precautions with regard to inmates over 55 years of age after a 62-year-old prisoner, who died in his sleep, was later found to be COVID-19 positive. The HPC, headed by Justice Hima Kohli, directed the Director General (Prisons) to get the COVID-19 test of 28 inmates, who were sharing the same barrack with the 62-year-old, conducted and as per medical need and advice, to be separately quarantined. The HPC further directed that in case any suspected case comes to the notice of jail administration, the contact tracing of all other inmates and jail staff be done and if necessary, COVID-19 test of all such persons be conducted. D.G. (Prisons) also informed the HPC that till June 20, 20 jail inmates, besides 36 prison staff were found COVID-19-positive. D.G. (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said out of 20 jail inmates, 16 have recovered after they were separately quarantined on jail premises. He further said that three inmates required hospitalisation and two of them were admitted at Lok Nayak Hospital and one in AIIMS, where they are recuperating. The 36 jail staff who tested positive have been relieved from their respective duties and were asked to remain home-quarantined. All of them were ‘asymptomatic’, Mr. Goel said. The D.G. (Prisons) also stated that Jail No.15 in Mandoli, having 248 individuals cells (with attached toilets) and are being used as “isolation facility”. Isolation The HPC said that new entrants in jail be kept in isolation wards or cells so as to prevent their intermingling with other inmates who are already inside the jail. Till June 20, a total of 4,129 inmates have been released to decongest prisons in view of the pandemic. This includes 2,961 undertrial prisoners, 1,108 convicts released on emergency parole and 60 convicts released on remission of sentence.  Out of 20 jail inmates, 16 have recovered after they were separately quarantined on jail premises... 36 jail staff who tested positive have been relieved from their respective duties Sandeep Goel D.G. (Prisons)
22 June 2020||New Delhi,||Helpline for lockdown-hit workers to find jobs||A group of students from IITs, IIMs and other reputed institutions on Sunday launched a pilot project and a helpline number to help workers, who lost their jobs during the COVID-19 lockdown, find work. The students, who have created Students for Involved Governance and Mutual Action (SIGMA), are being assisted by Delhi Deputy Commissioner Abhishek Singh and bureaucrat Durga Shakti Nagpal in their endeavour. The helpline — 8800883323 — “ekatra” was conceptualised by the students to help the hiring of the unskilled, semi-skilled and skilled workers across Delhi-NCR, Mr. Singh said during the online launch. The helpline will be operational from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. every day. Student volunteers will attend calls from potential employers and workers.
