22 July 2020||JAIPUR,||Relief for Sachin Pilot camp as HC holds off verdict till Friday||Rebel Congress leader and former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot on Tuesday got a brief respite from the Rajasthan High Court, which asked Speaker C.P. Joshi not to take a decision on the disqualification notices issued by him to the 19 dissident MLAs till July 24. The Speaker was scheduled to decide on the matter by Tuesday evening. Upon completion of the hearing on a writ petition moved by Mr. Pilot and 18 other MLAs, challenging the Speaker’s notices of July 14, a two-judge Division Bench reserved its verdict for July 24. The court had last Friday given a four-day reprieve to the Pilot camp from any action by the Speaker. “We request the Speaker, who has been pleased to extend the period for filing reply by the writ petitioners till 5.30 p.m. as of today, to extend the said period till the delivery of orders by this court on July 24, 2020, and we direct accordingly,” said the Bench, comprising Chief Justice Indrajit Mahanty and Justice Prakash Gupta, in its four-page order. The Speaker’s office responded immediately by stating that it would respect the “dignity of judiciary”. “In view of the matter being sub judice, the Speaker has deferred the action on notices served on 19 MLAs till July 24 evening,” said a statement issued after Mr. Joshi consulted legal experts. However, the Congress party is exploring the option of filing a review petition in the Rajasthan High Court against its direction to the Speaker. The party has raised questions over such directions that encroach on the Speaker's powers, a senior leader told The Hindu . NGO’s plea allowed The Bench, which heard the arguments for three days, took on record the written submissions from both sides. The Speaker had issued notices to the MLAs after the Congress Chief Whip, Mahesh Joshi, complained to him that the legislators had defied a whip to attend two Congress Legislature Party (CLP) meetings held last week. The court also allowed the application of an NGO, Public Against Corruption, as an intervener in the case with the plea that the matter would have a wide public impact in view of the anti-defection law under the Tenth Schedule of the Constitution being challenged. The interveners contended that they were concerned with the public interest at large. Meanwhile, the Congress held another CLP meeting at the luxury hotel where all its MLAs have been sequestered since the political turmoil began. The Pilot camp did not attend it. Calling upon the Congress legislators to “stand like a rock”, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot told the meeting that neither the Congress nor the BJP wanted the Assembly to be dissolved and election to take place. “The entire country is watching you. Your respect has increased manifold because it is not something ordinary,” he said. Mr. Gehlot claimed that some MLAs of the Pilot camp had been calling the Congress leaders and wanted to return.
22 July 2020||Lucknow,||35 years on, 11 policemen convicted of royal’s killing||A court in Mathura on Tuesday convicted 11 policemen, including the then Deputy Superintendent of Police, for the murder of Raja Man Singh, the then titular head of the erstwhile princely state of Bharatpur in Rajasthan, in 1985. Three other policemen, who were accused of forging the general diary entries and were facing charges under Section 218 of the IPC, were acquitted, said Nand Kishor Abhimanyu, the lawyer for the accused. The sessions court in Mathura will pronounce the quantum of sentence on Wednesday. The case had caused a political storm in Rajasthan, leading to the resignation of the then CM. The incident took place on February 21, 1985, when Man Singh, then 64, and his two associates were shot dead by the police a day after he had allegedly driven his military vehicle into a stage set up for an election rally of then Rajasthan Chief Minister Shiv Charan Mathur. He also damaged a chopper kept at the site for the CM. The Congress was ruling Rajasthan then. Dushyant Singh, the deceased’s grandson, said that Man Singh, who was the third son of Maharaja Krishn of Bharatpur, was first elected as an MLA from Rajasthan in 1952 and was undefeated till his death. He even resisted the waves of 1977 (Indira Gandhi) and 1980 (Janata Party) to win as an Independent. In the 1985 Assembly poll, the Congress fielded Brijendra Singh, a retired IAS officer, against Man Singh from the Deeg seat. During the campaign, an irate Man Singh drove his jeep into the stage and the chopper, reacting to some Congress workers insulting the Bharatpur flag, said Mr. Dushyant Singh. “On February 21, 1985, Raja Man Singh, along with Thakur Hari Singh, Thakur Sumer Singh and others were going to Deeg police station to surrender when the then Deputy SP Kan Singh Bhati and other policemen fired indiscriminately at Raja Man Singh near Anaj Mandi as part of a well-planned conspiracy,” he said in a statement. Man Singh and his two associates died on the spot. Two days later the CM resigned. The case was handed over to the CBI on February 28 that year and 17 policemen were chargesheeted. The trial started in a Jaipur court but in December 1990, the case was shifted to the Mathura sessions court on the direction of the Supreme Court after Man Singh’s daughter Krishnendra Kaur ‘Deepa’ filed a plea.
22 July 2020||Srinagar,||Amarnath Yatra cancelled||The Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB) on Tuesday decided to cancel the annual pilgrimage to the cave shrine in Kashmir. “The pandemic has pushed the health administration system to its limit. The spike has been particularly very sharp in July. Health workers and security forces are also getting infected and the focus of the entire medical, civil and police administration at the moment is on containing the local transmission of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Board decided with a heavy heart that it is not advisable to hold and conduct this year’s Amarnath Yatra,” an SASB spokesman said. “To keep the religious sentiments alive, the Board shall continue the live telecast and virtual darshan of the morning and evening aarti . The rituals shall be carried out as per past practice. Also, the Chhadi Mubarak shall be facilitated by the government.” The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by J&K Lieutenant-Governor Girish Chandra Murmu, who is the chairman of the SASB. All the Board members and top J&K officials participated in the videoconference. Healthcare protocols “The health concerns are so serious that the strain on the health system, along with the diversion in resources to the yatra, will be immense. This would also unnecessarily put the yatris at risk of catching COVID-19,” the spokesman said. The Board, which discussed the decision of the J&K High Court to take a final view in light of a Supreme Court order on compliance with healthcare protocols, decided against conducting the yatra. “This would enable the health, civil and police administrations to focus on the immediate challenges facing them rather than diverting resources and manpower,” the spokesman said.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,||No more lockdown; focus will be on revival of economy: Chief Minister||After several rounds of meetings with officials and consultations with experts over the last few days, the Karnataka government on Tuesday categorically ruled out extending lockdown anywhere the State, including in Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts, and decided that focus would instead be on the revival of the economy. All business activities that were allowed prior to the imposition of the week-long lockdown on July 15 will become operational from Wednesday again. In his 20-minute address to the State, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa made it clear that the lockdown was “not a solution” for containing COVID-19. He stressed that people have to wear masks and maintain social distance at all times to control the spread of the virus. The police would take strict action against those who are found without wearing masks, he warned. The Chief Minister’s clarification comes amid speculation that the lockdown might be extended. “I would like to clarify that there is no lockdown in Bengaluru and in Karnataka from tomorrow.” Mr. Yediyurappa said, “People need to get back to work. The economy is also very vital. We have to fight COVID-19 while maintaining a stable economy,” he said. Noting that the number of COVID-19 cases spread largely owing to arrival of people from Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, which had recorded a high number of cases, Mr. Yediyurappa said restrictions would be imposed to control movement of people in containment zones in urban areas. 5-T strategy Highlighting the efforts made by the government to contain the virus, Mr. Yediyurappa said experts had suggested a “5-T strategy” of testing, tracing, tracking, treatment, and technology. He said for every positive patient, 47 contacts were traced in the State. A total of 11,230 beds have been made available for patients, which include 741 beds in government hospitals, 819 beds in private medical colleges, 4,836 beds in private hospitals, and 2,624 in COVID Care Centres. A centralised monitoring system had been established for allocation of beds, he said. The Chief Minister said results of the samples collected would be made available within 24 hours. Mr. Yediyurappa appealed to people not to panic and take any extreme steps. More than 98% of COVID-19 patients had recovered and were leading normal life, he added. To Opposition On Opposition Congress leaders’ allegations of misuse of funds by the government in the procurement of equipment to control COVID-19, Mr. Yediyurappa insisted that “not a single rupee” had been misused. “We will provide all information on procurement of COVID-19 equipment to Opposition leaders Siddaramaiah and D.K. Shivakumar. But you should not level baseless allegations during the battle against COVID-19,” the Chief Minister said. On the allegations of Mr. Shivakumar, KPCC president, that the government would re-use beds purchased for COVID-19 patients in hostels, Mr. Yediyurappa said all beds would be burnt and only cots would be reused in primary health centres. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike has been told to purchase all beds which would cost Rs. 7.25 crore, he said. The Chief Minister appealed to citizens aged above 55 and children to remain indoors to prevent infection. He recalled the role of NGOs in the supply of rations and food during the lockdown.  I would like to clarify that there is no lockdown in Bengaluru and in Karnataka from tomorrow [July 22]. People need to get back to work. The economy is also very vital. We have to fight COVID-19 while maintaining a stable economy.  B.S. Yediyurappa, Chief Minister
22 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||720 more test positive in State||As local transmission of COVID-19 intensifies, the government is focussing on ensuring that adequate treatment facilities are available across the State. On Tuesday, 720 new cases were reported in the Sate, of which 583 were cases of local transmission. The source of infection could not be traced in 34 of these cases. Those who contracted the infection through contact include 17 health workers and scores of paramilitary personnel in various districts. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told mediapersons here that there was no cause for apprehension about the inadequacy in treatment facilities in the State. He said that the patient numbers had not risen to a level where the situation could go out of control.  The State’s cumulative case burden climbed to 13,994 on Tuesday, of which 8,056 persons are currently undergoing treatment in hospitals. The number of recoveries on Tuesday was 274. One more death was reported from Pulluvila in Thiruvananthapuram, taking the State’s COVID toll to 44. Thiruvananthapuram continued to top the chart reporting 151 cases on Tuesday, of which 144 were cases of local transmission. A chunk of the cases were reported from the community cluster in the coastal wards while seven cases without any epidemiological link were reported from other parts of the city. Mr. Vijayan said that local self- governments were readying COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) on a war footing to treat patients with mild or no symptoms and that till July 19, 187 such centres with 20,404 beds had been readied. By July 23, 742 FLTCs across the State, with a total of 69,215 beds, will be set up. Mr. Vijayan said that 305 doctors, 572 nurses, 62 pharmacists and 27 lab technicians had already been engaged to run these centres, which, he claimed, will have all facilities, including day-to-dusk OP clinics, telemedicine, Internet, ambulance facilities, uninterrupted power and water supply and food. Those in isolation will have bath-attached rooms. All FLTCs will have semi-permanent toilets.
22 July 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,||SI fires in the air to disperse warring groups near Pudukottai||A police officer opened fire in the air to quell a clash between two groups of people belonging to the same community at Posampatti village in Pudukottai district on Tuesday. Ten persons were injured in the clash. The incident was linked to an allegedly defamatory post made on Facebook against a prominent person in the village Udaiyappan using an apparently fake ID. The post was said to have been subsequently deleted. Police sources said a group reportedly owing allegiance to Mr. Udaiyappan suspected that Jeeva, son of Paramasivam, a resident of the same village, was behind the post. The group entered Mr. Paramasivam’s house on Monday and allegedly abused and assaulted him and his 17-year-old daughter. The two were treated as out-patients at the government hospital in Aranthangi. Case registered Acting on a complaint by Mr. Paramasivam, the K. Pudupatti police registered a case against five persons under various Sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons) 448 (house trespass) and 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation), read with Section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act. The accused are absconding. On Tuesday, Mr. Paramasivam and Mr. Udaiyappan, accompanied by their supporters clashed. The two groups threw stones at each other and also assaulted each other with clubs. K. Pudupatti police station sub-inspector Saravanan, along with two other policemen, rushed to the spot. As the warring groups showed no signs of relenting, Mr. Saravanan opened one round of fire in the air. Deputy Inspector General of Police (Tiruchi Range) Z. Annie Vijaya and Pudukottai Superintendent of Police L. Balaji are camping there. Ms. Vijaya told The Hindu that normalcy had been restored in the village. Tension between the two groups had been simmering for some time, she added.
22 July 2020||Washington DC,||‘Close to limited trade deal with U.S.’||India and the U.S. have “almost” finalised a limited trade deal, Union Commerce Minister Piyush Goyal said on Tuesday. “…I believe we have a quick trade deal, which has some of the pending matters built up over the last couple of years, which we need to get out of the way quickly. We are almost there,” Mr. Goyal said at a virtual conference organised by the U.S.-India Business Council’s India Ideas Summit .“I think another couple of calls, and we should be able to sort that out,” the Minister said. Mr. Goyal, who was speaking on a panel with Indian-American Congressman Ami Bera, also reiterated what both countries have declared earlier — that the longer term plan is to work towards a comprehensive trade deal. As an intermediate step between the imminent limited deal and the comprehensive deal, Mr. Goyal proposed a preferential trade agreement that would cover 50 to 100 goods and services. On the free trade agreement, Mr. Goyal said, “India is willing to work with an open mind, with a willingness to open our hearts and our markets, with a corresponding opportunity for Indian businesses in the U.S.” “We believe that we should also look at an early harvest in the form of a preferential trade agreement... rather than waiting for the gains of a free trade agreement, which may take several years to conclude, we could look at an early harvest of maybe 50, maybe a 100 products and services…,” he said. India and the U.S. have apparently been close to finalising a limited trade deal several times over the past year, including when both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and U.S. President Donald Trump were in New York last year for the United Nations General Assembly session. Again, in February this year, the two sides scrambled — unsuccessfully — to finalise a mini deal that was to be announced during Mr Trump’s India visit. India has wanted Washington to restore its access to the U.S. preferential trading system or Generalized System of Preferences (GSP), an end to Mr. Trump’s steel and aluminium tariffs, increased market access for some categories of Indian agricultural products among others. U.S. concerns during the negotiations have included market access for American dairy and agricultural products, medical devices and a cut in information and communication technology (ICT) import tariffs. The U.S. has also had concerns with India’s digital trade policies (for instance FDI in commerce, and data localisation ). In May, Indian Ambassador to the U.S. Taranjit Singh Sandhu had said New Delhi’s despatch of millions of doses of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine to the U.S. had built confidence between the two sides and had provided a foundation for a smaller trade deal. The U.S. at the time was stockpiling HCQ, which Mr Trump had talked up as a possible treatment for COVID-19. Earlier this week Reuters had reported that India was considering a deal in which it would open up its market to U.S. dairy imports through a quota system in return for “concessions” to Indian generic drugs in the U.S.
22 July 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal to double testing by Aug. 15: CM||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday urged citizens not to panic, even as the State reported 2,261 new cases of COVID-19 and 35 more fatalities. Ms. Banerjee, however, attributed the rise in cases to increased testing. “Cases of COVID-19 will rise but there is nothing to panic. The increase is because we are testing more,” she said, addressing a virtual rally on martyrs day. The CM said by August 15, the State will be testing about 25,000 samples a day. Currently, 13,000 samples are being tested on a daily basis. On Tuesday, 13,064 samples were tested. She also said there were 18,000 beds still vacant in the State. Meanwhile, the Home Department has announced lockdown on three days — July 23, 25 and 29. Of the 35 deaths on Tuesday, 16 were recorded in Kolkata, followed by 13 in North 24 Parganas. Two deaths were recorded in Howrah, Hooghly and South 24 Parganas each. The State’s death toll currently stands at 1,182. Meanwhile, opposition parties have raised questions on the biweekly lockdown announced by the State government.
22 July 2020||MANGALURU,||Five more die in Dakshina Kannada||The Dakshina Kannada district administration on Tuesday announced the death of five persons who had tested positive for COVID-19 and also had had co-morbidities. All the five died on Monday. According to a bulletin, an intensive survey to identify vulnerable persons from clusters reporting more positive cases will commence on Thursday. It will be carried out by ASHAs and anganwadi workers. Meanwhile, a release from the Udupi administration said that with 84 new positive cases on Tuesday, the number of active cases in the district went up to 653. As many as 12 persons were discharged.
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM likely to attend temple ceremony||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will, in all likelihood, attend the bhoomi poojan , or the ground-breaking ceremony, of the proposed Ram temple at Ayodhya in early August. The Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Trust, set up by the government to oversee the temple construction, has sent an invitation to Mr. Modi and several other senior leaders of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement, including former Deputy Prime Minister L.K. Advani and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. The dates proposed include August 3 and 5, with the later date being more likely. Sources in the government say Mr. Modi will attend, but official confirmation was not forthcoming due to security considerations. A silver brick will be set into the ground by him as a symbolic gesture of ground-breaking and the Uttar Pradesh government is expected to announce some projects related to the Ayodhya temple complex at the event. The Trust met on Saturday to decide on the date of starting the construction work after it had to be put off for a few months due to the outbreak of COVID-19. “The entire country feels that the bhoomi poojan should be done by Prime Minister Modi,” said Kameshwar Chaupal, a Trust member. There have, however, been reservations raised by other political leaders, including Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, who said that the priority of governments should be eradication of COVID-19 rather than “construction of a temple”. Mr. Pawar’s dig is said to be aimed at his own alliance partner, the Shiv Sena, which has always highlighted its role in the Ram Janmabhoomi movement and the ‘kar sewa’ that brought the Babri Masjid down. Hussain Dalwai of the Congress has raised objections on what he terms historic and constitutional grounds. “I would like to bring it to the notice that when [late Prime Minister] Nehru was invited for the bhoomi poojan of the Somnath temple, he rejected it saying he was the leader of a secular nation. But nowadays, such things have changed. I think, PM [Modi] should not go to the event, but nowadays all are going — so it is not a big issue. He must decide whether to go or not,” he said in a television interview.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Quarantine rules relaxed for CET candidates||The Department of Higher Education has decided to relax quarantine norms for students coming from other States and outside the country to write the Common Entrance Test (CET). It has also announced that COVID-19-positive students can write the test if declared fit to do so.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Show-cause notices to 291 private hospitals||After finding that a few hospitals had not handed over 50% of their total beds under government quota, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has issued notices to all 291 private hospitals in the city.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Govt. defers payment of VDA for one year||In a development that will affect lakhs of workers across sectors in the State and amid protests from trade unions, the government has deferred payment of Variable Dearness Allowance (VDA) from the employer for a period of one year.
22 July 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal okays doorstep delivery of ration||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced the ‘Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana’, which will allow beneficiaries to avail doorstep delivery of ration. He said the scheme is in line with his government’s dream to ensure that the poor “get ration with respect”.
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delay in installing smog tower in Delhi irks SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the Centre seven days to enter into an MoU with IIT-Bombay to instal a smog tower in Delhi to help fight air pollution. The court warned that it would initiate contempt proceedings if its order is not implemented.
22 July 2020||Patna,||Over 3 lakh people hit by flood in north Bihar||Over three lakh people in eight districts of north Bihar have been affected by flood amid heavy rain in catchment areas of neighbouring Nepal. The State government on Tuesday put the district authorities on high alert and requested people to shift to higher and safer places.
22 July 2020||Pune,||With 8,369 new cases, State crosses 3.25 lakh||Maharashtra reported 8,369 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking its tally to 3,27,031. Of these, 1,32,236 are active. The State has recorded a daily surge of over 8,000 cases at least seven times in the last 11 days. With 246 more deaths, the State’s death toll has risen to 12,276. However, the rise in cases was offset by a high number of recoveries, with 7,188 patients being discharged, taking recoveries to 1,82,217.
22 July 2020||Mumbai,||Ribeiro writes to IPS officers on encounters||Former Mumbai Police commissioner Julio Ribeiro (91) wrote an open letter to IPS officers on “fake encounters”, and said political compulsions had changed. He said the Thoothukudi custodial deaths are “even more disturbing and every policeman in India should hang his head in shame.” “The values of honesty, compassion, yearning for truth and justice, commitment to the law and the Constitution are always constant and should hold the first spot in your mind’s eye whenever you think, decide and finally act,” he said.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,||4,965 new COVID-19 cases in Tamil Nadu||For the tenth consecutive day, Tamil Nadu reported more than 4,000 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. A total of 4,965 persons tested positive, taking the overall tally to 1,80,643. The toll rose to 2,626, with 75 more deaths, including that of a 56-day-old baby.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. allocated Rs. 5,990 cr. under Agri Infra Fund||Tamil Nadu has been allocated Rs. 5,990 crore, accounting for around 6% of the Rs. 1 lakh crore earmarked for the Agriculture Infra- structure Fund. Formulated by the Centre as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, the scheme is meant for giving loans to organisations working for agriculturists.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,||Not raking up issues for electoral benefit: BJP||BJP State president L. Murugan said the party’s statements condemning a fringe group for denigrating Lord Murugan and the Kandha Sashthi Kavasam were not aimed at electoral gains, but only reflected the sentiments of Hindus.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Kerala expands first line centres, seven die in TS||Andhra Pradesh reported 62 new deaths, the highest single-day spike so far on Tuesday. The State reported 4,944 new cases, raising the tally to 58,668 and death toll to 758. The State witnessed 350 deaths and over 25,000 cases in the past one week. There were 32,336 active cases and 1,346 patients who were discharged in the past day, and recoveries rose to 25,574, the Health Department said. More than half of the new deaths were in East Godavari (10), Visakhapatnam (9), Chittoor (8) and Srikakulam (7). The remaining were in West Godavari (6), Anantapur (6), Guntur (5), Prakasam (5), Kurnool (4), Kadapa (1) and Vizianagaram (1). All new cases were of local origin. West Godavari reported 623 new cases, the highest in the State, and Guntur 577. The State conducted 37,162 fresh tests and 20,552 of them were RT-PCR, TrueNat and NACO tests. The remaining were rapid antigen tests. Of the RT-PCR, TrueNat and NACO tests 3,363 were positive and so were 1,581 in rapid antigen tests. Kerala’s focus was on ensuring adequate treatment facilities in all areas. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said there was no need for apprehension about possible inadequacy in treatment facilities. He said patient numbers had not risen so much that things were out of control . The State’s cumulative cases rose to 13,994. Recoveries stood at 5,892, with 274 recovering on Tuesday. One more death was reported from Pulluvila in Thiruvananthapuram, taking the State’s toll to 44. Thiruvananthapuram topped in cases, reporting 151, of which 144 were due to local transmission. Mr. Vijayan said that local self-governments were readying first line treatment centres to treat patients with mild or no symptoms. As of July 19, there were 187 such centres with 20,404 beds. By July 23, the State expected to have 742 CFLTCs, with a total of 69,215 beds. Telangana’s case total touched 47,705 as 1,430 more tested positive. Seven more COVID-19 patients died taking the toll to 429. The new cases included 703 from Greater Hyderabad, 117 from Rangareddy and 105 from Medchal districts.  For the 10th consecutive day, Tamil Nadu reported more than 4,000 new cases of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) on Tuesday. A total of 4,965 persons tested positive for COVID-19. The State’s recovery rate stood at 70% with a total of 1,26,670 persons discharged following treatment. On Tuesday, 4,894 persons were discharged, while toll rose to 2,626 with 75 more deaths including that of a 56-day-old baby in Chennai. The boy was admitted to the Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children with sepsis and swab returned positive for COVID-19. The child died on July 19, according to Health Department.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Chennai and Kerala bureaus)
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rahul takes a dig at BJP’s ‘achievements’||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, in a sarcastic tweet on Tuesday, mentioned “efforts to topple the Congress government in Rajasthan” among the achievements of the Narendra Modi government in the past six months even as India has been hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. Though there have been several back-channel efforts by senior Congress leaders, including party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, to placate rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot, no one from the Gandhi family has spoken publicly about the Rajasthan crisis. Breaking his silence, Mr. Gandhi blamed the BJP for trying to destabilise the Ashok Gehlot government in Rajasthan. In a tweet, Mr. Gandhi said: “Achievements of the government in the COVID-era: February: Namaste Trump; March: toppling the government in Madhya Pradesh; April: making people light candles; May: government’s sixth anniversary; June: Bihar virtual rally; July: Attempt to topple the government in Rajasthan.” Tit for tat Union Minister Prakash Javadekar hit back and mentioned in a tweet, “Shaheen Bagh protests and riots, desertion by Jyotiraditya Scindia, defending China and the near collapse of Congress in Rajasthan” among the Congress’s achievements in six months. “Mr. Javadekar why do you bring so much pollution in politics when you are the country’s Environment Minister. You should end pollution but every statement of yours is harsh... Instead of criticising Rahul ji, you should tackle the challenges that the country faces now” Congress leader Kapil Sibal retorted in a video message. “You mentioned Shaheen Bagh... I am sure you will know better because the police is accused of breaking CCTV cameras... The Prime Minister had talked of ending COVID in 21 days but it didn’t end. And as far as China is concerned, whatever our Prime Minister is saying, Chinese President Xi [Jinping] was saying the same thing: that none occupied our land while the Indian Ambassador to China said something else,” he said, adding that “you [the BJP] only knows how to attack the Opposition but does not know how to run the country”.  Mr. Javadekar, why do you bring so much pollution in politics when you are the environment minister? Kapil Sibal Congress leader
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. shifts focus to virus after-effects||India’s COVID-19 deaths per million population continues to be among the lowest in the world, the Union Health Ministry reiterated on Tuesday, adding that it is now focused on collecting data and understanding the medical complications that recovered COVID-19 patients are reporting. “We are getting complications including compromised and stressed respiratory function besides cardiac, renal and ophthalmological complaints. This is an area we are working on,” Rajesh Bhushan, OSD, Health Ministry told a press conference. Mr. Bhushan reiterated that India’s case fatality rate has now fallen from 3.36 % on June 17 to 2.43% on July 21 with 10 States doing better (in terms of case fatality rate) than the national average. “Aggressive testing over a prolonged period of time has ensured that we have been able to bring down COVID-19 positivity rate,” the official claimed, adding, “We now aim to maintain this level of testing so as to bring down the positivity rate below 5%.” He said there are currently 19 State/UTs which are conducting more than 140 tests per day per million with Goa testing highest at 1,333 tests per day per million. “India’s testing per million (TPM) has increased to 10,421. This has helped in early detection and timely and effective clinical management of COVID-19 cases. In tandem with increased testing, the Confirmation Rate or Positivity Rate for India is continuously reducing and currently stands at 8.07%. There are 30 State/UTs in India which have a lower Positivity Rate than the India average,” Mr. Bhushan said. Clinical rounds Member (Health) of the NITI Aayog V.K. Paul told the press conference that to ensure better treatment, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi will now conduct National Clinical Grand Rounds (CGR) on COVID-19. He explained that these CGRs will include presentation of clinical cases by physicians directly involved in their management. The first CGR 19 will focus on managing patients with SARI who are clinically suspected to have COVID-19 but test negative on the initial RT-PCR. On India's indigenous COVID19 vaccines, Dr. Paul explained that these are currently under testing with the government working at ensuring maximum coverage and distribution of the vaccine when it is available. “Discussions have already begun how the vaccines will be made available to all those who need it. Every possible facilitation will be ensured making sure trials are conducted scientifically, ethically and that we arrive at an affordable option.’’
22 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Migrants need social security numbers’||The Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour has recommended that the government introduce a social security number for migrant workers, especially those in unorganised sectors that are beyond the purview of labour laws. The panel, headed by Biju Janata Dal leader Bhartruhari Mahtab, has suggested that such a number is essential to avert situations such as the one at the beginning of the lockdown when several lakh workers had to walk back to their villages from big cities as they were shut out of employment overnight. At a meeting of the panel held on Monday, Labour Secretary Heeralal Samariya revealed that the government was planning to set up a website to register migrant workers. Mr. Samariya further said a worker’s Aadhaar would be used for the registration. “The members felt that Aadhaar alone doesn’t work. A social security number will help in mapping the number of migrant workers and their migration patterns,” said one of the committee members who attended the meeting. No concrete figures The Labour Ministry was unable to give any concrete figures on the number of migrant workers. Quoting the Railway Ministry, officials said 1.08 crore migrant workers had travelled on Shramik Special trains started by the government to ferry migrant workers. One of the panel members, according to sources, pointed out that students and family members of the workers too used these trains and thus the figure doesn’t accurate represent the number of migrant workers. The panel has recommended that both the State of origin and State where the worker has migrated to should be recorded. It also pointed out that the government’s Social Security Code Bill, 2019, which is under the committee’s consideration, provides for a social security fund. But there are no specific details in the legislation as to who would contribute to the fund and how it would be utilised. “The migrant workers may or may not have access to the Internet, which is why we suggested that the smallest arm of administration — the gram sabhas — should be roped in. The same work can be done by municipality workers in urban areas,” another member said.
22 July 2020||KOCHI,||In death, 27-year-old Anujith gifts life to seven others||A heart harvested from a youth who was declared brain dead in Thiruvananthapuram was successfully implanted in a 55-year-old cardiac patient at Lisie hospital here in a surgery that lasted around four hours. The heart started beating in the body of the recipient three hours and 11 minutes after its extraction from the 27-year-old donor Anujith, a resident of Kottarakkara, who was declared brain dead at KIMS Hospital following a motorcycle accident. The surgery conducted by a 11-member team of doctors led by the noted cardiothoracic surgeon Jose Chacko Periappuram was completed around 7 p.m. Dr. Periappuram said the surgery was successful the next 48 hours were equally critical. Hospital authorities declined to reveal the identity of the recipient and would only say that the beneficiary was a 55-year-old man from Tripunithura who had been undergoing treatment at the hospital for dilated cardiomyopathy since 2012. He had registered for organ transplant under the Mrithasanjeevani project some months ago after his heart functioning was reduced to about 15%. The heart was airlifted to Kochi in the afternoon using a helicopter of the State police. This was the second such airlifting of a heart between the two cities since the pandemic outbreak. A similar mission was held in May. A four-member team led by Jacob Joseph, head of the anaesthesia department of the hospital, had left for Thiruvananthapuram by road around 5.45 a.m. and reached there around 9 am. “Usually seven to eight members are assigned for airlifting the heart. But this time, the team was almost halved owing to the restrictions in place on account of the pandemic,” said hospital sources. The surgery to extract the heart from the donor started around 10.30 a.m. and ended three hours later. Shaji Palangadan, heart surgeon at KIMS Hospital, was part of the surgery team. Apart from heart, the Anujith's family had agreed to donate seven other organs – two kidneys, eyes, small intestine and both hands – to seven different recipients. The helicopter carrying the organs landed at the helipad of Grand Hyatt hotel at Bolghatty in the afternoon. While the heart was shifted to Lisie, the small intestine and hands were shifted to Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences where they were implanted in a middle aged woman and a 23-year-old.
22 July 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata rakes up NRC, NPR at Trinamool rally||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Tuesday raked up the issue of National Register of Citizens (NRC) and National Population Register (NPR) at the annual martyrs day rally of her party, the Trinamool Congress. The party could not hold a rally due to the spread of COVID-19, but Ms. Banerjee addressed party supporters from a stage near her residence in Kaliaghat and it was telecast on television channels and social media platforms of the party. “We have not forgotten the fight against the NRC and the NPR. Don’t think that in times of COVID-19, we will forget about them,” she said. Referring to the developments in Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, she alleged that the BJP was trying to destabilise the government in West Bengal. “A conspiracy is being hatched by the Union government to destabilise the elected government of Bengal by using its agencies and money power,” she said. Ms. Banerjee urged people to have faith in the Trinamool Congress. If anyone trusted the BJP, they would lose their life and livelihood, she said. When the country was busy fighting COVID-19, the BJP was busy destabilising elected governments in Rajasthan and West Bengal after Madhya Pradesh, she alleged. ‘BJP only a petty party’ “If you can remove the CPI(M) from power after 35 years of rule, then the BJP is only a petty party. They only use money to influence elections,” she said. Outsiders would not rule over the State but only the people of West Bengal. “Why will Gujarat rule over Bengal,” she asked. Ms. Banerjee told the party workers to ensure that the BJP lost its deposit in the 2021 Assembly polls.    Thirteen Youth Congress supporters were killed in police firing on July 21, 1993 during a rally led by Ms Banerjee. Since then she has been observing the day for the past three decades.
22 July 2020||New Delhi,||Gehlot’s language hides a message||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot’s no-holds-barred attack against his former deputy, Sachin Pilot, is not just an outburst of a leader whose government has been facing a crisis because of the rebellion by the latter and his supporters. It is also a reflection of the falling clout of the Congress high command at a time when the party is witnessing a churn with regard to its leadership. The top leadership has disapproved Mr. Gehlot’s language, and a section of the party believe that the Rajasthan leader is using the situation to sabotage conciliation efforts and drive Mr. Pilot to a point of no return. While Mr. Gehlot called Mr. Pilot nikamma (worthless), senior leaders such as Ahmed Patel, P. Chidambaram, K.C. Venugopal and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra are trying to bring the same “worthless” leader back into the party fold. “Such intemperate language shows the humiliation Mr. Pilot faced in the past year and a half. It only makes his case stronger,” a source close to the rebel Congress leader told The Hindu . The Rajasthan crisis, and before that, Jyotiraditya Scindia’s departure to the BJP, has challenged the notion that only the Gandhi family can hold together the Congress when ambitious leaders try to pull it in different directions. Turf war In the context of Rajasthan, one needs to go back to the past events to understand the turf war that is being played out now. First, let’s cut to the Congress Working Committee meeting on May 25 last year when former party president Rahul Gandhi lashed out at some senior leaders who were “only interested” in ensuring the win of their children in the Lok Sabha election. Mr. Gehlot was at the receiving end, as his son, Vaibhav, like former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath’s son, contested the Jodhpur seat. The Chief Minister’s son not only lost the election by a huge margin to the BJP’s Gajendra Singh Shekhawat, now at the heart of the audio leak controversy, but the Congress scored nil in a State where the party had come to power five months before the election. And the Congress had chosen Mr. Gehlot over Mr. Pilot as Chief Minister mainly because of his “experience” to deliver a good performance in the Lok Sabha election. Rewind to January 2014, when Mr. Pilot, then a Union Minister, was appointed the Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee chief. Just about a month before his appointment, the Congress under Mr. Gehlot lost the 2013 Assembly election. The results had merely reiterated the State’s history of electing a new government every five years but the margin of loss worried the Congress. The party was reduced to 21 MLAs, its lowest tally in many years. So, the leadership decided to inject some young blood and fresh thinking. The Narendra Modi wave wiped out the Congress in the 2014 Lok Sabha poll but Mr. Pilot continued to exude confidence. He was the hand-picked person of the Gandhis to win back the party’s support base in the Assembly election. So by calling him nikamma and nakara , roughly translated as good for nothing, Mr. Gehlot has perhaps sent a not-so-subtle message to the high command about their leadership choice.
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ministry cautions against use of N-95 valved mask||The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday cautioned against the use of N-95 valved respirator/masks, stating that it does not offer the desired protection against the spread of COVID-19. “This is an evolving virus and we now have evidence which suggests that with a valved mask the person wearing it is safe but if they are COVID-19 positive or asymptomatic, then propensity of that person infecting others is there,” said the Health Ministry’s Officer on Special Duty (OSD), Rajesh Bhushan, at a press conference. The warning comes after the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) sounded an alarm against the use of these masks. It noted that these do not prevent the virus from escaping out and thus may not aid in the containment of COVID-19. ‘Prevent use’ In a communication to State governments, the DGHS said, “It has come to our knowledge that the use of valved respirator N-95 masks is detrimental to the measures adopted for preventing the spread of coronavirus as they do not prevent the virus from escaping out of the mask. In view of the above, I request you to instruct all concerned to follow the use of face/mouth cover and prevent inappropriate use of N-95 masks”. Home-made cover The Central government has stressed the need for people to wear at least a home-made protective cover for the face and mouth whenever they step out of their residences. The advisory said that the covers must be washed and cleaned each day and that only cotton cloth must be used. “Never share the face cover with anyone. Every member in a family should have a separate one,” the advisory noted.
22 July 2020||New Delhi,||China repeats claim on Bhutan’s east||China said that it has offered Bhutan a “package solution” to its boundary dispute, reviving a reference to its 1996 proposal for a territory swap to give Bhutan the disputed areas in its north in exchange for the disputed western areas, including Doklam. The Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) also repeated its claim on Bhutan’s eastern boundary at Sakteng, which experts warn, may be a new pressure tactic by Beijing to push Thimphu into concluding a boundary deal. “The boundary between China and Bhutan is yet to be demarcated, and the middle, eastern and western sections of the border are disputed. China has proposed a package solution to these disputes,” said Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson Wang Wenbin on Tuesday, when asked about the Sakteng claim. During a meeting of the UNDP-led Global Environment Facility on June 2-3 this year, the Chinese representative had tried, unsuccessfully, to stop the funding for Bhutan’s Sakteng forest sanctuary, claiming the area was disputed. Bhutan, through the Indian delegate who represented them, had rejected the claim, and was granted the funding. Never in contention Since 1984, when China and Bhutan began talks, the areas of dispute have only included Pasamlung and Jakarlung valleys to the north (what China calls middle) area, and Doklam and other pasturelands to the west. The eastern boundary of Bhutan, which borders Arunachal Pradesh, has never been in contention. “What is important to note is that according to Bhutan, the Sakteng area in the east was never brought up in the several rounds of border talks with China. So this is a new claim and a moving of the goalposts,” former Foreign Secretary Shyam Saran told The Hindu . After the 11th round of talks in 1996, Bhutan’s 4th King Jigme Singye Wangchuck (the present King’s father) had informed the Bhutanese National Assembly that China “wanted to exchange the valleys to the north, with an area of 495 square kilometres, with the pasture land to the west, totalling 269 square kilometres”. The deal would have benefited Bhutan by giving it the larger chunk of land, and resolving its tensions with China, but was a big worry for India, as the Doklam swap would give the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) access to the strategically sensitive “chicken neck” of the Siliguri corridor. While the Chinese MFA did not specify details of the “package solution” it has offered, it is likely to be referring to the same deal. “As far as I am aware, this is first time that China may have referred to the package proposal it had offered some years back in the Bhutan-China border talks. Bhutan did not accept this package,” Mr. Saran said. “The aim may be to pressure Bhutan into concluding a deal quickly on terms on offer, otherwise the claims may keep increasing,” he added, likening the Chinese offer to Bhutan with a similar offer made to India on Arunachal Pradesh, which subsequently expanded to include a Chinese claim on Tawang in 1985. ( With inputs from Ananth Krishnan. )
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Article 370 dilution in Class 12 textbook||Less than a year after Article 370 was diluted, the government’s decision has been included in the National Council of Educational Research and Training’s newly revised political science textbook for Class 12, while a section on the different kinds of separatist politics in Jammu and Kashmir has been removed. The Central Board of Secondary Education has also issued additional material for the Class 12 political science syllabus this year, including a section claiming that the Modi government led a shift from “caste and religion-based politics to development and governance-oriented politics”. The revised version of “Politics in India since Independence”, one of NCERT’s texts for Class 12, has a February 2020 reprinting date, though it was only made available on the NCERT site this week. In a chapter on “regional aspirations”, a section titled “2002 and Beyond” has been added. “On 5 August 2019, Article 370 was abolished by the Jammu & Kashmir Reorganisation Act 2019 and the State was constituted into two Union Territories, viz., Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh,” says the new textbook. The 30% reduction in CBSE syllabus due to COVID-19 means that the entire chapter on “Regional Aspirations”, including the newly revised Kashmir sections, will not be taught this year. CBSE material However, CBSE Class 12 students have been given additions to their political science syllabus by way of material meant to supplement the NCERT textbook. This includes a section on Kashmir. “It was against this special status of the State of Jammu and Kashmir that there was a clarion call in political circles for abrogation of Articles 370 and Article 35A with the propagation of the principle of ‘ Ek Vidhan, Ek Nishan, Ek Pradhan ’ referring to one Constitution, one Flag and one Head of the State/Government respectively. Others equated Article 370 and 35A with ‘constitutionally recognised separatism,’ it said, adding that the Bill for abolition of Article 370 was presented to Parliament by the BJP-led NDA government which was showing its commitment to the integration of Kashmir in India, a part of its manifesto. CBSE students will also learn about NITI Aayog, as well as NDA III and IV. “A major change in Indian politics after 2014 is the shift from caste and religion based politics to development and governance oriented politics. With its pre-intended goal Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas , the NDA III Government started several socio-economic welfare schemes to make development and governance accessible to the masses,” it said. “The success of these schemes could be seen from the results of 2019 Lok Sabha elections where the voters across States – castes, classes, communities, gender and regions — brought back the issues of development and governance to the centre stage under the BJP led NDA Government, characterizing the current change with ‘ Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas and Sabka Vishwas. ’ ” The section on India’s nuclear policy has got some additional material, which reads, “..in view of contemporary regional security challenges, the present government led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi has made it clear that the policy of no first use can be reviewed and changed in accordance with India’s regional and national security.”
22 July 2020||KOCHI,||Plot to wreck monetary stability: NIA||The diplomatic channel gold smuggling case may have serious repercussions for the country’s relations with the UAE government and is prejudicial to its monetary and economic security, said the remand report submitted by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) before the NIA Special Court here on Tuesday. The accused conspired together and separately at various places to damage the monetary stability of the country by smuggling large quantities of gold from abroad. It is suspected that the proceeds might have been used for financing terrorism through various means, the report said. Kingpin The agency said it had gathered information that K.T. Ramees was the kingpin in the case. Fourth accused Sandeep Nair stated before the agency that Ramees insisted on smuggling gold in large quantities and for maximum times during the lockdown period as the financial position of the country was weak. The NIA sought further custody of the accused to unearth the role played by them and the co-accused. Innocent: Swapna In her bail application, second accused Swapna Suresh submitted that she was totally innocent of the allegations levelled against her and the case was the offshoot of a political rivalry between the State and the Central governments. The case was triggered by colourful and fictitious stories aired by media and the truth was far from what was said and done, she submitted. Swapna submitted that though she was not in the service of the Counsel General of the Consulate of UAE, she had maintained a good relationship with the consulate, which used to assign certain works concerning the diplomats and their families on work on request basis. Though the Customs had arraigned her as an accused in the gold smuggling case, nothing was recovered from her, stated Swapna. She maintained that she was not a party to the cargo and had not facilitated the import of gold through diplomatic channel. The special court will consider the bail application on Friday.
22 July 2020||Srinagar,||Amarnath Yatra cancelled||The Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB) on Tuesday decided to cancel the annual pilgrimage to the Amarnath cave shrine in Kashmir. “The pandemic has put the health administration system to its limit. The spike has been particularly very sharp in July. Health workers and security forces are also getting infected and the focus of the entire medical, civil and police administration at the moment is on containing the local transmission of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Board decided with a heavy heart that it is not advisable to hold and conduct this year’s Amarnath Yatra,” a SASB spokesman said. “To keep the religious sentiments alive, the Board shall continue the live telecast and virtual darshan of the morning and evening aarti . The rituals shall be carried out as per past practice. Also, the Chhadi Mubarak shall be facilitated by the government.” The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by J&K Lieutenant-Governor Girish Chandra Murmu, who is the chairman of the SASB. All the Board members and top J&K officials participated in the videoconference. “The health concerns are so serious that the strain on the health system, along with the diversion in resources to the yatra, will be immense. This would also unnecessarily put the yatris at risk of catching COVID-19,” the spokesman said. The Board, which discussed the decision of the J&K High Court to take a final view in light of a Supreme Court order on compliance with healthcare protocols, decided against conducting the yatra. “This would enable the health, civil and police administrations to focus on the immediate challenges facing them rather than diverting resources and manpower,” the spokesman said.
22 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||‘COVID-19 taking its toll on mental health’||The country and the world at large are faced with a major health crisis following the outbreak of COVID-19. News of deaths, social alienation, fear, and the resultant psychological trauma are indicative of mental health problems such as post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, and suicide, says Roy Abraham Kallivayalil, Secretary General of World Psychiatric Association (WPA). Talking to The Hindu , Dr. Kallivayalil says the most common emotion by all was fear that makes people anxious, scared, and do things what society considers abnormal and inappropriate. He says COVID-19 has serious consequences on both physical and mental health of people. Dr Kallivayalil said the Chief Minister of Kerala has appointed a committee led by a Director General Police to study suicides in children. Though it was a welcome move, it should have been headed by a mental health professional as it was not primarily a law and order problem, he added. “It is evident that the pandemic, besides leading to severe morbidity and mortality, has serious emotional, social and economic consequences which could worsen further at a later stage,” says Dr. Kallivayalil. Preventable “Depression, anxiety disorders, stress reactions, suicides, adjustment disorders, alcohol and substance abuse, and acute psychotic disorders are various post-Covid mental problems reported from many affected countries. However, most of these mental disorders are preventable,” he says. He says the challenges posed by the pandemic are severe as it affects the physical and mental health of people, their finances and social life. Worries about an uncertain future and loss of employment are only some aspects that impact the mental well-being, ultimately leading to an unprecedented post-Covid suicide rate, he says. Evidence-based methods He says suicides can be prevented by using evidence-based methods. “People with mental disorders may be at a higher risk for COVID-19 due to their social disadvantages such as poor nutrition, overcrowding, stigma, poverty or their inability to follow the public health protective advices like hand hygiene, physical distancing, self-isolation etc. Though home quarantine decreases viral transmission, it also increases the risks of excessive alcohol use, family violence, and suicidality,” Dr. Kallivayalil quoted from WPA’s position statement. Education on the pandemic safety measures should be provided by authorities and reinforced by psychiatrists.  Rights protection He says human rights of individuals with mental disorders must be protected and appropriate and safe services may be provided for their treatment. The negative impact of the pandemic on government budgets should not be used as an excuse to reduce essential services for people with mental illness during or after the pandemic, he says.  Education on the pandemic safety measures should be provided by authorities and reinforced by psychiatrists.
22 July 2020||Pune,||Pune firm to make billion doses of Oxford vaccine||Stating that just a few million doses of the vaccine to combat the novel coronavirus will not be enough for India, Cyrus Poonawalla, Chairman of the Poonawalla Group, which includes the Serum Institute of India (SII), on Tuesday said that the SII was committed to manufacture at least one billion doses of the University of Oxford’s COVID-19 vaccine after getting required approvals. Commenting on the possibilities of setbacks in terms of productivity and output of the eagerly-anticipated vaccine, Mr. Poonawalla said: “We [the SII] have come at a stage where chances of failure [of the Oxford vaccine project] look remote as we are spending more than $100 million for this facility. If we get the approvals and trials are completed successfully to ensure a safe and efficacious vaccine, then lots of companies will manufacture it and India will be the largest producer of the COVID vaccine in the world”. With the trials of the SII’s COVID-19 vaccine being developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University showing encouraging results, Adar Poonawalla, CEO of the Serum Institute of India (SII) had earlier said at least 300 million doses of the potential vaccine named ‘Covishield’ would be ready by December this year. “We are in the process of applying for a licence to start clinical trials of the vaccine, after which we will start manufacturing the vaccine in large volumes,” said Mr. Cyrus Poonawalla during an online discussion organised by the women’s wing of the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI). “Phase 1 of the clinical trial is over and Phases 2 and 3 are underway in Austria… the vaccine will be ready by December this year. We want to make it available at the lowest price possible so that even the poor can afford it. Besides India, we also want to make it available to places like Africa,” he said. Mr. Poonawala said he strongly advocated the use of SII’s recombitant Bacille Calmette-Guerian (BCG) vaccine for everyone as it was “an immunity booster with no side effects.”
22 July 2020||Bhopal,||M.P. Governor Lalji Tandon passes away||Madhya Pradesh Governor Lalji Tandon passed away on Tuesday morning while undergoing treatment in a private hospital in Lucknow. He was 85. “ Babuji nahi rahe [father is no more],” Ashutosh Tandon, a Minister in the Uttar Pradesh government, wrote on Twitter. Mr. Lalji Tandon was admitted to the hospital on June 11 after he complained of breathing problem, difficulty in urination and fever, the Raj Bhavan had said. “With extreme sadness we inform that that my father Lalji Tandon passed away at 5.35 a.m. on Tuesday,” Mr. Ashutosh wrote. He appealed to people to pay their respects from their homes so that social distancing norms were followed during the COVID-19 pandemic. During investigations, he was diagnosed with chronic liver disease, said the hospital in a statement. “Because of his multiple ailments, he was put on life-support system,” it said. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said Madhya Pradesh would observe a five-day mourning from July 21, during which no entertainment programmes would be held. “Mr. Tandon was a symbol of uprightness in public life,” said Mr. Chouhan, and adjourned a meeting of the Council of Ministers. Later, he flew to Lucknow along with BJP State president V.D. Sharma to pay his respects. Born on April 12, 1935, Mr. Tandon was a member of the U.P. Legislature Council for two terms and a member of the Legislative Assembly thrice. He has served as a Minister in the State government. He was elected to the 15th Lok Sabha from Lucknow in 2009, and later appointed the Governor of Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. During his absence, U.P. Governor Anandiben Patel took the additional charge of M.P. earlier this month. PM’s condolence Condoling his death, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Twitter, “He played a key role in strengthening the BJP in Uttar Pradesh. He made a mark as an effective administrator, always giving importance of pubic welfare. Anguished by his passing away.” Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said, “His long public life was dedicated to the service of people and he left behind a unique imprint through his work.”
22 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||NSCN (IM) leader Muivah flies to Delhi||Thuingaleng Muivah, general secretary of the extremist National Socialist Council of Nagalim, flew to New Delhi with his wife and seven others on a chartered flight on Monday. The group is more familiar as the Isak-Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland, or NSCN (IM), which has been pursuing the Naga peace process after signing a ceasefire agreement in mid-1997. Skips meeting The 86-year-old is believed to have gone for treatment in New Delhi. He has been battling health issues and had skipped a scheduled meeting last week with Nagaland Governor R.N. Ravi, who is also the interlocutor of the Naga peace talks. Mr. Muivah’s trip to New Delhi followed Mr. Ravi’s indirect barbs at the NSCN (IM) through a letter to Chief Minister Neiphiu Rio on June 18, in which he said “armed gangs” were running a parallel government in Nagaland. The outfit had taken offence at the statement. The NSCN (IM) had also recently criticised the Centre for an encounter in Longding district of Arunachal Pradesh on July 11 in which six of its members were killed.
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘23% of Delhiites had antibodies to virus’||Results of Delhi’s sero-prevalence study, released on Tuesday, show that on an average the prevalence of IgG antibodies for SARS-CoV2, the virus causing COVID-19, is 22.86%. The survey also found that while a large number of infected persons remained asymptomatic, a significant proportion of the population was still vulnerable, six months into the pandemic. “Sero surveillance was done in Delhi to estimate the prevalence of COVID-19 infection among the general community of Delhi. Nearly 6 months into the pandemic, 22.86 % (Prevalence adjusted adjusted against ELISA kits sensitivity and specificity) people were affected while 77% population remained susceptible,” Director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) Sujeet Kumar Singh told a press conference on Tuesday. Giving details of the study Dr. Singh said currently there isn’t enough scientific data available about the level and duration of immunity that the body will develop after a person tests positive. “It’s very premature to comment on this aspect just yet,” he said, adding that 8 out of 11 districts, as per the current study, have sero-prevalence of more than 20%. Central, North East, North and Shahdara districts have sero-prevalence of 27%. Releasing the result of the survey, Union Health Ministry added that a sero-survey is done to determine the exposure of the novel coronavirus among the population. “The current study tells us about our situation in the third week of June. Delhi now has managed to stabilise and even bring down its COVID-case numbers and positivity rate. But the capital will need to continue with its containment measures with the same rigour and non-pharmacological interventions such as physical distancing, use of face mask/cover, hand hygiene, cough etiquette and avoidance of crowded places etc,” said Rajesh Bhushan, OSD, Health Ministry. “This is one of the largest sero-prevalence studies conducted in the country using the ELISA testing. 21,387 samples were collected and tested. The tests done help in identification of presence of antibodies in the general population. These tests are not diagnostic tests but provides information about past infection due to SARS-CoV-2,” a release said. The Ministry had commissioned the study by the NCDC in collaboration with the Delhi government following a multi-stage sampling study design. The study was conducted from June 27 to July 10. “For all the 11 districts of Delhi, survey teams were formed. Blood samples were collected from selected individuals after taking written informed consent and then their sera were tested for IgG antibodies and infection using COVID KAVACH ELISA approved by Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR),” the ministry said. The Ministry has attributed the drop in COVID-19 numbers in Delhi to the proactive efforts taken by the Government.
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vulnerable groups petition global fund||Deprived of sources of livelihood during the pandemic, sex workers, transpersons, gay and bisexual men, drug users and people living with HIV/AIDS have written to the Global Fund for AIDS, TB and Malaria (GFATM) protesting against being ignored by government and multilateral agencies in COVID-19-related emergency relief efforts. The petition on behalf of “key populations affected by HIV/AIDS” is signed by 10,483 people and 236 Indian and international organisations who have sought allocation of funds to meet their basic survival needs as many find themselves without work and displaced. “We have lost our jobs, are losing our homes and are scared sick about how we will survive until we start working again. Yet no government, no multilateral agency, no U.N. organisation — in fact not one of those who signed on to that promise — has allocated any resources to ensure access to emergency rations, shelter and medical care, which are critical to help us survive through this period,” states the petition. Guidance sought “Instead, in our name, millions of dollars are being spent on COVID testing equipment. For example, the Global Fund approved a $20-million COVID response fund for India that has no direct support for at least 1.5 million [persons from these vulnerable groups], despite repeated, evidence-based demands by civil society.” The petitioners, therefore, urge the GFATM to issue guidance to governments to channelise their COVID-19 relief funds to emergency survival needs. The petitioners include National Network of Sex Workers in India, All India Network of Sex Workers, Telangana Intersex Transgender Samithi, Assam Network of Positive People, Sex Workers Education and Advocacy Taskforce in South Africa, Global Network of Sex Work Projects in the U.K., as well as several community-based organisations and civil society organisations.
22 July 2020||Budgam,||Over 35,000 labourers return to revive J&K’s moribund brick kilns||Hundreds of migrant labourers, facing joblessness due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the harsh spell of monsoon rain in parts of north India, are returning to Jammu and Kashmir. Over 35,000 brick kiln labourers have already come back to the Valley to revive the moribund brick manufacturing industry, according to the official figures. Even as large parts of the Valley are under a stringent lockdown due to the rising graph of COVID-19 cases, Shalipora and Ompora areas in central Kashmir’s Budgam district are abuzz with migrant labourers for the first time in 11 months. “Our family was facing financial hardship due to the pandemic. We have 10 family members to feed. The rain added to our miseries. We had been working in Kashmir kilns for many years. We decided to return to earn some money,” said Chuni Devi, a resident of Bihar’s Sitamarhi district. Over 160 kilns, constituting around 60% of all such units, are dependent on migrant labourers in Budgam. Most labourers are from Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, among others. Testing facility “Around 2,000 labourers are allowed to travel on a daily basis into J&K through Lakhanpur,” an official said. The J&K State Road Transport Corporation is ferrying them. The government has set up a special sample and testing facility in Anantnag, a gateway into the Valley, for migrant workers. However, there are fears it may lead to another wave of infections. Official data suggest, 113 of 14,937 labourers tested COVID-19-positive at the Lower Munda in Qazigund between July 14 and July 20. “The results of 9,511 are awaited,” an official said. The J&K Labour Department has launched a mission mode project for registration of labourers under the building and other construction workers welfare Act, 1996 in Jammu.
22 July 2020||Mumbai,||Rana Kapoor’s bail plea rejected||A special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court rejected the bail plea filed by Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor, who is currently lodged at the Taloja Central Jail. Special judge P.P. Rajvaidya rejected the plea sought on merits of the case. Mr. Kapoor was arrested on March 8 by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for disbursing loans to various firms for pecuniary gains. The agency is now investigating debentures and loans to the tune of Rs. 5,402.1 crore that Yes Bank had given to the Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL), its group companies and the Sumer Group. Advocate Subhash Jadhav, appearing for Mr. Rana, argued that all the evidence in the case is documentary and his custody is no longer required. He also said Mr. Rana will not tamper with the evidence and there is no risk of him flying out as his passport is with the authorities. The plea was opposed by ED’s counsel Hiten Venegavkar, who said Mr. Rana conspired with Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan of the DHFL and siphoned off Rs. 5,050 crores from Yes Bank, and received kickbacks worth Rs. 600 crores in investing Rs. 2,700 crores of debentures in DHFL. He also said Mr. Kapoor sanctioned Rs. 750 crores for the Bandra reclamation project without verifying the details of the Wadhawan brothers’ financial capacity.
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear contempt case today against Prashant Bhushan, Twitter||A three-judge Bench of the Supreme Court led by Justice Arun Mishra is scheduled to hear a suo motu case of contempt against noted civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan and Twitter India on July 22. The other judges on the Bench are Justices B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari. The subject of the case has not been disclosed by the court. Another suo motu contempt case against Mr. Bhushan, dating back to 2009, is listed for July 24 before the same combination of judges. Former Tehelka magazine editor Tarun Tejpal is a respondent party in the case with Mr. Bhushan. The 11-year-old contempt case was initiated on the basis of an interview given by Mr. Bhushan in which he had made remarks about the presence of former Chief Justice of India S.H. Kapadia on the Forest Bench of the apex court which decided the Niyamgiri mining lease case in Odisha in favour of Sterlite Industries. Last year, Mr. Bhushan turned down an offer from the Supreme Court to “unconditionally apologise” during contempt proceedings in connection with his February 1, 2019 tweets claiming the government misled the court about appointment of M. Nageshwar Rao as interim CBI Director.
22 July 2020||Hyderabad,||CM holds meet on new Secretariat design||The State government has resolved to ensure that all provisions concerning the employees are put in place in the design of the new Secretariat complex. The decision was taken at a meeting convened by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao with senior officials of the Roads and Buildings department on models submitted for the new secretariat. Consultants Oscar and Ponni Architects are understood to have made a power point presentation on the new complex. Though what transpired in the meeting is yet to be known, the CM is understood to have suggsted changes relating to elevation on façade and given suggestions relating to the interiors.
22 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Panic as two KEAM candidates test positive||The diagnosis of COVID-19 in two candidates who appeared for the KEAM 2020 entrance test here on July 16 and the parent of another candidate has triggered panic in the State capital. They tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday evening. The infected candidates, who hail from Karimpanavilakom at Pozhiyoor and AKG Nagar in Peroorkada, appeared for the entrance examination at the Government College of Teacher Education in Thycaud and Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Karamana respectively. The Pozhiyoor native is a secondary contact of a COVID-19 patient but was permitted to take the test in a general hall after exhibiting no symptoms on being screened. All 20 students who wrote the test in the same hall have been identified and directed to go into quarantine. The Peroorkada native appeared for the test in an isolation room after being found to be symptomatic. An invigilator and two volunteers there have also been sent into quarantine. Official sources do not dismiss the possibility of the candidates having come in close proximity with students outside the venues. Seven hours The third case is a 47-year-old Manacaud native who accompanied his son to the Government Higher Secondary School for Girls, Cotton Hill. He apparently remained on the school premises for over seven hours. The District Collector has advised all parents who stayed back during the exam hours to self-monitor and contact the local primary health centres or the Collectorate control room (1077) if they develop any symptoms. The conduct of the entrance exam had come under scrutiny after many centres witnessed heavy crowding of students and parents, who gathered outside the venues. Assurances of adequate deployment of police officers and volunteers of the Samoohika Sannadha Sena to prevent gatherings had also turned futile. The choice of the Government College of Teacher Education, Thycaud, as a centre was questioned by some teachers. Incidentally, the City police registered cases against 600 identifiable people who violated the COVID-19 protocol and crowded outside the St. Mary’s Higher Secondary School, Pattom, and the Cotton Hill school.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,||PM likely to attend temple ceremony||Several other senior leaders of the Ram Janmabhoomi movement, including former Deputy Prime Minister L.K. Advani and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh were also invited. The dates proposed include August 3 and 5, with the later date being more likely. Sources in the government say Mr. Modi will attend, but official confirmation was not forthcoming due to security considerations.  A silver brick will be set into the ground by him as a symbolic gesture of ground-breaking and the Uttar Pradesh government is expected to announce some projects related to the Ayodhya temple complex at the event. The Trust met on Saturday to decide on the date of starting the construction work after it had to be put off for a few months due to the outbreak of COVID-19. “The entire country feels that the bhoomi poojan should be done by Prime Minister Modi,” said Kameshwar Chaupal, a Trust member. There have, however, been reservations raised by other political leaders, including Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, who said that the priority of governments should be eradication of COVID-19 rather than “construction of a temple”. Mr. Pawar’s dig is said to be aimed at his own alliance partner, the Shiv Sena, which has always highlighted its role in the Ram Janmabhoomi movement and the ‘kar sewa’ that brought the Babri Masjid down. Hussain Dalwai of the Congress has raised objections on what he terms historic and constitutional grounds. “I would like to bring it to the notice that when [late Prime Minister] Nehru was invited for the bhoomi poojan of the Somnath temple, he rejected it saying he was the leader of a secular nation. But nowadays, such things have changed. I think, PM [Modi] should not go to the event, but nowadays all are going — so it is not a big issue. He must decide whether to go or not,” he said in a television interview.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Close to limited trade deal with U.S., says Goyal||As an intermediate step between the imminent limited deal and the comprehensive deal, Mr. Goyal proposed a preferential trade agreement with the U.S. that would cover 50 to 100 goods and services. On the free trade agreement, Mr. Goyal said, “India is willing to work with an open mind, with a willingness to open our hearts and our markets, with a corresponding opportunity for Indian businesses in the U.S.” “We believe that we should look at an early harvest in the form of a preferential trade agreement... so that we can, rather than waiting for the gains of a free trade agreement, which may take several years to conclude, we could look at an early harvest of maybe 50, maybe a 100 products and services…,” he said. India and the U.S. have apparently been close to finalising a limited trade deal several times over the past year, including when both Prime Minister Narendra Modi and U.S. President Donald Trump were in New York last year for the United Nations General Assembly session. Again, in February this year, the two sides scrambled — unsuccessfully — to finalise a mini deal that was to be announced during Mr Trump’s India visit. India has wanted Washington to restore its access to the U.S. preferential trading system or Generalized System of Preferences (GSP), an end to Mr. Trump’s steel and aluminium tariffs, increased market access for some categories of Indian agricultural products among others. U.S. concerns during the negotiations have included market access for American dairy and agricultural products, medical devices and a cut in information and communication technology (ICT) import tariffs. The U.S. also has concerns with India’s digital trade policies (for instance FDI in commerce, and data localisation). In May, Indian Ambassador to the U.S. Taranjit Singh Sandhu had said New Delhi’s despatch of millions of doses of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine to the U.S. had built confidence between the two sides and had provided a foundation for a smaller trade deal.
22 July 2020||Guwahati,||Tripura CM apologises for remarks on Punjabis, Jats||Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Tuesday apologised for saying the people of Punjab and Haryana were physically strong but low on intellect. “It was not my intention to hurt any community. I am proud of both Punjabi and Jat communities. I have spent a lot of time among them myself,” Mr. Deb wrote on Twitter and sought forgiveness for hurting sentiments. He said he had merely touched upon the perception of “some people” while speaking at an event organised at the Agartala Press Club on July 19.   Mr. Deb’s comments had sparked widespread criticisms, with the Congress’s chief spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala calling for action against him for insulting the two communities.
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea challenging NOC to Parliament project in SC||A petition seeking quashing of the approval of the government’s proposal to construct a new Parliament by the Central Vista Committee in April is likely to come up in the Supreme Court on Thursday. The petition, filed by architect and conservationist A.G.K. Menon and others on July 1, was listed for admission on Thursday, according to the apex court’s online causelist as seen on Tuesday. Hearings in ongoing matters related to the project are also scheduled for Thursday. The petitioners challenged the no-objection observation given by the CVC to the project in its meeting on April 23, terming the decision “irrational, unreasonable, arbitrary, contrary to the well-settled principles of fair play...”. The CVC members, who represent the Indian Institute of Architects and the Institute of Town Planners, did not attend the meeting that took place during the lockdown. The project proposed by the Central Public Works Department under the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs was approved, with the observation that the new Parliament building should be “in sync” with the existing Parliament, according to the minutes of the meeting. “It is respectfully submitted at the outset that only four architect/town planners out of the total 11 members of the Committee, which is required ‘to bring the entire area under strict architectural control’, were present at the meeting and the meeting was convened in the absence of the four representatives/experts of professional bodies who requested to defer the meeting because of the nationwide lockdown and strict restrictions on movement and their inability to use video conferencing as the mode for attending the meeting,” the petition said. ‘Lead to damage’ The petitioners noted that CVC chairperson, CPWD Additional Director-General (Works) Anant Kumar, was “neither an architect nor a town planner”, but “an engineer with specialisation in road maintenance”. The petitioners said the CVC decision would lead to damage to heritage and was a wastage of public money. The petitioners include architect Ashok Dhawan, retired bureaucrat Ashok Vajpeyi, artist Vivan Sundaram, activist and former member of the Planning Commission Syeda Hameed, chairperson of the NGO Dastkar Laila Tyabji, architect Raka Chakravarty and vice president of the Indian Society of Labour Economics Ritu Dewan.
22 July 2020||New Delhi,||Helpline for students’ mental health launched||Keeping in mind the stress faced by students and their families especially during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Human Resource Development (HRD) Ministry on Tuesday rolled out a mental health initiative named Manodarpan. The platform includes a national toll free helpline for students of schools, universities and colleges, which will be manned by a pool of experienced counsellors, psychologists and mental health professionals, according to an official statement. Students can call 8448440632 for help during the COVID crisis and beyond. Manodarpan also has a website which will host an interactive online chat platform, advisories and tips on mental and emotional health, a national database of counsellors, links to webinars and other resources. “COVID-19 is understandably a challenging time for everyone around the world. Children and adolescents may be more vulnerable and may experience heightened level of stress, anxiety and fearfulness, along with a range of other emotional and behavioural issues,” HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,||35 years on, 11 policemen convicted of royal’s killing||An Associated Press report of February 23 that year quoting an agency said Man Singh had been shot six times in the back. For the chopper case, Man Singh had been booked for attempt to murder and rioting, and the police claimed then that he and his supporters had first started firing at the police team and refused to surrender, according to the report. ‘Got justice’ “At least we got justice, even if it was after 35 years,” said Ms. Kaur, a former MP, outside the Mathura court where security had been beefed up before the judgment. “Not just me and my family but the entire public of Rajasthan who held affection for the late Raja Man Singh have got justice,” she told mediapersons. The 11 convicted policemen included Kan Singh Bhati, then Deputy SP, and Virendra Singh, then Station House Officer. The accused (convicted persons) have been taken into custody, said lawyer Dev Narayan Singh, who appeared for Man Singh. The lawyer for the policemen said they would challenge the conviction in the Allahabad HC.
22 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Submit ‘COVID fact sheet’ to HC, KCR tells officials||The State government has decided to present a fact sheet on the incidence of coronavirus pandemic in the State and the steps initiated by the government to control the spread of the virus. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao instructed the officials concerned to file an affidavit in the High Court, explaining the measures initiated by the government to conduct investigative tests and measures taken to check the spread of the virus. The affidavit should also contain the details about the treatment provided to patients and precautions that had been taken while administering the treatment “with all facts”, the Chief Minister said, adding that the officials should submit all the information that the court had sought about the work being done in the State. The development came in the light of the High Court expressing dissatisfaction over the State not implementing its orders. The court had summoned the Chief Secretary and Health department officials to appear before it to explain the situation in the State. Officials who attended the meeting lamented that the court expressed its anger in spite of the fact that the government and medical staff were working with commitment in taking measures to contain the virus, conducting the tests and ensuring treatment to affected patients, according to a press release from the Chief Minister’s Office. Officials were stated to have lamented over the increasing number of public interest litigations, totalling 87 as of date, being filed in the High Court. Officials concerned and doctors were facing hardship in attending their duties because of the daily hearings that were being conducted by the High Court as they were forced to spend time to run to the court rather than giving treatment to the needy. “In this hour of crisis, senior officials had to leave their primary duties and are spending time to prepare for the court hearing. They are unable to render 100 per cent justice to their duties,” the officials informed the Chief Minister. This was at a time when the situation in the State was much better as compared to other States, especially the death rate which was much lower. The government and the medical officers were working to the best of their abilities and the government was prepared to provide treatment to any number of patients. Thousands of tests were being performed on a daily basis, but it was painful that the High Court made such comments in spite of the work that was being done. The official release stated that they recalled the petitions that were filed in the past asking that tests be conducted on the dead and the High Court gave orders in their favour. The Supreme Court had however set aside the orders, but PILs were continuing and the High Court was admitting them. With as many as 87 PILs pending, it was causing inconvenience to the Chief Secretary, Health Secretary and other senior officials whenever they were being summoned by the court. “The precious time of the medical officials and other senior officers is being spent on attending the court hearings,” they said. They expressed concern that some organisations were trying to portray as if nothing was being done by the government based on the remarks by the High Court which was shattering the morale of the personnel engaged in providing relief to the COVID patients putting their lives at stake.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,||Quarantine guidelines eased for CET candidates||The Department of Higher Education has decided to relax quarantine norms for students coming from other States and outside the country to write the Common Entrance Test (CET). The decision comes a day after it was decided that asymptomatic students with COVID-19 would be allowed to write CET. The department has also now announced that positive students can write the test if the doctor declares them fit to do so. At a press conference on Tuesday, Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan said 30 students from outside the country and 1,881 from other States have registered to write the examination on July 30 and 31. “Quarantine norms for these students will be relaxed and they can stay in the State for four days. They do not have to take COVID-19 test or undergo quarantine norms,” he said. Around 1.94 lakh students have registered for CET. Justifying the decision to conduct the test at a time when cases are at an all-time high, Mr. Narayan said that of the total infected population across Bengaluru, only 40 in the 17-20 age group have COVID-19. “Admissions for other universities have begun. There will be no virus-free month if we keep waiting. This is in the best interest of our youngsters,” he said. In Bengaluru, COVID Care Centres set up at the Jnana Bharathi campus and GKVK campus will be converted into CET halls for those who have tested positive, and food will be provided to them at the centre. Similar arrangements will be made in other districts too. So far, the Karnataka Examinations Authority has received one request from Shivamogga district from a positive candidate who is in hospital. As per the SOP, students have to sanitise their hands, undergo thermal screening and wear masks while writing the exam. Ambulances will be arranged for those who have tested positive to come to the exam centre.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Relief for Pilot camp as HC holds off verdict till Friday||“We are fighting to save democracy. Our government is stable and we will serve the people for our full five-year term,” he said, adding that the Congress had the support of independent legislators and smaller parties as well. The Chief Minister said while the State government was fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, a leader who was the Pradesh Congress chief and a few other MLAs in collusion with the BJP had “hatched a conspiracy” to topple it. “This is intolerable and condemnable. Those betraying the party will not be able to show their faces in public.” Mr. Gehlot later presided over a Cabinet meeting at his official residence here, in which a decision was taken to make an ex gratia payment of Rs. 1,000 each to 35 lakh needy families affected by the COVID-19 lockdown. ‘Speaker coerced’ In their writ petition, Mr. Pilot and other MLAs have accused the Speaker of acting under the influence of Mr. Gehlot and said he had issued the impugned notices with “mala fide intentions”. The actions of an elected representative who merely seeks to voice his disagreement with certain policies or decisions cannot be said to amount to him acting against the interest of the party, it said. The plea contended that the notices were an abuse of powers under the Tenth Schedule to “stifle the freedom of speech” of the petitioners. It alleged that the complaint of Congress was based on assumptions and surmises and had no factual ground to support the alleged apprehension voiced in it.
22 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Couple commits suicide||A couple died under suspicious circumstances on Tuesday in the B S Maqtha area near Raj Bhavan. Punjagutta police said they have been identified as I. Nageswar Rao (37), a mason by profession, and his wife L Roja (29). Police said that the couple moved to Hyderabad from Srikakulam in Andhra Pradesh around six years ago to earn a living.   There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni.
22 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Guwahati jail ward turned into hospital||A ward of Guwahati Central Jail has been converted into a COVID-19 hospital less than a week after two prisoners escaped from an out-of-town Covid Care Centre they were taken to. “A team of doctors and paramedical staff has been posted at the jail to tend to the asymptomatic prisoners being kept separately in a ward turned into a temporary hospital. This was done after the security threat of keeping prisoners elsewhere was analysed,” a jail official said. Meanwhile, anti-CAA activist Sharjeel Imam, who has been lodged in Guwahati Central Jail since February 20, has tested positive for COVID-19.
22 July 2020||Mumbai,||State Minister writes to Anna on panchayat appointments||Maharashtra Rural Development Minister Hasan Mushrif has written to social activist Anna Hazare saying the State’s decision on appointment of administrators of gram panchayats, whose terms have ended or will expire this year, was not taken with any political motive. Mr. Mushrif said the decision, on the advice of guardian ministers, was taken considering the 73rd amendment of the Constitution, High Court and Supreme Court decisions and the COVID-19 situation. These remarks were in response to Anna’s letter on appointments.
22 July 2020||HYDERABAD,||Maoists call for bandh for Varavara’s release||Telangana State Committee of CPI(Maoist) on Tuesday appealed to people to observe bandh on Saturday, urging the State government to ensure revolutionary writer Varavara Rao was set free. The committee’s official spokesperson Jagan, in a statement, said the octogenarian writer was implicated in a false case in Maharashtra. While the Maharashtra State police initially investigated the case, the Union Home Ministry in this January transferred the case to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The CPI(Maoist) also demanded that teams of Greyhounds, Telangana government’s commando force, were withdrawn from the forests in the State. Along with Mr. Rao and Saibaba, the police arrested 12 other people’s associations activists in different cases branding them as ‘urban naxals’.
22 July 2020||Patna,||Over 3 lakh hit by flood amid virus in Bihar||Over three lakh people in eight districts of north Bihar have been affected by flood as heavy rain continued in catchment areas of neighbouring Nepal. The State government on Tuesday put the district authorities on high alert, and requested people to shift to higher and safer places as the water level in flooded rivers could rise in the next 24 hours. Floodwater has gushed into many low-lying areas of East Champaran, Gopalganj, Supaul, Darbhanga, Kishanganj, Muzaffarpur, Sitamarhi and Sheohar districts, affecting the over three lakh population in 37 blocks of 156 panchayats. Flood threat has also been issued in Madhubani, Siwan, Madhepura, Katihar and other districts, as rivers like the Gandak, Bagmati, Burhi Gandak, Kamla Balan, Kosi, Lalbakeya and the Mahananda are flowing above the danger level. On Tuesday, 4.25 lakh cusecs was discharged from the Valmikinagar barrage on the Gandak in West Champaran district, causing flood in the tributaries as well. All 36 gates of the barrage have been opened to allow the water flow from Nepal into the State rivers.  Under control “We have made arrangements for a discharge of up to 5 lakh cusecs in the barrage... so far, the situation is under control but we’re constantly appealing to people to come out of their villages and take shelter on high and safer grounds,” said an official of the Disaster Management Department. On Monday, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar directed officials of the Disaster Management and Water Resources Departments to initiate relief measures as per Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). “Separate disaster relief centres will be formed for people living in containment zones of the flood-affected areas… use of gloves and masks will be mandatory for them,” an official of the Disaster Management told The Hindu . The government is currently running seven relief camps and 27 community kitchens in the flood-affected areas where over 2,000 people have taken shelter. However, at most places like in East Champaran, Gopalganj, Sitamarhi and Darbhanga, people have taken shelter either on embankments or on the national highways. In East Champaran district, the administration has provided tarpaulin and chura-gur (flattened rice and jaggery) to those living on the embankments between Piprakothi and Gopalganj. A power generator too has been arranged for them. But at other places, people could be seen living in rows of black tarpaulin tents along with family members, and their cattle tied alongside on the highways and embankments. “No one has come to see us and neither any relief come,” an elderly woman is heard telling a local TV news channel. As many as 16 teams of the 9th battalion of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) have been deployed in 11 flood-affected districts. Several teams of the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) too are deployed and they are working in coordination with the respective district administrations. “Officials and personnel are also following dos and donts of COVID-19,” Vijay Sinha, Commandant, 9th battalion of the NDRF, said.
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||International flights now on travel portals||As India allows permission to a few international carriers to operate to and from the country, stranded travellers can now book their flights, including Air India’s Vande Bharat services, through travel portals and agents after a gap of four months. Until recently, all flight bookings were either being done through various foreign embassies or as in the case of Air India, directly through its booking offices and website. A spokesperson of MakeMyTrip said ticket sales for Air India, Air France, Lufthansa and United went live on its website on July 18. Air India repatriation flights to the U.S. and Europe have been available from July 18 on most travel portals including ixigo, Cleartrip and Easemytrip.com. Flight tickets to London have been on sale from Monday. Many portals are providing value-added services to address the concerns of the travellers.
22 July 2020||Mumbai,||Riberio writes to IPS officers on encounters||Former Mumbai Commissioner of Police Julio Ribeiro, 91, wrote an open letter to IPS officers on “fake encounters”, and said political compulsions had changed. He said the Thoothukudi custodial death “is even more disturbing and every policeman in India should hang his head in shame”. “I do not intend even to advise, because times have changed, political compulsions have changed and more importantly, politicians are of a different breed from the freedom-fighters who formulated policy in post-Independent India. But the values of honesty, compassion, yearning for truth and justice, commitment to the law and the Constitution are always constant and should hold the first spot in your mind’s eye whenever you think, decide and finally act.” “The politicians will not ask you to allow criminals to operate. They may ease you out of your position at the top, but that is a much nobler option than to be privy to the creation of a Vikas Dubey! And speaking of Vikas Dubey, his elimination involved usurping the role of the judiciary,” he said. “The investigators should not be empowered to prosecute and judge, as is happening in the country now! Do you consider this wise or just or civilized? Do you feel the necessity of a police state called India? The rise of criminals who ambush and kill law enforcers, who escape so easily from their custody, snatch the policemen’s weapons and Rambo like take them on, till killed is so common now and so routinely applauded by the middle classes that political bosses have turned calamity into pasture grounds on the ooze of which they can feed!” He added, “The murder of the father and son duo in the Tuticorin district of Tamil Nadu is even more disturbing because cruelty had consumed the perpetrators to such an extent that even middle-class support did not materialise. Shameful! Every policeman in India should hang his head in shame.” He said, “There is nothing much you can do to sway the politicians, but you can surely compel your own men to desist from supporting the criminals thereby shaking one important leg of the three-legged nexus!” Mr. Ribeiro ended the letter by saying, “I am sure you will devise a strategy where fake encounters and brutal methods of interrogation are abandoned in favour of not allowing Vikas Dubeys to rise in the first place and in favour of quick trials of Vikas Dubeys who slip through your net! I beg I.P.S officers to please stop the ugly spectacle of jockeying and lobbying for cutting-edge posts in the hierarchy. This involves the sale of your independence to political bosses who in turn will ‘request’ you to do things that you know will weaken your own authority over those you have to command!”
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hosbet Suresh archives released||An archive of reports of tribunals and public hearings by the late Justice Hosbet Suresh in his post-retirement years was released by Citizens for Justice and Peace (CJP) on his birth anniversary on Monday. In a statement, the CJP said: “Justice Hosbet Suresh, legal luminary and a stalwart of human rights jurisprudence, continues to live on in not just our hearts, but also his work, particularly in his post-retirement years. He provided a voice to the voiceless through a series of fact-finding missions, people’s tribunals and public hearings, enabling even the oppressed and exploited to have access to justice.” The archive includes inquiry reports on the December 1992-January 1993 Mumbai riots, the July 1997 police firing at Ramabai Nagar and the Gujarat riots. CJP secretary Teesta Setalvad said: “There could be no greater lasting tribute to the man than ensuring an enduring and proactive archiving of the rights jurisprudence that he pioneered with Justice Krishna Iyer as his mentor and hundreds of human rights defenders as his allies.” The archive is available on the CJP website.
22 July 2020||Lucknow,||BSP MLC who defected to Congress disqualified||A BSP member of the U.P. Legislative Council, who had defected to the Congress, was on Tuesday disqualified from the membership of the Upper House of the State legislature, the BSP said. Council Chairman Ramesh Yadav disqualified Naseemuddin Siddiqui with effect from February 22, 2018, when he had crossed over to the Congress from the BSP, the party said in a release.
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED attaches assets worth Rs. 12.98 crore of former Jodhpur varsity chairman and associates||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs. 12.98 crore of former Jodhpur National University chairman, Kamal Mehta, and others in connection with a money laundering case. The ED’s probe is based on an FIR and charge sheet filed by the State Police against Mr. Mehta and his accomplices for allegedly issuing fake degrees and mark sheets. Over 25,000 degrees and mark sheets were issued from 2010 to 2014.
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI examines Ashok Gehlot’s OSD||The CBI on Tuesday questioned Deva Ram Saini, Officer on Special Duty (OSD) to Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot, and Congress MLA Krishna Poonia(in picture) in connection with the alleged suicide of inspector Vishnudutt Vishnoi, a police officer in Rajasthan's Churu on May 23, said a source in the agency. Ms. Poonia's statement was recorded on Monday. “The probe team is examining the persons concerned as per procedure,” said a CBIofficial.
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI seeks prosecution sanction against Madhu Koda in coal block case||The CBI has sought permission from the Jharkhand government to prosecute former Chief Minister Madhu Koda in the Parbatpur Central coal block allocation case to Electrosteel Castings. In 2017, a special court had sentenced Mr. Koda to three years’ imprisonment in connection with the allocation of the Rajhara North coal block to Vini Iron and Steel Udyog Limited, a Kolkata-based company. Mr. Koda is an accused in eight coal block allocation cases.
22 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Journalist shot at in Ghaziabad; 5 held||A journalist, Vikram Joshi, who works at a local newspaper, was shot at by unidentified assailants in Ghaziabad late on Monday. He is in a critical condition at a hospital. The attack came days after he lodged a police complaint against harassment of his niece by some locals. All the five accused have been nabbed. They were known to the family of Mr. Joshi, police said.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only SCs/STs entitled to quota in AIQ medical seats, says MCI||Only the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes will be entitled to reservation in all-India quota (AIQ) medical seats in non-central institutions unless the Supreme Court modifies the existing procedure, the Medical Council of India told the Madras High Court on Tuesday. The Other Backward Classes (OBCs) or other categories cannot claim reservation under the quota, it said. In written submissions made before Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy, MCI counsel V.P. Raman said the AIQ in State government-run medical colleges was a creation of the Supreme Court through its verdict inDr. Pradeep Jain versus Union of Indiadecided on June 22, 1984. Then, a Bench led by Justice P.N. Bhagwati ordered creation of a purely merit-based national pool of seats instead of the entire 100% of seats in State government medical and dental colleges being allotted to locals. Subsequently, the top court modified the scheme from time to time and in 2009, it permitted reservation for the SCs/STs. At present, State governments surrender 15% of undergraduate seats and 50% of postgraduate seats to the AIQ. The submissions were made in reply to a batch of cases filed by political parties, individual politicians and others seeking implementation of State-specific reservation in seats contributed by the State governments to the AIQ every year. ‘Centre is willing’ Wondering how the MCI could take a stand contrary to that of the Centre, which was willing to provide reservation for OBCs with a rider that the overall reservation should not exceed 50% of the total seats in the AIQ, senior counsel P. Wilson, representing the DMK, told the court that the action of the MCI amounted to “a tail daring to wag over the head”. In his written submissions, Additional Solicitor-General R. Shankaranarayanan stated that the Centre was willing to provide reservation to OBCs in the AIQ in non-central institutions too, provided the overall reservation did not exceed 50% of the total seats. When the SCs/STs were being given reservation at the rate of 15% and 7.5% respectively in the AIQ seats in non-central institutions too as per the Centre’s policy, how the OBCs could be provided with as much as 50% reservation at the cost of causing much confusion, he wondered.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State reports 4,965 fresh virus cases and 75 fatalities||For the tenth consecutive day, Tamil Nadu reported more than 4,000 fresh COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. A total of 4,965 persons tested positive, taking the State’s overall tally to 1,80,643*. The State’s recovery rate stood at 70%, with a total of 1,26,670 persons discharged following treatment. On Tuesday alone, 4,894 persons were discharged. The State’s toll rose to 2,626, with 75 more deaths, including that of a 56-day-old baby in Chennai. The boy was admitted to the Institute of Child Health and Hospital for Children with sepsis on July 15 and the swab returned positive for COVID-19. However, the child died on July 19 owing to COVID-19, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. Chennai’s count Of the fresh cases, Chennai accounted for 1,130. The city’s neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram recorded 366 and 262 cases respectively. There were 256 cases in Chengalpattu. The number of cases continued to stay high in other northern districts: Ranipet-173, Vellore-154 and Tiruvannamalai-147. In the southern parts, Virudhunagar reported 360 cases, followed by Thoothukudi, 269, Kanyakumari, 159, Madurai, 158, and Theni, 131. While Coimbatore recorded 176 cases, Tiruchi had 127 cases. A total of 78 persons who had returned from abroad and other States tested positive in various parts of the State. These included 30 who returned from Karnataka and 15 from Oman. As on date, a total of 51,344 persons are undergoing treatment. Of them, Chennai accounts for 14,952 active cases, while 3,475 persons are under treatment in Tiruvallur district. Of the 75 deaths, 21 persons died in Chennai, seven in Madurai and six each in Tiruvallur and Tiruchi. Among the deceased was a 37-year-old woman, who was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital with hypothyroid, renal failure and systemic hypertension on July 11. She died on July 21 owing to COVID-19 pneumonia, renal failure and respiratory failure. A total of 51,066 samples were tested during the past 24-hour period. This took the total number of samples tested to over 20 lakh. A total of 19,56,672 individuals have so far been tested. One more testing facility — Government Hospital, Tindivanam — was approved for testing, With this, there are a total of 113 testing facilities in the State.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection.)   The State’s recovery rate stood at 70%, with a total of 1,26,670 persons discharged following treatment
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traders press for reopening of Koyambedu market||While the State government is yet to take a decision on reopening the Koyambedu market complex, the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority is taking steps to improve the facilities at the Thirumazhisai vegetable market. Representatives of traders met Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam last week seeking reopening of the market, which remained closed since May 5. Wholesale traders and retail vendors have been demanding reopening of the Koyambedu wholesale market. Wholesale traders and public health experts suggested that a joint committee, comprising representatives from traders’ associations and various government agencies, should be formed to manage the premises. Noting that it had become increasingly difficult for traders to continue business at temporary markets, wholesalers like V.S. Soundararajan said the government could allow resumption of operations with restrictions. Garbage bins must be placed inside the market and fines levied for violations. D. Rajasekaran, president, Federation of All Traders Associations of the Koyambedu wholesale market complex, said vendors must be provided identity cards for entry into the market. Two-wheelers and passenger autorickshaws should not be allowed. Retail shops must be permitted to function in batches and unloading of goods should be restricted to avoid overcrowding. Upgrade of facilities According to public health experts, the government must upgrade basic facilities and ensure that a hygienic environment prevails before opening the Koyambedu market. Senior epidemiologist P. Kuganantham said initially only wholesalers must be allowed to function and business hours must be restricted between 6 p.m. and 6 a.m. Retailers may be allowed to operate during the day in the next phase. Besides providing adequate water, toilets and storm-water drains, regular clearance of garbage was essential. Every zone of the Greater Chennai Corporation must have a retail market to reduce congestion at Koyambedu. The market should be closed once a week for maintenance. Various government agencies and the police should coordinate to ensure that everyone adheres to safety norms and the market is free from encroachments, Dr. Kuganantham added. CMDA sources said the government was only studying the proposal to reopen the market and the precautions to be taken, including curbs on entry of vehicles. Road repair Meanwhile, steps were being taken to address the problems faced by the wholesale traders in Thirumazhisai market. Besides deploying machinery to drain out water, the CMDA is taking steps to improve the condition of the roads. Plans are afoot to provide drains to reduce water-logging, said a senior official.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Virtual farewell for retiring staff||Gatherings at railway offices on the last working day of every month is a customary practice to bid farewell to colleagues retiring from service. With the implementation of the Standard Operating Procedure, particularly physical distancing norms, to control the spread of COVID-19, such retirement functions were not held since April this year. However, in a bid to boost the morale of employees bidding adieu to their colleagues on their last working day, the Ministry of Railways has decided to organise a video-conferencing event on the last working day of every month to honour staff retiring from service across the network, sources in Indian Railways told The Hindu on Tuesday. Indian Railways is one of the largest employers with over 12 lakh employees working in its network running through the length and breadth of the country. From now on, retirement functions would be on an all-India basis and hosted from New Delhi through video-conferencing. All zonal/divisional headquarters, production units, training centres and workshops would be able to participate live by connecting to the Railway Board. First event The first such retirement function on the virtual platform would be held on July 31, 2020, at 5 p.m. and thereafter every month on the last working day. The zonal/divisional headquarters and other establishments would send in the list of employees retiring every month in a prescribed format. The Minister of Railways or the Minister of State for Railways would address the live gathering through video link, the sources said.   “Retirement formalities through virtual means will be part of the new normalcy. Earlier, we used to honour our colleagues in the office where they worked for a long time. It is more a nostalgic gathering where friends and colleagues recall their experiences with the retiring employee and he/she also gets an opportunity to speak. This may not be possible any more in the pandemic scenario…,” a senior railway official told The Hindu on Tuesday.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Recovered doctors fight fatigue||“I have been better,” was the quick response from R. Baskaran (name changed), an assistant professor at one of the government medical college hospitals in the State. Having recovered from COVID-19, the doctor is back at work with a scheduled round of duty at a COVID-19 ward. “The job is hectic as usual. I still have mild fatigue,” he said. Many government doctors, who had tested positive, have returned to work after two to four weeks of isolation and treatment. But there is little or no respite from some of the post-COVID-19 symptoms, especially fatigue, they said. Viral fevers do have a long course of fatigue, he said, adding: “In some cases, it persists for six months. In COVID-19 too, fatigue persisted for long during the recovery phase.” As a senior doctor pointed out, “In my experience, fever was not debilitating. But it is the fatigue and muscle pain, weakness and myalgia, that is making recovery difficult. This is debilitating beyond three to four weeks of testing positive. I might look normal but I cannot do physical work,” she said. If there is one symptom that lasted longer than others, it is fatigue, said a number of doctors, who had tested positive. “It is like one day you are fine and you manage to do some small activities. But fatigue catches up sooner or later. I have had this experience of getting extremely tired and wanting to sleep often during the recovery phase. The COVID-19 fatigue is a definite thing, and I heard similar experiences from postgraduates, too. I am back at work, but the fatigue still lingers on,” another doctor of Madras Medical College said. Doctors have told each other to take things slowly instead of rushing into work and exerting themselves. There are some who experienced breathlessness and dizziness in the recovery phase. A senior physician, who did not want to be named, said easy fatigability was one of the factors that he had faced during recovery. ‘Lasts five-seven days’ “It lasted for five to seven days. I recovered slowly. Such fatigue is common during the post-influenza period. Now, we have experienced it in COVID-19 too,” he said. In fact, he experienced a loss of smell quite early and it went on to last nearly a week. “In my experience, about one-third of the patients have a loss of smell. We can manage fatigue with nutritious food, fresh fruits and adequate sleep,” he said. Some doctors are struggling with insomnia, a paediatrician noted. “I had a fever for three to four days and myalgia for eight days. I was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH), and returned to work after two weeks. Fatigue and myalgia last longer than the other symptoms,” he said. He added that a few of his doctor friends, who recovered from COVID-19, faced trouble with sleeping. “Some of them who usually go to bed at 10 p.m. are unable to sleep till 2 a.m. Psychiatrists said this may be because doctors are leading abnormal lives now,” he said. His advice to COVID-19 patients: “Do not panic. Take plenty of hot water. I felt nutrition played a vital role in recovery. At RGGGH, the diet was nutritious and well-planned. Taking nutritious meals at home, too, helped,” he said.  It is like one day you are fine and you manage to do some small activities. But fatigue catches up sooner or later
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kasimedu fishing harbour timings changed to avoid overcrowding||After Saturday’s fiasco when the Kasimedu fishing harbour was overcrowded, sale timings have been changed. Fish will be sold to wholesalers and mid-sized retailers from 3 a.m. to 8 a.m. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar said boats would be parked at demarcated bays and only three men, including the owner, would be allowed per boat to sell the fish. Others would have to remain on the craft till the end of the sale. Sale of catch from boats arriving after 8 a.m. would be allowed only the next day. Wholesalers and retailers would be allowed to enter the harbour in batches of 150 persons. “All of them have been issued passes. A total of 800 passes have been distributed. On Tuesday, we saw a trial for the boats and it looks fine as of now. The timings have been changed to suit the needs of consumers,” said an official source. Fishermen leader M.E. Raghumathi said many fishers were bothered more about their livelihood than protecting themselves against COVID-19. They were worried about alleviating hunger in their families. None of the fishermen had money in their hands, Mr. Raghumathi added.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Not raking up religious issues for electoral benefit: L. Murugan||BJP State president L. Murugan on Tuesday said the party’s statements condemning a fringe group for denigrating Lord Murugan and ‘Kandha Sashti Kavasam’ were not aimed at making electoral gains, but only reflected the sentiments of the Hindus. “Election is different, religious sentiment is different. People’s sentiments should not be affected. Crores of Lord Murugan devotees undertake fasting and go on padayatra to Murugan temples out of their devotion, not just in Tamil Nadu but across the world. When a small group denigrates the God and hurts the devotees’ sentiments, everyone should unequivocally condemn such acts,” Mr. Murugan told The Hindu . ‘Stalin silent’ “But DMK president M.K. Stalin has not condemned this till now. We cannot keep quiet on this issue. Our view is that no religious sentiments should be affected and everyone is equal. But Hindus are repeatedly being insulted with a plan and there is wrong propaganda against the Hindus. I am asking such people, ‘Do not do this’,” he contended. Mr. Murugan also said the defacement of Periyar’s statue was condemnable. “This is wrong and I severely condemn such acts,” he said. Asked if the BJP was alleging a scam in the handling of TNCC Trust funds with an eye on the 2021 Assembly elections, Mr. Murugan said he was not asking questions about the day-to-day affairs of the Congress or their internal issues. “This is a charitable trust. This is public money and our concern is that it should not be misused. There are also allegations that around 20 Congressmen are squatting on the Teynampet Congress grounds. What we are asking is ‘Are they at least paying rent properly?’ It is a Charitable Trust and public fund. Anyone has the right to ask questions about it,” Mr. Murugan said.  Alagiri taunt Earlier in the day, Mr. Murugan taunted TNCC president K.S. Alagiri offering to sell the party headquarters ‘Kamalalayam’ to the Congress for Rs. 30 crore which, Mr. Alagiri had alleged, was the value of the property. Mr. Alagiri had claimed that the land was bought forcefully from director-producer Mukta Srinivasan for Rs. 3 crore. Incidentally, Srinivasan’s daughter is a senior member of the BJP, Mr. Murugan added.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||An officer known for overcoming obstacles on every terrain||From the dense jungles of Sathyamangalam, once lorded over by forest brigand Veerappan, to the concrete jungles of suburban Chennai ruled by real estate sharks, IAS officer P. Amudha has a record of making an impression. Her clean administrative record has now led to her appointment as the Joint Secretary in the Prime Minister’s Office. Her colleagues recalled that in one of her assignments during the latter half of the 1990s, as Sub Collector in Gobichettipalayam, Erode, she would venture deep into the Sathyamangalam forests to meet local people. “It is said that [the local] people began to trust the State during her posting there,” a civil servant said. The Madurai-born 1994 batch IAS officer is known for her penchant for being on the field and taking bold decisions. Chennai floods Ms. Amudha’s fieldwork was on full display when, as Special Officer for monsoon relief during the historic Chennai floods of December 2015, she ordered the demolition of numerous concrete buildings that had been encroaching on waterbodies and flood carriers. “She is known as an extremely effective field officer. During the floods, the State had deployed her as she could take decisions swiftly on the ground. “A former Commissioner of Revenue Administration used to remark that there are no better encroachment removal officers than Ms. Amudha. She removed all obstacles and encroachments so that water would flow out,” an officer recalled. She had also cracked down on illegal sand mining in Chengalpattu. As the Dharmapuri Collector, Ms Amudha took efforts to improve the literacy rate among women in the district with active participation from self-help groups. She herself recalled her satisfaction over empowering women in Dharmapuri. She was posted as officer-in-charge for the funeral of former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi. She was a member of the kabbadi team that won the national championship thrice and is trained in karate. Ms. Amudha was the Professor of Public Administration in the prestigious Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) in Mussoorie until recently. On Tuesday, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami tweeted that she has earned the goodwill of the State government as well as the affection of the people through her honesty and efficiency.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cyber crime wing to recover videos from Karuppar Kootam||The Cyber Crime Wing of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) has begun the process of recovering videos uploaded by Karuppar Kootam, which allegedly defamed Hindu gods. Karuppar Kootam, a YouTube channel run by a few Periyarists-Dravidians, recently uploaded some objectionable content on Kandha Shasti Kavasam, a hymn rendered in praise of Lord Muruga. Acting on a complaint from the BJP, the Cyber Crime Wing of the CCB booked a case and arrested prominent members, including Surendran alias Naathigan and M. Senthilvasan last week. Subsequently, the office of Karuppar Kootam on Boag Road, T. Nagar, was sealed. On Monday, the CCB arrested two more persons associated with Karuppar Kootam. Their names were given as Somasundaram, 22, of Otteri, and Guhan, 23, of Maraimalai Nagar. The police sources said, “So far we have identified more than 750 videos which potentially contain malicious content that were uploaded online. We have moved court for custodial interrogation of the accused and begun the process of recovering those videos after taking them into our custody.”
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The Hindu Education Plus career counselling webinar today||A webinar on nurturing innovation potential among students will be hosted jointly by the SRM Institute of Science and Technology and The Hindu Education Plus . This is the fourth in the series on career counselling and will focus on research. Speakers include T. Ramasamy, Nayudamma-Abdul Wahid Chair professor at the Department of Leather Technology at Anna University and former secretary in the Department of Science and Technology; K. Ramaswamy, director of Faculty and Academics, SRMIST; Leena Chandran Wadia, senior fellow at Observer Research Foundation, Mumbai; and R. Ramanujam, professor of theoretical computer science, the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai. The event will be held on Wednesday from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. Register athttps: //bit.ly/ 396IYcUor scan the QR code.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former president of Sri Ramanasramam dead||V.S. Ramanan, former president of Sri Ramanasramam in Tiruvannamalai, passed away on Tuesday. He was 86. Mr. Ramanan, who took over the president’s post in 1994, was one of the longest serving presidents of Sri Ramanasramam for nearly 26 years until he handed over the baton to his son Venkat Ramanan on June 17. Dr. Venkat Ramanan was a medical practitioner in the U.S. before he returned to Tiruvannamalai to take over the mantle of the asramam. Mr. Ramanan, the grand nephew of Bhagavan Sri Ramana Maharshi, steered the asramam through difficult times. He was helpful in providing rare insights of the Maharshi for bringing out the book titled Who Am I, Bhagavan Sri Ramana Maharishi, 1879-1950, which was published by The Hindu Group of Publications in March .  According to asramam sources, he passed away due to age-related conditions and his last rites were performed in the asramam in Tiruvannamalai.
22 July 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Nalini allegedly threatens to end life||Nalini Sriharan, life convict in the former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, allegedly threatened to end her life in the Special Prison for Women in Vellore on Monday. According to the police, there was reportedly a spat between Nalini and another life convict housed in the cell. Subsequently, the other life convict complained to the jailer about the incident and wanted to be shifted from the block. When the jailer went to the cell to conduct an inquiry on Monday night, Nalini allegedly threatened to end her life and the prison staff prevented her from doing so.  ‘Impossible’ Nalini’s advocate P. Pugazhendhi said that it was impossible that she would threaten to end her life. “She has been in prison for 29 years and till date she has not even said or attempted such a thing. Besides, it is not clear why the jailer went to enquire at 8.30 p.m.,” he said. The jail officials were not available immediately for comment.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. allocated Rs. 5,990 cr. under Agri Infra Fund||Tamil Nadu has been allocated Rs. 5,990 crore, accounting for around 6% of the Rs. 1 lakh crore earmarked for the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF). Formulated by the Centre as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan economic package following the COVID-19 pandemic, the scheme is meant for giving loans to organisations working for agriculturists. Apart from primary agricultural cooperative societies, farmer producer organisations, Joint Liability Groups, agri-entrepreneurs and start-ups can be among the beneficiaries of the scheme that will be implemented over 10 years. A circular issued a few days ago by the Union government’s Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare (DAC&FW) termed the allocation “tentative” and said the decision was made on the basis of the ratio of the total value of the output of agriculture and allied sectors in a State to the Gross State Domestic Product. In the southern region, Andhra Pradesh will get the highest of Rs. 6,540 crore, followed by Karnataka-Rs. 4,525 crore, Telangana-Rs. 3,075 crore, Kerala-Rs. 2,520 crore and Puducherry-Rs. 48 crore. Funds can be drawn for post-harvest management projects and those aimed at building community farming assets such as organic inputs and bio-stimulant production units. Loans will carry an interest subvention of 3% up to a limit of Rs. 2 crore. Participating institutions will have to sign memoranda of understanding with the National Bank for Agriculture & Rural Development and the DAC&FW. There are concerns among sections of the State Agriculture Department here that the existing schemes such as Agrimarket Infrastructure Fund and Warehouse Infrastructure Fund will get subsumed under the new scheme. A senior official of the Union Ministry of Agriculture says the new scheme is independent of the existing ones and it does not preclude its beneficiaries from getting covered under the old schemes. Referring to the district-level monitoring committees for implementation, P.R. Pandian, president of the Tamil Nadu Federation of All Farmers’ Associations, says the representatives of agriculturists should be involved even in the stage of planning distribution of assistance.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Save traditional art forms from extinction, says court||The Madras High Court on Tuesday impressed upon the need for the State government to safeguard the interests of traditional musicians such as those who play Thavil and Nagaswaram and lamented that the art and artistes were on the verge of extinction. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha told the government counsel that failure to save the traditional art forms would lead to the erasing of the rich history and culture of the State. They hoped the government would not allow any such setback. The observations were made during the hearing of a public interest litigation petition filed by K.R. Kukesh, president of Tamil Nadu Isai Vellalar Ilaigner Peravai, seeking a direction to the government to provide COVID-19 relief. His counsel contended that as of now they had been made part of the welfare board for folk artistes though they had insisted upon creating a separate board for Thavil, Talam, Mridangam , flute and Veena players besides Bharatanatyam performers. In its affidavit, the petitioner association stated that its members were earning their livelihood by performing at marriage functions and temple ceremonies. However, due to the prolonged lockdown to fight COVID-19, they were struggling a lot economically. When their case was listed for hearing along with another case filed seeking financial assistance to unregistered construction workers too, a Special Government Pleader sought a week’s time for the appearance of Advocate General Vijay Narayan. Accepting the request made by the law officer, the judges said that they would also want the A-G to represent the cases considering the larger public interest involved in the matter and adjourned the matters to Monday for further hearing.  Failure to save the traditional art forms would lead to the erasing of the rich history and culture of the State
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Temple’s gesture to folk artistes||A temple in Nagercoil has set an example by offering to pay folk artistes though they could not perform during the festival owing to the restrictions in place due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “We invited the Naiyandi Melam, Kaniyan KoothuandVillupattu artistes who regularly perform in our temple and gave them 25% of what they would have got for the regular performance,” said S.A. Vikraman, one of the members of the management of Palavesakkarswami temple in Santhanchettivilai in Nagercoil. The first Friday of Tamil month Aadi will normally witness festivals in the temples of folk deities, but this year, COVID-19 has come in the way of celebrations. Temples kept celebrations limited to pujas, and there were no cultural activities. “Normally, the folk artistes would keep the date for our temple festival and this year they could not perform. We spent a huge amount of money for the festival and we decided to give 25% of the remuneration,” Mr. Vikraman explained. Folk artistes from Kanniyakumari district collected the money. “Since the Kaniyaan Koothu artistes are in Thoothukudi district, we will credit the money into their accounts,” he said.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Good response to online registration for courses||The Higher Education Department’s decision to move the application process for courses in government arts and science colleges online for the first time this year has evoked a good response. As many as 89,538 students have registered themselves for various programmes and 39,916 students have made payments too. In all, 109 colleges have 92,000 seats on offer. Higher Education Department officials said the Department had coordinated with the School Education Department so that all eligible students could be encouraged to go for college education. The officials said they were taking it one step at a time. Whether counselling will be an online process is unclear yet, though officials said the next step of generating the merit list might be considered if they encountered no hitch in the registration and payment of fees. On an average, government colleges receive around two lakh applications, the officials said. A section of government college professors wants the Department to include aided colleges in the admission process. A professor from a rural college said that though students had been given the opportunity to upload relevant documents through mobile phones, some continued to come to colleges for the purpose. “They are asking us if in-person admission will be held, and we don’t have an answer,” he said. A professor said students had approached Internet centres and ended up paying Rs. 300 for registration and application.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Meeting to pay tribute to Dr. Chandramohan||A meeting has been planned at Old Seminar Hall of the Madras Medical College on Friday to pay tribute to S.M. Chandramohan, renowned senior surgical gastroenterologist, who died earlier this month. To be held at noon, speakers at the meeting would reminisce and celebrate the life of the late surgeon. Apart from his surgical acumen and expertise, Dr. Chandramohan was known for going out of his way to treat the poor and ensure rehabilitation of survivors of acid ingestion.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP working against interests of Hindus: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday said even though the BJP claimed that it was protecting the interests of the Hindus, it undermined their welfare by constantly working against the reservation policy. “Are the SCs and the OBCs not Hindus? Are they enemies of Hindus? If the BJP is really interested in their welfare, the Prime Minister and the BJP government should ensure reservation for them in education and employment opportunities,” Mr. Stalin said. He argued that though the SCs had 18% reservation, the BJP government had reduced it to 15%, and the decision would severely affect students belonging to the communities. Death knell “The OBCs should have got 50% reservation. But they are not able to get even 27%. The BJP government has signalled the death knell for the reservation policy,” he charged. Mr. Stalin said since the BJP had realised that it could not tamper with the Constitution to undermine the reservation policy, it sought to achieve the same through other avenues. Hopes dashed “The introduction of NEET is one such example. It dashed the hopes of OBC and rural students who wanted to become doctors. Statistics reveal that OBC students could fill only 12% seats even though they are eligible for 27% reservation,” he pointed out.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle registrations down 26.92%||Vehicle registrations in Tamil Nadu declined by 26.92% to 1,10,613 units in June this year from 1,51,356 units in June 2019, according to the Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Associations (FADA). However, tractor registrations went up 67.36% to 2,641 units in June this year from 1,578 in the same period last year. Tractor registrations had declined 82.33% in May. Two-wheeler registrations declined 21.73% to 97,381 units in June this year from 1,24,412 units in June 2019. Two-wheeler sales have recovered from a 77.03% fall in May this year. Passenger vehicle registrations were down 42.68% to 8,838 units in June this year from 15,419 units in 2019. In May, they declined by 86.58%. Meanwhile, three-wheeler and commercial vehicle registrations continued to decline sharply. Three-wheeler registration was down 88.12% to 362 units in June this year from 3,047 units in June 2019. In May, it was down 99.26%. Commercial vehicle registrations were down 79.84% to 1,391 units in June this year from 6,900 units in June 2019.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||SRM starts screening volunteers for Covaxin trials||SRM Medical College Hospital and Research Centre has started screening volunteers for the human trials of Covaxin, a drug that has been indigenously developed to fight COVID-19 infection. SRM is among the 12 institutions and the only medical institution from the State to be chosen for the trial. It has started conducting medical checks on the participants, it is learnt. Already, the trial has begun in the All India Institute of Medical Science, Patna, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Rohtak, and Nizam’s Institute at Hyderabad. Volunteers who are taking part in the trial at these institutes have been given the first dose of vaccine. The second dose will be administered after 14 days.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police get MLA’s custody||The Chengalpattu district court on Tuesday granted one-day police custody of DMK MLA L. Idhyavaraman, who was arrested for opening fire during a clash at Tiruporur recently. The police had sought three-day custody of the MLA.
22 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘T.N. has better COVID-19 strategy than other States’||The Tamil Nadu government’s strategy to combat the spread of COVID-19 and its integrated approach to treating those affected are better than the measures adopted by most other States, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said on Tuesday. The rate of positivity, which used to be 40% in Chennai’s containment zones, had come down to 3%-4%. The State’s figure now stood at 8%, and the situation was manageable, he said while addressing a press conference. Dr. Vijayabaskar said the State had enough beds to accommodate patients. To drive home his point that the situation was under control, he said 50% of the beds in Chennai and 80%-90% beds in care centres were unoccupied. Of the 70 deaths reported on July 20, he said, 63 were due to co-morbidities and only seven were due to COVID-19. “This is very, very minimum and people need not fear,” he said. The government had enough stock of life-saving drugs, he said. It had 42,500 vials of remdesivir and ordered 60,000 more vials. It had procured 5,000 vials of tocilizumab and distributed low-molecular heparin to all medical college hospitals. Dr. Vijayabaskar said the Chief Minister had allotted Rs. 76 crore to buy high-flow nasal oxygen cannulas that are used to supply oxygen at a constant pressure to patients. The State had the highest number of this equipment. The government had bought 43,000 pulse oximeters and given 10,000 pieces to Chennai Corporation alone for use at fever clinics. In response to a question, the Minister denied any delay in testing samples. He assured the people that all testing agencies were declaring results between 24 and 36 hours. Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani was present.  50% of the beds in Chennai and 80%-90% of the beds in COVID care centres are unoccupied
22 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DMK stages protests against ‘unjustified’ power tariff||Members of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam staged a protest against ‘unjustified’ power tariff in front of their houses by hoisting and holding black flags. A few partymen gathered in front of former Minister and the party’s wealth protection committee head Pongalur N. Palanisamy’s house in Doraisamy Layout at Peelamedu to condemn the injustice in calculating power tariff during the lockdown period. Singanallur MLA and the party’s east urban unit in-charge N. Karthik protested in front of his house in Anna Nagar, Peelamedu and west urban unit in-charge M. Muthusamy led a protest in Kovaipudur. Likewise rural north unit head C.R. Ramachandran protested in Mettupalayam and rural south unit head Thendral Selvaraj protested in Pollachi, said a release from the party. The protesters raised logans against the AIADMK government, blaming it for faulty calculation of power tariff for four months so as to burden people. Similar protests were held in Erode, Salem, Namakkal and Krishnagiri districts. In Erode, DMK South District secretary S. Muthusamy along with functionaries held black flag protest at his residence at Periyar Nagar while its North District secretary N. Nallasivam along with functionaries held a protest at the DMK office at Kavindapadi. Likewise, former Union Minister and deputy general secretary of the party, Subbulakshmi Jagadeesan, staged a protest with black flag at her residence. They said that electricity consumers were affected as the bill was calculated wrongly by combining three month’s consumption to one cycle. This led to the bill going up to the next slabs, they added. They said that when people have lost their income due to lockdown, the government is trying to take away their money and suffer them to the core. In Salem, DMK MLA R.Rajendran and S.R.Parthibhan, MP, protested in front of their residences. The protesters said that several states like Kerala, Maharashtra have offered subsidies in power charges. In Namakkal, former Union Minister S. Gandhiselvan staged a protest in front of his residence and raised slogans condemning the State government. In Krishnagiri, protesters bearing black flags and placards dubbed the State government led by Edappadi K. Palaniswami as “more deadly than the Corona.”
22 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore District Fire Officer dies||Coimbatore District Fire Officer P. Krishnamoorthy died at his residence in Peelamedu on Tuesday. He was 48. Sources in the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services said that he visited a training programme that is on for newly recruited fire service personnel at a private college at Saravanampatti and also jogged for 10 km on Tuesday morning. He returned to his residence at around 8 a.m., where he is said to have collapsed. The neighbours found him motionless and contacted his family members, who were residing in Erode district. They rushed him to Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, where he was declared as dead, according to the sources. The cause of death remained unclear as the autopsy was not completed. Doctors at CMCH also lifted his swab sample to check whether he had contracted COVID-19 during his field visits and the results were awaited, the sources said. Krishnamoorthy took charge as the District Fire Officer on January 6 this year. He is survived by his wife, a daughter and a son.
22 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Plasma therapy for COVID-19 patients in Coimbatore soon: Vijayabaskar||The Department of Public Health is taking steps to establish a plasma bank in Coimbatore to treat COVID-19 patients, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar told journalists here on Tuesday, after chairing a meeting at the Collectorate with Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani. After Mr. Velumani had placed a demand for the plasma bank, the Chief Minister ordered that it be established in Coimbatore. It would be the second such facility in the State, after the one in Chennai. The Government had also sanctioned Rs. 75 crore for an oxygenation line at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital here. Mr. Vijayabaskar also said that the Public Works Department had expedited the work to add 500 beds at the hospital to ensure that there was no shortage of beds to treat COVID-19 patients in Coimbatore. In all, the district had earmarked 4,680 beds to treat COVID-19 patients. The number of active cases was around 750 and the bed strength was four times more, to meet any spike in cases. Coimbatore district administration conducted the second highest number of tests next only to Chennai in the State and as of July 20, the number of tests stood at 1,00,069. Asserting that there was no delay in testing samples in Coimbatore, he said the ESI Hospital and Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) tested around 4,000 samples a day. And, there was no diversion of samples from Dindigul for testing. The Health Minister also inspected a linear accelerator, costing Rs. 25 crore, which was provided to the Regional Cancer Centre at the CMCH. “So far, 21 [cancer] patients have been treated using this machine on a trial basis,” the Minister said. While treatment with the linear accelerator cost Rs. 2.5 lakh in private hospitals, it was being done free of cost at CMCH under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme, he said. Later, both the Ministers inspected the COVID-19 ward at the ESI Hospital.
22 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead on Vellingiri Hills||A 24-year-old man who went missing nearly a month ago was found dead on Vellingiri Hills on Monday. Police said the deceased, P. Mahadevan, was reported missing since June 26, and his elder brother had lodged a complaint with the Karamadai police. At 5.30 p.m. on Monday, Forest Department officials who were patrolling the seventh hill found a man hanging from a tree. The officials found a bag next to the body, which contained a hall ticket with a passport-size photograph for the Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board (TNUSRB) Grade –II examination. Based on this, the Alandurai police reached the spot and confirmed that the body was that of Mahadevan. A letter, purportedly written by the deceased, was also found in the bag, police said. Alandurai and Karamadai police are investigating.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050 .
22 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Bihar native arrested for forging Aadhaar card||The Sulur police on Tuesday arrested a contract worker from Bihar, who was employed at the Sulur Air Force Station, on charges of forging his Aadhaar card. Staff at Air Force Station Police said Mohammed Samsuddin (26) has been working at the Air Force Station for the last six months. When Warrant Officer Jaswindar Singh attempted to verify Samsuddin’s Aadhaar card on Monday, he discovered that the accused had used the Aadhaar number of his elder brother. Based on the officer’s complaint, Sulur police arrested and remanded him in judicial custody.
22 July 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery workshops to reopen today||Small-scale gold smithies and jewellery factories in Coimbatore Corporation limits will reopen on July 22. The authorities had asked the smithies to down shutters following COVID-19 positive cases at one of the jewellery manufacturing units a few days ago. “We appealed to MLA Amman K. Arjunan and Minister S.P. Velumani for permission to reopen the small smithies. These are units that have just five or six people and they work out of their house. They will not come out of their house. The authorities gave permission on Tuesday afternoon,” said S. M. Kamal Hasan, president of Coimbatore Goldsmiths Association. “There is demand for jewellery and these small-scale jewellery workshops can start functioning. These goldsmiths will not demand financial support from the government if they are permitted to work,” he added. The containment restrictions will continue in the COVID-19 affected areas where the smithies are located, said Mr. Kamal Hasan. President of the Coimbatore Jewellers’ Association Sabarinath said that the small and medium-scale factories would also resume operations on Wednesday. Further, many jewellers have closed the retail outlets voluntarily to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The other jewellers have kept the shops open and are following the government norms, he said.
22 July 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||MBBS course renewed||Medical Council of India approved the renewal of the MBBS course at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital for the academic year 2020-21. In a letter to Dean A. Nirmala on July 16, the Board of Governors in supersession of Medical Council of India approved the renewal of permission to admit 100 students for the fifth batch, sources said on Tuesday.
22 July 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Return consumers’ money, says DMK||Demanding the Tamil Nadu government to immediately return the money collected from the consumers by the TANGEDCO as it was arbitrary, DMK members shouted slogans by assembling in front of their dwellings and party offices on Tuesday. As part of the State-wide stir, the Opposition party led by I. Periasamy in Dindigul, Geetha Jeevan in Thoothukudi, Avudaiappan in Tirunelveli, MLA Lakshmanan and MLAs SureshRajan, Austin, Mano Thangaraj in Kanniyakumari district, blamed the government for being autocratic. At a time, when the COVID-19 had ruined the lives, such ‘anti-people’ measures by the government had only complicated the issue, they said. Advocates wing in Ramanathapuram district staged a demonstration against the TANGEDCO.
22 July 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Strong winds damage banana crops at Gobichettipalayam in Erode dist.||Strong winds damaged standing banana crops in Gobichettipalayam block here on Monday night. Crops that were ready for harvesting at Aligiyam, Kurumandur Medu, Andavarmalai, Boodimadai Pudur and Kottupullampalayam were damaged in the winds. Farmers said that heavy rain, accompanied by strong winds, had damaged their crops completely that are ready for harvesting. They said that crops in over 50 acre were damaged and wanted compensation and also coverage under crop insurance scheme. They said that the government is yet to provide compensation for the crop loss that happened due to natural calamity last year. “We had borrowed and cultivated the crop. But now we face extensive loss”, they said. Revenue officials are in the processing of estimating the crop damage in the villages on Tuesday. Gobichettipalayam received 65 mm rainfall on Sunday night while it received 68.8 mm rainfall on Monday night. Rainfall recorded at various places in the district were Chennimalai 69 mm, Nambiyur 60 mm, Kodumudi 54.6 mm, Kavindapadi 52.3 mm, Bhavani 48.6 mm, Varattupallam 46.2 mm, Perundurai 44 mm, Kodiveri 32.2 mm, Elanthakuttai Medu 31.4 mm, Modakurichi 27 mm, Gunderipallam 26.4 mm Talavadi 15.4 mm and Erode 17 mm.  Salem Staff Reporter adds:  Heavy rain lashed Salem on Monday night with the district recording an average rainfall of 17.1 mm. Two houses of daily wagers in Kitchipalayam and Moonamkaradu areas respectively collapsed. However, no one was injured. Three persons, who slipped into a canal near Shevapet, were rescued by fire and rescue personnel on Monday night. According to officials, 64 mm rainfall was recorded in Kadaiyampatti, 4 mm in Anaimalai, 10 mm in Kariyakovil, 43.1 mm in Salem, 60 mm in Omalur, 19 mm in Sankari, 40 mm in Yercaud and 2.4 mm in Mettur. Meanwhile, the water level at Mettur dam stood at 68.67ft against a total scale of 120ft. The stored capacity of water in the dam was 31,570 mcft. The inflow to the dam was 3,820 cusecs of water and outflow from the dam was maintained at 10,000 cusecs of water.
22 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for making fake land document||The District Crime Branch Bureau on Tuesday arrested a computer centre owner on the charges of making fake land ownership certificate with government seals and forging the signature of a government officer. Tirumoorthy of Koppampalayam village in Nambiyur Taluk approached a computer centre at Punjai Puliyampatti seeking certificate for his five-acre land. The centre owner, R. Ramasamy of K.V.K. Nagar in Kavilipalayam, told Tirumoorthy that he knew Nambiyur tahsildar and would obtain the certificate without any difficulty. Tirumoorthy handed over the required documents to Ramasamy and left the place. After 10 days, Ramasamy handed over the certificate to Tirumoorthy who took it to the sub-registrar at the Punjai Puliyampatti office for registration. Officials found the certificate to be fake and held inquiries. Tirumoorthy told them that he had obtained the certificate from Ramasamy. Later, Village Administrative Officer of Kavilipalayam T. Prabhu lodged a complaint with the district police against Ramasamy. Inquiries revealed that Ramasamy had prepared the fake certificate, forged the signature of the tahsildar and had prepared government seals and used it. Police seized a computer, photocopier, printer, fake seals from the centre and sealed it. Ramasamy was arrested and lodged in prison.
22 July 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||HMK president held for attempting to desecrate Periyar statue||The district president of Hindu Makkal Katchi N. Prakash was arrested after he attempted to desecrate a statue of Dravidar Kazhagam founder Periyar E.V. Ramasamy at Panneerselvam Park in Erode Town on Monday. After the statue of Periyar was desecrated in Coimbatore on July 17, police personnel were deployed at Panneerselvam Park round-the-clock where the leader’s statue is located along with the statues of former Chief Ministers K. Karunanidhi, C.N. Annadurai and M.G. Ramachandran. Security beefed up Raising slogans, Mr. Prakash was prevented when he tried to enter the statue area. He was taken to the Erode Town Police Station. Security was beefed up in the area after the incident. Inquiries revealed that he was planning to wrap the statue of Periyar with a saffron colour towel which he carried. He was produced in a court and lodged at prison.
22 July 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to installation of wires in the underground cables from Erode sub-station, power supply will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the following areas.  Ashokapuram electric line, July 23: V.C.T.V. Road, Veerabhadra Street, A.B.T. Road, Cauvery Road, Municipal Colony, Annamalai Layout, 16 Road, Veerappanchatiram Theppakulam and Devarayan Kadu areas.  Thirunagar Colony electric line, July 24: V.C.T.V. Road (Malligai Arangam), Madavakadu, Thirunagar Colony, Sithan Nagar, Kamala Nagar, Krishnampalayam, Kakkan Nagar, V.I.P. Nagar, R.K.V. Nagar, Rajagopal Thottam, Ram Moorthy Nagar, M.G.R. Nagar and Vandiyuran Kovil Street.
22 July 2020||Kodaikanal,TAMIL NADU||Shops to remain closed||Merchants here have proposed to shut down their shops from July 23 to July 29 to cooperate with the district administration in curtailing the rise in number of COVID-19 patients. Hence, the association suggested the people to buy groceries and vegetables by July 22 and said that the shops would remain open till 8 p.m.
22 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CPI moves HC, seeks formation of sand corpn.||The Communist Party of India (CPI) moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday seeking a direction to the State government to form a sand corporation in order to tackle the menace of illegal sand quarrying. The petitioner, R. Mutharasan, State secretary of the CPI, said that a Tamil Nadu Sand Corporation should be formed on the lines of the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) to identify, excavate and sell sand. He said that indiscriminate sand quarrying was taking place throughout the State, and this had affected the groundwater level in many areas. There was no free flow of water, and sufficient water was not reaching the irrigation tanks. So, agriculturalists were put to severe hardship. He pointed out that many cases of illegal sand quarrying were reported from Sivaganga district. Despite complaints being filed against those involved in illegal sand quarrying, no action was being taken against them, he said. Rule 38-A of the Tamil Nadu Minor Mineral Concession Rules provides for quarrying of sand by the State government. Therefore, this rule must be effectively implemented in order to tackle the indiscriminate illegal sand quarrying in the State, he said. Taking up the public interest litigation petition for hearing, a Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam ordered notice to the State and adjourned the case for further hearing.
22 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks COVID-19 status report||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Tuesday took suo motu cognisance of various news reports that pointed to the delay in disclosing the results of swab samples that were taken for COVID-19 test. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the Dean of the Government Rajaji Hospital and the Special Officer for monitoring COVID-19 in Madurai district to file a status report in the case. The court put forth a series of queries for the State to answer with regard to the COVID-19 situation in Madurai district. The court sought a response for the reasons behind the delay in announcing the results of tests taken in respect of symptomatic and asymptomatic patients. Further, the court asked the State government whether the district administration and the health officials were fully geared to do periodical tests and the availability and use of RT-PCR test kits in a speedy and timely manner.  During the course of the hearing, Additional Advocate General K. Chellapandian submitted the details of the COVID-19 status in Madurai district. The case was adjourned till August 4 for filing a comprehensive status report.
22 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CB-CID probing another custodial torture case in Sattankulam, govt. tells HC||The State government on Tuesday informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that the investigation into another custodial torture case in Sattankulam that allegedly led to the death of a youth was being probed by the CB-CID. This incident is reported to have occurred before the deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks, who were allegedly tortured at the Sattankulam police station. Justice R. Pongiappan was informed that the investigation into the custodial torture and death of Mahendran had been transferred to the CB-CID, and a communication in this regard was submitted before the court. Adjourned till July 22 Taking cognisance of the submission, the judge adjourned the case till July 22 for considering the application seeking police protection to the family. The court was hearing a petition filed by S. Vadivu from Thoothukudi district, who alleged that her younger son Mahendran was tortured by Sattankulam police personnel in the name of inquiry. He suffered injuries on his head and private parts and was kept in illegal custody for a day.  ‘Mother threatened’ It was alleged that after Mahendran was let off, the police threatened Vadivu with dire consequences if she complained about the torture. Mahendran, who complained of giddiness and pain, was taken to the Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, where he succumbed to injuries.
22 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Tributes paid to SSI||Senior police officers on Tuesday visited the family members of M. Pandi, Special Sub-Inspector of Police, Chekkanoorani, who died on Monday due to COVID-19. Deputy Inspector General of Police (Madurai Range), S. Rajendiran, and Madurai Superintendent of Police, Sujit Kumar, consoled the family members and paid floral tributes to his portrait. The DIG also promised to expedite the efforts to fetch a government job on compassionate grounds to one of the family members of the deceased. The body was cremated at Thathaneri with full police honours.
22 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||History-sheeter found murdered in Madurai||A history-sheeter, M. Muthukumar (26), who came to paste posters for 6th death anniversary of his elder brother, Chellapandi, was found hacked to death in Anupanadi under Teppakulam police station limits in the early hours of Tuesday. The police said that his body was found with multiple cut injuries near the railway gate at Uppukaramedu. Chellapandi had murdered one Abbas Mani in 2014. However, Muthukumar thought that Chellapandi’s friend, one Sathya, had taken Chellapandi out on July 21, 2014 and helped his enemies take revenge on Abbas Mani’s murder. Subsequently, Muthukumar and his other brother, Sait Manikandan, along with their friends, hacked to death Sathya, on June 28, 2015. Muthukumar, a construction worker, had shifted to his native place in Mudhuvanthidal near Tiruppuvanam. He had come to Anupanadi to paste posters for the death anniversary of his elder brother, Chellapandi, who was killed in 2014 after being run over by train. On Monday night, Muthukumar, along with his friends, Sankar and Sudalaimani, went out to paste the posters. Both the friends rushed to their house at around 12.30 a.m. on Tuesday to inform them that Sathya’s friends Saravanan, Senthil, Suresh and others hacked Muthukumar and crushed his head with a boulder to death. However, the armed mob chased the friends away with a threat of dire consequences. Teppakulam police are on the lookout for the assailants.
22 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea to save heritage building of school||An alumnus of the over 100-year-old Karur Municipal Higher Secondary School moved the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court seeking a direction to restrain the Karur district administration from demolishing the heritage building of the school. In his public interest litigation petition, S. Nanmaran of Karur said that he was representing the alumni of the school who wanted the administration to preserve the building rather than demolish it. The origin of the school dates back to 1884 and the main building was constructed in 1909. The building that houses the Principal’s room, office, staff room and a few classrooms was strong even today. But the administration has decided to demolish the building to build additional classrooms. The strength of the school was 1000 and students can be accommodated in the present structure. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam ordered notice to the district administration and sought a response. The case was adjourned for further hearing.
22 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Testing facility ramped up||As Madurai district completes over one lakh tests, the administration continues to ramp up its testing infrastructure further. Collector T. G. Vinay said to The Hindu on Tuesday that till date, they had completed 1,07,167 tests in the district. Out of the total number, about 8,000 tests had been conducted by private hospitals, he said. On every day of the last one week, the district had been averaging 4,000 tests, he added. The Collector had earlier said that the testing capacity was limited to 2,200 tests per day at the Government Rajaji Hospital’s lab. He said that the administration used to send the additional 1,800 samples to Chennai and Coimbatore districts for the results. However, with the introduction of better infrastructure, the district is now able to process all the 4,000 samples. District Monitoring Officer B. Chandra Mohan said, “In the last 24 hours, a record 4,000 odd samples were processed for the first time in the history of the Virus Research and Diagnostic Laboratory (VRDL) in the GRH.” He added that the hospital had come up with innovations for better utilisation of capacity and expanded the number of tests with time. Until Tuesday, the district had four RT-PCR machines that required manual RNA extraction and one RNA extraction machine. On Tuesday, one RT-PCR machine was donated to the GRH, said Dean, J. Sangumani. “We are likely to get one more RNA extractor,” he said and added that all 4,000 samples could be processed here. Deputy Director of Health Services, Priya Raj, said that the district planned to continue conducting 4,000 tests each day at least for the next one week.
22 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘CB-CID probing another Sattankulam case’||The State government on Tuesday informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that the investigation into another custodial torture case in Sattankulam that allegedly led to the death of a youth was being probed by the CB-CID. This incident is reported to have occurred before the deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks, who were allegedly tortured at Sattankulam police station. Justice R. Pongiappan was informed by the State that the investigation into custodial torture and subsequent death of Mahendran was transferred to the CB-CID. Taking cognisance of the submission, the judge adjourned the case till July 22 for considering the application for providing police protection to the family. The court was hearing the petition filed by S. Vadivu from Thoothukudi district who alleged that her younger son Mahendran was tortured by Sattankulam police in the name of inquiry. He had suffered injuries on his head and private parts and was kept in illegal custody for a day. It was said that after Mahendran was let off, the police threatened Ms. Vadivu of dire consequences if she revealed this to anyone. Mahendran who complained of giddiness and pain was taken to Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital, where he died later.
22 July 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Form sand corporation’||The CPI moved the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday seeking a direction to the State government to form a sand corporation in order to curb illegal sand quarrying. The petitioner, R. Mutharasan, State Secretary of the CPI, said a Tamil Nadu Sand Corporation (TAMSAC) should be formed on the lines of TASMAC to identify, excavate and sell sand. He said in the public interest litigation petition that indiscriminate sand quarrying was taking place across the State and this had affected groundwater levels. There was no free flow of water to irrigation tanks. He said the highest number of cases of illegal sand quarrying was reported from Sivaganga district. But, no action was taken in this regard. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam ordered notice to the State and adjourned the case.
22 July 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||As the monthly maintenance works had to be undertaken by the TANGEDCO, there will be no power supply from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Wednesday (July 22) in the following areas: Dinamani Nagar, Karisalkulam, Old and New Vilangudi, Meenakshi Nagar, Pandian Nagar, IOC Nagar, VMW Colony, Railar Nagar, Sangeeth Nagar, Chokkalinga Nagar, Koodal Nagar 1 to 13 streets, AIR Station Main Road, Chelliah Nagar, Anaiyur sector (1 and 2), JJ Nagar, Sanjeevi Nagar, Santhi Nagar, Pasingapuram, Vagaikulam, Koilpappakudi, Sikkandar Chavadi, Fatima College, Boothakudi, Lakshmipuram and Milaharanai, M Rajagandhi Executive Engineer said here on Tuesday.
22 July 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Public hearing on July 30||Public hearings to be chaired by the Principal Secretary / Commissioner of Revenue Administration on carving out a new district from Nagapattinam district with Mayiladuthurai as headquarters will be conducted on July 30. The first hearing will be conducted at E.G.S. Pillai Engineering College Auditorium in Nagapattinam town from 12 noon to 1.30 p.m. and at A.V.C. Arts College, Mayiladuthurai, from 3.30 p.m. to 5.30 p.m. on July 30. In a press release, Collector Praveen P. Nair said MPs, MLAs, representatives of local bodies, representatives of trade associations, representatives of non-government organisations, and service-minded volunteers can participate in the hearings. A drop box will be kept in front of venues of public hearing to enable the public convey their views in writing and ensure social distancing.
22 July 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Man dies as bike rams car||A 33-year-old Sasi, a resident near Anjugramam here, died after the bike in which he was going reportedly collided with a car coming on the opposite direction on Tuesday. Police said that the victim, who was working in an IT firm in Chennai, had come home due to COVID-19 lockdown. His wife and a little child lived in the neighbourhood. After seeing them, when Sasi was returning with a friend, the bike collided with a car near Thamuthukonam in which Sasi died on the spot. His friend has been admitted to Asaripallam GH. Rajakkamangalam police are investigating.
22 July 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Valvil Ori festival cancelled||The Namakkal district administration has cancelled Valvil Ori festival to be held on August 1 and 2 due to lockdown, according to District Collector K. Megraj. According to a release, the flower show, archery competition and other events held as part of the festival has also been cancelled and advised the public and tourists to not to travel to Kolli Hills for this purpose. Mr. Megraj warned of stern legal action against persons violating prohibitory orders.
22 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||House seeks apology from Bedi for insulting doctor||The Legislative Assembly on Tuesday sought an apology from Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi for threatening and insulting a senior doctor during an inspection at the Health Directorate on Saturday. Speaker V. P. Sivakolundhu said it was regrettable that she made such remarks. “The House wants the Lt. Governor to express regret and apologise to the doctor concerned,” he said. Making a mention of the video doing the rounds relating to an inspection at Health Directorate, Parliamentary Secretary to the Chief Minister K. Lakshminarayanan said, “In the video, Ms. Bedi is heard saying that ‘I will deal with you (doctor) and it is enough to hang you’.” Meanwhile, healthcare workers, led by the Unified Health Employees Association joint action committee, stayed away from work for two hours on Tuesday morning to press for an apology from Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi. The healthcare workers boycotted work, sparing only emergency services, and staged a protest in front of hospitals and health centres. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi on Tuesday sought to assuage the hurt among the medical fraternity saying she has “the highest regards for our warriors in white coat.” In a statement, Ms. Bedi said, “In case any person has felt hurt or offended by my mentoring and guidance, I only wish to say I am doing my duty in very trying times in right earnest, for which I am here for. There is nothing personal in anything said or done.”
22 July 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Death toll at 30||A 68-year-old man succumbed to COVID-19, taking the death toll to 30 in Puducherry on Tuesday. The diabetic patient from Muthialpet was admitted to state-run IGMCRI on July 17. Meanwhile, 90 of the 91 new cases on Tuesday were in Puducherry, while 53 patients were discharged. The cases were detected from testing of 521 samples. The infection rate is 17.9% and the fatality rate 1.4%, a bulletin from S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health, said.
22 July 2020||SIVAKASI,TAMIL NADU||Two children found dead in Sivakasi||Two children – K. Mariswaran (5) and his sister Gayathri (4) – were found dead in their house at Murugan Colony here on Tuesday evening. When their mother Thangapushpam returned home after work at a fireworks unit, she was shocked to see them lying dead. Her husband Kalidoss (26) was at a home. Police suspect that the children could have been strangulated to death. Sivakasi East police are inquiring Kalidoss.
22 July 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 hotspots to be identified||Hotspots of COVID-19 in Pattukottai area would be identified and necessary steps will be initiated to arrest the spread, according to Collector M. Govinda Rao. Disclosing this in a press release, the Collector, who chaired a review meeting at Pattukottai on Monday, said that areas in and around Pattukottai where two or more number of persons tested positive for COVID-19 infection would be cordoned off and sanitised. Infected persons would be treated at the newly constructed Slum Clearance Board tenements at Pattukottai, he added. Meanwhile, 20 streets in Kumbakonam Municipality have been declared as containment zones since three or more number of persons residing there tested positive. In all 256 persons have tested so far in Kumbakonam Municipal limits and most of them have been treated. Special camps were being conducted at the containment zones to check temperature and oxygen level of the people. Stating that a COVID-19 Special Treatment Centre would be set up at Kumbakonam if needed, the Collector called upon the people to follow the instructions given by the State government while moving out of their houses.
22 July 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Flash strike by Theni traders||The members having shops on Bhagavathi Amman Temple street and in Idamal Street here resorted to a flash strike urging the district administration to allow them to open their shops. There are over 100 shops, including textile, jewellery, footwear and readymade garment showrooms in these locations. Since 20 days, they were directed to shut down shutters after people in the locality tested positive to the COVID-19 virus. However, as the situation had turned normal, the shopkeepers urged the authorities to permit them to open and allow them to do business. After a consultation, it was decided to allow them to do business with restrictions from July 22.
22 July 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Streets sealed with tin sheets||With the number of COVID-19 positive patients on the rise, the civic authorities here have erected tin sheets in at least 10 residential locations across the Corporation limits on Tuesday. After the pandemic broke in March end, the number of fresh cases looked upwards almost after two months here. Since June, the number of indigenous cases climbed up steadily and steeply. The total positive cases accounted for 3,914 on Tuesday and discharged people remained at 1,781, according to the State Medical Bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, Chennai. Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jeyaseelan, Sub-Collector Simranjeet, Health and officers from the police department inspected Shanmugapuram, Damodara Nagar, Vannar Street, Bryant Nagar (3, 7, 8 and 9 Streets), Boobalrayarpuram Main Road, Sarangapani Street among others in the city. In the peripheries, including Tiruchendur, Vilathikulam, Sattankulam and Kovilpatti too, the number of COVID-19 patients was on the rise, especially after the recent rainfall. Persons with influenza like illness have been advised not to delay testing, the officials added.
22 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Sharp rise in positive cases||The central districts witnessed a sharp spike in number of fresh cases with as many as 426 persons testing positive for the coronavirus on Tuesday. Nine deaths were also recorded in the State Health Department’s media bulletin for the day. The maximum number of cases, 127 was reported in Tiruchi district. Tiruvarur and Thanjavur districts followed with 73 and 71 cases, respectively. Nagapattinam district reported 42 cases and Pudukottai 40, Ariyalur 37 and Karur 24 cases. Perambalur had the least with 12 new cases reported on Tuesday. Out of 127 cases in Tiruchi, 15 cases were reported in Manapparai. New cases were also reported from Woraiyur, Thennur, Srirangam, Mahalakshmi Nagar, Fathima Nagar, Edamalaipattipudur and Ayyappa Nagar in city. The virus claimed nine lives in Tiruchi, Karur and Ariyalur districts. Of them, Tiruchi district accounted for six deaths. Ariyalur and Karur reported two and one deaths, respectively. A 57-year-old patient belonged to Peelankurichi, who was admitted to the K.A.P.Viswanatham Medical College on July 10, died on Monday. Another patient who was 60-year-old belonging to Edamalaipattipudur, who was admitted to the hospital on July 18, died of respiratory failure on Sunday. She did not have any comorbidity. The third patient from Tiruchi, who died of COVID-19 on Monday, hailed from Thennur. She had diabetes mellitus and systematic hypertension before she was admitted to the Tiruchi GH. A-65-year-old patient from Rettaivaikkal, who was admitted to the Tiruchi GH on July 13, was declared dead on Sunday. The virus claimed the life of a 62-year-old male from Pillaiyarkoil Street. He was admitted to the Tiruchi GH with breathing difficulties on July 18. All patients except one, had co morbidities. The virus claimed a 75-year-old male from Ariyalur, who was admitted to the KAP Viswanatham Medical College Hospital on Sunday, He died within a few hours of admission. He had diabetes mellitus and coronary artery disease. Another 58-year-old person from Ariyalur, died on Sunday after being in admission for 12 days. He was brought to the hospital after consuming poison and test results later turned out to be positive. A 67-year-old male from Karur, who was admitted to the Government Karur Medical College Hospital on Monday, died on Tuesday. As many as 55 patients, who had tested positive for the virus, were discharged in Tiruchi district. Of them, 30 patients received treatment as inpatients at K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital. Remaining 25 patients were treated at the COVID care centre at the Khajamalai campus of Bharathidasan University.
22 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Numbers steadily increasing in Manapparai, Marungapuri blocks||Mounting cases of COVID-19 in Manapparai and Marungapuri blocks in the district were a cause of concern not only for residents but also the administration. According to official sources, 2,094 persons were tested positive for the virus in the district up to July 18. Of them, 1,123 were from Tiruchi city. Rural areas of the district accounted for 867 cases. Manapparai tops the list of 14 blocks in the district. There were 132 cases in Manapparai alone, followed by Mannachanallur block with 118 cases. Manikandam and Musiri follows with 74 cases each. Sixty nine cases were reported from Marungapuri block. At least five to six cases have been adding to Manapparai tally daily. It was from April, that the first few cases of COVID-19 were reported in Puthanatham and Thuvarankurichi in Marungapuri block. Though most of the patients had recovered, the virus began affecting the people residing in neighbouring villages gradually. The case load in Manapparai continues to surge and it crossed 150 mark on Monday. Kallipatti, Marungapuri, Valanadu and Karutha Kodangipatti were among the most affected villages in Manapparai and Marungapuri blocks. Since many policemen in Manapparai station tested positive for COVID-19, it has been shut temporarily. A few policemen in Thuvarankurichi were diagnosed positive. On death count too Marungapuri tops the list in rural areas. As per an official statement, 33 COVID-19 deaths were reported in the district. While Tiruchi city accounted for 22 deaths, 11 were from rural areas. Of them, five deaths were reported in Marungapuri alone. “It is a matter of concern. We observe that awareness on social distancing norms is very low in rural areas. There are people, who still believe that there is no such virus,” says M. A. Aleem, a neurologist. He said more than 60 to 70% of the rural people did not use face mask and failed to follow personal distancing norms. Moreover, many of them hardly followed hand washing etiquette.
22 July 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||DMK cadre stage demonstration||In protest against exorbitant electricity bills, DMK cadre staged protests in front of their residences and party unit offices on Tuesday. Its principal secretary K.N. Nehru led the demonstration in Tiruchi. The protesters urged the government not to impose a heavy burden on the public by levying exorbitant power bills during the pandemic. They also wanted the government to provide adequate time for the consumers to pay bills in instalments. Durai Chandrasekaran, MLA, led the demonstration in Thanjavur while Poondi Kalaivanan, Tiruvarur MLA, led the demonstration at Tiruvarur. Similar demonstrations were held in various parts of other districts.
22 July 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects elephant rehabilitation centre||Collector S. Sivarasu on Tuesday inspected the Elephant Rescue and Rehabilitation Centre at M.R.Palayam near here. The centre accommodates seven elephants that were translocated from various places in the State. The inspection comes a few days after a helper at the centre sustained injury when one of the captive elephants suddenly swiped him with its trunk. During his visit, the Collector went around the sprawling centre inspecting the shelters put up for the elephants, quarters for mahouts, bathing pond and shower for the animals, sources said. The Collector said his visit was also aimed at ascertaining the safety measures put in place inside the centre. Meanwhile, the sources said the helper who was admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi Government Hospital was discharged on Tuesday.
22 July 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Release water to save crop’||The Thamizhaga Cauvery Vivasayigal Sangam has urged the Cauvery Water Management Authority to inspect the dams in Cauvery Basin and ensure that the lower riparian State’s share in Cauvery water was duly released to save the kuruvai crop. In a statement issued on Tuesday after inspecting fields in Thiruthuraipoondi where kuruvai cultivation had been taken up, its general secretary P.R.Pandian said that farmers in the delta region had taken up kuruvai cultivation on about 3.50 lakh acres reposing their faith on the announcement made by the State government in this regard. However, transplantation is yet to take place on 1.50 lakh acres due to non-availability of water. The crop raised through direct sowing was yet to get supplemented with fertilizers and it started withering for want of water. As the storage level at Mettur had fallen below 65 feet, farmers who were unable to save the standing kuruvai crop were in a dilemma on whether to go for samba crop or not. Water storage in dams in Karnataka had surpassed 80% of their holding capacity, he said but the Karnataka government refuses to release the due share of Tamil Nadu government in the Cauvery for the months of January to July accounting 61 tmcft of water. So, CWMA officials should inspect dams in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu in order to ensure that the rightful share of Tamil Nadu is released into the Cauvery river system.
22 July 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Gatherings banned in the Nilgiris||The Nilgiris district administration has banned gatherings to contain the spread of COVID-19. The move comes in the wake of a spurt in the number of infections in the district, with more than 500 cases being recorded so far. The district administration stated that the gatherings held in Mulligoor, Thangadu, Ottupattarai and Vannarpet in Coonoor had led to a majority of the infections. Collector J. Innocent Divya said all private and public gatherings had been banned in the district until further notice. Pre-arranged weddings would be allowed only after the organisers get permission from the Collector, She told reporters. “Even if granted permission, only 50 guests will be allowed. Their names and details should be shared with the district administration. Even if one person over the limit attends, severe action will be taken against those organising the wedding,” said the Collector. And for funerals, only 20 persons would be allowed to attend. “To make sure that the rules are followed, local police, revenue officials and officials from the respective local body will be at the funeral to monitor it,” the Collector said. Testing Intensive fever camps would be conducted in an effort to step up the COVID-19 testing in the district, the Collector said. Inaugurating two mobile dispensaries on Tuesday, she said Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram teams and Mobile Medical Units would conduct the camps.
22 July 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||One more policeman dies in Aruppukottai||A Head Constable, Jayaprakash, who was infected with COVID-19, died at a private hospital in Aruppukottai on Tuesday evening. He is survived by his wife and a son. Mr. Jayaprakash, attached to Highway Patrol, is the second police personnel in Virudhunagar district police to lose life to the deadly virus. He was admitted to the private hospital on July 11. “Our Superintendent of Police, P. Perumal, got him anti-viral drug remdesivir as his condition worsened. However, he failed to respond to the treatment,” said Deputy Inspector General of Police (Madurai Range), S. Rajendiran. Earlier, a head constable, Ayyanar, attached to Seithur Rural police station, died due to COVID-19 on July 5. Only on Tuesday, another head constable, M. Pandi, of Madurai rural district succumbed to the virus after a battle of 23 days. Mr. Rajendiran said that a total of 182 police personnel — 116 in Virudhunagar district and 66 in Madurai, have been infected with COVID-19 so far. Besides, masks, gloves and face shields, the police personnel have been provided with sanitiser. All medicines, including Kabasurakudineer, are being supplied to them regularly.
22 July 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Ex-Minister flays ‘wrong calculations’ by Tangedco||Former Minister and Aruppukottai MLA K.K.S.S.R. Ramachandran on Tuesday said Tangedco’s “wrong calculations” had adversely affected its consumers. He made the observation while taking part in a black flag demonstration by DMK cadre across Virudhunagar district against the ‘exorbitant’ power consumption charges imposed on consumers during the COVID-19 lockdown. Mr. Ramachandran alleged that the State government had imposed a ‘fine’ on every electricity consumer. Adding three months’ consumption to one cycle had led to units going up to the next slab in the tariff. “Even the officials do not have a proper answer,” he said, adding that Tangedco should calculate the units consumed and levy the charge as per the previous slabs of the consumers.“This will solve the problem,” he added. Tiruchuli MLA and former Minister Thangam Thennarasu led the protest at his native village Mallankinaru. “Tangedco has been inconsistent in its directions on calculating the charges,” he said. Mr. Thennarasu said a party functionary had got a huge bill of Rs. 75,000. “When he raised the issue, the officials said there had been a mistake and corrected it to Rs. 15,000,” he claimed.
22 July 2020||VIRUDHUNAGAR/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar records highest number of positive cases||Virudhunagar reported 360 fresh COVID-19 cases, its highest single-day tally since March-end, on Tuesday. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district rose to 3,924. A total of 84 patients were discharged from hospitals, and the district has 2,186 active cases. Its death toll stands at 28. A total of 158 persons tested positive in Madurai, taking the district’s tally to 8,517. Collector T.G. Vinay said 70 of the new cases were contacts of COVID-19 positive patients. Nine frontline workers and a pregnant woman were among the new cases. Seven deaths were recorded in the district, which pushed the toll to 167. The number of active cases is 3,280. Thoothukudi recorded 271 new cases, which took the district’s tally to 3,643 and the number of active cases to 2,107. The district has registered a toll of 26. Kanniyakumari Kanniyakumari’s tally went up to 2,568, with the addition of 159 fresh cases on Tuesday. The district, which has recorded 20 deaths, has 1,584 active cases. Tirunelveli Sixty-eight new cases were reported in Tirunelveli, with which the district’s case count rose to 2,851. A total of 300 people were discharged from hospital. The district has 1,225 active cases and its toll stands at 12. Tenkasi Tenkasi had 59 fresh cases, which pushed its tally to 1,259. There were 821 active cases. So far, three persons had died due to COVID-19 in the district. Theni There were 131 new cases recorded in Theni, and its tally went up to 2,732. The district’s overall toll is 36. There are 1,231 active cases in the district. Dindigul Dindigul had 45 fresh cases, which took its the total case count to 1,725. The district’s death toll stands at 22. There are 841 active cases. Ramanathapuram Ramanathapuram, which had 78 new cases on Tuesday, has registered 2,603 positive cases and 52 deaths. The district has 750 active cases. Sivaganga Seventy-five fresh cases were reported in Sivaganga, which saw its tally rise to 1,687. The district, which recorded 28 deaths, has 881 active cases.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||One death, 176 fresh cases in Coimbatore district||Coimbatore district reported one death and 176 fresh COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the district’s overall tally of positive cases to 2,359. Health Department sources said the deceased was a 62-year-old man from Selvapuram. He was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on July 18 with co-morbidities such as obesity and lung infection, and later tested positive for COVID-19, the sources said. He was shifted to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital on Monday night after his condition deteriorated, but died on Tuesday morning. RAF personnel The fresh cases include three personnel from the 105 Battalion of Rapid Action Force (RAF) at Mahalingapuram and a 16-year-old boy from PRS Police Quarters on Dr. Balasundaram Road. Locations with high number of cases included Kuniamuthur (11 cases), Selvapuram (10), Rangai Gowder Street (9), Madukkarai (8) and Variety Hall Road (6). The Signals and Telecommunications Workshop attached to Podanur Railway Station was closed for fumigation on Tuesday after an employee tested positive. Railway officials said the workshop would remain closed on Wednesday also. Meanwhile, swab samples of seven migrant workers from Bihar were lifted at Malumichampatti on Tuesday as they were in contact with five workers who tested positive on Monday, the sources said. Totally, 121 patients were discharged after recovering from COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Tuesday, including 72 from the ESI Hospital. Salem saw 85 cases on Tuesday, of which 82 were indigenous, including 31 from Salem Corporation limits. Eight patients were staff at four private hospitals here, one returned from Kallakuruchi and two from Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh. Tiruppur district reported 34 new positive cases on Tuesday, taking its overall tally so far to 541. With Tuesday’s tally, the district has seen 30 cases on a single day for three consecutive days Among the fresh cases were seven children –a 14-year-old girl from Devanagapuram in Kangeyam Block; two boys aged six and 12 years from Amaravathy Nagar, Vaikkalmedu in the outskirts of Tiruppur Corporation limits; a 14-year-old boy from K.P. Kovil Street in Udumalpet; a 13-year-old boy from AVP Layout in Tiruppur Corporation limits; a 16-year-old girl from Kalukarai in Madathukulam Block and a seven-year-old boy from Kasthuribai Street in Avinashi Block. Namakkal saw 12 new cases, seven of them contacts of previous cases. Two persons returned from Coimbatore and Karur. In Erode, three fresh cases were reported and 71 persons were discharged from the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. Of the new cases, two were at Moolapalayam and one was on Agilmedu Street. A total of 512 cases were reported in the district so far and 127 persons are under treatment. Six persons tested positive in Dharmapuri taking the total number of cases so far to 488 on Tuesday. The infected persons included a 15-year-old boy, a 9-year-old boy and a 16-year-old girl, all belong to the same family in Karimangalam. In Krishnagiri, 37 new cases were reported taking the tally so far to 451. The Nilgiris district saw two fresh cases on Tuesday, raising the total number so far to 515. The new cases were from Gudalur. They returned from Dubai in February. After completing their quarantine, they travelled outside the district.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till July 21   Persons tested +ve so far: 2,359 Indigenous cases: 2,321 Imported cases: 38 Persons recovered: 1,022 Deaths: 22 Active cases: 1,314      Home quarantined: 2,823 Indigenous cases: 533 Imported cases: 8 Persons recovered: 266 Deaths: 5 Active cases: 270
22 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Lockdown in five taluks of Belagavi district to end today||Lockdown imposed in five taluks of Belagavi district — Gokak, Mudalagi, Kagwad, Athani and Nippani — will end on Wednesday. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath signed orders ending the lockdown in these taluks on Tuesday, following Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s announcement in Bengaluru that there was no need to continue lockdown in the State. Mr. Hiremath said that focus would be on contact tracing, testing and hospital management to combat the disease. He also said that efforts would be made to reboot the economy, by implementing schemes of the Union and State government in various sectors. The Deputy Commissioner has also asked all residents of the district to follow COVID-19 protocol by maintaining social distancing, wearing masks and carrying out sanitisation.
22 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||AYUSH doctors to join duty after Minister’s assurance||Over 2,000 AYUSH doctors who had resigned from government service seeking higher wages and regularisation will rejoin work following assurances from Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar that the government would increase their salaries. However, the doctors association is unhappy over the condition that the increase would be temporary. “We have been told that the higher salaries are only for six months and that it would revert to the old salary scale after that. However, owing to the seriousness of the epidemic, we have agreed to rejoin duties. We will take a decision about continuing with our services if the government goes back to the old scale after six months,” said Jeevanesh Hiremath, State president of the Association of AYUSH Doctors on Contractual Service in the Department of Health and Family Welfare. The 600 doctors in primary health centres and 1,400 doctors attached to anganwadi and other child care centres are likely to join duties after the government offered to double their salaries, he said. Most AYUSH doctors in the State are on contractual service. They are paid a consolidated salary of Rs. 20,000 per month. The government has offered to pay them Rs. 48,000 per month, but deferred their other demands citing financial difficulties. The striking doctors have been seeking a revised salary of Rs. 60,000 and regularised service. On Monday, a delegation led by Dr. Hiremath held two rounds of talks with the government.
22 July 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||BUDA office sealed||The office of the Belagavi Urban Development Authority was sealed after an Assistant Executive Engineer tested positive for COVID-19 in Belagavi on Tuesday. The engineer was posted for screening and other duties at the Belagavi airport. He tested positive on Tuesday. Soon after, officers sealed his office near the fort lake. He had been attending to his duties in the BUDA office, after completing his duties at the airport, the officers said.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM attempts decentralisation, Ministers see zones as fiefdoms||When the pandemic began to spread rapidly in the city, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa decided to allocate more resources and assigned a minister and a senior IAS officer to each of the eight zones. However, the strategy – billed as an exercise in decentralisation – seems to have backfired, with each zone operating like a mini fiefdom instead of working with the BBMP, argue several civic officials. “The ministers and IAS officers were expected to help and work with the civic administration, but have instead turned themselves into a parallel system of administration,” said a senior civic official. The ministers are holding regular review meetings and are allegedly issuing directions to civic officials, which in many cases have run contrary to the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) being followed by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), leading to chaos and confusion. Another civic official pointed out that even norms for sealing of premises after a person has been tested positive, today varies with each zone. “In some zones, directions have been issued to seal an entire floor in case of an apartment, while in other zones, only the particular flat is sealed. This has left many apartment associations confused and worried,” said the official. He added that getting the BBMP to seal premises and sanitise the common areas is now rid with red tape. “In frustration, apartments are increasingly sanitising their premises privately,” said a senior official. Sources allege instances of ministers and officers earmarking more resources to their respective zones, anticipating a spike in COVID-19 cases. “At a recent meeting, a minister asked the health officer how many ambulances the zone needed. When the officer answered five, the minister castigated him and said they would take nine ambulances,” said a member of a RWA who was part of the meeting. Some zones, including East zone, have opted for zonal control rooms as well, which officials fear will lead to fragmentation of data. The COVID-19 war room may be crippled, they warned. A senior civic official said there was also an instance of beds in a zone being reserved in anticipation of patients. This has been nipped in the bud as the bed allocation system has been centralised. A senior opposition MLA from the city said though the eight ministers may not be working at cross purposes, the priorities and strategies vary in each zone. “In my zone, the priority is on door-to-door surveys to identify ILI and SARI cases. But in other zones, the priorities are different. They include creating COVID-19 care infrastructure and containment zone management. All these are key to the fight against COVID-19, but each zone is prioritising and focusing on a few strategies that the minister and officers in-charge of the zone think are key to managing the pandemic. Though some amount of localisation is necessary, this seems to have effectively created eight strategies in the city,” he said. The new civic Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad has formed a COVID-19 task force to decide on the SOPs and guidelines to combat the pandemic in the city. Civic officials hope to bring in much-needed uniformity in anti-COVID-19 measures in the city.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Most of the infected in Bengaluru are in 30-39 age bracket||During the early stages of the COVID-19 pandemic, it was senior citizens who were asked to be extra careful along with others with comorbidities as they were susceptible to the virus. But four months down the line, as Bengaluru continues to post a worrying trend as far as numbers are concerned, it is the 20 to 49 age group that makes up a majority of cases in the city. Men account for more cases and deaths across all age groups. As per the recent war room bulletins of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), most number of cases reported until July 19 are in the 30 to 39 age bracket (8,262 including recoveries and deaths). This is followed by the 20 to 29 age bracket (7,217) and 40 to 49 age group (7,120). In contrast, there are far fewer cases among senior citizens: 3,618 cases among people between the ages 60 and 69, and 19,74 cases among those aged above 70. However, officials in the BBMP war room said this has been a constant trend. For instance, the April 20 war room bulletin shows that when the numbers were at their lowest given the lockdown, the 20 to 29 age group had the highest numbers — 40, followed by 30 to 39 (22), 50 to 59 (20), and 40 to 49 (19). The 60 to 69 bracket had 18 cases, including two deaths. In June, the 20 to 29 age group had 376 cases, the 30 to 39 age group 324 cases, 40 to 49 group 228 cases, and 50 to 59 age bracket 208 cases. Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, BBMP war room special officer, told The Hindu that the main reason for the higher number of cases in certain age brackets was mobility. “This age group is more mobile, and there is the peer factor as well. This has been the trend in Bengaluru from the beginning,” she said. Contrasting picture But the deaths show a contrasting picture, putting those above the age of 50 in the risky category. The number of fatalities is highest in the 60 to 69 age group with 174 deaths, followed by 50 to 59 group with 165 deaths, and over 70 years age group with 129 deaths. Though they have a higher number of cases, the age groups between 20 and 49 have relatively lower death counts: the 40 to 49 group has 89 deaths, 30 to 39 group 42 deaths, 20 to 29 group 14 deaths.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||On industry request, govt. defers payment of VDA for one year||In a development that will affect lakhs of workers across sectors in the State and amid protests from trade unions, the government has deferred payment of Variable Dearness Allowance (VDA) from the employer for a period of one year. More shocking for the workers is that while the industry had initially sought deferment for four months, the government has granted a year. The VDA payable from April 1, 2020, to March 31, 2021, has been postponed by the government in a bid to help the industry. While the demand for exemption from payment of VDA had come from industries, the MSME Department had also recommended it and sought the opinion of the Labour Department. After holding consultationswith industry representatives and trade unions in May, the Labour Department notified postponement on payment of VDA on Tuesday. The order said that the Labour Commissioner felt that in the current “emergency situation”, payment of VDA that is part of the minimum wage canbe put off. The VDA suspension is expected to hit about six million workers in82 scheduled employments under the Minimum Wages Act. The VDA for workers is notified annually by the State government based on inflationary trends and is calculated on the basis of price rise recorded the previous year. Accordingly, the VDA for workers in Karnataka for 2020 ranged from Rs. 417.6 to Rs. 522 per worker per month, depending on type of industry. This VDA was arrived at based on the calculation of a 348-point increase in Consumer Price Index (CPI) or cost of living index for 2019-20 payable in 2020-21. Four to five paise per day — depending on the industry — is calculated for every point increase. The industrial units in Karnataka had sought deferment of VDA payment citing that they had already paid full wagesto workers for the lockdown period, and with fresh orders not coming in, they were finding it difficult to pay wages. Meanwhile, trade unions have argued that the decision to suspend VDA would be a contempt of court as the Minimum Wages Act that encompasses VDA has been upheld by the Supreme Court. The All-India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), which had earlier opposed a freeze on VDA, said that consumption accounts for 60% of the GDP and private sector investments account for only to 22%. “It makes economic sense to put money into the hands of the working class in order to revive the economy,” it said.  Though this will give some relief to the industry, arrears have to be paid after April 1, 2021. In fact, the industry had asked for a freeze or a waiver, and this order is only a partial relief. It will not affect employees as it is only a postponement B.C. Prabhakar,president, Karnataka Employers’ Association   It is unfair on the part of the government to expect the workers to subsidise the costs of running the industry. Minimum wage is an inalienable right that cannot be diminished, irrespective of industry’s financial capability M. Satyanand,secretary, All-India Trade Union Congress
22 July 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Eight-year-old electrocuted||An eight-year-old girl died on Monday night after coming into contact with live cables on an electric pole near her house in Kaval Byrasandra. The deceased, Fathima Johara, was returning home with her parents Mohammed Shabir Khan, a flower seller, and Sultana after purchasing milk. “It had just stopped raining and the girl was playing around. She tried to swing around the electric pole. When she came in contact with the pole, she was electrocuted and died on the spot. “It all happened in a matter of a few seconds,” a senior police official said. The DJ Halli police have registered a case of causing death due to negligence under Section 304A of Indian Penal Code against the officials concerned of the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company (Bescom). A senior Bescom official said, “We have found out that some unauthorised work was carried out to lay an underground electric cable to one of the houses. The work was carried out shabbily, leaving live cables in the open. We will file a complaint with the police against those who carried out this unauthorised work.”
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Show cause notices issued to 291 private hospitals||After finding that a few hospitals had not handed over 50% of their total beds under government quota, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has issued notices to all 291 private hospitals in the city. At a press conference on Tuesday, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said that the 291 hospitals were now required to provide details of bed availability. “Stringent action will be initiated against hospitals that fail to provide details sought and those that deny admission to COVID-19 patients,” he said. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is expected to review the work taken up in each of the eight zones in the city from Wednesday. Teams headed by IAS/IPS officials have begun inspecting private hospitals to ascertain if 50% of the total beds had been reserved under government quota, he said. Each team oversees four hospitals. BBMP is in favour of increasing fine amount The civic body has recommended an increase in the fines levied on those who don’t wear masks or maintain social distancing. Currently, the fine amount is just Rs. 200 per offence. “We have recommended that it be increased five times,” said Mr. Prasad. With regard to cremation of those who have succumbed to COVID-19, he said there were adequate facilities with 11 electric crematoriums, which have the capacity to cremate 192 bodies a day. Four crematoriums will be reserved for those who succumbed to COVID-19. They are located in Modi Agrahara (Yelahanka), Kudlu (Bommanahalli), Kengeri and Mahadevapura. They will be open till 8 p.m., he added. The BBMP, in coordination with the Labour Department, will distribute dry rations to people from lower socio-economic groups in containment zones. “Azim Premji Foundation had agreed to provide a kit containing necessary devices, such as thermometer and pulse meter, to those who opt for home isolation,” Mr. Prasad said.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Popular eatery shuts down indefinitely||Pillowy idlis, crisp vadas, shavige bath that ticks all the boxes, slurp worthy bisi bele bath and the unlimited chutney… it will be a while before patrons can savour these dishes from the popular Veena Stores in Malleswaram again. The landmark eatery has downed its shutters indefinitely. Owner Pradeep Suryanarayana told The Hindu , “We closed operations early this month. Health concerns trumped business. It was a very hard decision; but we had no other choice.” Started in 1977 by his father Suryanarayana who is now in his 80s, Veena Stores has a loyal clientele. People from across the city would queue up outside the small eatery on the busy Margosa Road as early as 6.30 a.m. The queue would extend more than 100 metres on weekends. “I receive calls from many people every day enquiring about when we will re-open. But with the number of COVID-19 positive cases increasing by the day, we are not sure when operations can be resumed,” he said. He said his staff was finding it difficult to ensure customers maintain social distancing, which is crucial to checking the spread of COVID-19. “Veena Stores has earned a lot of repute. We did not want to become a reason for the spread of the virus. Moreover, we were also scared of contracting the virus and infecting our families,” he added. B. Chandrashekhar Hebbar, president of Karnataka Pradesh Hotels’ and Restaurants’ Association, said that many hotels across the State had shut down indefinitely. “We need to ensure SMS (Social Distancing, Masks and Sanitisers). Small eateries, such as Veena Stores, and darshinis do not have the space to ensure social distancing,” he said.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rates for antigen tests in private labs fixed||The State government has fixed the rate for antigen COVID-19 tests in private labs at Rs. 2,000 for government referred cases and Rs. 3,000 if individuals choose to do it at their own will, said a press release issued by the Medical Education Department. Besides this, other decisions taken in the task force committee meeting include hiking salaries of doctors and nurses, which is applicable for the next six months. With this, AYUSH doctors will get monthly salary of Rs. 48,000, MBBS doctors Rs. 80,000 and nurses Rs. 30,000 per month for next 6 months. Another decision taken by the committee is to supply Remdesivir - an anti-viral drug - to private hospitals to check black marketing and hoarding. Some of the other decisions taken include supplying 4 lakh antigen test kit and 5 lakh swab test kits to ramp up testing, approval for additional drugs for treatment of COVID-19 patients. Following allegations of corruption in several procurements by the Opposition party members, a committee will be formed to supervise and recommend purchase of equipment and medicines for COVID-19 treatment. The committee will be headed by Additional Chief Secretary of the IT and BT department. Besides, the committee has also decided to provide N-95 masks and PPE kits for healthcare workers and ensure that oxygen pipeline is connected to 4,736 beds in 17 government medical colleges. In order to meet a target of 50,000 tests per day, 16 RTPCR and 15 Automated RNA extraction units will be established.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC initiates suo motu proceedings to quash criminal case against civil judge||In a rare instance, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday initiated suo motu criminal proceedings for quashing criminal proceedings initiated against a civil judge in the district court, Ballari, last year even though judicial officers are protected from prosecution under provisions of the Judges (Protection) Act, 1985. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice M. Nagaprasanna started the proceedings for quashing the criminal case, initiated against judicial officer Vijay Kumar S. Jatla who was serving as a civil judge and Judicial Magistrate First Class (JMFC) inBallari. “In view of absolute protection granted under Section 3(1) of the Judges (Protection) Act, 1985, the complaint should not have been entertained and registered against the judicial officer,” the Bench said, noting that the court in Ballari had gone ahead with the complaint by fixing a date for recording the sworn statement of complainant. “If the complaint is allowed to proceed further, it will set at naught the protection given to the judicial officer under the Act,” the Bench observed while directing the Registrar-General of the High Court to put up the suo motu petition for hearing on July 27.  Section 3(1) of the Act states that no court shall entertain or continue any civil orcriminal proceedings against any person who is or was a judge for any act committed/word spoken by him while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official or judicial duty. A person named Manjunath had lodged the private criminal complaint under Section 200 of the Code of Criminal Procedure against the civil judge and JMFC for making certain statements during the remand proceedings in a criminal case and for rejecting the protest petition filed by the complainant last year. Background   The complainant, on May 25, 2019, wrote a complaint to the Chief Justice against the civil judge. To this complaint, the Secretary to the Chief Justice, in a letter dated June 13, 2019, advised the complainant to pursue the grievance on the judicial side as the grievance was made on a judicial order passed by a civil court. Interestingly, the complainant initiated criminal proceedings against the civil judge by treating this letter as permission to do so. He invoked offences under various provisions of the Indian Penal Code, including those related to legally making false charges, a public servant maliciously making a report or verdict in a judicial proceeding, and defamation. However, the gist of the letter from the Secretary of the Chief Justice was that the complainant had to question the order on remand and protest petition passed by the civil judge and JMFC before the appropriate legal forum as per the law.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Forward from Nirani’s phone triggers controversy||After a WhatsApp message forwarded from his mobile phone raked up a controversy, Bharatiya Janata Party MLA and former Minister Murugesh Nirani issued a public apology on Tuesday by claiming that it was an “inadvertent forward” and happened when his phone was with his personal assistant. The forwarded message reportedly had comments on Hindu gods and goddesses.This led to public criticism and several leaders, including former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, took exception to it. In a press release, Mr. Nirani clarified that the phone belonged to him and as it was used for public contact, his gunman and personal assistant had used it. “Yesterday night, the phone was with my PA and a message sent to my public contact number was inadvertently forwarded by him. He has already apologised to me for his mistake. Those who are with me have not forwarded the message deliberately. I apologise to the people of the State for the mistake,” he said the release. ‘I am tolerant’ The former Minister went on to explain that being tolerant of all religions, he would never speak lightly of any religion and faith. “I respect all religions equally. I follow ‘Sanatan Dharma’ religiously. Being a Hindu, I am proud of my religion. The people of the State should not think otherwise. Please pardon the mistake of my personal staff,” Mr. Nirani said. He also appealed to people not to take the issue forward and create a controversy.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||High Court staffer gets rousing welcome||The Chief Justice and a few judges of the Karnataka High Court made a unique assembly at the portico of the court building on Tuesday solely to welcome a member of the staff, who was first among them to report to duty after recovering from COVID-19. Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka welcomed Mary Josephine at the portico by offering a rose as a confidence building measure. Many of the court’s staff have been tested positive for COVID-19, and some undergoing treatment and some are under quarantine. Recently, during the hearing of a PIL petition, the Chief Justice had explained to the lawyers the difficulty faced by the staff to keep the court functioning despite pandemic as more than 10 people working in different sections had tested positive. As many as five employees of the scrutiny branch alone had tested positive. One of the judicial officer, serving in court’s registry, had also tested positive for COVID-19, the Chief Justice had said while pointing out that more than 36 judicial officers serving in district judiciary across the State are under quarantine.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Conflict of interest?||The All-India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) has alleged that there is a “serious conflict of interest” in the posting of MSME secretary Maheshwar Rao to hold the concurrent charge of Labour Secretary. It has cited Mr. Rao’s letter as MSME Secretary recommending exempting payment of Variable Dearness Allowance in April. “While he recommended the VDA freeze, he is now holding the concurrent charge of the Labour Department, which has fulfilled the wishes of the industry,” said the AITUC.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Attack on RSS worker: HC grants bail to four||The Karnataka High Court has granted bail to the four prime accused, said to be associated with the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), in the case of attack on RSS worker Varun Bhoopalam shortly after a pro-CAA rally near Town Hall in the city. Justice John Michael Cunha passed the order while allowing the petitions filed by Mohammed Irfan, Akbar Pasha, Syed Siddique, and Sanaulla Shariff seeking bail. “No material is produced before the court to show that the petitioners are charged with schedule offences under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. Investigation in the case is conducted by the Police Inspector of Kalasipalya Police Station and not by the officer contemplated under Section 43 of the UA(P) Act, 1967. Sanction under Section 45 of the UA(P) Act is not produced. The argument appears to have been advanced without any supporting material obviously with a view to frustrate the right of the petitioners to bail to which they are otherwise entitled to, for the various reasons discussed above,” the court observed.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||3,649 cases, 61 deaths in State||With 3,649 positive COVID-19 cases reported in Karnataka on Tuesday, the total number stands at 71,069. The number of deaths on Tuesday was 61, adding to a total of 1,464. Of the 3,649 cases, 1,714 were reported from Bengaluru Urban. A total of 22 deaths were also reported from Bengaluru Urban. A total of 1,664 patients walked out of hospital after recovery on Monday. With this, the total number of discharges stands at 25,459. The media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare states that of 44,140 active cases, 583 patients are in ICUs. Fourteen out of the 30 districts in the State have over 1,000 positive cases reported as of Tuesday. Meanwhile, six districts in the State have reported more than 50 deaths so far. A total of 43,904 tests were conducted on Tuesday. This is the highest number of tests conducted on a single day.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru division operates its first long-haul train||In a first, the Bengaluru division of SWR operated a 1.4-km-long-haul goods train from Whitefield to Jolarpettai on Tuesday. This comes after the Hubballi division operated a long-haul train for the first time on Monday. The train had 84 empty wagons and two brake vans. “A standard goods train consists of 59 wagons. Any train having a composition of more than 59 wagons is called a long-haul train,” said SWR in a press release. According to SWR, the running of long-haul trains will help reduce congestion on busy sections, boost line capacity and help in faster train movement. It will also make wagons available at loading and unloading points quickly.  The running of long-haul trains will help reduce congestion on busy sections and boost line capacity. South Western Railway
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Biker who hit 299 kmph traced||A software engineer, who shared a video clip of his speedometer touching almost 300 km per hour on social media, perhaps hoping for a bit of fame, caught the attention of the police and landed in trouble after they tracked him down on Tuesday. The accused, Muniyappa, 29, shared the clip of him speeding on the Electronics City flyover, which was comparatively free of traffic due to the lockdown in the city. After the clip went viral, the Bengaluru Central Crime Branch (CCB) traced the rider, seized his bike and handed it over to the traffic police. “The speedometer was recorded through his helmet camera and the person had uploaded the video on his Instagram profile. We have asked the law and order police to take necessary action against him as per the Disaster Management Act, as he had defied the lockdown norms,” a police official attached to the Electronics City Traffic Police Station said.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||All processes to go online||Results of CET will be announced 20-25 days after the examination is held, said Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan. The counselling process, including document verification, would be online this year. The PGCET and diploma CET scheduled for August 8 and 9 respectively, have been postponed.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Protest by pourakarmikas||Several pourakarmikas staged a protest in front of the BBMP head office on Tuesday demanding protective gear, regular health check up and insurance coverage.
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2 found dead||The body of a 54-year-old man, who ran a beedi shop in Yeshwantpur, was found on Monday night. “His brother had tested positive. The deceased was a primary contact and had isolated himself at home in Mattikere. He got a call on Monday evening informing that he too had contracted COVID-19,” said a police official. In another incident, a 50-year-old man was found dead at Hesaraghatta lake on Monday. “His son is recovering from COVID-19, and his wife tested positive recently. There are reports that the neighbours had accused them of spreading the disease,” an official attached to Soladevanahalli police station said. (People in distress or having suicidal thoughts can seek counselling by calling Arogya Sahayavani at 104)
22 July 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMTC to resume services||BMTC will operate its buses from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. from Wednesday. KSRTC will operate buses to various destinations from the city from Wednesday 6 a.m. onwards on demand basis.    In a first, the Bengaluru division of South Western Railways (SWR) operated a 1.4-km-long-haul goods train from Whitefield to Jolarpettai on Tuesday. The train had 84 empty wagons and two brake vans. “A standard goods train consists of 59 wagons,” said SWR in a press release. According to SWR, long-haul trains will help reduce congestion on busy sections, boost line capacity and help in faster train movement. It will also make wagons available at loading and unloading points quickly.
22 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Cases cross 1,000 in Hassan district||The total number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 crossed 1,000 in Hassan district on Tuesday, with 96 fresh cases reported on the day. 33 deaths So far 33 people have died of the infection, including four deaths reported on the day. In a media bulletin, the district administration informed media that the total number of cases has increased to 1,049. Among them, 432 are active cases. As many as 19 people are under treatment in the ICU.
22 July 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||68 cases in Chikkamagaluru||As many as 68 new cases of COVID-19 were reported in Chikkamagaluru on Tuesday, increasing the total number of confirmed cases to 402 in the district. So far, 10 people have died of the infection, including one on Tuesday. In a press release issued here on Tuesday, Additional Deputy Commissioner Kumara said among the infected, 154 have been discharged. As many as 227 infected people are undergoing treatment.
22 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Lockdown withdrawn in Dharwad district||The lockdown imposed in Dharwad district till July 24 has been withdrawn by the district administration following a direction from Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday. In a late night communication here on Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil said that lockdown would be withdrawn on Wednesday based on the direction of the Chief Minister. He, however, clarified that restrictions imposed in areas that have sealed would continue. He has appealed to the general public to maintain social distancing and take precautionary measures to keep themselves safe. Additional beds Meanwhile, speaking to presspersons earlier in the day, Minister for Large and Medium Scale Industries and Public Enterprises and Dharwad district in-charge Jagadish Shettar said that steps were being taken to add an additional 250 beds at KIMS Hospital in Hubballi for COVID-19 treatment. “Private hospitals too have come forward to provide treatment for COVID-19 patients and already, 80 patients are being treated at SDM College of Medical Sciences and Hospital in Dharwad. And, the hospital has been asked to get 500 beds ready for COVID-19 patients. The SDM College of Engineering and Technology hostel will be converted into a COVID Care Centre,” he said. Mr. Shettar said that doctor Bangarshettar of Hubballi had come forward to give 30 beds in Ashoka Hospital in Hubballi for treatment of COVID-19 patients and the district administration would be adding another 20 beds in the hospital for the purpose. Already, a few private hospitals in Hubballi, including KLE Suchirayu and Tatvadarsha, were providing treatment for COVID-19 patients and the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad was in talks with other private hospitals for increasing beds for such patients, he said. “We will take doctors of private hospitals into confidence to effectively fight the pandemic. Already, sanction has been given for the purchase of seven new ambulances for the district hospital and they will be procured soon. As of now, 2,000 beds are available in the district,” he said. Fertilizers To a query, the Minister clarified that there was no scarcity of fertilizers in the district and that officials have been directed to take action against those demanding higher prices for fertilizers.
22 July 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Changes to land reforms Act opposed||Protesting against amendment to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act and reported privatisation of power supply, scores of farmers came out on the streets in Haveri on Tuesday and staged a demonstration in front of the ‘Zilladalita Bhavana’ (district administration office). The farmers who staged agitation under the aegis of district unit of Karnataka Raita Sangha first took out a symbolic protest march from Kaginele Circle to Hosmani Siddappa Circle where they blocked the road for some time. Subsequently, they move to the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Haveri and staged demonstration there. Addressing the protesters, farmers’ leader Ramanna Kenchaller said that at a time when people of the country were suffering because of the pandemic, the State and Union governments were bent on taking away the rights of farmers through amendment to the Land Reforms Act. “The State government has brought the amendment through Ordinance and has given a red carpet welcome to the corporate sector and the rich. A great injustice has been done to the poor farmers. The government should immediately withdraw the ordinance,” he said. Meanwhile, in another blow to the farmers, efforts were being made to hand over the power supply to private parties, which was nothing but privatisation. Privatisation of power supply would mean no free power for the irrigation pumpsets and it would invariably make the farmers stop farming, he said.
22 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Eight camels meant for sacrifice rescued||As many as eight camels that were brought here for what the police said sacrifice during Bakrid festival were rescued on Monday night. Aland Police arrested six people from Madhya Pradesh in this connection. A case has been registered in the Aland Police Station under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act 1960, the Karnataka Prevention of Animal Act 1959, the Karnataka Prevention of Cow Slaughter and Cattle Prevention Act 1964 and Sections 188 and 429 of Indian Penal Code. The police said that Manoj Mohan Sindhe (30), Banesh Uttam Sitole (32), Manoj Chanda Jadhav (26), Nitesh Sadashiv Sindhe (29), Govind Bhima Sindhe (28) and Rajesh Mohan Sindhe (31) were arrested on the charge of thrashing the animals and not providing them with proper fodder and water. The police also said that the rescued animals were handed over to the Nandi Animal Welfare Society for care.
22 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Two women die in Kalaburagi||Two women, including an anganwadi worker, died in Kalaburagi on Tuesday due to what was alleged denial of admission citing non-availability of ventilators and medical negligence. The anganwadi worker (50) died on Monday night after several hospitals, according to her husband, refused to admit her citing non-availability of ventilators. She was identified as Akkanagamma Dayamani of Honna Kiranagi village in Kalaburagi district. After Akkanagamma developed difficulty in breathing and low blood pressure, her husband, Chhatrapati, took her to seven hospitals, including Gulbarga Institute of Medical Sciences and ESIC hospital, for medical intervention only to be denied admission. In the other incident, a 55-year-old patient Gurubai of Rajiv Gandhi Nagar in the city was admitted to ESIC hospital. However, the hospital staff on Monday shifted the patient to GIMS citing lack of oxygen cylinders. The patient breathed her last on Tuesday morning. Gurubai’s family members said that the patient died due to medical negligence.
22 July 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Bidar, Kalaburagi too withdraw lockdown||A few hours after Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s public announcement on withdrawal of COVID-19-induced lockdown across the State, Deputy Commissioners of Bidar and Kalaburagi Ramachandran R. and Sharat B., respectively, issued fresh orders late on Tuesday withdrawing lockdown they imposed in their respective districts for the containment of the pandemic.
22 July 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Raging Arabian Sea swallows large part of shore in State||The week-long heavy rain has caused intense sea erosion along the Karnataka coast, even as the fisheries road from Someshwara, south of Mangaluru, to Batapady beach on the Kerala border has almost been washed away over the last couple of days. Many areas on the Arabian seashore, particularly those close to the breakwaters, have been witnessing extensive damage for several years. The erosion has aggravated this year. Washing away of the Batapady road has cut off connectivity for many residents as well as visitors to the end point. Roaring waves now slam the boundary walls of private properties on the stretch. Batapady, a scenic backwater location on the southern tip of Karnataka, was proposed to be developed into a tourist attraction and the government had commenced some works. The seashore, from Ullal till Batapady, excluding the Someshwara temple stretch (because of the presence of large boulders), has been witnessing erosion for decades. The raging waves have swallowed over 500 metres of seashore in Ullal area, while nearly 200 metres has been washed away between Someshwara and Batapady. Consequently, the sea had come very close to the fisheries road last monsoon. Local residents allege that the incomplete work on construction of groynes in the area under the ADB-funded Someshwara Shoreline Protection Project has only aggravated the erosion.   Meanwhile, the Arabian Sea continued to swallow large chunks of the shore at many other places. Kulai to the north of Panambur beach and portions of NITK beach at Suratkal have witnessed damage. The Sasihithlu Munda beach, promoted as a surfing destination, too has seen extensive damage. Concrete benches erected for tourists at this location next to Nandini river’s mouth with the Arabian Sea, have been washed away. In Udupi district, sea erosions were reported in Hejmady, Padubidri, Kaup, Bengre, Uppinakudru, Kota, Gangolli, Maravanthe, Koderi, and Byndoor villages.
22 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Book on Vishwesha Tirtha’s stories to be released soon||Vishwesha Tirtha Swami of Pejawar Mutt who died on December 29 last year was popular for his discourses that were filled with stories explaining the Dwaita philosophical concepts. These discourses are being compiled and being brought out in two volumes by author and former headmaster of Sri Ramakunja Sanskrit Higher Primary School in Ramakunja village of Puttur Taluk, T. Narayana Bhat. Mr. Bhat, who has authored 25 books in Kannada on education and other topics, told The Hindu that every discourse of the seer on Dwaita philosophy had short stories. These stories made people easily understand topics featured in such discourses. “I have collected about 450 stories. They will be brought out in two volumes with each volume containing 225 stories. I have planned to bring it out by December 29,” said Mr. Bhat, who is a State and national best teacher award winner. He recently chaired the Puttur Taluk Kannada Sahitya Sammelan. Apart from his personal collection, Mr. Bhat has sourced these stories from a magazine, Tatvavaada. “I have secured some of the stories from the seer’s disciples in the mutt and also in other parts of the State,” he said. Each story is being presented with an artistic sketch of the seer and every page of the book will have motifs related to Hinduism. Vishwesh Tirtha was born to M. Narayanacharya and Kamalamma in Ramakunja on April 27, 1931. He was ordained at the age of three and was the 33rd seer in the lineage of Pejawar Mutt. He was the only seer among those of the Ashta Mutts of Udupi to perform five biennial Paryayas. He was popular as a reformist seer.
22 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man booked for harassing minor||The Puttur Women Police Station registered a case against Ibrahim Asif of Purusharakatte in Puttur for alleged sexual harassment of a minor girl. According to a press release, the girl had come with her father for treatment at a clinic in Darbe of Kasaba village on Tuesday. Asif came to the same clinic and threw a chit having his mobile number at the girl. He then made indications with his eyes to sexually harass her. On a complaint filed by the girl, the Women Police registered a case under Section 354 (D) of the IPC.
22 July 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||No further lockdown in Dakshina Kannada||There will be no further lockdown in Dakshina Kannada after the lockdown ends on Wednesday, according to Minister in-charge of the district Kota Srinivasa Poojary. He said in a statement here on Tuesday that a week-long lockdown is already in force in the district since July 16.
22 July 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Mudslip damages road near Yadgir railway bridge||The main road leading to Shahapur from Yadgir was damaged after a mudslip occurred close to the railway bridge near Yadgir. The road has caved in nearly five-six feet in depth and around 20 feet in length. There was also a 10-feet-long crack on the edge of the road. The police diverted vehicles by putting up barricades near Subhas Chowk. They stopped vehicles passing through the old bus stand towards Shahapur and Shorpur. They also put up barricades near the crack on the road to stop motorcycles and other small vehicles from falling into it. MLA Venkatareddy Mudnal visited the spot and took up the issue with the officials of the Public Work Department. “I have told the officials to repair the damaged part immediately and ensure quality work,” he told The Hindu . Officials suspected that heavy rain that lashed the city recently might have caused the mudslip. Executive Engineer of Public Works Department Devdas Chavan has said that they have already reported the matter to the Deputy Commissioner. “We will start repair work immediately,” he added.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Overnight rains wreak havoc||The heavy rains that lashed the city late on Monday night caused damage in several neighbourhoods. A portion of a road collapsed in Rajajinagar while houses in some low-lying areas were inundated. According to information provided by the BBMP central control room, complaints about rainwater entering homes were received from Nandini Layout, Laggere, Rukmini Nagar in Chokkasandra, Kamgondanahalli in Shettihalli, Bhavaninagar in Chikkanayakanapalya. The basement of an apartment in Doddabommasandra in Yelahanka had to be drained after it was flooded. The extent of damage caused to vehicles parked there is yet to be ascertained, the control room staff said. ‘Houses inundated’ A resident of Dasarahalli, in his complaint to the BBMP, claimed that 19 houses had been inundated. The control room also received more than 10 reports of tree falls. The Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre (KSNDMC) has forecast fairly widespread to moderate rain, and heavy rain at isolated places over the next two days. C.S. Patil from the Indian Meteorological Department said Bengaluru is likely to experience rainfall on Tuesday and Wednesday. He attributed Monday’s rain in Bengaluru and the rest of the State to a trough that runs from north interior Karnataka to Tamil Nadu across south interior Karnataka, and a circulation over north interior Karnataka. A yellow alert had been announced, as Bengaluru, Kolar, Chikkaballapur, Shivamogga, Chikkamagalur, Hassan and Kodagu are likely to experience heavy rainfall on July 24, he added.  Monday’s rain in Bengaluru and the rest of the State was due to a trough that runs from north interior Karnataka to Tamil Nadu across south interior Karnataka, and a circulation over north interior Karnataka. Bengaluru is likely to experience rainfall on Wednesday C.S. Patil, Indian Meteorological Department
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Applications invited||The District Health and Family Welfare Officer (DHO) of Hassan has invited applications from eligible candidates to fill up posts of nursing officers, lab technicians and pharmacy officers on the contract basis for six months, to handle the COVID-19 duty. The officer has decided to recruit 56 nursing officers, nine lab technicians and 107 pharmacy officers. In a press release issued here on Tuesday, the officer said the posts would be filled up based on the merit and roster system. The eligible candidates can take part in the walk-in-interview to be held on July 28 between 10 am and 5 pm, with relevant documents. The applicants should be below the age of 36, in case of general candidates. The candidates of backward classes have two years relaxation, while the SC and ST candidates have four year’s relaxation.
22 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||46 fresh cases in Alappuzha||The district logged 46 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 30 people contracted the disease through local contact, 11 came from abroad and two from other States. Besides, three personnel of the Indo-Tibetan Border Police at Nooranad unit tested positive for SARS-COV-2. Among the contact cases, four persons, including two from Kalavoor and one each from Pattanakkad and Pallithode, are associated with Chellanam harbour. Another seven patients from Kayamkulam have links to Kayamkulam market. Eight Kalavoor natives were on the contact list of a COVID-19 patient, who is an employee of a private lab at Chettikkad. Three people hailing from Alappuzha were on the contact list of a COVID-19 patient from Ambalappuzha. Two persons from Chandiroor and Thuravoor have links with a seafood factory at Ezhupunna. Two Arattupuzha natives; a 49-year-old woman from Nooranad; two Thuravoor natives, and a 30-year-old man from Kayamkulam also contracted the disease through contact. Meanwhile, 70 people who were undergoing treatment tested negative for the viral infection. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 647.
22 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Drones don yet another role during pandemic||Drones were used extensively by the Kerala Police to keep a tab on lockdown violators in the State in recent months. The Excise Department used it to check illicit brewing of liquor too. Now, a 29-year-old youth from Vadakumkara in Chennam Pallippuram grama panchayat in Alappuzha is winning hearts for using his drone for a different purpose. A photographer by profession, Binu P. usually deployed drones to do stunning wedding photography. But, ever since 14 families went into quarantine in ward 10 in Chennam Pallippuram, after a nurse from the area working at a hospital in Cherthala tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 more than a week ago, Mr. Binu is using the drone to deliver essentials to some of them. He says that using drones to deliver items to people in quarantine involves less risk and is relatively safe. “Reaching some of the houses is difficult. The declaration of Cherthala taluk as a containment zone and imposition of lockdown have made it a more arduous task. I made slight modifications on the drone for hassle-free delivery of items,” Binu says.  Medicines, food items, and other essentials bought from shops based on orders are delivered to these families using the drone. While the delivery is free of cost, families transfer the price of goods to him through online transaction. According to him, the drone can fly 0.5 km and deliver goods weighing around 1.5 kg at a time. “Mostly medicines, bakery and children’s commodities are delivered using the drone. Multiple items that weigh above the capacity are delivered by conducting multiple delivery sorties. After each delivery, the drone is sanitised,” he says. Helpful Robins, a beneficiary, says it has been very helpful during the quarantine. “My family is in quarantine and we cannot venture out. Essentials, including medicines, are delivered through the drone,” he says.
22 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Two held in SNDP Yogam microfinance fraud case||The Crime Branch (CB) on Tuesday arrested former Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam Mavelikara union president Subash Vasu and secretary Suresh Babu in connection with the Rs. 12.5-crore microfinance fraud case. Officials said both were released on bail based on the direction of the Kerala High Court. Earlier in the day, the CB team probing the case interrogated the duo for over six hours. In 2019, police registered a case against Vasu, Babu among others alleging they were involved in a financial fraud case. The case was later handed over to the CB.
22 July 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Businessman denies charge||Kiran Marshal, an Alappuzha-based businessman, on Tuesday denied allegations that he had links with the gold smuggling racket. Speaking to reporters at Thuravoor, Mr. Marshal said that he did not know Swapna Suresh, one of the accused in the gold smuggling case, and he was ready to face any investigation. Earlier, some United Democratic Front leaders had alleged that Swapna had visited his home while on the run. Mr. Marshal said that he was maintaining a good relationship with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan.
22 July 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||No new case in Idukki||Though Idukki had witnessed a surge in COVID-19 cases in the past few days, no positive case was reported in the district on Tuesday. Six persons were cured of the disease on the day. The number of active cases in the district is 277. Treatment centre A COVID-19 First-Line Treatment Centre (FLTC) will start functioning at Thodupuzha on Wednesday. The FLTC can accommodate 120 persons. It will function under a committee comprising officials of various departments and people’s representatives. The FLTC is being opened to treat asymptomatic patients. They would be accommodated at the centre till they tested negative, said a release here.
22 July 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Prisoners to interact with family online||With restrictions imposed on relatives visiting prisoners in jails in the wake of COVID-19, the Kerala Prisons and Correctional Services Department has given permission to jail authorities to allow prisoners to interact with their kin via videoconferencing. Director General of Prisons Rishi Raj Singh issued a circular to prison superintendents to arrange meetings through videoconferencing using applications such as WhatsApp on a trial basis for a period of three months. “The facility is being made available in view of the curbs in place following the pandemic outbreak. Once the disease is curtailed, relatives can directly meet prisoners,” Mr. Singh told The Hindu . As per guidelines The new system has been arranged in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministry of Home Affairs. Besides, other States too have implemented such facilities, he said. “Even prisoners are under stress now. Allowing them to speak to their parents and wife or husband, will provide them some relief,” he said. At present, trial of prisoners in courts is conducted via videoconferencing. As per the directive, prisoners will be allowed to interact with persons, which can be their parents, husband or wife, children, brother, sister, and nephew. Prisoners will have to apply a day prior to making the call. The meeting will be allowed twice a week for five minutes. Jail authorities have been instructed to maintain a register to enter details of the contacts and mobile phones, including SIM details. The prisoners will be allowed to contact only the relatives registered. The new system will also help avoid problems of visitors handing over illicit products to prisoners.
22 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Local transmission goes up as district records 80 new cases||Eighty more persons tested positive for SARS-COV-2 on Tuesday, taking the active number of cases in the district to 913. The source of infection was not known in the case of one person each from Eloor, Palarivattom, and Elamkulam and two persons from Edathala. Five patients had come from abroad or other States. Seventy-five persons contracted the disease through local transmission. Of them, 11 were from the Keezhmad cluster, 12 from the Aluva cluster and four from the Chellanam cluster. Eighteen nuns at a convent at Chunangamveli near Aluva also tested positive for the virus. Seven infected persons recovered on Tuesday. Among those receiving treatment in the district are two who were infected in Alappuzha and one each from Idukki and Kottayam districts. On Tuesday, 72 persons were admitted to various hospitals in the district. Out of the 12,981 under surveillance in the district, 10,917 are in home quarantine, 274 in COVID-19 care centres and 1,790 in paid institutional quarantine. On completion of their quarantine period, 875 persons were removed from the list while 654 were added to it. Around 764 samples were submitted for testing while private hospitals and labs collected 3,836 samples for testing. While 751 test results were known on Tuesday, the results of 1,592 samples are awaited. Samples of 27 truck drivers and cleaners who arrived at main markets in the district were collected.  At Chellanam A 50-bed first-line treatment centre has been set up in Chellanam panchayat. The centre at St. Antony’s Parish Hall is exclusively for women and children. The centre at present has eight persons, including two children, who were tested positive on Tuesday. The beds have been arranged at a distance of two metres each. There are four bio-toilets. An eight-member team, including two medical officers, two junior health inspectors, a health supervisor and three nurses has been deployed at the centre. The panchayat, which has made all arrangements for the centre, has also appointed two sanitisation workers on a four-hour shift each.
22 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam market reopens partially||The Ernakulam main market, including the Broadway area, reopened partially as per a COVID-19 containment plan after a gap of more than 20 days on Tuesday. Supplies from lorries that were stranded in the market following the lockdown of the market area, were unloaded in the early hours of Tuesday. The market reopening is being watched keenly by both health authorities and the police. The Kerala Merchants Chamber of Commerce and the Ernakulam Market Stall Owners’ Association expressed relief and satisfaction at the reopening. K.M. Vipin of the Kerala Merchants Chamber of Commerce said the market reopening was very crucial as a host of people, the merchants and labourers included, had sustained losses owing to the closure of the market. While general merchants reopened shops partially, the vegetable market remained closed as supplies were not available. The lorries with vegetables will arrive in the early hours of Wednesday. They would be unloaded between 3 a.m. and 7 a.m. for the wholesale operations to begin and continue till 11 a.m., said N.H. Shameed of the Market Stall Owners’ Association. The retail sales will be from 11 a.m. onwards till 6.30 p.m. Shops, other than those selling vegetables, on the left side of the road leading from east to west through the market opened on Tuesday. These shops will open on alternate days as per the plans. Similarly, shops on the left side of the road leading from south to north also opened on Tuesday. They will also operate on alternate days. The rule for alternate day opening was applicable to shops on both sides of the roads, said a communication from the chamber. The traders had been entrusted with the task of ensuring physical distancing, making sanitisers available and taking steps as per the COVID-19 protocol, said Mr. Vipin. The use of face masks is compulsory. There will be close coordination among the stakeholders to regulate entry and exit as well as to control parking of vehicles. Disinfection activities will be carried out everyday. The list of shops to be opened each day will be delivered by the police to the merchants. There is a strict directive not to allow drivers of vehicles bringing goods and supplies to the market to mingle with the local people. There will be two-wheeler patrol inside the market area to ensure physical distancing.
22 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Volunteers come to the aid of rural police||When the pandemic curve in the district was rising, Srikanth Mani, a graduate student, had the option to stay put safely at his home. But, the youngster from Ayyampuzha chose to do his bit for society and got himself registered as a volunteer. Now he is one of the 400 volunteers who sport dark blue jackets and assist the police across 34 stations in Ernakulam Rural in COVID-19 control activities. “Our main job is to visit home-quarantined people, enquire after them, educate them on the dos and dont’s and deliver essential services such as medicines. We have to join policemen when we receive calls from the station to assist them in such tasks,” said Mr. Mani. The volunteers have now come in handy in containment zones. “They are basically force multipliers, enabling more effective utilisation of our already stretched force. Neither are they assigned core policing jobs like investigation nor are they supposed to act independently,” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural). The Ernakulam Rural police limits has nearly 5,000 people in home quarantine and the police check on at least 50% of them twice daily. Earlier, two policemen were assigned for the task but now one of them is replaced by a volunteer so that the spared cop can be assigned somewhere else. “We have chosen only from those who have registered as volunteers on the government portal so that their background is already verified. We brief them about their jobs and have given them specially designed police volunteer jackets so that they are easily identifiable,” said Mr. Karthik. They are picked up and dropped in police vehicles and their needs, including food, are fully taken care of during the time they are on the field with the police. Each of these volunteers will be given an appreciation certificate and will be felicitated at police station-level in acknowledgement of their work.
22 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||City police win hearts with a rare feat||Three minutes and 50 seconds. That’s all the time the city police took to cover the over 5-km distance between the helipad of Grand Hyatt Hotel at Bolgatty and Lisie Hospital, Kaloor, in delivering a harvested heart brought here from Thiruvananthapuram on Tuesday afternoon. The police had converted the entire route into an evacuated “green corridor” for the swift shift of the vital organ. The helicopter of the State police carrying the heart landed at the helipad at 1.43 p.m. “The beating heart was shifted to a waiting ambulance in just over a minute and the ambulance took off at 1.45 pm,” said K. Laljy, Assistant Commissioner, Ernakulam, who supervised the mission. The ambulance piloted and escorted by police teams sped past gate number 5 to the Goshree bridge and across the High Court Junction and Madhava Pharmacy where the vehicles switched to the right side track originally dedicated to vehicles proceeding in the opposite direction. “We chose that option since taking the other track meant that we would have to overshoot the turn to the hospital by a few metres and then take a U-turn, which would have cost us a few more seconds,” said Mr. Laljy. The ambulance then covered the otherwise busy Kacheripady Junction and Town Hall to climb the North Overbridge and took the immediate right on the foot of the bridge to the hospital. When the ambulance came to a screeching halt in front of the casualty wing, there was still another 10 seconds left to complete four minutes after the ambulance had left the helipad. “We had taken the shortest possible route, avoiding deviations to follow a straight path as much as possible to complete the transportation in double quick time,” said Mr. Laljy. The casket carrying the heart was then rushed into the operation theatre where the recipient had already been brought in 30 minutes earlier. 100 personnel The city police had deployed over 100 personnel led by Mr. Laljy and comprising three Inspectors to carry out the mission. Meanwhile, another police team led by Francis Shelby, Assistant Commissioner, City Traffic, escorted another ambulance with two other organs to Amrita Hospital from the helipad in 12 minutes.
22 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kochi Biennale to open on Dec. 12||Amidst the gloom caused by the pandemic, art lovers have reason to cheer. The Kochi Biennale Foundation is on course to organise the fifth edition of the Kochi Muziris Biennale from December 12. The edition, curated by Singaporean artist Shubigi Rao and titled “In Our Veins Flow Ink and Fire,” seeks to embody the “pleasures of experiencing practices of divergent sensibilities, under conditions both joyful and grim”. The first list of 20 artists and five collectives was released by the KBF on Tuesday.  “The biggest challenge facing us is the unprecedented magnitude of the global pandemic, but there are always challenges to exhibition-making, especially one on the scale of the Kochi-Muziris Biennale. And yet it is a creative act to think through problems, to navigate obstacles, to work with people to collectively and inventively dismantle challenges. At the very outset, I was determined to think of the Biennale as a crucible, capable of holding the diverse discourse of the critical, political, and social in artistic practices. As an artist, I’m driven by many things — the need to situate myself in this world (historically and in my current reality), my responsibilities to not just our species but to the planet, and to recognise that artistic and literary practices have the potential to strengthen existing communities and to generate new thought and action. These imperatives continue to be present in my curatorial work for the next Kochi-Muziris Biennale, and this work will, in turn, inform my praxis.,” Ms. Rao said. “As humanity combats this pandemic, I believe that art and culture will not just allow for healing, but will also create a space for togetherness. We have trust in this ability of art, and we think that the Biennale in Kochi can be a site for self-reflection and further imagination,” Bose Krishnamachary, director of the Kochi Muziris Biennale, said. The edition is slated to be under way for 120 days from December 12.
22 July 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Cusat to plug loopholes in online exams||A three-pronged approach that includes asking candidates to reveal their location and surprise identity verification by asking them to switch on the camera option will be made mandatory in the second phase of the online examinations to be conducted by the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) amidst the pandemic crisis. The viva component in the internal evaluation of students will be increased as the third strategy to improve the efficiency of the online exams and to eliminate chances, if any, for cheating during the digital test. Multi-pronged system The multi-pronged system will be in place for the forthcoming undergraduate exams. “All candidates will have to disclose their location before they attempt the first question. This will enable us to identify whether they are writing the exam at home or elsewhere,” said Benjamin Varghese P., Controller of Examinations. The university had faced criticism that its online exams held in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis were riddled with irregularities, including possibilities of candidates teaming up to attend it. 50 exams online It had conducted over 50 exams online on the Moodle platform after the nationwide lockdown was declared, according to official estimates. Dr. Varghese pointed out that such attempts, if any, would not make any major impact on the overall marks scored by the final-year BTech candidates, who had appeared for four final semester exams online. Major decision “Of the approximate 3,000 marks for the entire four-year programme, the total marks is only 200 for the final semester exams. But we have decided to plug the loopholes, if any, by adopting the three-pronged strategy from now onwards,” he said. The university was not in a position to ask the students to record the entire exam as it would cost them a lot in terms of data consumption. The candidates were given 20 minutes to write an answer and 10 minutes for uploading it. Two steps The next question was given only after the completion of these two steps. “We will be collecting random attendance online by asking the candidates to switch on the video facility. This will help in checking impersonation and ascertain the identity of the candidate taking the exam,” said Dr. Varghese.
22 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||18 nuns test positive for virus||The Ernakulam health authorities are likely to bring more areas in the district under COVID-19 restrictions after 18 nuns at a convent at Chunangamveli, near Aluva, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The nuns belong to the St. Mary’s province of a Catholic religious order. They are confirmed to have come into contact with a Catholic nun at Kuzhuppilly who died on July 15 after contracting COVID-19. While the list of people who came into contact with the nuns is being prepared, the possibility of a community spread of COVID-19 has put health authorities and the district administration on high alert. The convent where the nuns have tested positive in Chunangamveli fell within one of the COVID-19 containment clusters near Aluva. The Aluva and Keezhmad clusters as well as nearby panchayats such as Choornikkara, Alangad, Karumaloor, Edathala, Kadungalloor and Chengamanad are also being closely watched.
22 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Lockdown brings back the love for reading||The COVID-19 lockdown has helped people rediscover the magic of books and lovers of the written word are pulling out all the stops to spread the habit of reading. Marathon webinars, book challenges, and YouTube channels introducing books that one may have missed are among the ventures spreading the word around. The lockdown has increased the appetite for reading, says Ravi Deecee, publisher and CEO, DC Books, who pointed out a 15-fold jump in online sale of books since the lockdown began in March. Around 3,000 people from different walks of life participated in a recently concluded series of webinars over 44 days. Writers and public figures introduced 44 books during these sessions, organised under the aegis of the Purogamana Kala Sahitya Sangham (PuKaSa). The organisers were pleasantly surprised by the huge response, says Joshi Don Bosco, PuKaSa district secretary. “It was a wonderful experience. No repetitions and each day we had a book being brought to us live,” says art teacher M.V. Vijayakumari in Aluva, who participated in the webinars. Inaccessible libraries The webinars reassert the place of books in society at a time when libraries have become almost inaccessible because of the fear of COVID-19, says V.K. Prasad, treasurer, Ernakulam Public Library. He says the library has financial constraints but is considering introducing web-based facilities to give access to its 11,000 members as footfall has come down from about 700 on holidays to about 50 now. Josey Joseph, a retired professor of Malayalam in Cherthala, who is also a book collector, hit upon the idea of a regular session on YouTube to introduce “some rare books that an avid reader may have missed”. Called Pusthaka Bhranthan, the channel is a “way of sharing my books with like-minded people”. The idea evolved out of his earlier involvement with new media and as a means of getting out of the isolation brought about by the lockdown, he says. The continuing book challenge on fora like FaceBook has seen enthusiastic response from Malayalis. Rammohan Paliyath, an avid reader, says that he had become part of the book challenge in which the participants are challenged to post book covers. Once seven book covers are posted, another participant posts a fresh set of covers, and the process goes on as a chain reaction. “This expression of love for the books is in order as the world of hard books and visits to the shops are passé. Online publications and sales are in,” says V.C. Thomas, consultant editor for a big online retailer in Kochi.
22 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Police, online vendor join hands to help Chellanam||The City Police Commissionerate, in collaboration with online fish and meat vendor, Fresh to Home, provided food kits to the fisherfolks of Chellanam distressed by the COVID-19 onslaught and the raging sea. The company handed over 1,374 kits comprising essential items including groceries to the District Police Chief (Kochi City), Vijay Sakhare, on Tuesday. Each kit containing 22 items and weighing around 11 kg will be delivered by the police under its “Amrutham” project to people in wards 15, 16, and 17 within which the harbour and fisherfolk working are largely concentrated. Chellanam panchayat has been under complete lockdown for more than a week now after it was identified to have a COVID-19 cluster following the upsurge in the number of positive cases especially through local contact. “We used to purchase fish from the Chellanam fishing harbour and we wanted to help them in the time of their distress,” said Mathew Joseph, chief operating officer, Fresh to Home.
22 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Case against 45 for protocol violation||The Aluva East Police have registered a case against 45 persons on the charge of cremating the body of an aged woman at Thottaykkattukara without observing the COVID-19 protocol. The police said that no physical distancing was maintained during the cremation. A probe was on to trace the people who attended the function.
22 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Online sessions on mental health||Yellow Club, an organisation started by the online story sharing platform ‘Humans of Kerala’, will conduct sessions on mental health for Class XII students of Kendriya Vidyalaya, Kadavanthra. The sessions would be handled by mental health practitioners who would focus on emotional wellness, psychological counselling, behavioural therapy and lifestyle coaching. The sessions would be held from July 22 to July 25 via Google Meet.  For information, log on towww.yellowclub.in
22 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Chellanam still submerged||High waves and strong winds continued to wreak havoc on the residents of Chellanam that was flooded by sea water for the third consecutive day on Tuesday. The entire stretch of the coastal area from Manassery, directly west of Thoppumpady to South Chellanam, about 16 km, came under water. Hundreds of homes were affected but no one has shifted to relief camps largely because of the COVID-19 threat and subsequent lockdown of the panchayat. Babu George whose home was flooded on Monday and Tuesday, said there was nowhere to go for the residents as the lockdown continued and people lived in fear of moving to another place or shifting to the house of their relatives. He said that the height of the waves that washed over the tottering seawalls in Bazaar, Companippady, Vachakkal, Velankanni, and Kandakkadavu was not as high as that on Monday. Flooding too was less severe on the day but sand and debris had washed into hundreds of homes, he said. A communication from the district administration said that distribution of geo-textile bags had resumed in the coastal village on Tuesday in the wake of severe flooding. The minor irrigation department was leading an effort to distribute to fill these bags with sand so that they could be laid as a temporary barrier against the rising waves. The 2x1-metre bags would be filled and laid with the help of the residents in each of the areas, said a communication from the administration. It said that Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had given instructions to make sure that the issues at Chellanam were taken care of. The Chief Minister had made the remarks at a meeting to review the COVID-19 situation. He said that people in the worst affected areas should be supplied with essentials and a community kitchen may be started to help out those who were unable to cook their own food. The health department and police should take special care if people under COVID-19 observation had to be shifted to relief camps, the Chief Minister was quoted as saying. Relief camp A relief camp has been opened at St. Mary’s School while St. Xavier’s School has been identified as a quarantine centre. Francis Klathungal, a resident, said that a combination of heavy winds and sea-swell had resulted in heavy flooding on Monday. He said that Monday’s incidents were the worst in his memory.
22 July 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC seeks progress of microfinance scam probe||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday asked the State government to inform the court about the progress of the present Vigilance investigation being conducted into the irregularities in the microfinance schemes of the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam. The court issued the directive when a petition filed by the nephew of deceased former secretary of the SNDP Yogam, Kanichukulangara union K.K. Mahesan, came up for hearing. M.S. Anil, nephew of Mahesan, sought a directive to constitute a Special Investigation Team to conduct an impartial probe into the irregularities in the microfinance schemes of the Yogam. He said his uncle was the State coordinator of the Yogam’s microfinance scheme and also a close associate of the Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan. The letter he wrote to Mr. Natesan before ending his life had revealed that he took the step in view of the attempts being made to frame him in the crime to save Mr. Natesan. As Mr. Natesan was very influential, the VACB could not conduct a fair investigation into the scam. Therefore, a special team should be appointed, Mr. Anil said. The court adjourned the hearing to August 3.
22 July 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||85 more persons positive in Kollam||The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district rose to 542 on Tuesday with 85 more persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. It includes 76 contact cases, two health workers, four persons from abroad and three others with no contact history. The infected health-care workers are from Nilamel and Chirakkara. The district also reported 11 recoveries on Tuesday. A total of 8,198 persons in the district are currently under observation. The Health Department has traced 4,566 primary and 1,665 secondary contacts of the persons who tested positive. Without travel history Cases without travel history have been reported from Chavara, Perumpuzha and Kadakkal. Kottarakkara Muslim Street that reported 20 contact cases on a single day, Alappad, Valakam, Chadayamangalm, Yeroor, Sasthamcotta, Chavara and Panmana are the new containment zones. With the number of patients on the rise, the district administration has intensified containment measures through local bodies. In coastal belt While intensive awareness drives have been launched across the coastal belt, three more COVID-19 First-Line Treatment Centres were opened on Tuesday. According to officials, ward-level committees will be formed in the coastal areas from Paravur to Alappad as part of COVID-19 containment. Clusters that include 10 to 15 households will be formed for more efficient monitoring. Police, Fisheries and Revenue officials along with people’s representatives will be part of the system to strengthen preventive measures across the coast. Aid for fishermen Swabs of selected residents from Panikarakadavu in Alappad will be collected and a mobile unit will be operating in the ward for the purpose. “The Fisheries Department has already transferred Rs. 2,500 to the accounts of fishers and an extra Rs. 1,500 more will be disbursed this week. Steps have been taken for free ration distribution and all the issues of the coastal population will be addressed,” said Minister J. Mercykutty Amma.  Kottarakkara Muslim Street, Alappad, Valakam, Chadayamangalm, Yeroor, Sasthamcotta, Chavara and Panmana new containment zones.
22 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Widening clusters a concern in Kottayam||Fears over widening of existing COVID-19 clusters in Kottayam have intensified further with the district reporting 35 cases of the virus infection through local contact. The district on Tuesday reported 39 fresh cases. Besides local contact cases, three patients came from other States and one person from abroad. According to officials, 16 of the fresh cases were linked to the Changanassery market, where 43 persons have been confirmed with virus infection so far. Workers and traders in the fish and vegetable markets there, their relatives, drivers and a few others who visited the market have been infected with the virus. A total of 532 persons have been subjected to COVID-19 tests there so far, and the number of cases is expected to go up further in the coming days. Parathodu cluster Similarly, four more persons were added to the medium-scale cluster that was formed in Parathodu in the previous week. With this, the number of cases in this cluster has increased to 23. A father, his two daughters, and a four-year-old grandchild are the new positive cases in this cluster. Meanwhile, a fresh cluster has been formed in Chingavanam where a 29-year-old man tested positive earlier this month. Six persons, all native of Veloor, where the patient had attended a house-warming function earlier, were detected with the virus infection on Tuesday. In Vaikom In Vaikom, two vendors at the Kolothumkadavu fish market contracted the virus from unknown source. A fish vendor in Thirvathukkal in Kottayam contracted the virus through local contact. Similarly, the cluster formed by a patient from Manarcad also widened further with three persons in a family from Thalayazham testing positive. A 62-year-old woman in Ettumanur and a 25-year-old man from Thiruvarp also contracted the virus through contact, while an automobile workshop employee in Kumarakom was found with virus infection from unknown source. At the same time, 10 persons recovered from the disease on the day taking the total number active cases to 293.
22 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MGU UG admission from July 28||The online registration for single-window admission (CAP) to undergraduate (UG) degree programmes in affiliated colleges of Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, will begin at 2 p.m. on July 28. The registration can be done on the university’s website www.cap.mgu.ac.in. In view of the COVID-19 situation, the entire admission process has been made online. Applicants are required to upload a digital copy of their photograph, signature, other documents, and testimonials along with the application. Candidates applying for seats under the management, community, and disability-sports-cultural quotas too should register online and are required to submit a copy of the online application submitted through the single window to the respective college. Those from Lakshadweep should apply online and submit a copy to the respective college. The university will publish the provisional rank list of applicants in the disability-sports-cultural quotas. Details are available on the CAP website.
22 July 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Man drowns while fishing in Vembanad Lake||A 25-year-old man drowned after the country boat he was in capsized in Vembanad Lake, near Kumarakom, on Monday evening. The youth, identified as Sujith of Kannankara in Alappuzha, went missing in the waterbody while fishing. Three rescued Though three others, who were n the same boat, were rescued by local residents, Sujith drowned while swimming to the shore. During a search operation conducted by the Fire and Rescue Services personnel jointly with the local residents, the body of Sujith was fished out from a location near Cheepungal on Tuesday morning. Bad weather The four-member gang had come from Alappuzha for fishing and met with the accident in bad weather. “They were returning home when the weather turned severe and the boat was caught in heavy winds and rough waves,” said a Fire and Rescue Services personnel.
22 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Minister rules out relaxations in curbs as more test positive||Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran has ruled out relaxations in COVID-19-induced restrictions in Kozhikode district until further notice even as 39 more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and as many recovered from the infection. Mr. Saseendran told the media after a review meeting here on Tuesday that the recent rapid rise in local transmission cases in the district followed the gathering of people at a wedding and a funeral function. As many as 1,500 lab tests are being held a day now as part of the containment steps. Only severe cases are referred to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, and the rest are admitted to two first-line treatment centres. As many as 5,000 people could be accommodated at such centres, Mr. Saseendran said. Private hospitals have offered to arrange 1,000 beds. At another meeting, the Minister called for strengthening containment steps in the coastal areas. Meanwhile, of the 39 newly infected persons, 30 got it through local contact. There are two health workers also among them. The source of infection of four others remains unknown. The patients are from Thooneri and Eramala (eight each), Kozhikode Corporation and Purameri (five each), Ayanchery (three), Nadapuram, Chorodu, and Olavanna (two each), and Chekkiad, Kunnummal, Puthuppady, and Omassery (one each). The number of active COVID-19 cases rose to 436 on Tuesday. In Kannur Kannur district reported 57 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. Among the nine persons who were infected through contact were four health workers. Those who contracted the virus through contact were residents of Ramanthali, Kunnothuparamb, Panniyannur, Mokeri and Thripangottur. There are currently 15,769 persons under observation in the district. In Kasaragod Local transmission cases are on the rise in Kasaragod district. Of the 40 new COVID-19 cases reported on Tuesday, 37 contracted the disease through contact. Those who were infected through contact were residents of Kasaragod, Madhur, Chengala, Kumbala, Madikkai, Kinanoor-Karinthalam and Neeleswaram. There are now 5,109 persons under observation in the district. In Thrissur The total number of COVID-19 patients in Thrissur district has touched 885 with 19 fresh cases getting reported on Tuesday. Among the new cases, nine contracted the disease through local transmission. Those who got infected through contact included a 38-year-old woman from Attappadam who contracted the virus from her husband; five persons who was infected from Kerala Solvent Extracts, Irinjalakuda; a 45-year-old man of Irinjalakuda and a 46-year-old man who contracted the disease from Ernakulam. As many as 315 persons are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district. In all, 13,977 persons are under observation. Meanwhile, the District Collector declared three more areas as containment zones. They are wards 3 and 4 of Kodassery grama panchayat, ward 11 of Porkkulam and wards 3, 20, 21 and 22 of Chelakkara. In Palakkad Forty-six persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Tuesday. District Medical Officer K.P. Reeta said that 36 of them had been identified through antigen tests at Pattambi. The remaining 10 were returnees from abroad and other States. As many as 34 recovered from the disease on Tuesday. Rapid antigen tests were conducted on 565 persons in and around Pattambi and 36 were found positive. Twenty-one of them were at Pattambi, five at Kulukallur, four at Ongallur and one each at Thirumittakode, Muthuthala, Pattithara, Shoranur, Vallapuzha and Vilayur.   (With inputs from Kannur, Kasaragod, Thrissur, and Palakkad bureaus)
22 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Mobile clinic for differently abled launched||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja launched Special Home Care for Differently Abled (Speho), a state-of-the-art free mobile clinic for differently abled people in Kozhikode, through videoconference on Tuesday. Speho mobile clinic is a specially designed vehicle with equipment for physiotherapy, speech therapy and occupational therapy besides trained doctors and therapist. The mobile clinic service will benefit those coming under the National Trust Act such as those suffering from autism, cerebral palsy, mental retardation and multiple disabilities.
22 July 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Basheer Biennale award for Mammootty||Actor Mammootty will be the recipient of the first Basheer Biennale award instituted by the Basheer Biennale Foundation in memory of writer Vaikom Mohammad Basheer. Chairman of the foundation M.G.S. Narayanan announced the award of Tuesday. The award will be presented during the 112th birth anniversary celebrations of Basheer on January 21, 2021.
22 July 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Hundreds evacuated as sea batters Malappuram coast||The coastal belt of Malappuram district between Palappetty and Vallikkunnu witnessed severe sea erosion on Monday and Tuesday. Hundreds of people living along the coast were evacuated as seawater entered their houses. Dozens of houses at Palappetty, Puthiyiruthi, Veliyamkode, Puthuponnani, Murinjazhi and Ponnani were damaged in the sea erosion. Revenue and civic officials led by Ponnani municipal chairman C.P. Mohammed Kunhi visited the affected areas on Tuesday. Although the district administration provided evacuation centres, the affected people chose not to be shifted there for apparent fear of SARS-CoV-2 infection. They preferred to move to the houses of their relatives. The sea showed its anger at Tanur and Parappanangadi too. Huge waves lashed the coast, damaging houses and roads at Edakkadappuram, Anjudi, Puthiyakadappuram and Cheerankadapuram.
22 July 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Malappuram braces for massive spurt||The Health Department has taken over several halls and converted them into COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) as the virus infection started showing symptoms of a massive spread in the district. Among the centres taken over are marriage halls and educational institutions, especially in Tirurangadi, Parappanangadi, Ponnani and Tanur areas. Peace Auditorium near Chettippadi, Tahlimul Islam Orphanage High School, SNM HSS and PEM School (all at Parappanagadi), PSMO College at Tirurangadi, Darul Huda Islamic University at Chemmad, and Devadhar HSS at Tanur were the new FLTCs. Hundred beds each were being arranged at those centres. Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan visited the FLTCs at Ponnani on Tuesday. Everest Auditorium at Kollampadi, Mass Auditorium at Thrikkavil, MES College Auditorium, MI B.Ed Centre at Puthuponnani were converted into FLTCs at Ponnani, where 113 people had tested positive through local transmission. The fish markets at Kondotty, Poopalam near Perinthalmanna, and Tirur were closed following detection of COVID-19 in seven workers at Kondotty market. 61 new cases Sixty-one persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Tuesday, taking the total number of infected cases currently under treatment to 603. Twenty-nine of the new cases were found to have contracted the infection through local transmission.
22 July 2020||N.J. Nair,KERALA||LSGD Common Service before polls||Preparations are on for launching a Local Self-Government Department (LSGD) Common Service ahead of the local body elections this year for enhancing the functional efficacy and project-planning capacity of local bodies. The service is expected to be a game-changer in project preparation, execution, and monitoring of urban and rural local bodies. The service that integrates five departments (Panchayats, Urban Affairs, Rural Development, LSGD Engineering Wing, Town and Country Planning) and its 31,000-odd employees will help bridge the urban-rural divide and facilitate joint projects. It is expected to do away with the parochial development concepts in vogue and the tendency of departments to function in isolation. Kerala being an urban-rural continuum, a coordinated functioning of Corporations, municipalities, and three-tier panchayats would set the ground for balanced development through joint implementation of projects covering urban and rural areas without any hitch. LSGD sources told The Hindu that the common service would not lead to concentration of powers or the return of a bureaucratic regime that thrived before the implementation of the People’s Plan campaign and instead would act as a catalyst for local bodies to take up new challenges. The process for streamlining the five departments was initiated from the Secretariat. The first step was the functional integration of the Local Administration Department and the Rural Development Department at the Secretariat to form the LSG Department. A merger of directorates followed. The current system of urban and rural local bodies functioning under separate entities will go and all of them will come under a Principal Director at the State level and joint directors in districts. Managing exigencies This integration would make the management of exigencies such as natural calamities and spread of a pandemic like COVID-19 easier. Preparation of district plans, spatial plans, and projects will also become hassle-free. A senior IAS officer will be the Principal Director who will be in charge of overall coordination and general administration of the department. Director for Urban LSGD will be in charge of projects and schemes in urban local bodies and Director for Rural LSGD will replicate the same role for rural local bodies. A meeting of department heads would be convened soon for working out a course of action for switching over to the new service, sources said.
22 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta’s case burden goes up by 40||The district reported 40 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking the total number of active cases to 470. Twenty-one persons among the new cases contracted the disease through contact while 19 came from other States and abroad. Seventeen persons were cured of the disease on the day. Of the active cases, 462 persons have been admitted to isolation wards of various hospitals in the district while eight others have been admitted to hospitals outside the district. Meanwhile, 480 quarantined persons, comprising patients and those having symptoms of the viral disease, have been placed under observation at the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district as on Tuesday evening. So far, 19,177 throat swab samples sent from the district tested negative for COVID-19 while the results of 1,851 samples are awaited. District Collector P.B. Noohu designated six more wards in Kulanada and Kottangal grama panchayats containment zones for seven days from Tuesday in view of the increasing spread of COVID-19 in the areas. 5,826 in quarantine A total of 5,826 persons have been quarantined in the district as on Tuesday evening. This included 1,878 people who came from other States, 1,143 persons who came from abroad and 2,805 persons who are contacts of the infected persons. The total number of cases reported in the district since March 7 is 881, according to an official bulletin released. Of this, 410 persons have been cured of the disease and one succumbed to the ailment, according to a bulletin.
22 July 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Fellowship for Padayani exponent||The Kerala Folklore Akademi has selected D. Prasannakumar Tatwamasi, Padayani exponent from Thengeli, near Thiruvalla, for this year’s fellowship. He is also a recipient of the Folklore Akademi Award for Padayani artistes in 2014.
22 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital records ninth death||The capital district witnessed its ninth COVID-19 death after a 72-year-old woman from Pulluvila, who died on July 15, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. She is known to have been admitted with various co-morbidities. As many as 151 people, including the deceased woman, tested positive for the virus in the district on Tues day. Local transmission accounted for 144 cases, among which the source of infection is unknown in seven. Three health workers are also among those who were diagnosed with the disease. Eleven people, including an Alappuzha native, recovered from the illness, taking the number of active cases in the district to 2,201. Two employees of Pothys, which was shut by the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation a day ago, have been diagnosed with the disease. Crime Branch official One more police officer attached to the Directorate of Crime Branch tested positive for the infection. The patient, a civil police officer, has been involved in COVID-19 control duty at the Thiruvananthapuram international airport. He is known to have regularly returned home in Aryanad, which has been a containment zone of late. The officer was directed to remain home after he developed symptoms on July 14. His swab samples were collected at the Nedumangad taluk hospital on the same day. All the other officers who were deputed for airport duty, tested negative for the infection, official sources said. The directorate has remained closed since July 17 when a woman civil police officer, who had been deputed for COVID-19 duty in the Fort police station limits, was diagnosed with the disease. With the emergence of the new case, the Kerala police have decided to extend the closure for another two days.  The Kattakada depot of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is the latest of many to be closed in the district after a driver was diagnosed with the disease. The Kattakada native used to report for duty on all days until July 19. The pandemic had earlier led to the suspension of services at various depots in the district.
22 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Public can expect tighter curbs: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said the COVID-19 pandemic was unlikely to abate any time soon. “We are in for a marathon, not a 100-m dash. There is no immediate end in sight. The disease might test us to the limit of our endurance. We have to harness the mental strength and collective will to tide over the crisis. Kerala can’t afford to lose the fight against the scourge. Losing is not an option for us,” he said. The Chief Minister indicated that the public should brace themselves for severe lockdowns interspersed with periods of relative loosening up of restrictions on normal life and retail trade as new clusters are identified and fresh flare-ups detected. Targeted enforcement of the health protocol in critical containment areas and buffer zones would entail arrest and prosecution of violators of the provisions of the epidemic control Ordinance. He said the police would monitor markets, shops, and allow no cross-border travel. Civic bodies would cancel the permit of traders who did not adhere to government directives. Kerala was still on the top of the race against the outbreak. It had a meagre case fatality rate and the health-care system in the State was far from being overwhelmed. Mr. Vijayan said that those who test positive in rapid antigen tests and were asymptomatic would also have to move to first-line treatment centres, as asymptomatics could still spread the infection.  More testing facilities Testing facilities were being augmented and currently the government had 59 testing centres whereas the private sector had 51, with various diagnostic modalities. Many private hospitals had already started taking in COVID patients. COVID patients can be referred there by government doctors and people can also walk in and demand care, he added. Mr. Vijayan said there was no lack of vigilance in the conduct of KEAM tests. An estimated 88,000 students appeared for the examinations. Only a few in one location had tested positive afterwards. It was unlikely that they had caught the infection from the examination centre. Flays Opposition He said Opposition parties made no creative contribution to the fight against coronavirus. On the contrary, they tried to aggravate the situation by forsaking physical distancing and recklessly organising protests and assemblies. “Who were they (the Opposition) challenging? The High Court or COVID-19?” he asked. Mr. Vijayan said the attempts of the Opposition to tar and feather the government by attempting to link the Chief Minister’s Office to the gold smuggling case had failed. The government has nothing to do with the crime. But, the Opposition tried to propagate the lie that the government was somehow responsible. He asked them to shed their “political deviousness” and join the main social stream to fight the scourge. “There is a time for politics. But it’s not now. The priority is to preserve lives and survive the plague.”
22 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cabin partitions mandatory for public transport vehicles||With the spurt in COVID-19 cases and local transmission of SARS-CoV-2 turning a concern, the Motor Vehicles Department has made cabin partitions that divides the front and rear space of autorickshaws, taxies, and buses plying in the State mandatory. Drivers and conductors of buses are susceptible to contracting the disease owing to their constant interaction with the travelling public. Instances of drivers and conductors of Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) buses and drivers of autorickshaws and taxis getting infected have highlighted the need for having cabin separators. State Transport Commissioner M.R. Ajith Kumar has now ordered that these vehicles operating in the State should have plastic or acrylic sheets to segregate the seat of the driver and the rear space used by the travellers. “Only such vehicles with partition will be allowed to ply through the roads and carry travellers,” he said. Log books Autorickshaws and taxies had been asked to maintain a log book with details of the travellers, including mobile phone numbers, to contact in case of any health emergency. The Transport Commissioner has asked the Regional Transport Officers to carry out checks. The KSRTC has already begun steps to have partitions in place to segregate the driver cabin from the rear space meant for travellers in the wake of drivers contracting the disease. Though easy to install, non-availability of the materials in view of the lockdown is causing much difficulty for vehicle operators to implement the order.
22 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Masks and sanitisers for coastal areas||Two lakh masks and 50,000 sanitisers will be provided to all houses in the coastal areas of the Thiruvananthapuram Assembly constituency, including at Poonthura where community transmission has been reported, V.S. Sivakumar, MLA, has said. Sanction had been received for utilising Rs. 34 lakh from the MLA fund, a statement from the MLA here on Tuesday said. The masks and sanitisers would be distributed in a week at Poonthura, Manikyavilakom, Beempally, Beempally East, Valiathura, Vallakkadavu, Muttathara, Shanghumughom, and Vettucaud. The masks would be provided through Poonthura hospital, Valiathura coastal specialty hospital, and Fort taluk hospital.
22 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree care at FLTCs||With COVID First-Line Treatment Centres (FLTCs) becoming crucial in bringing the spiralling cases under control, the Kudumbashree mission has started extending its services to the FLTCs. The Kudumbashree is providing food and housekeeping services to these centres if required by the local self-government institutions under which the centres function. At present, Kudumbashree is supplying food to 25 FLTCs, while cleaning services are being provided at eight centres. It is the Kudumbashree development societies that ensure arrangements for food to those who test positive for COVID-19 and are brought to the FLTCs. In Kottayam, for instance, where two FLTCs have been set up, Kudumbashree provides only food. At the K.R. Narayanan institute hostel where the FLTC was set up on July 4, nearly 45 food packets are given four times a day by the Kudumbashree members in Akalakunnam panchayat. At the women’s hostel in the Kottayam municipal limits, Kudumbashree members under the municipal CDS supply 80 food packets once a day. Housekeeping services are also being provided at select places across hiruvananthapuram, Pathanamthitta, and Idukki.  ‘Inadequate wages’ However, the cleaning operations are not as easily managed as food supply. In one district, Kudumbashree members were reluctant to take up the job owing to the risk factor. A couple of them who did take up the work quit after a few days. The wages were also cited as inadequate. In Idukki, where 18 Kudumbashree members are involved in cleaning operations in four FLTCs, they have somehow managed to keep things going. The risks involved led many to stop reporting for work. The district mission then roped in the Snehitha gender help desk counsellors to identify people and counsel them individually to get them to work in the FLTCs, a strategy that is bearing dividends. The members are also given a one-hour class before being put to work. A 25-member Kudumbashree team that includes men is ready to start cleaning work at the Karyavattom stadium as soon as required. They have been selected from the Kudumbashree members who provide cleaning services regularly at Government Medical College Hospital here. The Kudumbashree district mission says one cleaning person will be deployed for 10 patients each. The mission is giving kits containing soap, brush, paste, and bed sheets to the patients in six FLTCs.
22 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Collector’s FB post draws doctors’ ire||A Facebook post by the District Collector, Thrissur, that the administration would tide over the human resource shortage in the health sector by utilising the services of those health-care workers who are COVID-19 positive but asymptomatic in first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) has invited the wrath of the medical fraternity. Rights violation In a statement here on Tuesday, Kerala Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA) termed the decision as “inhuman” and a violation of basic human rights. Even when it is true that most of the COVID-19 patients are asymptomatic, there are several reports about how patients can suddenly go into a life-threatening state due to the drop in oxygen saturation or sudden cardiac issues. Information about how SARS CoV-2 virus affects the human body and the extent of damage it can wreak is still emerging, the statement said. Overworked Doctors and health-care workers are already overworked, most of them having been working on the front lines without a proper break for the past six months. Allowing them time for proper recuperation when they are sick should be the normal course of action. It is not only unscientific but also inhuman to propose that even when they are sick, they should not be allowed any rest and that they should be made use of, the KGMOA said Though the post has since been withdrawn by the Collector, the KGMOA has written to the government to take steps to organise additional personnel to manage the pandemic . With the government opening more FLTCs in panchayats, scant attention is being paid to the human resource to run these centres, the KGMOA said.
22 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Keys to 37 houses handed over||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, through videoconferencing on Tuesday, handed over the keys to 37 houses built for Scheduled Tribe families in Chembankolli Colony of Pothukallu panchayat in Nilambur as part of flood rehabilitation activities. The houses were built using the corporate social responsibility fund of Federal Bank on 2.13 hectares purchased by the Scheduled Tribe Development Department. The Chief Minister said on the occasion that the government machinery had not come to a halt because of COVID-19. Development and welfare activities continued amid the prevention activities. The government, he said, was firm that no crisis should come in the way of fulfilling people’s basic needs. That was the reason why post-flood reconstruction and rehabilitation, welfare of tribespeople and the poor were going ahead uninterrupted.
22 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chala market a potential hotspot?||Eleven people who are closely associated with the Chala market tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 during the last few days. Worryingly, some among them have been engaged in supplying essential items to various parts of the city. According to reliable sources, while seven people were diagnosed with the disease until Monday, four more have been found to be infected after the 50 primary contacts of the former group were tested on Tuesday. The family members of a few of them have also contracted the infection. Among those affected are vendors of fruits, vegetables and spices, a head-load worker, a tea supplier, a grocery-store-owner, and an Attukal-based retailer who procures essential items from wholesale outlets in Chala. The market has been receiving several goods-laden lorries from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Any delay in intensifying testing in the market and imposing further curbs on its functioning could create yet another major cluster in the city, officials say.
22 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP protest||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) observed black day on Tuesday demanding the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for his alleged involvement in the gold smuggling case. State president K. Surendran inaugurated the protest in Ernakulam. The involvement of Mr. Vijayan is becoming obvious and he should quit without testing the patience of the people, he said.
22 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NCC gives away masks||Masks manufactured by National Cadet Corps (NCC) cadets under the Thiruvananthapuram NCC group headquarters were handed over to Minister for Tourism Kadakampally Surendran by Naval staff under the leadership of director Colonel S. Francis and Lieutenant Commander M.P.S. Hooda on Tuesday.
22 July 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NIDA loan for KIIFB for K-Fone project||The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) has got a Nabard Infrastructure Development Assistance (NIDA) of Rs. 1,061.73 crore for the K-Fone project. The K-Fone project aims at providing seamless Internet connection to 20 lakh indigent families free of cost and 30,000 institutions at affordable rates.
22 July 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus One results on July 30||The Plus One higher secondary results will come out on July 30. The results will be published straight on the results websites that afternoon. As many as 4.38 lakh students appeared for the Plus One examinations. The Plus Two higher secondary results were published last week.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||A breather||
22 July 2020||B. Madhu GopalVISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vitamin C tablets fly off shelves||There seems to be an acute shortage of vitamin C tablets at drugstores in the city. Thanks to COVID-19, the otherwise ‘slow moving’ tablets are disappearing from the shelves with the drug promising to boost the much-needed immunity in times of the pandemic. The popular ‘Limcee 500 mg’, which used to be sold at Rs. 1.10 paise for a tablet, is no longer available. A few other brands are available at five times the cost and even these seem to be in short supply as consumers are bombarded with messages from all and sundry, and not just doctors, on the importance of increasing the intake of vitamin C to keep the immunity levels high to fight the coronavirus. “I went round several medical stores at Seethammadhara, Muralinagar and Gopalapatnam but could not get Limcee. A few stores were, however, selling other vitamin C brands at prices ranging from Rs. 5 to Rs. 8 a tablet, which is nearly five to eight times the price of Limcee. The common man will have to shell out Rs. 150 to Rs. 240 a month for 30 tablets as against Rs. 33 for the popular brand,” says a resident of Seethammadhara. “This is not all. The drug manufacturers have reduced the dosage of vitamin C tablets to 250 mg (instead of 500 mg for Limcee) and increased the price. This will cause an additional financial burden on the common user,” he said. Meanwhile, Suresh Somayajula, TDP Medical Cell president, gave a representation to Drugs Inspector N. Kalyani complaining of the acute shortage of vitamin C tablets and the need to take remedial measures. He noted that availability of the essential vitamin supplement in the drugstores, especially generic medical stores, was limited and the price has increased Rs. 1 (before lockdown) to Rs. 5 per tablet after the lockdown. ‘Stock diversion’ He said that there was a talk of diversion of stock to Maharashtra. He appealed to the Drugs Control Authorities to look into the issue. Drug dealers say they are not getting adequate stocks from Telangana, where a number of pharma companies are located. The demand post-COVID has gone up substantially and the dealers are said to be getting one box, when they place an indent for 10 boxes of vitamin C tablets. The dealers justify the hike in price to the increased cost of transport due to COVID-19. “Manufacturers cannot hike the price according to their whims and fancies when the product pertains to vitamin C alone as it comes under price regulation. However, they can hike the price in the case of combination drugs,” Assistant Director, Drugs Control Administration, K. Rajitha, told The Hindu , when contacted on Monday.
22 July 2020||G.V.R. Subba RaoVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tomato turns dearer||Tomato, which brings much-needed cheer among food lovers, is now out of reach for the commoners. The tomato price began soaring as the local produce from markets like Madanapalle has come down. While the tomato price at rythu bazars was around Rs. 50 a kg during the last week, it was sold at not less than Rs. 75 in the retail market. According to information, at rythu bazars in the city, the tomatoes were sold at Rs. 43 per kg on Tuesday while in the retail market, the price ranges between Rs. 75 and Rs. 80 a kg. The rise in tomato price is due to the decrease in the supply. Tomatoes are being supplied to Vijayawada from Karnataka for the last few weeks and the markets have seen a decrease in the supply. The prices have begun skyrocketing from mid June and peaked on last Saturday and Sunday, which witnessed Rs. 50 a kg at rythu bazars. Interestingly, the tomato prices were stable during the lockdown period and in summer, the prices have increased steadily thereafter. The tomatoes were available for less than Rs. 20 a kg then. “Owing to shortage of the tomatoes, we are sourcing the supply from Kolar in Karnataka. The supply from the Madanapalle market in Chittoor has stopped. We are now getting the tomatoes from Kolar. About 50 to 60 quintals of tomatoes arrive at Patamata Rythu Bazar from Kolar,” says S. Karunakar, Estate Officer at Patamata Rythu Bazar. The escalating prices are due to less arrival of stocks in the markets. On an average, the PWD Rythu Bazar, which is the biggest bazar in the city, gets 400-600 trays each containing 25 kg everyday. The other rythu bazaars also get supplies from Kolar. Same prices may continue for some more days until the supply is increased, feel vendors. The supplies from Anantapur are expected in a week or so. The prices will come down to Rs. 20 to Rs. 25 in that case. Meanwhile, Madanapalle market will also open, which is expected to bring down the prices further, opines the EO. Transportation cost The transportation cost of each tray from Kolar will be around Rs. 125, while it would be around just Rs. 10 in the local market. So, the supplies from Madanapalle and Anantapur will bring down the prices, he explains.
22 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State govt. committed to safety of women’||The State government is committed to implementation of the Disha Act and has brought in place special police stations, fast-track courts and forensic labs, Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharitha said here on Tuesday. Addressing a media conference at the party central office in Tadepalli, Ms. Sucharita said that 5.8 lakh people have downloaded the Disha App and so far 71,700 SOS calls were logged. Around 19,824 have utilised ‘track my travel’ option on the App. As on date, 470 complaints were lodged under the Act and 103 of them are undergoing judicial process.
22 July 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC pulls up police over ‘detention’ of lawyer||The High Court on Tuesday came down heavily on the police while hearing a case related to alleged detention of an advocate Pyla Subhash Chandra Bose by the Prathipadu police in blatant violation of norms. The High Court also ordered the government to file a detailed affidavit in four weeks.Mr. Bose’s wife filed a Habeas Corpus petition alleging that the police took away the advocate from her house at Eleswaram in East Godavari district on Sunday night and did not give any reasons for his detention and she was not aware where he was held up. Earlier, the High Court ordered SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi to present the advocate in the court in person and sought an explanation for the intrusion of police officials into Mr. Bose’s house without any authorisation. A Bench comprising Justice Rakesh Kumar and Justice K. Suresh Reddy said, “you (public servant) may join politics if you want, but while in uniform, remember that you have a duty to perform, and that is to protect the life and liberty of people.” The advocate’s wife also alleged that a police officer had been threatening Mr. Bose and that a complaint was lodged with the National Human Rights Commission on July 14. Mr. Bose, who is also Telugu Yuvatha district president, was reportedly involved in the registration of a medico-legal case at Prathipadu.
22 July 2020||JANGAREDDYGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja worth Rs. 30 lakh seized, two arrested||The West Godavari police on Tuesday seized 514 kg of ganja (Cannabis) valued about Rs. 30 lakh. They arrested two persons for smuggling the contraband. On a tip-off, a team led by Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) ASP Kareemulla Shariff and Jangareddygudem DSP M. Snehita intercepted a lorry at Narasannapalem village in Koyyalagudem mandal and seized the contraband. They arrested G. Prasanth, of Suryapeta district and Naveen Kumar, native of Kondasontha village, Visakhapatnam district. The accused were allegedly transporting the ganja to Khammam district, said Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik.Police registered a case and took up investigation.
22 July 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vivekananda Reddy murder case: CBI team still in Pulivendula||Investigation into the murder of the former MP, Y.S. Vivekananda Reddy, continued for the fourth day at Pulivendula in the district on Tuesday. After taking over the case from the Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted by the government, the seven-member CBI team recovered all the records and material evidence from it. After several rounds of discussion with the SIT members, the CBI team reportedly studied and took note of the sequence of events that preceded and followed the murder. The team not only visited the ancestral home of the victim, who is also the paternal uncle of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, but also went round the premises many times. The scene of offence– the bedroom and bathroom of the house – was thoroughly screened. The team members also spoke in private with the slain leader’s wife Soubhagyamma and daughter Sunitha. It may be recalled that the case changed hands from the SIT to the CBI after Ms. Sunitha moved the High Court seeking an inquiry by the Central agency in view of the high-profile nature and sensitivity of the case. The team is learnt to have readied the list of persons to be interrogated.
22 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bar associations decry lawyer’s midnight arrest||The members of Rajamahendravaram and Pratipadu Bar Associations on Tuesday condemned the arrest of lawyer Pyla Subhash Chandra Bose by the East Godavari police on the midnight of July 19 from his residence under Yeleswaram police limits in East Godavari district. Mr. Bose was arrested in connection with the three cases, including a case in which he is accused of having an argument with a doctor at the Government Hospital in Rajamahendravaram over a medico-legal case of his client. Mr. Bose belongs to Yeleswaram and is a member of the Pratipadu Bar Association. In an official release, Rajamahendravaram Bar Association president Ch. Prabhakara Rao said, “We condemn the way Mr. Bose has been arrested by the police at midnight without any prior notice to respond to the charges framed against him.” “The credibility of the police department will be in question if such incidents are repeated,” Mr. Prabhakara Rao said On the other hand, Pratipadu Bar Association members led by president Bugatha Siva raised slogans against the arrest of Mr. Bose and met his family members to express his support on behalf of the bar association.
22 July 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Huge sand stocks built up in East Godavari ’||East Godavari Joint Collector G. Lakshmisha on Tuesday said 16 lakh tonnes of sand has been stored at 12 stock points to ensure uninterrupted supply during the monsoon season. In a videoconference with newsmen, Mr. Lakshmisha that sand is being supplied within three to five days of orders being placed across the district. “Consumers can book the order through Village/Ward Secretariats every day except Sunday. There is no impact on the supply system due to the rains,” the Joint Collector toldm media persons. “All arrangements have been made to guarantee the supply of sand for individuals, apart from accepting bulk orders, which is meant for developmental works,” the Joint Collector said. The Joint Collector furthe said that a total of 150 cases have been registered by the Sand Enforcement Bureau against those who illegally diverted sand.
22 July 2020||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool sees over 500 cases daily; tally crosses 7,000-mark||The number of COVID-19 positive cases is increasing at a rate of over 500 cases for the past one week, and the cumulative number of COVID-19 positive cases in Kurnool has gone up to 7,117 with 515 new cases recorded on Tuesday. The number of active cases is 3,970 and 3,019 persons have been discharged with 130 deaths so far. After a brief lull in June, the positive cases have been increasing in large numbers everyday and the district administration is making all efforts to bring as many hospital beds in use as possible at all major towns with large number of positive cases. Rapid rise The number of positive cases doubled in 10 days in Anantapur district with cumulative total on July 2 being 1823, on July 10 there were 2850 positive cases compared to 3161 on July 11, 4224 cases on July 17; 4504 on July 18, crossed 5,000 cases on July 19, and 5483 cases on July 20. In today’s (on July 21) bulletin the number of positive cases shown is 5964 (Monday’s results ) and results of Tuesday’s swab tests are expected in the night. Testing ramped up Meanwhile, the Anantapur district, which was testing 2900 samples a day has ramped up its testing capacity and proposes to test 4,000 per day from Wednesday, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said. With nine IMAQ buses and three Sanjeevini buses on roads, people are being given schedule in advance and asked to get tested voluntarily if they were above 60 years of age with comorbidities.
22 July 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Importance of NAAC accreditation stressed||The National Accreditation and Assessment Council(NAAC) was making an all-out effort to bring together the industry and academy on a common platform, said adviser M. S. Shyamasundar. Taking part in a webinar organised by the Vikrama Simhapuri University(VSU), in association with NAAC advisory team, New Delhi, he said in his opening remarks that NAAC accreditation was imperative for all the higher educational institutions to get UGC grants. It would also enable the higher educational institutions to get global recognition. VSU vice-chancellor R Sudarsana Rao said VSU was fully geared up to get NAAC accreditation. Other advisers of the NAAC who participated in the webinar were Pratibha Singh, K. R. Vishnu Mahesh, D. K. Kamble, A. V. Prasad. Principals of VSU-affiliated colleges, VSU faculty and other VSU officials were also present in the webinar.
22 July 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam records five more deaths, toll rises to 39||Five more people succumbed to COVID-19 in Prakasam district while 157 people tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. With this, the death toll went up to 39 in the district, a health bulletin issued by the State Government said on Tuesday. The number of positive cases rose to 2,629, while 2,006 persons tested negative for the disease, the district medical and health department said. The disease rapidly spread to more villages coinciding with the lifting of the lockdown. All roads leading to remote Sankavarapadu and Manetikota villages were sealed as 13 and six persons respectively tested positive for the disease. With 20 fresh cases, Ongole continued to be at the top with 522 cumulative confirmed cases, a report compiled by COVID-19 Nodal Officer John Richards said. New cases were also reported from far-flung villages like Pedaraveedu, R.G. Palli, Karedu, Tellapadu, Garladinne, Boinavaripalem, Namburivaripalem, Mundlamuru, Pokuru, B. Nidamanuru, Ponnaluru, Vemparla, Pulalacheruvu, Dornala, Peda Alavalapadu, and Chowtapalem. As the number of confirmed cases crossed the 2,600 mark in Nellore district, Collector K.V.N. Chakradhara Babu held a meeting with private hospitals with a view to ultilise their services in checking the spread of the disease since the designated COVID-19 hospitals were full of patients. The Collector asked hospitals to earmark beds in intensive care units at their respective hospitals. “The district is likely to witness more cases in the next two months,” he said, adding that 4,000 tests were being done presently each day to trace all the primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons and provide them timely treatment. Mild and asymptomatic cases can be treated by isolating them in their homes itself, he said.
22 July 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dalit youth ‘tonsured’ at police station||A sub-inspector of police and two constables of Seethanagaram police station were suspended on charges of tonsuring the head and moustache of a 23-year-old Dalit man in East Godavari district on July 20. The incident came to light on Tuesday after the youth shared the details of the act with his family members. According to Rajamahendravaram Urban Superintendent of Police P. Shemushi Bajpai, the youth was taken into custody by sub-inspector Sk. Feroz Shah on July 20 following a complaint lodged by Adapa Pushakaram. On July 18, the youth and Mr. Pushakaram were allegedly involved in an argument while the former was waiting for ambulance for the injured in a road accident at his village, Munikodali, following which the latter lodged a complaint. The police allegedly tonsured the head and moustache the Dalit youth in the police station. “Sub-Inspector Feroz Shah and two constables have reportedly tonsured the head and moustache of the victim after taking him into custody. Later, the police granted station bail to the victim,” Ms. Bajpai said. The victim was also allegedly beaten up by the police. In a release, Ms. Bajpai said cases under various Sections of the IPC and ST&ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 had been registered against the police personnel. The youth has been admitted to District Government Hospital in Rajamahendravaram where his health condition is said to be stable.
22 July 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rescued girl dreams big||Children and parents thanked the police for conducting ‘Operation Muskaan’ during the COVID-19 pandemic in which some thousands of children were rescued in the State. “I thank the DGP for taking up the drive, which detected COVID-19 symptoms in seven persons in our family. We are saved just because of the alertness of the local police,” said a family member in which two rescued children tested positive in Prakasam district. Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang interacted with the rescued children, their family members and the police personnel, who participated in the drive, through virtual meeting, from AP Police Headquarters at Mangalagiri on Tuesday. “I want to become a police officer,” said a seven-year-old girl, Bindu, of Guntur district. Assistant Sub-Inspector Baby Rani explained how the police rescued the girl, who was separated from her family. Mr. Sawang spoke to B. Srinivas, who went missing four years ago and was reunited with her family, staying in Palakol in West Godavari district. “I want to stay with my family and continue my studies,” the boy, who is studying fourth standard, told the DGP in the web conference. The DGP praised Guntur Urban SP R.N. Ammi Reddy and West Godavari SP K. Narayan Naik for rescuing the two children. Adoption plan Speaking to The Hindu , the DGP said: “The police are planning to adopt the two children -- Bindu and Srinivas -- and provide education facility to them. Instructions will be given to the SPs concerned in this regard,” Mr. Sawang said. “Life of every child is so valuable. It’s really touching that many of the rescued children were in tender age . I request the parents to pay special attention to their wards ,” Mr. Sawang said.
22 July 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srikakulam set to shoot into the limelight||Srikakulam is expected to be the biggest beneficiary politically on Wednesday with the widely anticipated induction of Palasa MLA Sidiri Appalaraju into the Cabinet. Minister for Roads and Buildings Dharmana Krishnadas is expected to be promoted as Deputy Chief Minister. Both Mr. Krishnadas and Dr. Appalaraju have already left for Amararavati, lending credence to the speculation. They enjoy a clean image and have a good track record and this seems to have caught the eye of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Dr. Appalaraju is a first-timer, having won from the Palasa constituency in the 2019 election. He defeated Gowthu Sirisha of the TDP by a margin of 16,000 votes. The MLA hails from Devunaltada village of Vajrapukotturu mandal. Loyalty pays Mr. Krishndas, who won from the Narasannapeta constituency in the by-election in 2012 on YSRCP ticket, proved his loyalty by sailing with Mr. Jagan right from 2010. He suffered defeat in the 2014 elections but won from the Narasannapeta constituency in 2019. Mr. Jagan preferred Mr. Krishnadas to his younger brother Prasada Rao who got elected from the Srikakulam constituency in 2019. The Chief Minister’s decision has surprised many as Mr. Prasada Rao had been in the limelight in all Congress governments right from 1989. Speaker Thammineni Seetharam, who represents Amadalavalasa, also hails from Srikakulam and this shows the importance given to the district by the Chief Minister. “These manoeuvres would certainly help the YSR Congress Party in the district future. However, much would depend on the performance of the duo,” said Gunta Leela Varaprasad, assistant professor of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University.
22 July 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD suspends issuance of Sarva darshan tokens||The Tirumla Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has temporarily dispensed with the issuance of time slot Sarva Darshan tokens from Tuesday. The decision comes in the wake of the district administration taking a serious view of the sharp rise in the COVID-19 positive cases in Tirupati and declaring the entire town as a containment zone, besides announcing a total lockdown for 14 days. The darshan tokens are issued on a day-to-day basis at the Bhudevi complex near Alipiri Bus Station at Tirupati for the common pilgrims who reach the town for the darshan of Lord Venkateswara without any prior arrangements. The TTD has been issuing 3,000 tokens under current booking system in addition to 9,000 online special entry darshan tokens daily. Meanwhile, the TTD has claimed that the date of resumption of the system would be announced after the return of normalcy.
22 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic surge continues in State||Continuing to witness rapid growth in COVID cases and deaths, the State reported 62 new deaths, the highest single-day spike so far, during the past 24 hours. As many as 4,944 new cases were reported in a day, as of Wednesday morning. The tally has gone up to 58,668 and the death toll mounted to 758. The State witnessed 350 deaths and over 25,000 cases in the past one week, and only over 8,000 patients recovered during the period. Currently, there are 32,336 active cases and with the discharge of 1,346 patients in the past day, the recoveries increased to 25,574, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. However, the recovery rate decreased to 43.5. More than half of the new deaths occurred in the districts of East Godavari (10), Visakhapatnam (9), Chittoor (8) and Srikakulam (7). The remaining occurred in West Godavari (6), Anantapur (6), Guntur (5), Prakasam (5), Kurnool (4), Kadapa (1) and Vizianagaram (1). All the new cases reported are local cases and for the fourth consecutive day there are no imported cases. West Godavari reported 623 new cases, the highest in the State, in the past day, and Guntur reported 577 cases. They are followed by Chittoor (560), East Godavari (524), Kurnool (515), Anantapur (458), Krishna (424), Kadapa (322), Visakhapatnam (230), Vizianagaram (210), Nellore (197), Prakasam (171) and Srikakulam (133). The district tallies of local cases are as follows: East Godavari (7,756), Kurnool (7,119), Guntur (6,071), Anantapur (5,941), Chittoor (5,323), West Godavari (4,314), Krishna (4,101), Kadapa (3,120), Srikakulam (2,963), Nellore (2,683), Visakhapatnam (2,430), Prakasam (2,256) and Vizianagaram (1,696). The local cases at 55,773 amount to 95% of the total cases in State, while imported cases at 2,895 amount to 5% of the cases. Testing The State conducted tests 37,162 samples in the past day and 20,552 of them are RT-PCR, TrueNat and NACO tests. The remaining 16,610 samples are Rapid Antigen tests. Of the RT-PCR, TrueNat and NACO tests 3,363 turned positive and of the Rapid Antigen tests 1,581 turned positive. So far, 13,86, 274 samples were tested in the State and the positivity rate is at 4.23%.
22 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘LKG, UKG in govt. schools from this academic year’||Minister for Human Resources Development Adimulapu Suresh has announced the commencement of the pre-primary education, Lower Kindergarten and Upper Kindergarten, in all the government schools from the coming academic year. Addressing the media at the Secretariat on Tuesday, Mr. Suresh also announced that the schools in the State would reopen on September 5 in line with the guidelines issued by the Central government. He said LKG and UKG classes would be taught in 55,607 anganwadi centres across the State and 11,657 of them were within the premises of the government schools or adjacent to them. Committee to be formed He said all the anganwadi centres would be integrated with the schools and anganwadi teachers and school teachers would jointly run classes. He said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked for a committee to be formed to prepare guidelines for the pre-primary education. Training for students Mr. Suresh said that the government decided to post a Joint Director in the Education Department for every district to improve standards. He said students in junior colleges would be provided training for IIT, EAMCET and other competitive examinations besides setting up more government junior colleges. He further said that Mr. Jagan asked officials to create State-level director posts to supervise English medium education and Jagananna Gorumudda programmes. Mr. Suresh said that skill and employment training would be given to students from Class VIII by introducing various, computer, hardware and other programmes. ‘Dry ration at doorstep’ The Minister said that students were being given dry ration at their doorstep due to COVID pandemic and soon the third phase of distribution would begin. He said students of classes I to V, their parents and teachers would be given handbooks from the coming academic year and workbooks would be given to students for every subject. He said the school permissions system has been made available online now and every year academic auditing of the schools would be done.
22 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Much-awaited Cabinet rejig scheduled for today||The much-awaited State Cabinet expansion is scheduled for Wednesday at 1.29 p.m. Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has decided to fill the two berths which fell vacant due to the resignation of Pilli Subhash Chandra Bose and Mopidevi Venkataramana on their elevation to the Rajya Sabha. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan will administer the oath of office and of secrecy to the new entrants at the Raj Bhavan. Mr. Jagan will reach the venue at 1 p.m. Both Mr. Bose and Mr. Venkataramana had put in their papers on July 3 and the Governor accepted their resignations on July 20. Caste equations As both of them are from the BC community, it is speculated that Mr. Jagan will pick their replacements from the same community. There is a title-tattle in political circles that Ramachandrapuram MLA Chelluboyina Venu Gopala Krishna and Palasa MLA Sidiri Appalaraju will be inducted into the Cabinet. Also, there is talk that the portfolio of Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani) will be changed. He will be given the revenue portfolio which was earlier held by Mr. Bose. Dr. Appalaraju will replace Mr. Nani. The Marketing and Fisheries portfolios, which were earlier held by Mr. Venkataramana, will be given to Mr. Gopala Krishna. Speculation is rife that Mr. Jagan will make minor changes in his team.
22 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||President urged to stall capital Bills||Narsapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju sought President Ram Nath Kovind’s intervention for stalling the State government's ‘unconstitutional’ and ‘anti-public’ act of pushing through the decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Bills. In a memorandum which he personally submitted to the President in New Delhi on Tuesday, Mr. Ramakrishna Raju insisted that since the matters are pending before the High Court for deciding on important constitutional questions and therefore are sub judice, it is mandatory to refer the Bills to the President, which is also must as per the second proviso to Article 200 of the Constitution. He urged the President to elicit the opinion of the Attorney-General in view of the Bills’ far-reaching consequences for the State. Mr. Ramakrishna Raju alleged that the State government was making a deliberate misinterpretation of clauses 1-b and 2-b of Article 197 to defend its wrongful stand on the Bills.  ‘Wrong model’ He said the government’s move to divide the capital into executive, legislative and judicial would ruin the development of Amaravati, which was declared by the previous government as the new capital post-bifurcation in compliance with the AP Reorganisation Act (APRA) and where a massive expenditure was incurred on infrastructure creation. Besides, if the South African model was adopted, the proposed three capitals would be scattered hundreds of kilometres apart. Moreover, in the present financial crisis precipitated by COVID-19, any discussion on the three capitals which Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is very much fond of, should not be allowed, he observed. Mr. Ramakrishna Raju said the Bills were passed in the Assembly but they were referred by the Council to the Select Committee. However, the government has frozen the process of the study of the Bills by the committee and went to the extent of passing a resolution for dissolving the Council itself. He claimed that the Council disapproved the Bills as per Number 71 of its business rules. “With ulterior motives,” the government reintroduced the Bills in the Assembly and got them passed. Against this backdrop, the Bills were sent to the Governor for ratification. The MP said the Bills were in irreconcilable conflict with the reorganisation Act, which makes it obligatory for the Governor to send the controversial pieces of legislation to the President.
22 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Operation Muskaan has drawn praise of CM: DGP||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has appreciated the police for taking up the ‘Operation Muskaan’ drive and rescuing children during COVID-19, said Director- General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang. “As per the directions of the Chief Minister, we have taken up the week-long drive with other line departments,” the DGP said while speaking at the closing programme of the ‘Operation Muskaan’, in Mangalagiri on Tuesday. The police rescued as many as 4,806 children, of which 177, including 99 boys and 78 girls, were below the age of five years. Of the total, 278 were engaged as child labourers and 11 were rescued from hazardous conditions. “Children abandoned by parents, runaway from homes, separated from families due to various reasons, dropouts and those who became homeless due to disturbed and broken families, were among the rescued,” Mr. Sawang explained. The DGP, while praising Additional DG, Crime Investigation Department (CID), P.V. Sunil Kumar, and his team for taking up the drive despite COVID-19, complimented all the police personnel for participating in the drive and rescuing the vulnerable children in the State during the global health emergency. Support of others With the help of the departments of Labour, Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW), Medical and Health, Juvenile Welfare and Non-Governmental Organisations, police successfully conducted the drive and restored 4,703 children to their parents, the DGP said. “We have been conducting the 'Operation Muskaan' for the last five years and some thousands of children were rescued during the drive. Now, it has been taken up to protect the children during the pandemic,” the DGP said. Besides Mr. Sunil Kumar, Principal Secretary of WD&CW A.R Anuradha, Additional DG (Law and Order) Ravi Shankar Ayyanar, Labour Commissioner G. Rekha Rani, DIGs S. Hari Krishna, M. Sunil Naik and C.M. Thrivikram Varma, CID SPs K.G.V. Saritha and G.R. Radhika and NGO representatives participated in the programme.
22 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Provide data on beds online: Governor||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has directed the officers to provide the data of beds available in COVID Hospitals online. He praised the doctors, para-medical staff, sanitation workers and other frontline staff who have been discharging their duties efficiently during this time of pandemic. At a review meeting with Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Special Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy and other officials through video conference from Raj Bhavan on Tuesday, Mr. Harichandan expressed concern over rise in the number of COVID cases, after lifting the lockdown. The Governor enquired the officials about the steps being taken in the districts where the situation was alarming and appreciated the officers for conducting more COVID tests by arranging mobile vans. ‘Dip likely by July-end’ Ms. Sawhney said the reason for spurt in cases was due to movement of people from the neighbouring States, and the cases are expected to come down by July- end. Mr. Jawahar Reddy explained that the State government has put in place the process of testing, tracking, isolation and treatment on a large scale. Public can call over 104 and ask for tests and seek admission of COVID positive patients. Testing “The Government is procuring 3.25 lakh rapid antigen test kits, which can give results within 15 to 20 minutes, and testing will be increased to 35,000 to 40,000 per day, and about 2,700 doctors and para-medical staff have been appointed under COVID-19 recruitment drive,.” Mr. Jawahar Reddy said.
22 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Incident a blot on the force, says DGP||DGP D. Gautam Sawang expressed anger over the alleged inhuman act of the personnel at the Seethanagaram police station in Rajamahendravaram and ordered a thorough inquiry into the incident. Mr. Sawang spoke with Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao and Rajamahendravaram Urban Police District SP Shemushi Bajpai, and enquired about the sequence of events. “We will not tolerate such high-handed behaviour. Such incidents mar the image of the police force. Stern action will be taken against those who allegedly tortured and tonsured the person at the police station,” he said. “We suspended SI Sk. Feroz Shah and two constables. A detailed inquiry is on,” Mr. Mohan Rao, who visited the Seethanagaram police station, told The Hindu on Tuesday.
22 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Address problems of Polavaram-displaced’||The government has to take immediate steps to address the problems being faced by people displaced by the Polavaram project, BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana has said. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday, Mr. Lakshminarayana stated that compensation should be paid in respect of all the houses and trees that were felled as well. Every eligible person and family in 137 villages should be included in the Relief and Rehabilitation (R&R) package, he demanded. He demanded that litigation-free cultivable lands be allotted to the tribal people displaced by the project. Besides, individual and community forest rights should not only be determined but also guaranteed through proper documentation, he added. Mr. Lakshminarayana alleged that the government failed in implementing the package. Stating that the coffer dam wreaked havoc on the people of 137 villages, he said the project causes the single largest displacement of tribal people in the country.
22 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Sajjala misleading people on capital’||TDP Polit Bureau member and Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Council Yanamala Ramakrishnudu on Tuesday said it was ridiculous on the part of the YSRCP leaders to ask whether the previous government had taken the President’s assent before deciding Amaravati as capital of the residuary State Andhra Pradesh. In a statement, Mr. Ramakrishnudu said that Government Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy was misleading people on the issue. Mr. Reddy should understand that Amaravati had been identified and developed as per the A.P. State Reorganisation Act, 2014, which was passed with the express consent and approval of the President. The TDP government had duly followed the procedures before finalising Amaravati as the Capital, he added. Section 5 (2) and Sub Section (1) of the Act clearly mention about development of “a capital” and not “three or multiple capitals” for the State, he said. Similarly, an expert committee had been constituted for identifying the capital under Section 6 of the Act, the TDP leader added. The two Bills were pending with the select committee. The A-G had informed the same to the High Court. “The government’s double standards have been exposed,” he said.
22 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. hoodwinking Backward Classes: Naidu||The announcement increasing the number of BC corporations and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s directive to fill all the posts in them by the end of this month are aimed at hoodwinking the BCs, TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has alleged. “The government has weakened the corporations by diverting the funds meant for them and dented the prospects of self-employment. It has also turned the land purchase scheme into a money spinner. To divert the attention of the people from these issues, the government is enacting a new drama,” Mr. Naidu said while addressing senior party leaders on Tuesday. He also called upon the party cadres to take explain people the government’s “ill-intentions.” ‘Hawala transaction’ Referring to the Rs. 5.27 crore cash seized by the Tamil Nadu police recently, Mr. Naidu alleged that Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy was involved in the “hawala transaction.” The Chief Minister should suspend the Minister and the Enforcement Directorate should conduct an inquiry to bring the “dark facts” to light, Mr. Naidu demanded.
22 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Group clash: 4 more held||The Patamata police on Tuesday arrested for more persons in connection with the group clash in which one person died and ten others were injured. The arrested were identified as A. Dasanjaneyulu, S. Prakasa Rao, G. Nagaraju and B Lakshmi Sai Prasad, all natives of Vijayawada.
22 July 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Citizens’ group stages protest||Andhra Pradesh Urban Citizens' Federation has asked the State government to hand over the constructed houses to beneficiaries immediately. The beneficiaries and people staged protests at various cities and towns across the State on Tuesday.
22 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District logs 289 new cases, virus tally goes up to 3,432||As many as 289 new COVID-19 positive cases were reported from the district, taking the tally to 3,432 on Tuesday. This is the biggest-single day spike the district has ever reported, as against 209 which was reported on July 20. Two more persons succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 55. Meanwhile, as many as 94 persons who were undergoing treatment have been discharged from COVID-19 hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres. With the new cases, the total number of active cases stands at 1,318 and the number of persons discharged is 2,059. According to Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College, P.V. Sudhakar, with the new cases, Chittinaidupalem,Gollavanipalem, TVN Colony, TVN Colony, Goddivanipalem, Duvvada, Chinagantyada, Akkireddipalem, Kunchamamba Temple Street, Madhavadhara, Bhavani Gardens and Tummadapalem areas are the new clusters. YSRC party office closed With the new cases, the total number of very active clusters are 120 and the number of active and dormant clusters are 240 and 201 respectively. Already 39 clusters have been denotified, he said. In the wake of increasing COVID-19 cases in the city limits, the YSRC party office in the city has been closed for a week. The party members decided to shut the office till July 26, as some party workers, staff of office are coming from containment areas. Except during emergency meet, the party office would not be opened till July 26. Date for the reopening of the office will be announced later. Meanwhile, party MP V. Vijayasai Reddy in his official twitter account stated that in view of the COVID-19 situation, he has decided to quarantine himself for a week to 10 days, as a mark of abundant caution.
22 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Combing intensified after reports of RK’s presence in AOB region||After a lull of over seven months, the interior pockets of Andhra-Odisha Border (AOB) region is witnessing hectic combing operations by the security forces, with the reported presence of Akkiraju Haragopal alias Ramakrishna alias RK, the central committee member of the banned CPI (Maoist). There are reports that RK is moving around in Pedabayalu, an interior and difficult-to-access area in the AOB region, with about 50 hardcore cadres in tow. Talks are abuzz that RK is accompanied by some senior leaders such as Gajarla Ravi alias Uday alias Ganesh; Aruna, the prime accused in the killing of Araku MLA Kidari Sarveswara Rao; Chalapathi, husband of Aruna and Sudheer. On Sunday, the security forces exchanged fire with the Maoists near Landalu village in Killamkota panchayat of Pedabayalu mandal, the first such incident to be reported this year. The security forces recovered five kit bags and one 303 Lee Enfield rifle from the site. Sources say that the Maoists might have been a part of the advance security team of RK and that he had escaped once again. Senior leader injured Sources in the Police Department say a senior Maoist leader was injured in the exchange of fire and it might be Chalapathi who has been grievously wounded. The presence of Maoist senior leaders in the AOB has been reported after a gap of almost a year. RK, Uday and Chalapathi were believed to have shifted their base to Gumma region on the Odisha side of the AOB after the exchange of fire at Ramaguda in October 2016, in which over 30 Maoists were killed and RK was seriously injured. The Maoist were believed to have shifted their base after the security forces intensified combing operation and gained foothold in the AOB region both on the Andhra and Odisha sides. It is believed that RK and other senior leaders came to the Andhra side a week ago apparently to assess as to why the tribal people are distancing themselves from the Maoists, says a senior police officer engaged in anti-Maoist operation on the condition of anonymity. With the security forces making deep inroads into the AOB region, the benefits of development activity are reaching the people living in the remote pockets. According to police, intensified combing operations have pushed the Maoists to the cut-off region of the AOB and they are losing their heft over the tribal people.
22 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal bodies oppose move to open tourist spots in Agency||Even as the government is planning to open the tourist destinations in Visakha Agency, several tribal organisations are opposing the move. With the spurt in the COVID-19 positive cases, the organisations are demanding that all tourism activities be stopped until the situation comes under control. The Agency areas have a number of number of scenic valleys, waterfalls such as Chaparai, Borra Caves, coffee plantations, among the most sought-after destinations in the State. Araku Valley receives a steady tourist flow throughout the year. The government closed down all tourist destinations in the wake of the pandemic in March. Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao has announced that all tourism activities would resume from August 1. Voluntary lockdown Though the government has relaxed the lockdown norms, tribal organisations and merchant associations went on a voluntarily lockdown in Araku, Paderu and a few other mandals in the Agency last month. The residents fear that opening of tourism activities would result in the spurt in COVID-19 cases. “Not a single COVID-19 positive case has been reported from the areas under voluntary lockdown since June 25. However, 10 cases have been reported from seven mandals which remain open in the Agency in the last three weeks. At a time when we are gearing up to enforce lockdown more stringently, the government is planning to open the areas for tourists. Such move at this juncture may lead to spurt in infections,” says Andhra Pradesh Girijan Sangham (APGS) leader Killo Surendra. He says that 42 weekly shandies in the Agency have been closed as part of the voluntary lockdown. All business establishments have restricted their time of operations from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. “Even as the move is impacting farmers and traders, safety is our prior concern now,” adds Mr. Surendra. Strict monitoring Meanwhile, merchants’ associations, shopkeepers, owners of business establishments and locals have formed a ‘Civil Welfare Association’ to monitor the implementation of the lockdown in Araku mandal. “A COVID-19 positive case was reported from Araku mandal on Monday, the first case in the valley and the locals are really panicked. We are planning to impose the lockdown more strictly. We are planning to meet the officials and request them not to open the tourist spots until the COVID-19 situation comes under control,” says D. Govardhan, member of the association,
22 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Withdraw VAT hike on petrol, diesel: CPI(M)||The CPI(M) district committee has demanded that the State government withdraw the hike in VAT on petrol/diesel immediately. The party district committee secretary K. Lokanadham said in a statement on Tuesday that at a time when the international crude oil prices were going down, the Centre was increasing the excise duty and road cess leading to an increase in the price of petrol/diesel by Rs. 11 to Rs. 12 a litre. The Centre was imposing an undue burden on the common people, who were already suffering due to loss of livelihoods in the present pandemic scenario. The State government move to further hike the VAT on petrol/diesel would burden the common man. The State government, which failed to claim its GST dues from the Centre, was now taxing the public to raise funds, he alleged.
22 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Waltair Division completes safety works during lockdown period||The Waltair Division of East Coast Railway has taken up safety-related engineering works by utilising the time and workforce during the lockdown imposed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The Railways had suspended passenger train services from March 25 and that allowed it to complete pending maintenance works, including track renewals, repairs, reconditioning of railway track and renewal of scissor crossovers. The division has carried out Through Rail Renewal (primary) of 28 track kilometres in Sigadam-Chipurupalli and Gajapatinagaram– Komatipalli sections. For the safety and smooth running of trains, 12 thick web switches were laid during the month. Deep screening of 16 km track was carried out in Rayagada – Theruvali section with BCM machine. The permanent speed restriction of 50 km/hr between Kumharsodhra to Gidam in KK line, has been cancelled and speed increased to sectional speed of 55 km/hr, thereby achieving a saving of nine minutes of running time. Further, permanent speed restrictions between Mallividu-Lakkavarapukota and Jeypore- Dhanapur in KK Line have been lifted thereby achieving a saving of running time, according to a statement issued by Senior Divisional Commercial Manager G. Suneel Kumar on Tuesday.
22 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Andaman & Nicobar Command chief visits ENC||Lieutenant General Manoj Pande, Commander-in-Chief of the Andaman & Nicobar Command (CINCAN), arrived in the city on a three-day visit to Eastern Naval Command (ENC) on Monday. The Lieutenant General is accompanied by his wife Archana Pande, President Defence Wives’ Welfare Association (DWWA). Lt. Gen. Manoj Pande discussed the operations of the ENC with its Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain on Tuesday. He was briefed about the responsibilities of and other operational activities of the Indian Navy on the Eastern Seaboard. Lt. Gen. Manoj Pande took over as the 15th Commander-in-Chief of the Andaman & Nicobar Command on June 1. A graduate of Staff College in U.K., Lt. Gen. Manoj Pande was commissioned into the Corps of Engineers in 1982 and attended the Higher Command Course at Army War College, Mhow and the National Security Studies Course at National Defence College, New Delhi. During his 37 years of service, he had taken part in the Operation Vijay and Operation Parakram. The visit assumes importance in the current geo-political scenario in which the ENC and the CINCAN need to act in close cooperation.
22 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Civil Defence staff felicitated for service||The Civil Defence staff of the Waltair Division swung into action to check the spread of coronavirus and rendered yeomen services as per the directions of the Railway administration. They rendered services in crowd management and thermal scanning of passengers at the railway station and the staff at the DRM’s Office. They also shouldered the responsibility of distribution of food to the needy, prepared by IRCTC. In recognition of their unmatched service during this pandemic, Divisional Railway Manager Chetan Kumar Shrivastava felicitated the Civil Defence staff and lauded their efforts.
22 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Entries invited for stamp design contest||A stamp design(photography) competition on the theme: ‘UNESCO World Heritage Sites in India,’ is being organised by the Department of Post in connection with Independence Day, 2020. Entries for Independence Day – 2020 – Stamp Design Competition will be received and judged directly at the national-level, according to N. Somasekhara Rao, Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Visakhapatnam. Contestants of all groups, from across India, can participate by uploading the photographs clicked by him/her, on MyGov portal athttps://www.mygov.in/ task/design-stamp- themed-unesco- world-heritage-sites- india-cultural/
22 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Campaign launched||The district administration through an NGO Nature launched the ‘Surakshit Dada - Dadi, Nana-Nani’ campaign here on Tuesday. The campaign was designed by NITI Aayog for elderly care following appeal made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take care of the senior citizens during the pandemic. Project Director, Women & Child development Agency, N. Seetha Mahalakshmi, along with Nature Director S.B. Balaraju, BVF Founder N. Prakash Rao, Power NGO Secretary Abdul Raqueeb, released the campaign material.
22 July 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Hasten the process of establishing COVID centres’||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has directed the officials concerned to hasten the process of setting up of COVID Care Centres in all the Assembly constituencies in the district. At a review meeting with Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar, DM&HO S. Tirupathi Rao, DRO M. Sridevi, Arogyasri Coordinator Bhaskara Rao, DRDA PO Visweswara Rao and other officials here on Monday, the Collector said that the coronavirus was spreading rapidly in both urban and rural areas and there was every need to hasten the establishment of the care centres. Each centre should have at least 300 beds. The respective RDOs should be in charge of these centres. Later, Mr. Vinay Chand inspected the COVID-19 testing centre at KGH and expressed dissatisfaction at the prevailing circumstances and at the delays in the issue of test reports. He warned that action would be initiated against those concerned, if the declaration of tests results was delayed by more than 24 hours.
22 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parvathipuram eyes dist. headquarters status||Parvathipuram town is likely to be given the status of a district headquarters if the State Government’s proposal to carve out new districts out of existing Parliamentary constituencies comes through. The government had appointed a high-level committee on July 15 to work out the modalities for converting all Parliamentary constituencies into new districts and submit a report at the earliest. The proposal was part of the YSR Congress Party’s manifesto ahead of the 2019 Assembly elections. Although the government did not want to make sweeping changes across the State, it had hinted that the Araku Parliament constituency would be split up into two new districts as the constituency was spread across the four districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari. Currently, Parvathipuram, Kurupam and Saluru in Vizianagaram district are part of Araku Parliamentary constituency. History of the area Parvathipuram used to be a Lok Sabha constituency until it was merged with Araku Lok Sabha constituency in 2008. D.V.G. Sankara Rao, who represented the Parvathipuram Lok Sabha constituency from 1999 to 2004, said that the formation of Parvathipuram district would lend impetus to the development of the region. Speaking to The Hindu , TDP MLC Dwarapureddi Jagadish said that rapid development in tribal areas would be possible only with the creation of a separate district of Parvathipuram. “Parvathipuram Parliamentary constituency was merged with Araku Lok Sabha segment during the delimitation process. It was a blunder and injustice was done to this region. Now is the time to take corrective steps with the formation of Parvathipuram as new district,” Mr. Jagadish said. Parvathipuram Zilla Sadhana Samiti members prepared a detailed note which would be submitted to the committee when it visits the town and take suggestions from stakeholders. ‘Govt. land available’ According to the Samithi, Parvathipuram had gained prominence during British rule with the establishment of a Sub-Collector’s office and Railway Station. Offices of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency, Additional Superintendent of Police, Irrigation Department, Roads and Buildings, Area Hospital, and Revenue Division are located in Parvathipuram. “Apart from having all the required administrative infrastructure, government land is also available for the construction of new offices, which is another advantage for Parvathipuram. It is equidistant from Saluru, Kurupam, Palakonda and other areas. The experts’ committee can consider all these things and recommend Parvathipuram as the new district headquarters,” Mr. Dalinaidu said.
22 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former Kurupam MLA dead||Former MLA of Kurupam V.T. Janardhan Thatraj (56) died of heart-attack at a private hospital in Visakhapatnam on Tuesday. Janardhan won from the Kurupam Assembly segment on Congress ticket in 2009. He, however, had unsuccessfully contested on the TDP ticket in 2014, when he lost to YSR Congress Party candidate Pamula Pushpa Srivani. Mr. Janardhan was a close relative of former Minister Satrucharla Vijayarama Raju. Roads and Building Minister Dharmana Krishna Das and several other leaders recalled their association with Janardhan and his contribution to the development of Vizianagaram district.
22 July 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lakshmi temples wear festive look||After a gap of four months, Lakshmi temples located in North Andhra region wore a festive look. Devotees thronged temples in large numbers and offered special prayers on Tuesday with the beginning of the auspicious Sravana Masam. Suvarna Pushparchana was performed at the Asta Lakshmi temple located at Ayyannapeta of Vizianagaram. Temple trust board chairman Durga Balaji said that special prayers would continue for the whole month. Srikakulam Asta Lakshmi temple trust board chairman P. Jaganmohana Rao said that special pujas would be performed on all Fridays in this month.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Day begins||
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work picks up pace||
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Eye’ care!||
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two new flights from Vizag||IndiGo will operate flights from Kolkata to Visakhapatnam in both the direction four days a week, with effect from July 22. Flight no. 6 E 6956 will leave Kolkata at 12.10 p.m. and land in Vizag at 1.40 p.m. In the return direction, 6 E 6955 will take off from Vizag at 2.20 p.m. and reach Kolkata at 3.40 p.m. IndiGo has also announced a new flight to Bengaluru four days a week, with effect from July 26. Flight no. 6 E 7238 will leave Bengaluru at 5 p.m. and land in Vizag at 7.15 p.m. In the return direction, the 6E 7239 will take off from Vizag at 7.45 p.m. and land in Bengaluru at 9.55 p.m.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Report sought on diversion of PDS rice||The State Food Commission has sought a report from the Visakhapatnam District Supply Officer and the District Manager, Civil Supplies, on the alleged diversion of PDS rice to Vivekananda Charitable Trust belonging to Anakapalle MP B. Venkata Satyavathi. Suo motu cognisance Acting on a plea by K. Venkataramana from Anakapalli seeking suo motu cognisance, the Member Secretary (FAC) S. Dilli Rao noted that under Section 3 (1) of NFSA Act, 2013, every person belonging to priority households, identified under sub-section (1) of of Section 10, shall be entitled to receive 5 kg of food grains per month at subsidised prices. He sought a report on whether the diversion was done by depriving the beneficiaries of their entitlements and whether business was done after receipt of entitlement or whether the beneficiaries were forced to sell rice to the dealers. Mr. Venkataramana further said that the PDS rice was allegedly diverted to the trust on April 27. He also enclosed the newspaper clippings on the issue in his report to the State Food Commission.
22 July 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Stress on sustained efforts to foster Koya language||The urgent need for concerted efforts to promote and preserve the ancient Koya (Gondi) language was highlighted by speakers at a meeting held on the occasion of Koya (Gondi) Basha Dinotsavam in Bhadrachalam on Tuesday. A simple ceremony was held under the aegis of Bhadrachalam Adivasi Samithi at Girijana Abyudaya Bhavan in the temple town in compliance with the lockdown norms to mark the event.A music video CD titled “Gondi Koya song” was released by Bhadrachalam MLA Podem Veeraiah on the occasion. Mr Veeraiah stressed the need for collective and sustained efforts to foster the ancient Koya language, an integral part of the rich heritage of Adivasis dating back to several centuries. He said the ancient language, cultural practices and art forms deeply interwoven with all facets of Adivasis’ life should be protected for posterity. He suggested that the Koya Basha Dinotsavam should be celebrated officially by the government to support the efforts of Adivasi organisations to foster the ancient language. Bhadrachalam Adivasi Samithi president P Krishna presided over the function. Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Assistant Project Officer (General) Nagorao, Adivasi leaders including Dr Tellam Venkat Rao, K Dharma, Srirammurthy, Ramakrishna, Veerabhadram, Nehru and others were present. A small group of young Adivasi artistes performed their traditional dances much to the delight of the participants of the low-key ceremony.
22 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana’s test positivity rate plunges||The COVID-19 test positivity rate (TPR) in Telangana, which was much higher than other States until earlier this month, is on a downward trajectory. The highest of 21.98% cumulative positivity rate — total positives out of the samples tested — was reached on July 9. Nearly two weeks after the tests to detect coronavirus were ramped up using rapid antigen tests (RAT), it gradually dropped to 16.75% on July 20. Now the State’s positivity rate is second only to Maharashtra. However, crucial data such as number of RAT performed, number of symptomatics who tested negative using RAT and followed it up with RT-PCR, is not being shared in the medical bulletin issued by the Health department. The positivity rate was low till mid June following which the State government faced criticism for low testing. The testing was ramped up from June 16 and the positivity rate gradually increased It was 18.4% by June-end. Around 21.98% cumulative positivity rate was recorded on July 9, which was the highest in the country. This meant large number of samples tested were positive, indicating wide prevalence of COVID-19.  Till July 7, only RT-PCR tests were used to detect the virus. However, from July 9, Health department officials started to use RAT, which gives results in 15-30 minutes. The cumulative positivity rate dropped to 16.75% on July 20. According to covidIndiaupdates.in, it is the second highest after Maharashtra’s 20.2%, on the same day. Gaps in data Those testing positive on RAT are declared to have COVID-19. However, a negative result using the test has to be cross-checked due to the possibility of false-negatives. On July 14, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao said if any one tests negative using RAT and has COVID symptoms, swab samples are collected again for RT-PCR test. However, the distribution of tests between RT-PCR and RAT, or number of RAT negative samples which were followed up using RT-PCR method were not mentioned in the daily medical bulletins issued by Health department till July 20. Besides, an asymptomatic COVID suspect who tests negative using RAT might develop symptoms a few days after the test. Officials are yet to clarify if they are asking the asymptomatic individuals who are RAT negative to get tested if they develop symptoms later.
22 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Private agencies minting money on COVID-19 victims||Misery is no exception for exploitation, as can be vouched by the business flourishing over the corpses of persons who died of COVID-19 infection. Private agencies are charging anything upward of Rs. 30,000 for disposal of each body, right under the nose of GHMC which is largely responsible for cremation of COVID-19 dead bodies. What’s more, the agencies are doing it in the name of GHMC! “I am authorised by the GHMC to dispose of the COVID-19 dead bodies. The money I collect too is approved by the corporation. We have to spend a lot on ambulance, PPE gear for the handlers and the relatives, and funeral charges,” says Sk Vali, a person who is involved in the business. Ramanjeet Singh, a Good Samaritan ensuring decent funeral services for the COVID-19 dead bodies, says he was forced to shell out Rs. 25,000 for each body he helped dispose. “We were told to deposit the amount purportedly in the account of a GHMC Health official, and that the money would go to the committee constituted by GHMC for dead body disposal. How can the corporation collect random charges without a government order for the same?” Mr. Singh questioned. Officials responsible flatly deny that the corporation has authorised anybody for the job. They, however, admit that GHMC is handling dead bodies from government hospitals alone. “We are taking care of COVID-19 dead bodies only from Gandhi Hospital, Osmania General Hospital, King Koti Hospital, Chest Hospital, and NIMS. While we had handled bodies from private hospitals too earlier when deaths were only in single digit numbers, now it is not possible,” said an official. GHMC too is now getting the job done by contractors, chosen through open tenders, officials informed. However, the corporation has not authorised anybody to offer it as commercial service, they say. Elaborate guidelines issued by the government in April stipulated that the private hospitals should work in coordination with GHMC officials, and the police for disposal of dead bodies. Hospital level committees should be formed with GHMC deputy commissioners and Assistant Commissioners of Police as members. Committee constituted by government to ensure adherence to these guidelines, is hardly monitoring the process now. Private agencies are cashing in on the helplessness of the kin who are left with little choice owing to the stigma associated with COVID-19, and the reluctance of local people surrounding several grave yards in city to allow cremation of the bodies. Instead of getting the grave yards opened through its Enforcement wing, GHMC is merely playing spectator to people’s misery. Cremation ground near ESI is the only place as of now where COVID-19 dead bodies are streaming in, be it through government or private agency. GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar, when sought his version, said the disposal of dead bodies is not handed over to any outside agency, and that the corporation is still doing the job.
22 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Central team’s findings not conveyed, State tells HC||The findings of a Central team headed by Joint Secretary Lav Agarwal, which visited Telangana from June 26 to 28 in the backdrop of COVID-19 pandemic, were not communicated to the State government so far. This was mentioned by the State government in a report filed before Telangana High Court hearing a batch of PIL pleas on COVID issue. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing the pleas, expressed discontentment over response of the officials to court directions on the matter on Monday. The report filed in the HC said the Central team visited some containment zones and went to Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) in Gachibowli. It had a meeting with the Chief Secretary and other top officials. “The Central team suggested to ramp up testing” but did not convey its findings to the State government, the report said. While there are 349 active containment zones in non-GHMC area in the State, it is 61 in GHMC area. Among the districts, Rangareddy has highest number of containment zones of 102 followed by Medchal Malkajgiri-94, Mahbubnagar-68 and Rajanna Siricilla-33. The State government was taking all measures to protect citizens from the pandemic. However, Press Information Bureau (PIB) issued a report which was tarnishing the efforts made in controlling and managing COVID-19 by Telangana government, the report presented in the court said. The PIB report was “absolutely baseless”, it said. The report also stated that the HC had appreciated the efforts of State government relating to testing, hospital preparedness and case management. Interestingly, the bench headed by the CJ on Monday took a serious objection to the failure of Public Health Director G. Srinivasa Rao and Director of Medical Education Dr. Ramesh Reddy to follow its earlier directions on COVID-19 related matters. According to the report, total beds available in government hospitals were 17,081 for COVID patients. Out of them, 11,928 are isolation beds, 3,537 oxygen beds, 1,616 ICU beds. By the time of filing the report in the court, the occupancy of beds in government hospitals was 10.8% while 89.2% of beds were vacant.
22 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Agony starts from the testing queues itself||There is a raging debate over the woefully inadequate infrastructure in Osmania General Hospital and Gandhi Hospital that is testing the patience of patients, attendants and healthcare professionals. But for those with COVID-19 kind of symptoms, the nightmare starts from the testing stage itself, especially, if the person decides to go to a government-notified testing centre such as District Hospital, King Koti, Sir Ronald Ross Institute for Tropical and Communicable Diseases (Fever Hospital), Nature Cure Hospital, S.D. Eye Hospital and ESI Hospital. About 10 government hospitals are offering free testing while there are 23-odd private labs that conduct tests for a fee. Long serpentine queues outside these government facilities before the break of dawn has become a common sight after the State government decided to ramp up testing using a combination of rapid antigen and RT-PCR methods. “It takes four to five hours for one’s turn to get tested with none to look into social distancing. There are also limited number of tokens issued for testing and if you are not among those lucky ones to get tested, you are asked to come the next day,” says Shiva, a visitor at a testing centre. Kumar, a suspected patient who wanted to get himself tested following fever and body ache, was lucky to get a rapid test done. “After four hours of wait, the sample was taken and I was asked to wait for another half hour for my result. It’s a thumbs up for ‘negative’ and thumbs down for ‘positive’ from the lab technician’s window. Those who test positive are then asked to register themselves for the RT-PCR test but no document of the test is given, not even a message to one’s registered phone number,” he adds. Strange, considering that ICMR guidelines clearly state that symptomatic suspects with ‘negative’ result on rapid antigen test should be followed up by RT-PCR test for confirmation. “These rapid tests are being done so that testing increases and positivity rate decreases to show that the positivity rate is low,” claims a public health official, pleading anonymity. Test positivity rate is number of samples which test positive. Heavy rush Plus, these government testing facilities are also being used for testing frontline workers like police personnel, municipal workers and others, adding to the rush. Noted anti-corruption activist Vijay Gopal tweeted on Monday that his parents waited for five hours to get themselves tested at King Koti Hospital only to be asked to come the next day as the day’s quota was completed. He questioned the government on home testing facility not being provided for whoever wants to be tested. His tweet had responses like - ‘why depend on Government facility’, ‘why not call private labs for testing at home’, etc. However, the point he was trying to make is why VIPs get home testing facility while the same is denied to commoners. And, ramping up testing means more people queueing up for tests but the results take up to three days or more. “My colleague tested positive and since I was in proximity, I wanted to test myself. It took me two days to get the slot and I have been waiting for the result for the last 48 hours,” said Susheela, a COVID suspect.  (Some names have been changed to protect the identity of persons)
22 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mandatory prescription a bonanza for private labs||Inside a private hospital at Gachibowli, the queue of people up for COVID-19 test snakes out of the entrance and goes on till the car parking lot. Dozens of suspected patients who reached before 9 a.m. are seated inside waiting for their turn. It is a slow, laborious process where preliminary check-up, including vitals like oxygen saturation levels and blood pressure, takes most of the time. By 11 a.m., a supervisor tells a counter clerk “we will stop once we reach the 300 mark.” This limit of 300 holds the key to Telangana’s test statistics. The State now has 30 RT-PCR, 8 CBNAAT and one TrueNat testing facilities with 23 in government domain and 16 operated by private facilities. A two-page Indian Council of Medical Research referral form-44 makes a doctor’s prescription mandatory for the test. This has come as a welcome caveat for private institutions which are tagging doctor’s consultation fee even though no doctor attends/counsels the suspect. The RT-PCR test, which is priced at Rs. 2,200, costs anywhere between Rs. 2,900 and 3500 in the city. The data for the RT-PCR where a bar code is generated for the test subject is centralised. Individuals testing positive get phone calls in the morning from healthcare workers enquiring about their well being and symptoms. The surrounding areas are sanitised using sodium hypochlorite. ASHA workers visit the patient’s home and hand over hydroxychloroquine tablets. They also get home isolation kits containing essential vitamins, masks, hand sanitiser, gloves etc. According to multiple accounts, the call centre staffers are advising individuals in home quarantine that a second test to ensure COVID-19 negative status is unnecessary if they don’t develop symptoms within the 14-day period. On the other hand, individuals testing positive using the rapid antigen test kits are being informed about their status personally and asked to stay in home quarantine. “I want to get tested again before I step out to feel safe and confident,” said a patient who tested positive in two successive tests a few days ago.
22 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Anti-larval operations in full swing||GHMC Entomology wing, through a press release, informed that it has allotted additional manpower in all zones, in order to meet the demands of disinfection of COVID-19 areas and simultaneously take up anti-larval operations. In every division, an awareness campaign is being taken up on Sundays, about emptying the stagnant water from containers and flower pots. In Dengue and Malaria prone localities, red stickers are being pasted on doors if larvae are found, and green stickers if not found. Wherever Dengue and Malaria cases are reported, Pyrethrum is being sprayed in the surrounding houses. Besides, oil balls are being dropped in dirty water to kill larvae, and Gambusia fish are being released into all baby ponds and stagnated water. Drones are being employed for anti-larval operations in lakes. Eleven more drones are being called for, in addition to the three existing, to cover all lakes and Musi river, the statement informed. Three dedicated units with 50 workers are looking after the anti-larval and fogging operations in and around the Musi river, overseen by two assistant entomologists and two senior entomologists. A special drone is allotted completely for Musi river for the next three months. Six vehicle mounted fogging machines and 15 portable fogging machines are deployed to cover localities around the river. Of the total 2,412 Entomology workers, 1919 have been put on anti-larval operations and 342 are on fogging operations. A total of 125 teams have been constituted to cover one lakh households.
22 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Cong. woke up belatedly on PV anniversary’||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has pooh-poohed Telangana Congress leaders for the ‘belated wake-up’ from a deep slumber after so many years in announcing to organise former Prime Minister P V Narasimha Rao’s centenary celebrations. Telangana BJP official spokesperson and grandson of PV Narasimha Rao N V Subhash, in a statement, criticised the Congress for ignoring great visionary in the Indian economy PV Narasimha Rao and it was an act of belittling him by organising celebrations confining him to Telangana. “He was Prime Minister for the whole country and not for Telangana alone. It is on the specific instructions from Gandhi family that the TPCC is organising the programme in Telangana. This shows that Congress wanted only Gandhi family to be in limelight. The whole nation was aware of how the mortal remains of PV had been sent to Hyderabad even without keeping them in the Congress office. It is the ploy of Congress leaders to organise PV’s celebrations after Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao paid rich tributes to the great leader PV,” he alleged. Mr Subhash said if the Congress leaders had the real intention to respect PV, they should tender apology and organise the celebrations at the national and international levels.
22 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Youth sets himself ablaze in PS||A 25-year-old man, who was brought in for questioning on Monday night, allegedly set himself ablaze in Chandrayangutta police station and sustained severe burn injuries. The youth, identified as Shabbir, a resident of Ghazi-e-Miilat Colony in the Old City, was brought in for questioning after he allegedly snatched a phone from a man near the Chandrayangutta Crossroads. “When we started questioning him, we realised he was intoxicated. We let him go, after which he doused himself in petrol and came to the station,” Chandrayangutta Inspector Rudra Bhaskar said, adding that Shabbir sustained 40% and was admitted to Osmania General Hospital.  Couple found dead A couple died under suspicious circumstances on Tuesday in the B S Maqtha area near Raj Bhavan. According to Punjagutta police, they have been identified as I. Nageswar Rao (37), a mason by profession, and his wife L Roja (29). On Tuesday, Nageswar Rao leapt to his death from the fifth floor of the building in which he used to reside. Meanwhile, his wife too was found dead in her room on the third floor of the building.  Suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000 or 6666 1117.     Four youths clash Two groups of inebriated youths clashed late on Monday night in Yousufguda here, attacking each other with liquor bottles, police said. According to Banjara Hills Inspector of Police N Kalinga Rao, Amresh, Nani, Sai and Pavan were identified as those involved in the clash. The youths sustained cuts on the face and hands and were moved to a private hospital for treatment.
22 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||OGH doctors begin 1-hour-a-day stir demanding new building||Junior and senior doctors of Osmania General Hospital launched ‘one-hour every day’ on Tuesday to highlight their demand for a new hospital building. While similar protests had been staged in 2018, the fresh one was triggered after rainwater flooded the in-patient ward on July 15, posing threat to the health and safety of patients and healthcare professionals. Along with that demand, doctors of OGH and other hospitals expressed a significant opinion, stating that they do not mind if the century-old in-patient (IP) block is razed to make way for a new building. Rotting heritage building The IP block was constructed in 1917 by the seventh Nizam, Mir Osman Ali Khan. Due to years of neglect, the century-old building required urgent repairs which were not fixed. Water drips from ceiling and seeps through its old walls. Incidents of chunks of lime mortar crashing down, even on patients’ beds, have also been reported. When plans to bring down the IP block to construct a new building was announced in 2015, it was opposed by heritage activists, leaders of Opposition parties and general public. Though plans to start construction on land around the IP block were charted, it was not put into action. After rainwater flooded the IP block on July 15, doctors and staff expressed concern about their safety. They held a meeting on Monday and decided to protest from Tuesday fora new building. ‘Nizam’s name at stake’ “The Nizam’s name will flourish only if a good hospital is functioning, but not with the existing dilapidated building. Besides, the IP block is in a very bad condition. The government should dismantle the old building and construct a new one by preserving some of the heritage,” said Pratibha Lakshmi, associate professor-General Medicine, OGH. President of Telangana Government Doctors Association-OGH unit, K. Ram Singh said they will continue the one-hour protest for a week. He said a decision will soon be taken on intensifying the protest based on the State government’s response to their demand for a new building.
22 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bonalu gets personal this year||“It is the intent that counts,” says Avuna Padmasree, an employee of Kanchanbagh post-office. During Bonalu season every year, her house teems with relatives and friends. Dressed in traditional saris, women go from her house in a procession, carrying bonam (pots filled with layers of rice, leafy vegetable and pacchi pulusu, a tangy dish of raw tamarind extract and raw onions). Covered with neem leaves and carrying an oil lamp on top, the flower-bedecked bonam is offered to the goddess in a temple. This year, with the shadow of COVID-19 looming, Bonalu looks very different. Undeterred, Avuna’s family heralded a change with an intimate ceremony. Instead of going to a temple, the women, wearing masks, carried bonam for a short distance and returned home. “We offered it to the goddess in our puja room at home,” she says. Celebrated during the month of Aashadam (in July-August) in Telangana, Bonalu is a thanksgiving festival dedicated to Goddess Mahankali. Dating back to 1813 when people honoured and worshipped the Goddess Mahankali following a plague in the region, the festival is celebrated all over the state with the worship of grama devata (village deity) in different forms such as Pochamma, Maisamma and Yellamma. Ashada Bonalu festivities are over for most households, but a few families in areas like Uppal, Boduppal and Kothapet in Hyderabad will celebrate Sravana Bonalu in the month of Sravanam. With temple festivities cancelled, this year’s Bonalu is a subdued affair. Bonalu usually begins at the Mahankali temple in Golconda and is celebrated in different localities on every Sundays. However, with an eye on avoiding crowds due to the pandemic, this too is seeing a change. K Pramod Rao and his wife Meena visited the temple on a Thursday wearing masks. “Since physical distancing is crucial, we chose a weekday when the temple is less crowded,” he says. Kanapuram Vaishnavi, a Jogini (women dedicated to serving dieties) since the age of nine, says she misses performing at the festival. The Rangam or oracle prediction by Joginis is a much-anticipated ritual. Over the past month, the 21-year-old has been talking about keep the tradition alive even while staying at home. Pavithra International School’s three branches in Dilsukhnagar, Manikonda and Lingampally are organising virtual celebrations. Principal Sri Vani of the Manikonda branch says, “Usually we have gala celebrations and explain the history and tradition of Bonalu. The school is also decorated in Bonalu colours. But this year, we digitally connected them.” As the festive season gets underway in August, Bonalu has ushered in a new beginning, showing that one can bring in small changes and still keep the celebratory mood intact.
22 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Expedite fiscal tie-up for irrigation projects’||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the officials concerned to expedite financial tie-up for speedily completing works on lifting 1 tmcft of water from the Kaleshwaram project taking the total lifting capacity to 3 tmcft a day. The officials should speed up construction works of Palamur-Rangareddy, Sitarama and other projects. The Chief Minister reviewed the progress of implementation of these projects with senior officials on Tuesday with focus on financial tie-up for the irrigation projects in the State. He said the government had initiated steps to lift 4 tmcft of water from Godavari and 3 tmcft from Krishna rivers on a daily basis to irrigate 1.25 crore acres depending on the availability of water. The government was accordingly making budgetary allocations in addition to raising funds from financial agencies for completing the projects. The government had concluded agreements with the agencies concerned for mobilising finances for these projects. Officials should take steps to remit the government's share as part of the agreements and complete the modalities for securing funds from the funding agencies. He wanted the officials to take steps to speed up works on the projects once the monsoon ended. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, CMO Secretary Smita Sabharwal, Engineer-in-chief Muralidhar Rao and others were present, according to an official release.
22 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL steps up COVID response as cases spike||Spike in COVID-19 cases among its employees and their dependants has forced the management of Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) to step up its response to manage the pandemic with setting up special corona and intensive care wards in its 11 area hospitals, open quarantine centres in its employees’ (CER) clubs, community halls and schools. The company has also reached an agreement with three corporate super speciality hospitals in Hyderabad for emergency services in case the condition of COVID patients in the company hospitals worsen. The company has also decided to set up testing labs to step up sample testing for swift and better management of positive cases. Sources in SCCL told The Hindu that that COVID cases among SCCL employees, dependants and contract workmen have increased sharply from 64 to 150 in the last 10 days – up by 134%. Of the total positive cases so far, 134 are under treatment including 88 asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients under home quarantine. Of the total positive cases, 98 are employees, 51 are dependants and one contract worker. Among those under treatment, 30 are being treated at SCCL hospitals, 10 at government hospitals and 9 at corporate hospitals. Four deaths have been reported so far including 3 dependants and one employee and 12 cases including 5 employees and 7 dependants have been cured/discharged after treatment so far. Of the 2,000 employees and dependants quarantined so far for being the primary contacts, nearly 1,000 have already completed home quarantine. Besides another 150 positive cases of others, who are either locals or not connected to the company, are also reported in the mining areas, the sources explained. Another 200 others have also been quarantined so far for being the primary contacts of non-SCCL positive cases. Director (Administration & Operations) of SCCL S. Chandrasekhar stated on Tuesday that the health staff in the company hospitals would be given 10% additional allowance on their basic for corona services in addition to Rs. 50 lakh insurance cover. Asking the company employees, workers and their family members to be cautious against contracting the virus, he said they were ready to provide best of medical services to employees and their family members.  No gate meetings As a preventive measure, the management has decided not allow gate meetings by the unions at mines for the next two months and in case of increase in positive cases in any mine it would be closed for some time. The infected employees would be sanctioned special quarantine leave, Mr. Chandrasekhar added.
22 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID-recovered person undergoes triple bypass surgery||A 63-year-old man from Hyderabad who recovered from COVID-19 underwent triple bypass surgery at CARE Hospitals, Hyderabad, on July 16, and was discharged on Tuesday. He suffered from coronary artery disease and chest pain on exertion. The patient underwent CT coronary angioplasty in November-2019, which showed blocks in three coronary arteries. The old man’s condition was being managed medically (using drugs). However, he contracted COVID-19 in early April and got admitted at Gandhi Hospital for 22 days. After recovering at the government hospital, he was discharged from the hospital. However, discomfort in heart aggravated in May. He underwent coronary angiography in June which showed blocks in three arteries. The patient approached Dr. Prateek Bhatnagar, director of Cardiac Surgery and Chief Cardiac Surgeon at Care Hospital. His HRCT scan of chest showed no active COVID-19 lesions and some pulmonary fibrosis. RT-PCR test results were negative for coronavirus. A team led by Dr Bhatnagar including junior surgeons Dr Bhadra and Dr Snigdha performed the surgery.
22 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||8 teams to crack down on camel slaughter||Complying with the High Court’s directions against camel slaughter, the government has constituted eight teams to conduct raids on illegal slaughterhouses within GHMC limits. The teams comprise officials from GHMC, Police, Animal Husbandry, and Veterinary departments, and will conduct inspections to spot the illegal slaughterhouses and check for slaughtering of camels and other prohibited animals. Through a statement on Tuesday, GHMC has warned the general public against engaging in transportation, illegal slaughter and sale of camel meat within its purview. Any violation is punishable under Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, and GHMC Act, and could attract imprisonment up to five years with fine.
22 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Human trafficking racket busted||The Malkajgiri Special Operations Team busted an online inter-State human trafficking racket, arrested a person and rescued two victims. The accused A Shiva Kumar (27), a resident of Dilsukhnagar, police said, is a ‘co-organiser’. The prime accused, identified as Chinna, a native of Karimnagar, is absconding. Shiva is a native of Mahabubnagar and the duo are said to have contacts with those involved in human trafficking in States such as West Bengal and cities such as Mumbai. They allegedly got in touch with these contacts and sourced young girls for periods between six months and a year. They did so by allegedly promising them jobs, and then forced them into prostitution. The accused allegedly used a house near the Dilsukhnagar bus stand. They then uploaded photos of the two victims, who police later rescued, on social media for their clients to see. They also clandestinely took the victims to residences of some customers. Based on specific inputs, SOT apprehended the accused on Monday. A case under Section 370 (a) of the Indian Penal Case has been booked. Relevant sections of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act were invoked.
22 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. to move court on ‘violations’||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka has said that apart from Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar would be held responsible for violation of ‘business rules’ in the Irrigation department where thousands of crores were being spent through an official working on contract basis. Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Vikramarka said Engineer-in-Chief Muralidhar Rao retired seven years ago and he swa ‘blindly’ signing all the contracts as per the wishes of the Chief Minister, violating the business rules. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar will be made party for ignoring the norms. “We will soon move the court on violation of norms and how a retired official is being allowed to sign contracts without any accountability,” he said. Accusing the CM of totally ignoring the most pressing issue of coronavirus, he said KCR was busy reviewing other departments when lakhs of people were facing severe problems with COVID-19 and shortage of doctors and hospitals. “Patients are shooting personal videos to express their grief on the poor conditions and medical help but still the government seems to be least bothered,” he alleged. There was no focus on strengthening the hospitals, improving oxygen supply and providing enough PPE kits to doctors and medical staff. Government hospitals had a shortage of 700 doctors, apart from paramedical staff but no effort had been made to recruit them in the last six years. “Contract doctors have approached me and it is very sad that they were not paid their salaries. Pay should be doubled for all the doctors who are risking their lives while treating COVID patients.” Mr. Vikramarka argued that COVID cases were increasing due to spread of belt shops and total ignorance of social distancing.
22 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP demands white paper on COVID-19 funds||Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to release a white paper on the funds utilised for the control of COVID-19 pandemic so far from the State government side and those received from the Centre in the last few months. Recalling that KCR had told Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the recent video-conference that TS government has allotted another Rs. 100 crore towards containment of coronavirus, he wanted the Chief Minister to come clean on the funds availability so that if necessary, he could also seek more funds from the Central government. The CM had earlier announced Rs. 1,000 crore for fight against COVID-19, he reminded. In an open letter to the Chief Minister, Mr. Sanjay brought to his notice that the general public are totally unnerved on the relentless spread of COVID-19 cases in the twin cities and across Telangana.
22 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Focus on villages merged with municipalities’||Nizamabad District Collector C. Narayan Reddy has directed officials of the municipal corporations and municipalities in the district to focus on extension of facilities to the villages merged with them in recent times. At a conference conducted with the municipal commissioners on Tuesday, he said the Chief Minister was likely to visit Nizamabad on July 25 and officials should be ready with all information with regard to programmes taken up under ‘Palle Pragati’ and ‘Pattana Pragati” as they are likely to be reviewed.
22 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||7 die, 1,430 test positive||The total COVID-19 cases in Telangana reached 47,705 as 1,430 more swab samples tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday. Seven more COVID-19 patients died taking the toll to 429. The new cases include 703 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 117 from Rangareddy and 105 from Medchal districts. Out of the total 47,705 cases, 10,891 are active cases, 36,385 have recovered, and 429 COVID-19 patients died. A total of 16,855 tests were conducted on Tuesday, which include RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Tests. This is the highest number of tests in a day till July 21. The daily Test Positivity Rate was 8.48%, the lowest in a day this month. The cumulative (March 2-July 21) Test Positivity Rate was 16.27%. Tests per million population was 7,327.
22 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Those in meat business tested: Owaisi||Days ahead of Id-al-Adha, popularly known as Bakrid, around 50 persons belonging to the Quraishi community were tested for the novel coronavirus, Hyderabad parliamentarian Asaduddin Owaisi said on Tuesday. The community comprises butchers and others involved in meat business. “Around 50 persons from the Quraishi community have undergone the RT-PCR test at the Unani Hospital in Charminar on Tuesday. This is done so that they can protect their lives, those of their families and of buyers,” Mr Owaisi said. He said there around 400 hawkers in the Charminar area who will also be tested shortly. He also appealed to associations of tiffin centres to get those working in their restaurants tested. As reported earlier, imams in mosques had suggested that butchers, who are employed by several families on Bakrid, be tested for the novel coronavirus en masse by residents who intend to employ them on the festival.
22 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Action sought against Collector||The Indian Forest Service Association has, in a letter to Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on Tuesday, strongly condemned the “rude and discourteous” behaviour of Kumram Bheem Asifabad district Collector towards the District Forest Officer in-charge. Citing the recent instance where the Forest staff and officials complained to the Minister for Environment and Forests A. Indrakaran Reddy against the behaviour of the Collector Sandeep Kumar Jha towards DFO in-charge B. Prabhakar, the Association’s Telangana chapter has requested the Chief Secretary to look into the matter personally, and ensure suitable action against Mr. Jha. Meanwhile, it is understood that Mr. Prabhakar had a heart attack soon after the incident, and got shifted to a hospital the next day.
22 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Rain feed area’ programme for Medchal sought||Farmers in Medchal Malkajgiri district are losing out on several government schemes as they are not part of the Rain Feed Area Development Programme despite there being no source of irrigation water facilities and their dependence on rains for farming. Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) leader and Malkajgiri Lok Sabha constituency incharge Marri Rajashekar Reddy said that unfortunately the district was not part of the Rain Feed Area Development Programme as it was on the fringes of the city with several areas coming under the urban map. Plea to Collector “About 36,000 small and marginal farmers in the rural areas of the district are denied various benefits under the scheme and this anomaly should be corrected,” he said in a representation that was addressed to Medchal Malkajgiri District Collector Vasam Venkateswarlu. The Telangana Rashtra Samithi leader urged the District Collector to ensure the district was brought under the Rain Feed Area Development Programme so that farmers could make use of the subsidies given under the scheme. He said subsidies were given for establishing storage facilities in warehouses, funding for waste lands, starting dairy units and meat production units and other related benefits extended to farmers from other districts. Mr. Marri Rajashekar Reddy requested the District Collector to immediately take the issue to the notice of the Principal Secretary for implementation of the scheme so that small and marginal farmers would benefit from the government schemes.
22 July 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Release white paper, says Ponnala||Former Irrigation Minister and senior Congress leader Ponnala Lakshmaiah has found fault with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s statement that 1.23 crore acres will get irrigation facilities now, and demanded that a white paper be released on the total cultivable and irrigated acrage in Telangana. In a statement here, he said the CM was misleading with such claims and the crop cultivation figures released by the CM office after the agriculture review meeting last week reveal the claims were false. He said as per the last week’s statement about 65 lakh acres were being cultivated including cotton (50.41 lakh acres), soya (3.85 lakh acres) apart from pulses, maize and jowar, most of which were rain-fed. Around 26 lakh agricultural pump sets in Telangana cultivate about 50 lakh acres (with each pumpset on an average of 2 acres). If these were the actual figures, how could the CM claim that 1.23 crore acres would get water from the projects, he asked. Moreover, the actual cultivable land in Telangana was just 1.18 crore acres only, he claimed.
22 July 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM pays tributes to Dasaradhi Krishnamacharya on his 96th birth anniversary||Describing Dasaradhi Krishnamacharya as Telangana literary fighter, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao said it was inspirational fire that was ignited by Krishnamachanrya that gave determination and strength to the statehood movement. The Chief Minister paid rich tributes to Krishnamacharya on the occasion of his 96th birth anniversary on Tuesday. He said the government was organising the poet’s birth anniversary every year.
22 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||1.6L students deprived of mid-day meal||The coronavirus-induced closure of schools is depriving more than 1.60 lakh students of the State-run schools in the old undivided Khammam district of mid-day meal and a little over 4500 cooks and other mid-day meal workers of their livelihood. This has triggered demands from various quarters for making alternative arrangements to ensure that the urgent needs of children of impoverished families for food and the basic subsistence requirements of the mid-day meal workers are met till the reopening of schools. Sources in the education department said around 89,000 students of nearly 1,294 State-run primary and upper primary schools in Khammam district are enrolled in the mid-day meal programme. More than 75,000 students of the government/local bodies/government aided schools in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district are enrolled in the mid-day meal scheme. There was an urgent need to explore alternative arrangements to ensure either home delivery of mid-day meals in adherence to safety precautions or sanction of money equal to the amount usually spent on mid-day meal scheme per month to provide succour to the thousands of schoolchildren of State-run institutions, suggested Progressive Democratic Students Union (PDSU) district president Azad. Thousands of families devastated by the coronavirus were finding it difficult to even provide a square meal to their wards in these turbulent times, he said.
22 July 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Fertilizer seized||Personnel of the task force on Tuesday conducted surprise raids on two fertilizer shops, one in Wyra and another at Mittapalli, and seized a huge quantity of illegal stock worth Rs. 1.80 lakh. The raids were conducted based on information that two traders were hoarding fertilizers. The raids were held under the supervision of the ACP Venkat Rao. In another raid, the task force team seized 20 quintals of PDS rice hoarded at a godown in Konijerla mandal on Tuesday.
22 July 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Rythu Vedikalu by Dasara: Minister||Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy on Tuesday said construction of Rythu Vedikalu, platforms to mobilise farming community to share emerging practices in agriculture, would be completed by Dasara. He laid foundation stones for the platforms in Marriguda, Nampally, Chandur and Munugode, cluster-wise, along with local leaders. Mr. Reddy said Rythu Vedika platforms would bring a revolutionary change in the way agriculture was practised.
22 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Panchayat secretaries want work pressure reduced||Tension prevailed for some time as a large number of panchayat secretaries held dharna at the district headquarters town while police prevented them from holding dhana at the Collectorate. Huge police force was mobilised to stop them from holding a massive protest. The panchayat secretaries are a worried lot with work pressure increasing, making them unable to cope with that. In a memorandum addressed to the Collector, they listed the problems they were facing, stating that these problems should be addressed immediately. “We must be allowed to work only for eight hours and we have to be exempted from supervising NREGS works. Reduce our prohibition period from three years to two years, extend us pay scale and health cards. Provide basic facilities like toilets in panchayat offices as several women are working as panchayat secretaries,” they said. They also wanted extension of maternity leave to six months with immediate effect which was presently four months. Although they tried to present a memorandum to the Collector, they were prevented by the police and it was handed over to district panchayat officer V. Venkateswarlu “Our work pressure is high and we request the government to reduce it. It is humanly impossible to work for long hours for a number of days,” said a panchayat secretary.
22 July 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Sangareddy turning virus hotspot||The district headquarters town is slowly but surely turning into a COVID-19 hotspot. As many as 59 cases were registered in district headquarters alone on Monday followed by 24 cases on Tuesday. As on Monday night, 943 positive cases were registered with cumulative figure in the district with 27 deaths taking place with two deaths on Monday. Tuesday’s figures were yet to come in. Shanthinagar, one of the prime locations, has registered 10 cases, topping the list for a single-day location-wise case spike. At Patancheru urban health centre, there were 19 positive cases out of the total 100 tests conducted. As many as 186 persons had turned up for testing at the district hospital and samples collected from them were sent for testing. More positive cases are expected as testing is being ramped up. Senior officials in the medical department attribute the increase in cases to to the town’s proximity to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC). “There is regular traffic from Hyderabad to Beeramguda, Sangareddy, Sadashivapet and Zaheerabad where the number of cases have been increasing. We can not control traffic and movement of people at these places. We feel that being close to Hyderabad is one of the reasons for increase in cases,” said a medical officer on the condition of anonymity. Same is the case with Medak and Siddipet districts.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||ASACO employees stage dharna||SANGAREDDY Demanding that the management revoke layoff and pay pending wages for the past two months, employees of ASACO, an industry located at Kandi, held a rally and dharna on Tuesday. They objected to “illegal retrenchment” of six employees from the industry. A large number of employees participated in the agitation led by Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) leader B. Mallesh and others. Even children of the employees participated in the agitation with placards.
22 July 2020||Ahmedabad,||5 booked in Gujarat for operating spurious tocilizumab drug racket||Five people were booked here in Gujarat on Tuesday for allegedly manufacturing and distributing spurious tocilizumab injections being used in the treatment of critical COVID-19 patients, the police said. Two of the five accused have been detained. The action follows the State Food and Drugs Control Administration (FDCA) busting a racket involved in running a bogus pharma company based in Surat. The racket was operated in Surat and Ahmedabad. “The FIR has been lodged at Vastrapur police station (in Ahmedabd) against the five people. While two have been detained, further investigation is under way,” police inspector Y.B. Jadeja said. The accused are identified as Ashish Shah, Akshay Shah, Harsh Thakor, Nilesh Laliwala, and Sohel Tai, who is the alleged mastermind. Of them, Mr. Thakor and Mr. Laliwala have been detained. Mr. Tai is the owner of Genic Pharma, a bogus firm based in Surat, from where spurious tocilizumab (actemra) injections were being supplied to Ahmedabad. All the five accused have been booked under Sections 308, 406, 276 , and 120 (b) of the Indian Penal Code, Mr. Jadeja said. Sections 18 (c) and 27 of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act have also been invoked against them. The accused had hatched a conspiracy to make fast money during the COVID-19 pandemic by producing a spurious medicine called Nandrolone Decanoate under the aegis of the bogus company, the FIR said. They would change the name of the spurious drug and sell it as a genuine tocilizumab injection. “If injected, the medicine could cause death,” the officer said, quoting the FIR. The complaint was lodged by FDCA drug inspector Tapan Chudasama. The racket was exposed after a doctor of a private company alerted the FDCA. The doctor concerned had received a box of spurious tocilizumab injections from a relative of a COVID-19 patient whom he had prescribed the medicine, it said. During the probe, the FDCA found that the medicine was purchased from Dinesh Shah, who runs a pharmacy in Ahmedabad, without a receipt. Mr. Shah was given the injection by his brother Mr. Ashish Shah, the FDCA had said. The probe led officials to Mr. Thakor, Mr. Laliwala and finally to Mr. Tai, it had said.
22 July 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Agents in Punjab upset over ‘flat rate’ of commission||The commission agents ( arhatiyas ) in Punjab are annoyed over the flat rate provided by the Central government for purchase of wheat in the last Rabi Marketing Season (RMS), contrary to the statutory norms of 2.5% of the Minimum Support Price (MSP). The State government has also come out in support of the commission agents and cautioned the Centre that any deviation from the existing policy could cause serious disruptions to the upcoming paddy procurement process. “There is anger among the arhatiyas against the Central government. We want the Centre to stick with the earlier mechanism of paying 2.5% of the MSP instead of a flat rate. If our demand is not met, we will protest. We will soon hold a State-level meeting and decide the strategy,” Amritpal Singh, president of the Punjab Arhatiya Association’s Mohali unit, told The Hindu . “Over the years the Mandi system in Punjab had worked in the interest of the farmers and the commission agents. But now the Central government is attempting to dislodge the entire system,” he added. Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has also urged the Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Ram Vilas Paswan to restore the commission of the arhatiyas to the statutory norm. Captain Amarinder in a letter to Mr. Paswan stated that the flat rate commission provided for the RMS was contrary to the statutory norms and has urged the Union Minister to accordingly amend the provisional cost sheet for RMS 2020-21. “As per the cost sheet, the arhatiya commission has been allowed at a flat rate of Rs. 46 per quintal, which appears to be based on certain estimates of the actual expenditure incurred,” he pointed out. “Unrest is already brewing among the arhatiyas over this issue, which, if left unresolved, has the potential of seriously disrupting the smooth procurement of paddy during the Kharif marketing season 2020-21,” the Chief Minister added.
22 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||AMU hospital’s resident doctors threaten strike||The resident doctors of the Aligarh Muslim University’s Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital threatened to go on strike on Tuesday after some of the doctors on emergency duty were assaulted by the attendants of a 55-year-old woman, suffering from severe respiratory distress on Monday evening. Later, the woman passed away in the hospital and the doctors returned to work on Tuesday evening after the police nabbed the main accused. Resident Doctors’ Association president Hamza Malik said the woman was under severe respiratory distress when she was brought to the trauma centre. “Her oxygen saturation level was around 70%. A senior resident of the anaesthesia department told the four or five attendants accompanying her that her condition was very serious and she needed ventilator support immediately. Unfortunately, the hospital didn’t have any ICU bed vacant at them and hence they were advised to take her to some other facility.” However, Dr. Malik said, they got agitated and started abusing and physically attacking the doctors on duty. “The PPE kit of one female doctor was torn. One of them rushed after the CMO with an oxygen cylinder.” “Meanwhile, the condition of the woman deteriorated and she passed away within an hour,” said JNMCH Principal Shahid Siddiqui. “We understand that all attendants could not process the information given, , but assaulting the doctors is no solution. The attendants refused to give consent for ventilator support. Had they given the consent, we could have helped them in finding a hospital with ventilator facility in the city,” he added. The hospital has six ventilators for cases whose COVID test had not been done but require emergency support, said Dr. Siddiqui. Later, the Aligarh police booked five persons under relevant sections and nabbed the main accused, Suhail Ahmed and Jamal.  We demand security of doctors on COVID duty as such incidents are becoming common in the country Hamza Malik Resident Doctors’ Association president
22 July 2020||LUCKNOW,||Virus cases continue to rise in U.P.||Uttar Pradesh recorded 37 new deaths and 2,151 fresh COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, the government said on Tuesday, with the capital Lucknow and industrial hub Kanpur retaining their position as the worrying areas in the State. While Lucknow recorded 212 fresh cases, Kanpur reported 230. To mitigate this, the administration in these two districts has decided to create “large containment zones” where complete lockdown would be implemented till Friday night. U.P. is already observing a weekend lockdown throughout the State. In Kanpur, the administration has declared complete lockdown in areas falling under the jurisdiction of 10 police stations while in Lucknow similar arrangements have been made in four police station areas. The total number of deaths reached 1,229 while active cases stood at 20,204, the government said. With 2,851 active cases, Lucknow is the most affected district, followed by Kanpur (1,301).
22 July 2020||Mumbai,||Can’t allow lawyers to travel by local trains, State tells HC||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday told the Bombay High Court it could not permit lawyers to travel by local trains as it had restricted the number of trains and passengers as a safety measure due to the COVID-19 outbreak. In an affidavit, the State submitted that restrictions on local trains had been imposed to “prevent overcrowding, and maintain social distancing” and lawyers could not claim any legal right to use them. The State was responding to a Public Interest Litigation and several intervention applications filed by lawyers seeking that they be allowed to travel to courts by suburban trains amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Advocate Shyam Dewani, counsel for the main petitioner Chirag Channani, told a Bench led by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta that several lawyers resided in the suburbs in Mumbai, and were facing tremendous inconvenience in travelling to courts and their offices due to restrictions on local train travel. Mr. Dewani, and advocate Uday Warunjikar, counsel for another petitioner, also told the court that lawyers had already written to the State government seeking that their services be recognised as essential servicesand they be allowed local train travel. The State government in its affidavit, submitted that there were no restrictions on use of personal vehicles except for the number of passengers in one vehicle. The lawyers, thus, were free to commute in private vehicles as long as they wore masks and took other COVID-19 related safety precautions. The petitioners also said that the court staff and staff of government pleaders’ offices were already included in list of essential services to be eligible to travel by local trains and the BEST is offering its services. The court has now directed the petitioners to respond to the State’s affidavit within a week.
22 July 2020||Navi Mumbai,||12-year-old found dead at home||A 12-year-old boy was found dead in his room on the third floor of his house at Shivaji Nagar in Govandi on Monday. The boy, a student of Class VI, is the son of a restaurant owner who lived with his parents and elder brother, who studies in Class VIII. The child’s online classes ended at 1 p.m., at which time his elder brother came to take the mobile to attend his own classes. “However, after his classes, the deceased started playing games on the phone,” senior police inspector Kishore Gaikhe, Shivaji Nagar police station, said. The elder brother complained to his mother, who took away the phone from the boy. “The mother scolded the boy for not giving the phone to the elder brother and handed over the phone to the latter. The angered boy then went to his room,” Mr. Gaikhe said. When the boy’s mother went to check on him after a while, she found him unconscious. He was rushed to Rajawadi Hospital where the doctor declared him dead on arrival.
22 July 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi HC notice to Centre on PMC Bank plea||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday issued a notice to the Centre on a petition seeking a direction to scam-hit Punjab & Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank to decide on the request by depositors for withdrawal of their money to cope with the hardships during COVID-19. A Division Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan also sought a response from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and PMC Bank on the plea by social activist Bejon Kumar Misra seeking protection of the depositors. The fresh plea filed by Mr. Misra stated that the bank had refused to release the deposited amount even as per the terms of its June 19 notification, which permits the withdrawal of Rs. 50,000 or Rs. 1,00,000 towards hardship such as medical treatment, education, marriage, livelihood expenses for senior citizens, widows and handicapped persons, as per the case. “The respondents (bank) have miserably failed to follow even their own notification by refusing to disburse the said amount to the depositors of the PMC Bank based on expenses incurred on medical care,” the plea said. “The situation has come to such a pass that the depositors are completely helpless in carrying out their day-to-day financial activities and becoming victims of avoidable debt and mortgage,” Mr. Misra said. The RBI has imposed restrictions on the operations of scam-hit PMC Bank, including curbs on withdrawal limits, after an alleged fraud of Rs. 4,355 crore came to light. Preliminary enquiry has revealed that PMC Bank issued over 70% of its total loans to Housing Development Infrastructure Limited.
22 July 2020||Press Trust of India Nagpur,||Police can take strict action against those selling gutkha||The Maharashtra government has allowed the State police to independently register criminal offences against those involved in sale and purchase of gutkha and flavoured tobbaco, both of which are banned here. Earlier, the police had to request officials of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to lodge a complaint for registering offences in such cases. The State government has come up with a new policy for stricter implementation of the existing ban by directing the police to register non-bailable offences against gutkha sellers and smugglers. Special Inspector General of Police (Law & Order) Milind Bharambe issued a circular to all police units on July 16.
22 July 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra sees surge of 8,369 new COVID-19 cases||Maharashtra reported 8,369 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking its total case count to 3,27,031. Of these, 1,32,236 are active ones. The State has recorded a daily surge of more than 8,000 cases at least seven times in the last 11 days. With as many as 246 more deaths, the State’s fatality toll has risen to 12,276. However, the rise in cases was offset by a high number of recoveries, with 7,188 patients discharged on Tuesday, to take the cumulative recoveries to 1,82,217. With a relatively low spike of 992 new cases, Mumbai’s total case tally has reached 1,03,368, of whom only 23,704 are active though. With 62 more deaths, the city’s fatality figure has risen to 5,817. As per State Health Department figures, Pune district reported more than 2,000 new cases and a record 56 deaths as its total cases went up to 59,745 while its death toll reached 1,457. While State health authorities placed Pune’s active cases at 36,810, the district administration said there was a data discrepancy and that the number of active cases stands just over 18,500, with more than 34,000 recoveries. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said the State’s recovery rate stands at 55.72% while the case fatality is 3.75%. While cases continued to rise in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane recorded its lowest spike in days — reporting just 445 new cases as compared to its average daily surge of 600 cases. The district’s total cases have now crossed the 28,000 mark. After recording an average 450 cases per day in the last fortnight, Kalyan-Dombivli reported 304 new cases, taking its total number of cases to 18,981. Navi Mumbai recorded 268 new cases, taking its total cases to 13,475.
22 July 2020||Pune,||Dairy farmers stage day-long protest, seeking higher milk prices, subsidies||A number of farmer outfits, including the Raju Shetti-led Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS), staged a symbolic, day-long ‘milk agitation’ on Tuesday, demanding higher milk prices and subsidies for dairy farmers even as Maharashtra Dairy Development Minister Sunil Kedar said the State government will soon come up with a scheme to address their financial woes. Mr. Kedar met representatives of the SSS, the Sadabhau Khot-led Rayat Shetkari Sanghatana, the left-affiliated All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), and milk cooperatives, at Mantralaya in Mumbai. However, the meeting was inconclusive. “There have been a number of demands ranging from giving a subsidy of Rs. 10 per litre on cow’s milk to providing export subsidies on milk powder and waiving off the GST on ghee, butter and milk powder. I have taken note of all these. But I appeal to farmers not to waste milk during their agitation, especially at these critical times with the pandemic raging in the State,” Mr. Kedar said. He assured that the Maha Vikas Aghadi government will not let dairy farmers suffer financially. “The State will soon come out with a scheme to strengthen dairy farmers financially,” the minister said. Mr. Khot and leaders of other outfits, however, expressed disappointment and warned of intensifying the agitation in the coming days. “Milk prices have come crashing down to Rs. 18-20 per litre for the last two months. The pandemic has hit around 50 lakh dairy farmers and producers in the State. We have urged the State to provide direct financial assistance to them by depositing Rs. 10 per litre in their bank accounts and give a subsidy of Rs. 50 per kg of milk powder,” Mr. Khot said. Ajit Nawale of the AIKS said, “Today’s meeting with Mr. Kedar, in a sense was disappointing, as the State gave no concrete assurances or proposed any intervention schemes bases on our demands. Our agitation will continue till the State government announces some tangible financial scheme.” He also said that if the State did not pay heed to the agitation, farmers would spill milk outside the residences of ruling party leaders. Meanwhile, the Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), has demanded that dairy farmers be given an increase of Rs. 10 per litre on cow’s milk failing which the party will launch an agitation from August 1. In Kolhapur, Satara and Sangli districts in western Maharashtra — the State’s sugar and dairy heartland — SSS activists were seen stopping milk tankers. The agitation gained momentum in the Marathwada region as well. “We will take a call on the future course of action and announce our decision in the next 8-10 days. Today we followed lockdown regulations. But if the Centre and the State do not accede to our demands, we will come out in strength and protest. It is a do or die situation for dairy farmers,” Mr. Shetti said.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Breathe easy, girl||
22 July 2020||Brussels,||EU leaders strike deal to rebuild economy||European leaders on Tuesday agreed on a massive aid package for their pandemic-ravaged economies, as U.S. President Donald Trump finally came out in favour of face masks as a tool against the novel coronavirus. The virus has infected more than 14.7 million people and killed over 6,10,000 of them since emerging in China late last year, with fresh alarm being sounded over its accelerating spread in Africa. After a fractious, 90-hour summit, European leaders finally agreed on a rescue package of €750 billion ($858 billion) to try and pull their bloc out of a deep recession. The pandemic has devastated the global economy. “This is a historic change for Europe,” said French President Emmanuel Macron, while German Chancellor Angela Merkel expressed relief that the EU had, in her eyes, shown itself equal to “the greatest crisis” in its history. ‘Strong resistance’ The package will send tens of billions of euros to countries hit hardest by the virus, most notably heavily indebted Spain and Italy who had lobbied hard for a major gesture from their EU partners. The talks saw strong resistance from some nations against sending money to countries they considered too lax with public spending. There was criticism from others that the compromises made were too great. Teenage climate campaigner Greta Thunberg tweeted her disappointment. “As expected the #EUCO resulted in some nice words, some vague distant incomplete climate targets nearly impossible to track and a complete denial of the climate emergency,” she wrote. Britain, who left the EU in January and will not benefit from the aid plan, revealed on Tuesday that state borrowing had rocketed to a record £127.9 billion ($162.5 billion) in the three months to June. Impact on Africa Britain has suffered Europe’s deadliest coronavirus outbreak, with more than 45,000 deaths recorded to date. And with even richer nations struggling, experts have warned that the impact would be harshest in poorer regions of the world like Africa. The World Health Organization sounded the alarm about the situation there, particularly in South Africa, where the death toll crossed 5,000 over the weekend. “I am very concerned right now that we are beginning to see an acceleration of disease in Africa,” warned the WHO’s emergencies chief Michael Ryan on Monday. Brazil’s death toll meanwhile passed 80,000 late on Monday, according to Health Ministry figures. With no effective treatment yet, there are few options available to combat the spread of the virus, though they do include face masks — which Mr. Trump and his political allies refused to encourage for months. Trump backs face masks But he changed direction on Monday, tweeting a photo of himself wearing a mask with the message: “We are United in our effort to defeat the Invisible China Virus, and many people say that it is Patriotic to wear a face mask when you can’t socially distance. There is nobody more Patriotic than me, your favorite President!” U.S. authorities are struggling to handle the crisis as infections surge towards four million, with more than 140,000 deaths. Mr. Trump is struggling to respond to public anger over his handling of the crisis, with the death toll still rising and the economy devastated. Tens of millions of Americans have been left jobless, and the extra unemployment benefits keeping some from poverty are set to expire at the end of July. “I’m still struggling to pay the bills and I’m still looking for a job,” said Diana Yitbarek, 44.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,||China drafts rules for stricter oversight of foreign teachers||China issued on Tuesday draft rules to toughen oversight of hundreds of thousands of foreign teachers, who could be fired for acts such as “words and deeds” considered harmful to the country’s sovereignty. Foreign teachers will also be banned from “illegally engaging in religious education or preaching”, according to the guidelines drawn up by the education, foreign, public security and science ministries. The rules have been submitted for public comments until August 21 before final approval. In recent years, Beijing has tried to make China’s education system more patriotic, eliminating what it perceives to be immoral foreign influences. The new guidelines would require teachers to undergo at least 20 hours of training on topics, such as the Chinese Constitution and teachers’ ethics when they take up employment. They follow a spate of detentions of international teachers in recent years for sex abuse and taking drugs. The guidelines say teachers should be fired for such criminal offences. Those found to be violating the rules must be reported to educational authorities. The guidelines also require all foreign teachers to possess a bachelor’s degree or higher, at least two years of teaching experience and relevant language teaching qualifications. Schools that illegally hire foreign teachers without the right qualifications or approval, or mislead the public about teachers’ qualifications, can be fined up to 10,000 yuan ($1,400) per teacher.
22 July 2020||Washington,||Trump mulls sending feds to ‘Democrat’ cities||President Donald Trump threatened on Monday to send more military-garbed law enforcement into U.S. cities to quell anti-racism protests, a move he called necessary security action and critics labelled an election year political stunt. After the Department of Homeland Security deployed scores of Border Patrol police and federal marshals — many in combat fatigues — to Portland, Oregon last week, Mr. Trump said he could do so in other Democrat-led cities. According to reports, DHS was preparing to send 150 paramilitary personnel to Chicago after police there clashed with demonstrators seeking to tear down a statue of Christopher Columbus. Separately, 63 people were shot and 12 killed over the weekend in ongoing gun violence, according to reports. “We’re looking at Chicago, too. We’re looking at New York,” Trump told reporters. “Look at what’s going on. All run by Democrats, all run by very liberal Democrats, all run really by radical left. We can’t let this happen to the city.” “I’m going to do something, that I can tell you, because we’re not going to leave New York and Chicago and Philadelphia, Detroit and Baltimore,” he said. In a statement, DHS said it “does not comment on any allegedly leaked operations.” Mr. Trump’s decision to have federal law enforcement authorities intervene in local protests has sparked anger and legal questions. Since African-American man George Floyd was killed by a Minneapolis police officer on May 25, sparking nationwide protests against racism and police brutality.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,||‘U.S. will continue to lead the world in scientific investment and innovation’||Sethuraman Panchanathan, born and raised in India, was recently appointed Director of the U.S. National Science Foundation. Mr. Panchanathan talks on priorities for the Foundation, “brain-drain”, and more. Edited excerpts:  What are your priorities as head of the NSF? Right now, the world faces significant scientific challenges — most obviously a pandemic. During this difficult time, we have seen that research is more important than ever. I have identified three pillars for my vision: advancing research into the future, ensuring inclusivity, and continuing global leadership in science and engineering. In the first few months, I will be mainly focused on understanding all facets of the agency, including ensuring optimal operations. What is the impact of COVID-19 on research and investment in scientific fields other than medicine? To date, we’ve funded 801 grants over $111 million in response to COVID-19 and the level of research we’ve seen from recipients has been outstanding. As the nation responds to the COVID-19 pandemic, NSF-funded research is playing a crucial role. From the science and engineering behind critical diagnostic tools and medical devices, to novel solutions that help communities, businesses, and individuals navigate the challenges of this difficult time, NSF’s investments in science and technology are making a difference. For example, advances in artificial intelligence and big data offer the potential to spot hidden patterns and raise the alarm about new diseases before they spread. Advanced manufacturing and cutting-edge engineering will be able to put the right tools in the hands of first responders and medical professionals faster than ever. When this pandemic passes, basic research will still be an engine of our economy, it will still underpin our national defence, and it will still be the main driver of innovations and technology that enhances every aspect of our lives. Recently, mask-wearing has been politicised by politicians, and some citizens believe there’s a conspiracy around masks. There are other examples that pre-date COVID – denying climate change, unfounded fears around vaccination, and so forth. Is America’s scientific spirit and temper at risk? NSF is tasked with keeping the U.S. at the leading edge of discovery in areas ranging from astronomy to geology to zoology. We like to say that NSF is “where discoveries begin”. During NSF’s 70-year history, we have witnessed varying opinions. However, the one constant during that time has been NSF’s focus and dedication to its mission, which always has and always will continue unabated regardless of the news of the day. As NSF supports 25% of all federally funded academic fundamental research at U.S. colleges and universities, I have every confidence the U.S. will continue to lead the world in scientific investment and innovation. Recently you held the position of chief innovation officer at Arizona State University. In what areas do you expect the next major technological breakthroughs? Technology is ever evolving, and while some breakthroughs emerge unexpectedly, many are driven by research priorities. For the U.S., five priorities in particular stand out at the moment: AI, advanced manufacturing, quantum information science, advanced wireless, and synthetic biology. This year, the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy announced a nationwide focus on driving new developments in these fields, categorising them under the single term Industries of the Future. At NSF, these industries have been part of our portfolio for decades. We have funded fundamental research that enabled them to emerge, as well as collaborations and industrial partnerships that have helped move specific technologies out of laboratories and into the marketplace. For example, our investment in Fairness in Artificial Intelligence, a partnership with Amazon, seeks to overcome a critical hurdle preventing the broader impact of AI technology by removing bias that finds its way into AI programming. The initiative will have direct impact on new AI applications, from driverless vehicles to banking algorithms, but it also comes from a fundamental research base that has been decades in the making. India and the U.S. already cooperate in various scientific fields. What is your assessment of the scientific partnership between the two countries? The scientific partnership is strong, particularly in the area of fundamental research, which is NSF’s focus. India is one of the top 25 international partners for NSF with 46 collaborative projects funded in 2019 alone. NSF and the Government of India are partnering on LIGO India to station a gravitational wave detection instrument in India due to the country’s unique geographical characteristics. What makes the partnership strong is that both the U.S. and India have demonstrated a commitment to the values of freely sharing the results of fundamental research, putting new tools and ideas in the hands of scientific collaborations that connect researchers around the world. The ISRO Chairman, K. Sivan, recently said the creation of a new space centre (IN-SPACe) and regulatory changes will help prevent “brain drain”. However, successive governments in India have not been able to significantly increase the retention of science and engineering talent within the country. Are you hopeful this can be achieved in the next, say, decade? India is demonstrating a steady commitment to meet the challenge of cultivating a domestic scientific workforce. It requires not only schools and laboratories but networks of researchers and mentorship — but that takes time. If the progress made by India isn’t easy to see at home, I should note that we’re seeing it from abroad. Our Science and Engineering Indicators report shows that the percentage of new STEM doctorate holders from India who plan to stay in the U.S. has declined. This could indicate that students may have decided to go back to India or may have gone somewhere else. The U.S. has historically been the top destination for international students and this nation deeply values the researchers and students who have come from India.  India is demonstrating a steady commitment to meet the challenge of cultivating a domestic scientific workforce
22 July 2020||Ghazni,||Afghan girl kills two Taliban fighters after parents are killed||An Afghan girl shot dead two Taliban fighters and wounded several more after they dragged her parents from their home and killed them for supporting the government, officials said. The incident happened last week when insurgents stormed the home of Qamar Gul, a teenager from a village in the central province of Ghor. The fighters were looking for her father, the village chief, local police head Habiburahman Malekzada said. Her father was a government supporter, which is why the Taliban fighters went to his house and dragged him out, Mr. Malekzada said. When his wife resisted, the Taliban fighters killed the couple outside their home, Mr. Malekzada said. “Qamar Gul, who was inside the house, took an AK-47 gun the family had and first shot dead the two Taliban fighters who killed her parents, and then injured a few others,” he said. Ms. Gul is aged between 14 and 16, according to different officials. It is common for many Afghans to not know their precise age. Several other Taliban fighters later came to attack her house, but villagers and pro-government militiamen expelled them. Afghan security forces have now taken Ms. Gul and her younger brother to a safer place, said Mohamed Aref Aber, spokesman to the provincial Governor.
22 July 2020||London,||Probe Russian link to Brexit poll: Lawmakers||The British government should properly investigate any Russian interference in the 2016 Brexit referendum after failing to look into it despite past evidence of Kremlin meddling, a parliamentary report said on Tuesday. It said oligarchs with links to Russian President Vladimir Putin used their wealth for “extending patronage and building influence across a wide sphere of the British establishment”. “There should have been assessment of Russian interference in the referendum. And there must now be one, and the public must be told the results of that assessment,” intelligence and security committee member Kevan Jones said. Scotland independence The report said it could not point to specific evidence of Russian meddling in the 2016 vote on Britain’s EU membership and a 2014 poll on Scotland’s independence from the U.K., which the “no” camp won by 55% to 45%. But Mr. Jones said this happened because the U.K. government “actively avoided asking the question”. “No one wanted to touch it with a 10-foot pole,” Mr. Jones said. ‘Londongrad’ “In brief, Russian influence in the U.K. is ‘the new normal’, and there are a lot of Russians with very close links to Mr. Putin, who are well integrated into the U.K. business and social scene, and accepted because of their wealth,” the report said. “This level of integration — in ‘Londongrad’ in particular — means that any measures now being taken by the Government are not preventative but rather constitute damage limitation.” “Londongrad” is widely viewed as a central part of London that is a haven for Russian oligarchs, who invest in luxury properties in prestigious areas such as Chelsea. The report’s release has been delayed for months, leading to accusations for the opposition that Prime Minister Boris Johnson wanted to suppress it. He came to head the government a year ago, after replacing his Conservative party predecessor Theresa May, who became prime minister immediately after the Brexit vote.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Convict holds 20 hostage on Ukraine bus||Ukrainian police were holding tense negotiations on Tuesday with a former convict armed with explosives, who took 20 people hostage on a bus and claimed to have planted a remote-controlled device in Lutsk. Police have asked residents not to leave their homes or places of work. Security services surrounded the bus after two shots were fired from it. “The attacker threw a grenade from the bus, which, fortunately, did not detonate,” a statement said.
22 July 2020||Tehran,||Tehran, July 21, 2020 (AFP) -||Iraqi Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhemi met Iran's President Hassan Rouhani in Tehran on Tuesday during his first trip abroad since taking office. Mr. Rouhani said in a joint news conference with Mr. Kadhemi that they discussed expanding trade ties, fighting the pandemic and efforts to ensure regional stability. “The two governments' will is to expand bilateral trade ties to $20 billion,” Mr. Rouhani said after the meeting.
22 July 2020||Washington,||Washington, July 20, 2020 (AFP) -||The U.S. Commerce Department on Monday announced that it blacklisted 11 Chinese businesses for involvement in human rights violations against the Uighur minority, cutting off the firms’ access to American goods. Washington, together with other western nations and rights groups, has accused Beijing of interning at least a million Muslims from the Uighur ethnic group in the western Xinjiang region. But Beijing denies an wrongdoing.AFP
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The main planks in a counter-China policy||The situation along the China-India border in Ladakh region is still tense. The disengagement process is proving difficult, and the latest meeting of the Corps Commanders on July 14 has not resulted in any demonstrable progress regarding troop disengagement/de-escalation. India is standing firm on both sides ensuring complete disengagement of troops along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), while China is laying emphasis on strengthening Confidence Building Measures in the border areas, and proper handling of border issues in a timely manner to “avoid differences becoming disputes”.  China’s objective Details regarding the actual ground situation, meanwhile, remain sketchy, lending itself to differing interpretations. However, it would appear that this time around, China is intent on managing the ground situation to its advantage, and bring about a realignment of the LAC. With the idea of ‘buffer zones’ having been accepted — which apparently are to be located on Indian territory — it would appear that China is well on its way to achieving its objective. If China does succeed, it could be for the first time that China has a foothold on the west side of the Kongka Pass.  The events of May and June were hardly a ‘one-off manoeuvre’. A great deal of planning would have preceded the incursions across the LAC at multiple points, several hundred kilometres apart. However, what prompted China’s aggressive behaviour is unclear, but it had the effect of shredding the painstakingly devised Border Agreements of 1993, 1996, 2005 and 2013. Whether China is behaving like an ‘irredentist power’ seeking to expand its frontiers to the limits that existed in the Qing Dynasty, or as an ‘expansionist power’ (as the Prime Minister obliquely hinted which produced an instant reaction from Beijing, warning India against making “a strategic miscalculation with regard to China”), is less critical than what China’s current objectives are. Undoubtedly, humbling India in the eyes of Asia and the world was all important. India needs to ponder deeply on this, to avoid making a strategic miscalculation during a difficult period.  The 21st Century was once heralded as the Asian Century, with China and India in the vanguard. Rumour has it that as far back as 1988, Chinese leader, Deng Xiaoping, had mentioned to then Indian Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi, that he doubted this. If so, Deng has been prescient, for in the 21st Century the two Asian giants have been more at loggerheads than anything else.  Much of the blame should be cast on China. The latter, having shaken off its image as a ‘status quo power’, is intent on dominating the geostrategic space in its neighbourhood and across Asia, before embarking on its ambition to displace the United States as the Global Numero Uno. Instead of reinforcing economic relationships in the region, China has been intent on transforming the Asian region in its own image, and, simultaneously, seeking to become a continental and a maritime power.  Raise the divisions Trying to make sense of China’s actions is critical for India’s response. To begin with, and despite the fact that China has been inclined for long to nibble at territories in the western, middle and eastern segments of the border, it would be a mistake to think that China is preparing for a conflict over territory. India should not be taken in by Western propaganda about China’s territorial ambitions, for China is well aware that it cannot be certain whether it will emerge a victor from an all-out conflict with India. With two key dates in mind (2025 and 2035 — Made in China 2025 and China Standards 2035), China cannot afford to jeopardise its future for the present. India’s strategic thinkers and planners must keep this in mind, while drawing up plans to checkmate China’s predatory actions in the mountainous border regions. Instead, they should urgently implement the plans to set up the Mountain Strike Corps divisions, which had been inexplicably shelved. This is bound to deter China here far more than the stockpiling of state-of-the-art weapons. Undoubtedly, a strong military is an important component of a nation’s power. It is important to maintain a strong military but it is even more important to know when or how to use it. With a country such as Pakistan, the military option is more often than not the most suitable one; with countries such as China, one has to consider a variety of options. Undue sensitivity to domestic politics in a situation such as the one we currently face in Ladakh, should not dictate our course of action.  Go on a diplomatic offensive India must go back to the drawing board and consider what are the ‘subtler tools’ of power available to it, rather than only considering the military option. India may well find non-military tools not only more cost effective but also less risky. One option, readily available, is diplomacy which is an equally indispensable instrument of a nation’s power. Exploiting the current widespread opposition to China, India must embark on a diplomatic offensive to create international opinion in its support regarding border violations. A diplomatic offensive, involving different Ministries of the Central government, business leaders, persons of international standing, etc., can achieve a great deal in convincing international opinion that India is right and China is wrong, as also in conveying a message about India’s peaceful intentions vis-à-vis China’s expansionist ambitions.  As a corollary to this, India should also revitalise another instrument of power that it had employed in the past, viz., cultivation of foreign leaders with a view to draw their specific attention to China’s aggressive policies and designs. Countering China’s moves to ‘buy’ influence will not be easy, but India’s involvement with the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM) should prove invaluable in this respect. India’s relationship with NAM needs to be revitalised. India previously also had a programme of helping countries across Asia and Africa through a well-designed technical aid programme which possibly still exists, but may need to be upgraded. Such programmes not only provide an enduring link between India and these countries but also help contrast India’s ‘untied aid’ with that of countries such as China whose aims are political and economic subjugation.  It’s peace versus aggression To compete effectively in today’s world (and to counter China’s offensive across the world), India must also overhaul its ‘messaging’ capacity. It should make greater use of technology to send across its message and ideas to people and countries, in its vicinity and across the globe, highlighting its peaceful intentions in stark contrast to China’s aggressive policies and tactics. This was not one of India’s strong points in the past, but in today’s world where social media plays a dominant role, sustained messaging has become critical.  At this time, India must pay particular attention to relations with countries in its neighbourhood, such as Nepal and Bangladesh, and allies such as Iran and Vietnam, which seem to have frayed at the edges, with India being more intent on strengthening relations with the West, especially the U.S., and bodies such as the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad), or the informal strategic dialogue between the U.S., India, Japan, and Australia. Smaller countries of Asia, which constantly face China’s aggressive interference in their internal affairs, have not received much support from India, and this needs India’s attention.  A united face India’s true strength, over and above all this, however, is its unity in diversity. A truly united and resilient India is the best antidote to China’s attempts to humble India. The impact of a united India will be far greater than establishing closer links with the U.S. or the West. China has never been able to properly fathom, or understand, the strength India seems to derive from its spiritual, religious and cultural attributes, which are a part of its civilisational heritage. China has also never been able to comprehend the innate value India attaches to reaching out to leaders of different religions, in particular the Tibetan spiritual leader, the Dalai Lama, with no strings attached. In recent years, possibly with a view to appeasing China, India has somewhat distanced itself from the Dalai Lama, which has, without doubt, been a mistake that needs to be rectified. The Dalai Lama is an enduring symbol of hope for many millions of people across the globe, apart from Tibetans. Restoring the Dalai Lama to the same level of eminence in India’s official thinking, should be an important plank in India’s anti-China policy.  Simultaneously, India would do well to take pole position in propagating ‘Himalayan Buddhism’ which China has been seeking to subvert to achieve its ends. India’s credentials here far outweigh that of China’s and should produce excellent dividends. It needs to become a key plank in India’s ‘forward policy’. M.K. Narayanan is a former National Security Adviser and a former Governor of West Bengal
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Why are re-purposed medicines expensive?||The quest for developing a vaccine and finding a definitive treatment for COVID-19 treatment is reportedly making good progress. However, with the number of infections around the globe having crossed 14.7 million, there is no easy containment of this pandemic. Clinical trials with re-purposed antivirals and biologicals have been approved in different geographical settings. These medicines are believed to have some potential in shortening the recovery time in COVID-19 patients. Recently, the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) issued approval to Glenmark Pharma to manufacture and market Favipiravir tablets for ‘restricted emergency use’. It also issued approvals to Hetero and Cipla to manufacture and market injectable formulations of Remdesivir, and to Biocon Limited to market injectable formulations of Itolizumab. Pricing of medicines Remdesivir is an antiviral originally developed by Gilead to treat the Ebola virus infection. Favipiravir is a generic version of an anti-influenza medicine developed by Toyama Chemical in Japan. Gilead has entered into royalty-free voluntary licensing agreement with companies including Hetero and Cipla to provide technology transfer to manufacture Remdesivir for distribution in 127 countries. The free royalty period is valid until the World Health Organization (WHO) declares the end of the pandemic or until another medicine or vaccine is approved to treat or prevent COVID-19. Hetero has priced Remdesivir at Rs. 5,400 for a 100 mg injection vial, and Cipla at Rs. 4,000 per vial. A five-day treatment course with Remdesivir would work out to Rs. 24,000-32,000 per patient. Glenmark claims to have developed the active pharmaceutical ingredient and formulation of Favipiravir through its in-house research team and has priced Favipiravir 200 mg tablet at Rs. 103, with a course of treatment costing Rs. 12,566 per patient. Both these medicines inhibit viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase, thereby retarding viral replication in host cells. Itolizumab, incidentally used in the treatment of psoriasis, reportedly shows therapeutic effects in severe COVID-19 infections progressing to acute respiratory distress syndrome. Treatment with Itolizumab is also not inexpensive by any means with the medical costs amounting to Rs. 32,000 per patient. The critical question is whether the above pricing would exclude a majority of the patients from the benefits of these re-purposed medicines. Question of affordability The updated clinical management protocol of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MHFW) lists Remdesivir as a potential medicine for investigational therapy in moderate COVID-19 infections without underlying contra-indications. The protocol does not mention Favipiravir, which nevertheless finds a place in the WHO Clinical Management Protocol. Itolizumab figures neither in the MHFW nor in the WHO protocol. The question that begs an answer from pharmaceutical companies marketing re-purposed medicines for restricted emergency use is whether these medicines can be made available at affordable prices to patients. The current pricing does not indicate this. Andrew Hill et al in their study published in the Journal of Virus Eradication determined the price of ‘final finished product’ (FFP) or medicine ready for use, by adding the costs of the active pharmaceutical ingredient, excipients, formulation, packaging and a reasonable profit margin. Their calculations have estimated the cost for a treatment course with Remdesivir to be $9 and the estimated production cost for a course with Favipiravir to be $20 per patient. Itolizumab has not been subjected to a costing analysis in their study. Affordability of medicines is a matter of particular concern. When companies attempt to recover the fixed costs or sunk costs that went into the investment and development of the medicine, the final price becomes unreasonable. This is distressing for the patient, especially when the therapeutic results or clinical benefits have not been fully established. Various laws Akin to the flexibilities in the TRIPS agreement which helped in making antiretrovirals affordable during the AIDS crisis, some countries are resorting to enabling legislation and procedural modifications of existing regulations to address affordability of anti-COVID-19 medicines. Israel issued a compulsory licence to Hetero for production and import of the Lopinavir-Ritonavir combination from India, following which the innovator AbbVie decided not to enforce its patent right. Canada passed the COVID-19 Emergency Response Act and Germany, The Prevention and Control of Infectious Diseases in Humans Act. Chile’s Lower House of Parliament and Ecuador’s National Assembly passed resolutions allowing TRIPS flexibilities in the pandemic. Prompted by Costa Rica, WHO opened a voluntary patents pool, for compiling and sharing information and technological know-how for the development of medicines, vaccines and diagnostics for COVID-19. Indian patent laws too are armed with sufficient powers to ensure reasonable pricing for pharmaceutical products. India has used compulsory licensing only once in 2012 for Sorafenib. Section 92 of the Act enables grant of compulsory licensing in circumstances of national emergency or extreme urgency. Compulsory licences may not be the solution in all such situations. Nevertheless, the pricing will have to reflect the magnitude of the crisis and the socioeconomic realities in individual countries. Many innovator companies, perhaps to escape or avoid any coercive move or legal action by governments, agree upon voluntary licences with generic companies. Such tie-ups can cause substantial reduction of medicine prices, as was seen in the case of Sofosbuvir, the $1,000 anti-hepatitis C medicine. Its price went down to approximately $10 per tablet in India, subsequent to the innovator’s voluntary licences with Indian generic companies in 2014. The terms and conditions of such agreements are generally wrapped in secrecy and may have clauses detrimental to public interest. Besides, as allegations of cartelisation between innovators and generic companies were raised in the case of antidiabetics Sitagliptin and Vildagliptin in the past, such arrangements are generally viewed with suspicion. The prices announced for the re-purposed medicines appear to be high, especially given the rate of spread and the public health crisis in India. Economies of scale will ensure that the companies recoup their investment costs, and still generate profits. The burden of a global pandemic will have to be borne by governments and pharmaceutical companies alike. Unprecedented public health crises call for situation-specific decisions from pharmaceutical companies and profit maximisation should take a back seat. At least there is a strong case for reconfiguring the pricing strategies of the re-purposed medicines for COVID-19 treatment. Sharmila Mary Joseph is Secretary, Department of Ayush, Government of Kerala, and James J. Nedumpara is Professor and Head, Centre for Trade and Investment Law, Indian Institute of Foreign Trade, New Delhi. Views are personal
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The COVID-19 fiscal response and India’s standing||How does India compare in the quantity and quality of its COVID-19 response to other developing countries? Here we extend our earlier analysis of India’s fiscal response ( The Hindu online, “India must enhance fiscal support for COVID-19 relief and rebuilding”, April 18, 2020) drawing on the International Monetary Fund Policy Tracker, the COVID-19 Economic Stimulus Index (CESI) of Ceyhun Elgin at Columbia University, and the World Bank. Before the announcement of the Atmanirbhar Bharat package, India lagged significantly behind comparable developing countries that are similar in GDP per capita, state capacity, and structure of the labour force. As of early July, the gap seems to have narrowed. However, given the blurring of the distinction between fiscal and monetary components, ensuring comparable and accurate figures for fiscal responses is a challenge. For example, the total Atmanirbhar package is billed at 10% of GDP. The headline number for India’s fiscal response in international databases is around 4% of GDP. But we and others have estimated that the new fiscal outlay, including the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, of March, the direct fiscal aspects of Atmanirbhar Bharat, and the latest extension of free rations under the Public Distribution System, is around 1.7% of GDP. The one significant demand-side intervention in the Atmanirbhar Bharat package was Rs. 40,000 crore of additional outlay for the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). Most other demand-side measures involve the frontloading, consolidation, or rerouting of existing funds — for example, the recently announced Rs. 50,000 crore Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyan, which consolidates projects of 12 ministries/departments. On the other hand, India has surpassed almost all others in the stringency of its containment measures. As a result, the extent of relief measures does not seem to be commensurate with the economic disruption and dislocation caused by the severity of the lockdown. Vietnam, Indonesia, Pakistan, and Egypt, all while averaging less stringent measures than those in India, have announced stimulus measures that are as large or more substantial, as a share of GDP. On cash transfers Demand-side interventions announced by other developing countries could provide lessons for additional measures in India. Unsurprisingly, cash transfers constitute the largest category of support. The World Bank reports that, on average, such transfers amount to 30% of monthly GDP per capita, reaching 46% for lower-middle-income countries, for an average of three months. Countries have also significantly expanded coverage of their cash transfer programmes from pre-COVID-19 levels; Bangladesh and Indonesia have increased the number of beneficiaries by 163% and 111%, respectively. Indonesia’s cash schemes now cover more than 158 million people (or 60% of the population). It has even created two new unconditional cash schemes to reach 20 million individuals in urban and rural settings excluded from the current social protection measures. India could take these actions into account in decisions about expanding existing transfer programmes or even creating new ones. Enhance NREGA Of the World Bank’s list of 621 measures across 173 countries, half were cash-based. Most of the rest related to food assistance (23%) or waiver/postponement of financial obligations (25%). Only 2% related to public works, a clear indication of the popularity of cash transfers over public works for income support, perhaps in part due to concerns over physical distancing. One example of the latter is Mexico, which announced an enlargement of its rural permanent employment scheme to 200,000 farmers and beneficiaries. Indonesia has allocated more than $1 billion (more than Rs. 7,000 crore) to fund public works schemes that will benefit at least 600,000 workers. Additionally, the Indonesia central government has directed village authorities to focus their budgets on a cash-for-work programme for day labourers and the unemployed. India has been a leader in employment guarantee policies with its flagship MGNREGA programme. This is the right time to expand entitlements in this programme as well as introduce an urban version of the programme, as many have called for. Steps in the developing world Developing countries are resorting to drastic means to finance COVID-19 responses. Actions so far include the amendment of legal budget limits and the enhanced issuance of bonds — including a ‘pandemic bond’ by Indonesia. One set of measures has been particularly notable: central banks in many emerging economies are experimenting with purchases of public and private bonds in the secondary market (quantitative easing) or directly purchasing government bonds on the primary market (monetising the deficit). Although the Reserve Bank of India has been buying sovereign bonds on the secondary market in India, the debate continues over whether the Indian government should invoke the “escape cause” in the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (FRBM) Act, to enable the central bank to directly finance the deficit. Indonesia and Brazil have both amended laws to allow their central banks to buy government bonds, which the Indonesian central bank is doing in the primary and secondary markets. At the same time, the Philippine central bank has also bought $6bn (Rs. 42,250 crore) worth of government bonds under a three-month repurchase agreement that is extendable after three months. In India, one reason for the subdued fiscal response and the resort to monetary measures is likely a concern with the debt-to-GDP ratio, which is higher than for most countries in our set. However, aggregate demand and confidence in the economy have slumped and may not recover for many months. Additional fiscal outlay — in the form of cash and in-kind transfers and expanded public works schemes — would save lives and jobs today and might prevent a protracted slowdown. Not spending more now, therefore, might only worsen the debt-to-GDP ratio if growth remains depressed. Amit Basole is faculty member, School of Arts and Sciences, Azim Premji University, Bengaluru. Jonathan Coutinho is research assistant, School of Arts and Science, Azim Premji University, Bengaluru
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,||When schools reopen||Not only adults, but children too are desperately hoping to return to pre-COVID-19 times. Schooling is more than just learning and writing exams. Children are waiting to run in their school playgrounds, hop onto swings, and high-five their peers. They are never happy about being kept away from school for long. Many concerns As we debate when schools should be re-opened in India, it is important to also ask how children and teachers are going to respond to the reopening of schools. The debate on the pros and cons of online education must now shift to how school spaces can be made safer and hygienic to counter community infection. There are various kinds of schools in India: rural and urban, government and private, single-sex and co-educational, and so on. Within them, there are multiple categories. For example, Navodaya Vidyalayas and Army Schools are very different from schools managed by the State government or municipal corporations in terms of infrastructure and management. One cannot visualise a pan-Indian response of the school system to reopening. Similarly, children’s response will also vary according to their age. A six-month gap for primary school students may be huge to counter, but may be easier to overcome for older children. We must discuss how these months of disruption and the so-called continuity of learning through online education will affect learning, teaching, the environment and culture in schools once they reopen. David Ingvar, a noted Swedish neurobiologist, talks about “memory of the future”, which refers to “alternative hypothetical behaviour patterns in order to be ready for what may happen.” We as pedagogues must ready ourselves for what may happen once schools reopen. How will children respond to the idea of physical distancing in school? How will they sit apart or adapt to using school washrooms or playgrounds? How are teachers expected to maintain discipline? How are the movements of children in school buses going to be regulated? These are concerns which need to be thought about. These questions will be more complex if schools decide to open in phases. Then there is the problem of children being forced to drop out of school. This pandemic has put many schoolgoing children out of school. It has impacted children’s lives far beyond health. India has seen large numbers of people, mostly poor migrant workers, returning to their native places, so classrooms may not be full. Since many people have lost their income, they will be spending less on education. Given the state of the economy, the state too is expected to spend less. As a result, children and their education may be affected for long after a vaccine is found. The pandemic could bring on extreme poverty which will stop children’s access to school. It is known that poor children are pushed into income-generating activities and early marriages. We must discuss how to prevent such a situation. Episodic memory All of us, and children especially, will have an episodic memory of these times. Episodic memory, or a person’s unique memory of a specific event, diminishes with age, but children have episodic memories for long and are impacted by it. Children are now confined to their homes, scared of the unknown danger lurking outside. The fact that they constantly hear of infections and deaths and are told to maintain physical distancing will affect them and how they respond in the classroom. Moreover, the emphasis on online learning will also affect offline learning. The need for creative fulfillment will be severely impacted too. When schools reopen, teachers will have to be prepared to deal with all these issues which are not part of any teacher preparation programme. The episodic memory of this pandemic time will affect the learning and memory of children.Tulving’s theory of memory distinguishes semantic memory from episodic memory. Evidence from neuropsychology suggests that these two types of memories don’t operate in isolation but are interdependent. For example, our ideas of family, society, and the nation as matters of general knowledge are influenced by our experiences of them. This pandemic has its own share of vocabulary which will contribute to a newer language. We must be prepared to deal with the many challenges that will come with reopening schools. Our lives, brought to an abrupt halt by this pandemic, must not be abruptly started again. It should be a smooth transition. Otherwise, it won’t just accelerate the spread of the virus but also severely affect our children’s future well-being and learning. Navneet Sharma is faculty, Department of Education, Central University of Himachal Pradesh, Dharamsala. Views are personal
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Towards robust data regulation||For a country that does not have a personal data protection bill, the setting up of a committee to regulate non-personal data seems premature. However, there is global realisation that data should be unlocked in public interest beyond the sole service of commercial interests of a few large companies. There is also recognition that data, in many cases, are not just a subject of individual decision-making but that of communities, such as in the case of ecological information. Therefore, it is critical that communities are empowered to exercise some control over how the data are used. On July 12 the NPD committee released a governance framework which raises many concerns. Key stakeholders To enable a robust regulation of NPD, the report defines key stakeholders for the ecosystem. First are data principals, who/ which can be individuals, companies or communities. The roles and rights of individuals and companies in the context of data governance are well understood. However, the idea of communities as data principals is introduced ambiguously by the report. While it provides examples of what might constitute a community, e.g. citizen groups in neighbourhoods, there is little clarity on the rights and functions of the community. The report does not problematise the ways in which communities translate offline inequalities and power structures to data rights. There are examples in indigenous data governance, which imagine collective rights and community-personhood on data-related issues, which may have found useful mention here. Next are data custodians, who undertake collection, storage, processing, and use of data in a manner that is in the best interest of the data principal. The details in this section are fuzzy – it is not specified if the data custodian can be the government or just private companies, or what best interest is, especially when several already vague and possibly conflicting principal communities are involved. It is also not clear how communities engage with the custodian. Further suggestion that data custodians can potentially monetise the data they hold is especially problematic as this presents a conflict of interest with those of the data principal communities. Based on current literature, data custodians can be interpreted as data stewards, imagined in many cases as independent entities that intermediate with technology companies on behalf of communities, which they represent. Unclear relationship Next, the report talks about data trustees as a way for communities to exercise data rights. Trustees can be governments, citizen groups, or universities. However, the relationship between the data principal communities and the trustees is not clear. The articulation of trustees does not explain how “trust” is extended and fructified with the community, and how trustees are empowered to act on behalf of the community. The idea of trusteeship for data is being discussed globally — the principles of a legal trust and the fiduciary responsibility that come with it are critical. Trustees, by definition, are bound by a duty of care and loyalty towards the principal and thus work in their best interests, negotiating on behalf of their data rights with technology companies and regulators. This thinking is not reflected in the report. Finally, the report explains data trusts comprising specific rules and protocols for containing and sharing a given set of data. Trusts can hold data from multiple custodians and will be managed by public authority. The power, composition and functions of the trust are not established. One possible way to simplify the ecosystem would be to consider data trusts as a type of custodian, such that fiduciary responsibilities can be extended, and trustees can represent the community and act on behalf of the data principals. The committee should organise broader consultations to ensure that the objective of unlocking data in public interest and through collective consent does not end up creating structures that exacerbate the problems of the data economy and are susceptible to regulatory capture. Astha Kapoor is the co-founder of Aapti Institute
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,||On the loose||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar remains in the spotlight, and there is every reason to believe that he wants it that way. On Monday, he met Home Minister Amit Shah with a litany of complaints against the Mamata Banerjee government, apprising him of the “alarming cliff-edge governance situation in the State”. Before the meeting, he had said it was “part of his duty to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution,” under Article 159. Indeed, the Governor has a constitutional role to perform, but Mr. Dhankhar appears enthusiastic to stretch his mandate all the time. During the meeting, he briefed the Home Minister on the State’s “rampant corruption and nepotism”, “alarming COVID-19 situation” and “worrisome and dangerously deteriorating law and order situation”. This is an overreach of authority, done without finesse. Besides his incessant war of nerves with Ms. Banerjee, Mr. Dhankhar has ended up in confrontations with vice chancellors, students and Trinamool Congress leaders, during his one-year tenure. He has also shown a proclivity to be unrestrained in media interactions, including his frequent Twitter posts. He must remember that he is not an Opposition politician in West Bengal. His opinions on the State government, and interactions with it, must be circumscribed by well-established precedents, and should draw strength from the Constitution he repeatedly calls to his defence. No doubt, there are concerns regarding governance in the State. Ms. Banerjee is a combative politician but her administrative talents have not matched up to the crisis of the pandemic. West Bengal has been slow in its responses. Political violence, gruesome crimes, and allegations of police partisanship require the Chief Minister’s personal attention. But all this cannot be an excuse for the Governor to randomly offer his opinions publicly. His behaviour cannot be seen delinked from the BJP’s obsession of winning West Bengal, which goes to the polls in less than a year. The battle of 2021 will be fiercely fought, and if the past is anything to go by, potentially ugly too. The CBI and even the Election Commission, which is an autonomous constitutional body, have to remain above the political fray. Governors have come to assist the BJP in other States too — in upending the constitutional status of J&K and in swearing in a government of the party in Maharashtra, completely disregarding norms last year, for instance. It is possible that Mr. Dhankhar is trying to be more loyal than the king, but the pattern of interference by the Centre in the affairs of States raises other legitimate concerns. He must therefore roll back his rhetoric; and the Prime Minister and the Home Minister must nudge him to stay within his constitutionally circumscribed functions.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Cautious optimism||With the novel coronavirus continuing to spread across continents, the race to find effective drugs and vaccines has been progressing at a blistering pace. Never before have candidate vaccines been developed from scratch, tested on animals and completed early stages of human clinical trials, all under six months. If normally, candidate vaccines take at least a few years to reach the stage of clinical evaluation, some experts are “cautiously optimistic” that by the end of the year or early 2021, the world might know if one or more vaccines are safe and effective, and vaccines might even become “available”. Even in the case of the Ebola vaccine tested during the 2014 outbreak in Guinea, research and animal studies had been conducted prior to the outbreak. In the H1N1 vaccine, the well-developed influenza-based technology enabled quick development, but not before the pandemic peaked. But in the case of the novel coronavirus, 24 candidate vaccines are already in clinical evaluation and another 142 are in the preclinical evaluation stage. With most countries managing to only flatten the curve, the possibility of new surges cannot be dismissed. There is overwhelming evidence that protection and herd immunity can be achieved only through vaccination. One candidate vaccine developed by China using a recombinant common cold virus (adenovirus) as a vector to ferry the genetic material of the coronavirus was on June 25 approved for use exclusively by the military for one year. The approval was based on limited safety and efficacy results from phase-1 and phase-2 trials; the phase-3 trial for vaccine efficacy and safety is yet to begin. As per preliminary results, the Oxford University vaccine, which too uses an adenovirus, has been found to be safe and immunogenic in a phase 1-2 trial. A phase-3 trial is under way. A U.S.-based company along with NIAID has found its vaccine that uses messenger RNA platform to be safe and immunogenic in a phase-1 trial. A phase-3 trial is to begin later this month. Interim results show that another vaccine candidate using the messenger RNA platform is safe and immunogenic in a phase-1-2 trial. Two Indian companies too have begun human clinical trials. There is thus cause for cheer. However, a note of caution is also in order. Past experiences with vaccine development for two coronaviruses — SARS and MERS — have shown that vaccines can “exacerbate lung disease, either directly or as a result of antibody-dependent enhancement”. Thus, the compulsion to rigorously monitor safety profiles of candidate vaccines cannot be overemphasised. Efforts to accelerate clinical trials should not rely on shortening the follow-up period or by-passing critical steps in testing but put in place protocols that allow the trials to seamlessly graduate from one phase to another. This is an acid test for vaccine science and development and the outcomes will have far-reaching consequences either way.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Privileged imbecility. (From an editorial)||As an effective element in the British constitution the House of Lords, it is perfectly true, does not count for much. It cannot dictate a policy and its powers for mischief are strictly limited. That does not mean that no significance need be attached to the outrageous conclusion that it has managed to reach by a substantial majority endorsing Prussianism of the worst kind. The Cabinet may not feel called upon to resign in consequence, though India will only be too glad to have an appeal made to the country on this most vital of all issues. Nevertheless the verdict of the House of Lords will give yet another rude blow to the stability of the British connection. The pratings of the fire-eaters notwithstanding, that connection, the permanence of which has been accounted hitherto immutable as the laws of the Universe, is broad-based on the faith of India in British honour, justice and civilisation. The war, fought in chivalrous defence of the rights of small nations and the clarifying of the issues into a plain struggle between right and wrong, served immensely to strengthen the bond. Since then, disillusionment progressed apace and the people of India have been taught an object-lesson in Imperialism which has shaken their loyalty to the British connection to its foundations.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Rethink on resuming arms aid||It is understood that Washington is now having some second thoughts about announcing its intention to lift the embargo on arms sales to Pakistan. These second thoughts, which do not necessarily amount to a reversal of its reported decision some three weeks ago to remove the ban, has probably been induced by the vigorous representations made by Delhi through the Indian Embassy here [Washington] and the voicing of objections by some influential members of Congress. When the Indian Embassy raised the issue with the State Department here last month, a senior official of that Department had indicated that Washington’s long review of the question had indeed resulted in some sort of a decision but that the U.S. “was not yet ready to communicate to India what the exact nature and scope of that decision was.” There has been nothing said since then by U.S. officials to indicate that the position — of a decision already taken — has changed.
22 July 2020||MUMBAI,||IPL in UAE: BCCI seeks government nod||Hours after the T20 World Cup’s deferment, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has sought the Central government’s approval for conducting the Indian Premier League (IPL) in the United Arab Emirates later this year. “We have formally sought the Government of India’s approval this morning to relocate the IPL to UAE. Depending on the government’s response, the governing council will finalise the dates, hopefully by next week,” IPL governing council chairman Brijesh Patel told The Hindu on Tuesday. On Monday evening, the International Cricket Council (ICC) announced that the T20 World Cup, earlier scheduled from October 18 to November 15, had been postponed to 2022. Once the deferment was stamped, the BCCI swung into action in no time. While Patel was non-committal about the dates, it is understood that the BCCI in consultation with the broadcaster will finalise either the September 26 to November 7 or the September 26 to November 14 window. This will allow the national team sufficient time to observe the mandatory quarantine in Australia before the Test series starting on December 3. Left with no choice With the spread of COVID-19 across India, the BCCI was left with no choice but to shift the IPL overseas. Set to be staged in Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Sharjah, the tournament will likely require the creation of a bio-secure environment. While some franchises have begun sounding their players out about a pre-departure camp in India, franchise executives are hoping to hear formally from the BCCI before the weekend.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,||It’s back to the future with BCCI: nothing has changed||Over the years, Indian cricket has been allergic to two issues — the formation of a players’ association, and conflict of interest. Even legends in their prime, though they tried, could not sustain a players’ association. The Board of Control for Cricket in India saw it as a trade union, and equally, there was no unanimity among the players themselves. It took the Lodha Committee and the Supreme Court to tackle both issues. Thus was the Indian Cricketers’ Association (ICA) formed last year, 87 years after India played their first Test match. And even that was a bit of a compromise since it was for former players (men and women) only, and current players had no role. That ought to change if the body is to be truly representative. But these are baby steps. The president of the ICA, former player Ashok Malhotra, said recently, “I am finding it very difficult to work in this space.” The demands are increased medical insurance for former players, pension for those who have played fewer than 25 First Class matches and also financial help for the widows of former players. There is too the demand to release Manoj Prabhakar’s benevolent fund since his ban for match-fixing ended in 2005. It is a list that gives the impression that the ICA is only focussed on asking for money. Money is important, especially in these times, but there has to be more to a players’ association than that. These are early days yet, but it is necessary to get into such areas as post-retirement assistance, professional placements, even suicide counselling. The Supreme Court sees the presence of two players from the ICA in the apex council of the BCCI as a way of utilising their experience at the highest level. They can get into areas affecting the current players too, acting as a sort of House of Elders. Which is why when Malhotra says he expects them to be more pro-active, it is surprising. It is a part of the job description, after all. Not an excuse forever If the partnership between players and administrators have to be mutually beneficial, both sides have to appreciate the others’ point of view. The pandemic cannot be an excuse forever. The matter of conflict of interest seems to be a BCCI tradition. Not so long ago we were accusing its president, N. Srinivasan, of this. Now here is the incumbent, Sourav Ganguly, plugging the fantasy gaming app My11Circle with such enthusiasm. The ethical question is straightforward: Should the board president be allowed to advertise a product thus? The answer is equally straightforward: No. But there’s another twist to this tale. A similar app, Dream11 is an official sponsor of the BCCI. The fantasy cricket market is expected to be worth $5 billion over the next couple of years, and if India’s top players see an opportunity here to monetise their careers further, we cannot cavil. Except when they hold responsible positions in the governing body. When the issue was first raised, Ganguly had said, “I don’t think there is any conflict in it, it’s my personal thing. Had I tweeted about Dream11, it would have come under conflict of interest.” This is an interesting interpretation. Clearly, the focus has been away from the BCCI for too long! But it is neither the ICA nor the conflict that is the most worrying for the BCCI right now. There is, or there will soon be, a leadership vacuum. The president (Ganguly) and secretary (Jay Shah) are on the verge of having to quit, the vice-president (Mahim Verma) already has. Ganguly’s term ends on July 27, Shah’s has, while joint-secretary Jayesh George’s term ends on September 23. This is owing to the “cooling off period” following six years in office between the State association and the BCCI. Members elected them knowing this all along. The BCCI has appealed to the Supreme Court. Verma quit to take over as secretary of the Cricket Association of Uttarakhand . CEO Hemang Amin is an interim appointment following the resignation of Rahul Johri. Saba Karim, general manager (cricket operations), added his name to the list of those who have resigned after Santosh Rangnekar (Chief Financial Officer) and Tufan Ghosh (Chief Operating Officer, National Cricket Academy) had done so earlier. Suddenly, since 2013 when the Supreme Court entered the picture following allegations of match-fixing in the IPL, we seem to have gone back to the future. Has nothing changed? The BCCI is flexing its muscles against the Supreme Court, the president and secretary are hoping to get an extension (in this case, till 2025), and the IPL is set to be played. History seldom repeats itself with such speed. A reminder too of what happens when we refuse to learn from it.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,||AFC Cup: CCFC to play in Maldives||Chennai City FC, the 2018-19 I-League champion, will play its remaining AFC Cup Group E matches in Maldives after the Asian confederation decided to do away with the home-away format and host the group stage at a single venue. Chennai City, which last played on March 14, will resume its campaign when it faces TC Sports on Oct. 23. Asked about a pre-season camp for the players, Chennai City FC owner Rohit Ramesh told Sportstar : “Having a pre-season camp looks difficult as of now. Our first task will be to see how we can assemble the squad and bring all the players together. We also have to see how we can bring our coach Akbar Nawas from Singapore within the next two months.” Chennai City might also need to make some foreign signings after it released all its foreigners when the I-League was suspended in March. “We can field an all-Indian team too,” said Rohit.  Chennai City FC’s schedule:   Oct. 23 & Nov. 4: vs TC Sports; Oct. 26 & 29: vs Bashundhara Kings; Nov. 1: vs Maziya .
22 July 2020||Kolkata,||Boxing: World qualifier to be held in May 2021||The Boxing Task Force (BTF), set up by the International Olympic Committee (IOC), has planned to conduct the World qualification event for the Tokyo Olympics in May 2021. The revised dates and place will be confirmed later. Remaining categories Having secured nine out of a possible 13 quota places (including men and women) in the Asia/Oceania qualifier earlier this year, India can send its boxers to the World qualifier for the four remaining weight categories — men’s 57kg, 81kg, 91kg and women’s 57kg. As per the latest timeline for staging the pending Olympic qualifying events for boxing, the European qualifier — which was suspended midway through the tournament in London on March 16 last due to the pandemic — will resume in February next year. It will be followed by the Americas qualifier in March and the World qualification event in May. The BTF said the suspension of IOC’s recognition of International Boxing Association (AIBA) would continue until after the Olympic Games in 2021 and all aspects of the Olympic boxing competitions would continue to be organised and operated by it. Status quo The boxing competition and training venues and session schedules for 2020 Games will not change in 2021. The BTF has issued a set of boxing-specific considerations for pugilists’ return to training and competition. These include resumption of boxing should not compromise anyone’s health, preference to outdoor activity with social distancing and appropriate hygiene, widespread education about measures for a phased return to boxing and mitigation of injury risks due to the lack of exercises during social isolation.
22 July 2020||Mumbai,||Supreme Court set to hear BCCI plea today||The Supreme Court of India on Wednesday will hear the BCCI’s plea for modifying its constitution, which will, in effect, allow president Sourav Ganguly and secretary Jay Shah to stay on, instead of stepping down and serving the mandatory cooling-off period. Ganguly and Shah assumed charge as elected office-bearers last October after a near three-year period during which the BCCI was managed by the Committee of Administrators, appointed by the Supreme Court to help usher in the administrative reforms it had directed. According to the existing rulebook, Shah, who served as the Gujarat Cricket Association joint-secretary before his elevation to the BCCI, should have demitted office at the end of June to serve the three-year cooling-off period. Ganguly is eligible to remain an office-bearer until next week. During the civil appeal filed on April 21, the BCCI requested the Supreme Court to separate the tenures of office-bearers of the BCCI and the State associations before serving mandatory cooling-off periods. The BCCI also requested the Supreme Court to do away with the clause of allowing amendments to the BCCI constitution only with the apex court’s approval.  Shah should have demitted office at the end of June. Ganguly is eligible to remain an office-bearer until next week.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,||MRF set for maiden full season attempt at ERC||MRF will make its maiden full season attempt at the European Rally Championship (ERC) this year, with the opening round this week at the Rally di Roma Capitale. Irish star Craig Breen will team up with Paul Nagle in the Team MRF Tyres Hyundai i20 R5, competing in all six rounds. Arun Mammen, MRF Tyres Vice-Chairman & MD, said, “We are happy to see MRF progress to compete at the highest level of rallying in Europe with the ERC.”
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Wrestling camps likely in August||After a series of deferments, Indian wrestlers are likely to regroup for the national camp, most likely in the first week of August. Actual training, however, would only begin after following quarantine and testing protocols. The Sports Authority of India has been seeking feedback from the wrestlers for some time now, through the de-recognised Wrestling Federation of India, regarding the possibility of resuming camps that were called off mid-March due to COVID-19. “They were earlier planned to start this month but the wrestlers are understandably concerned. Most of them are training at home only and have proper safety measures in place. Also, there will be a limited number of personnel and the wrestlers are not sure if it would make sense to be in the camp without sufficient training partners,” a senior WFI official explained. “But now we have spoken to them again and most have said let this month get over and things can begin from August. A final decision by SAI may be taken by next week but we expect the camps to begin by the first week,” he said, adding that the absence of any competition in the near future meant the wrestlers could afford to wait. The women’s camp would be held in Lucknow and the men’s in Sonepat in only limited weight categories initially — five each in men’s freestyle and women and three in Greco-Roman, all Olympic — with only two wrestlers per category. WFI said all the top names and those who have already qualified for the Olympics would be required to join the camp. Worlds in December? With all Olympic qualifying events postponed to 2021 by the United World Wrestling, the only event for Indian wrestlers this year would be the World Championships that have been tentatively scheduled for December. Both the senior (December 12-20) and junior (December 4-10) Worlds would be held in Belgrade “to help reduce risk and control the safety of the events” as per UWW. A review of the situation would be held by the UWW Executive Board in August. The UWW, meanwhile, has also finalised the competition schedule for the Olympics with wrestling events to be held on the last seven days of the event (August 1-7, 2021). While women’s wrestling would be spread across all seven days, Greco-Roman competition would be held from August 1-4 followed by three days of men’s freestyle.  The schedule: Days 1/2: GR: 60kg, 130kg | WW: 76kg; Days 2/3: GR: 77kg, 97kg | WW: 68kg; Days 3/4: GR: 67kg, 87kg | WW: 62kg; Days 4/5: FS: 57kg, 86kg | WW: 57kg; Days 5/6: FS: 74kg, 125kg | WW: 53kg; Days 6/7: FS: 65kg, 97kg | WW: 50kg.   The women’s camp would be held in Lucknow and the men’s in Sonepat in only limited weight categories initially — five each in men’s freestyle and women and three in Greco-Roman, all Olympic
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Svidler holds Anand||Five-time World champion Viswanathan Anand returned to competitive chess following a sedate draw against Peter Svidler as all five boards ended with honours even in the first round of chess24 Legends of Chess online event on Tuesday. Only Vladimir Kramnik held some chance of forcing a win but on all other boards, the positions remained equal. After Svidler chose the Gruenfeld Defence, Anand accepted an early-pawn sacrifice but the position remained equal with the Russian winning back the central pawn. Though Svidler targeted one of pawns protecting white’s king, Anand easily negotiated the aggression, with queens going off the board. Eventually, following perpetual checks, Anand took a draw in 37 moves. The clash between Magnus Carlsen and Anish Giri ended in a tame draw in 33 moves.  The results: Round One: Game One: Viswanathan Anand drew with Peter Svidler (Rus); Anish Giri (Ned) drew with Magnus Carlsen (Nor).   Vladimir Kramnik (Rus) drew with Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus); Peter Leko (Hun) drew with Vassily Ivanchuk (Ukr); Boris Gelfand (Isr) drew with Ding Liren (Chn).
22 July 2020||Melbourne,||‘India to undergo two-week quarantine’||The India team will have to undergo a two-week quarantine period, most likely in Adelaide, once it touches down in Australia for the much-anticipated tour later this year, said Cricket Australia acting chief Nick Hockley. Hockley’s statement is in complete contrast to the views of BCCI president Sourav Ganguly, who had already made it clear that he was not in favour of a two-week quarantine period for the Indian team once they disembark in Australia. “The two-week quarantine is pretty well-defined. What we are working on is making sure that even within that quarantine environment, the players have got the absolute best training facilities, so that their preparation for the matches is as optimal as it can possibly be,” Hockely was quoted as saying by ESPNcricinfo.
22 July 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Ushenina wins||Anna Ushenina of Ukraine won the FIDE Chess.com women’s speed Championship, beating Russia’s Alexandra Kosteniuk 15.5-14.5 in an exciting super final. India’s best performer was Koneru Humpy, who finished seventh with 10 points. R. Vaishali, with seven points, was placed eighth and Dronavalli Harika 10th with four points.
22 July 2020||TURIN,||Juve posts win||Cristiano Ronaldo put Juventus on the brink of a ninth consecutive Serie A title on Monday after he scored twice in a 2-1 win over Lazio to become the first player to hit 50 goals in Serie A, LaLiga and the Premier League. Juventus ending a three-match winless run, thanks to Ronaldo’s second-half brace, moved it eight points clear of second-placed Inter Milan with four games remaining. Maurizio Sarri’s side could win the title on Thursday against Udinese, or on Sunday at home against Sampdoria, depending on their rivals’ results this week. The Portuguese has scored 30 goals this season, equal with Lazio’s Ciro Immobile, who ended his three-match drought with a late penalty. Ronaldo’s second was his 50th goal in Serie A, after also passing the landmark in England and Spain. The 35-year-old is now looking to become the first player to finish top scorer in three of the top five European leagues after doing so in England and Spain. “Records are always important, but the team victory is more important,” said Ronaldo. “I’m helping the team to win. It’s important to win the title. There are four games left and we know that Serie A is a difficult championship.” Cheer for Wolves In the Premier League, Wolves moved closed in on a place in the Europa League with a 2-0 win over Crystal Palace, while Sheffield United’s own European hopes were dashed by a 1-0 defeat against Everton. At the other end of the table, Brighton guaranteed its Premier League survival with a 0-0 draw against Newcastle.  The results: Serie A: Juventus 2 (Cristiano Ronaldo 51-pen, 54) bt Lazio 1 (Immobile 83-pen).   Premier League: Brighton 0 drew with Newcastle 0; Sheffield United 0 lost to Everton 1 (Richarlison 46); Wolves 2 (Podence 41, Jonny 68) bt Crystal Palace 0.
22 July 2020||London,||Women’s cricket team’s England tour off: report||The Indian women’s team pulled out of the tri-series in England due to COVID-19. After the bilateral series was called off, there was a proposal to host a tri-series, also involving South Africa.
22 July 2020||CHENNAI,||IIT-M researchers use artificial materials and ultrasound to detect defects in large structures||Engineering structures including buildings, pipelines and rails require periodic testing to prevent catastrophic failures occurring due to corrosion, impact, and strain. High-frequency sound waves that travel in the bulk are widely used for non-invasive and non-destructive testing of structural materials. Conventional bulk ultrasonic inspection is tedious and time-consuming as it involves point-by-point assessment of structures. Researchers in the Indian Institute of Technology Madras and the University of Nairobi have used metamaterials to improve detection of defects in large structures by guided wave ultrasound. The result of this collaborative work was published in AIP Advances , an international peer-reviewed journal. The paper was co-authored by Prabhu Rajagopal, a professor from the mechanical engineering department at IIT-Madras and Michael Gatari, Director, Institute of Nuclear Science and Technology, University of Nairobi, and John Birir, a Ph.D. student at the university. Non-destructive method Mr. Gatari said the collaboration with IIT-Madras was the result of an agreement signed on July 26, 2017. Two Kenyan Ph.D. students and faculty members of the INST benefited from the agreement with a study of courses relevant to non-destructive evaluation research for six months in 2018. Mr. Rajagopal said: “The use of ultrasound scans in medical diagnostics is well-known and the principle remains the same for structural monitoring. Sound waves travel at a uniform speed if the object is defect-free, but defects impede or deflect sound waves, which results in delays in reception.” In guided wave testing (GWT), the sound waves are sent along the length of the structure rather than into the structure, allowing the waves to travel longer distances. But GWT has poorer resolution than the conventional ultrasound-based testing due to diffraction limitations. The research team used metamaterials to improve the resolution of guided ultrasound waves. Not found in nature “Metamaterials are artificially crafted materials with unique internal microstructures that give them properties not found in nature. The constituent artificial units of the metamaterial can be tailored in shape, size, and interatomic interaction, to exhibit unusual properties,” he said.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Import of sastras||Sastras are not easily understood by all and the Lord incarnates time and again to reinforce their importance and also to show by example how to lead life in accordance to dharma. In Rama avatar, Rama's entire life provides practical lessons on dharma for all to follow. In Krishna avatar, He teaches the essence of the entire Upanishads in the most comprehensive manner in the Bhagavad Gita. All this is done out of His compassion for the jivatmas who are caught in the deep ocean of samsara and are struggling to get out of it, pointed out Sri Asuri Madhavachariar in a discourse. Moreover, in the course of the cyclic passage of Time, when the yugas Krita, Treta, Dwapara and Kali follow in succession, it is seen that there is a steady decline in the quality of dharma practised by people living in the respective times. For instance, at the close of Dwapara Yuga itself the signs of Kali Yuga had begun to manifest in subtle ways and Krishna is concerned that the wealth of knowledge of dharma sastras should reach the people of Kali Yuga. He decides that the great soul Bhishma, who is well versed in the sastras and also has the ability to expound the subtleties with clarity, should expound these. He urges Yudhishtira to seek clarifications on dharma from Bhishma. He accompanies the Pandavas to visit Bhishma who is in his bed of arrows awaiting the Uttarayana Punya Kala to give up his body. The Lord also listens to Bhishma's rendering of the dharma sastras, thereby setting an example to all. It is by listening to the teachings of acharyas, preceptors, etc, and by contemplating on these matters, that one is able to gain greater clarity of thought and vision. The purpose of knowing dharma sastras is to realise that by upholding them in life one moves in the direction of salvation.
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 07:21 IST,||Sudoku - July 22, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
22 July 2020||July 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Superstar spice||Malaika Arora starts her day with a blended concoction ofamla, ginger and an inch of fresh turmeric root. She is not alone. In a country that has great faith in kitchen remedies, COVID-19 has prompted people from across States to return to old-fashioned ‘immunity-boosters’. In the process, raw turmeric has become a prized ingredient. And it is used for far more than just haldi-doodh (rechristened turmeric latte in 2016 and sold at upscale cafes across the world ever since). Commonly available in winter, fresh turmeric rhizomes have a pungent fragrance as well as taste. They are crunchy like ginger and leave a mild bitter after taste when consumed raw. Such is the demand this year that vegetable vendors are seeing a steady demand for the fresh root, which, till date, has been intermittently used for face packs or pickles at home. In demand Iftekhar Ali, 60, a vegetable vendor in Sainikpuri, Telangana, says the demand is high but since it is off-season procuring turmeric is difficult now. “This is haldi sowing time. Fresh haldi is harvested in January. All the off-season raw haldi that is coming into the market at the moment is from Ooty, and not the best quality. Buyers, however, are buying it because they are desperate to lay their hands on raw turmeric,” he says. The water content in the fresh rhizomes is what makes it difficult to store for more than few weeks. This is why turmeric farmers boil the harvested rhizomes before powdering. “I never buy more than four kilograms of fresh haldi to sell,” says Ali, adding, “But, for the last few months, I have been buying over 10 kilograms and they fly off the shelves within an hour.” Hyderabad-based Sridevi Jasti, a holistic nutritionist and chef, explains how a cup of warm milk with a teaspoon of turmeric is advised, not just to cure a cold or sore throat, but also for a good night’s sleep. “ Haldi is a wonder ingredient because of curcumin (a natural chemical compound with healing properties), which gives it the yellow colour,” she says. India’s best turmeric reportedly comes from Lakadong in Meghalaya, where the curcumin ranges from 7-9%, the highest in the country. Jasti says she loves using fresh haldi in her salads and herbal tea. “I brew a small piece of fresh turmeric with a balanced mix of spices — pepper, cumin, cinnamon and ginger.” She adds a word of caution: “When buying the root, select haldi without mould as fresh turmeric develops mould very quickly if not stored properly.” Store it for up to a week in your fridge. Salad staple Praveen Anand, who is Executive Chef — South Indian cuisines at ITC hotels, says, “I love the fresh turmeric salad prepared at my mother-in-law’s home. Slices of fresh turmeric seasoned with salt, lemon and ginger is served as a side dish. It’s like a fresh pickle.” Some regional Indian cuisines use fresh turmeric as a vegetable like the haldi ki sabji in Rajasthan, which is a common winter curry. The root is cooked with ghee to make it easily digestible. Dehradun-based Ayurvedic food, health and nutrition consultant, Sangeeta Khanna, has created an Indian barfi using raw turmeric with almond powder and cardamom. She says, “The barfi was developed as part of a wellness menu for Hotel Suryagarh in Jaisalmer, Rajasthan. Ever since, it has been a popular mithai on their breakfast menu. I am getting queries from followers on my blog on innovative ways to include raw haldi in their diet. I direct them to using it in a salad.” Mention of fresh haldi also brings back childhood memories. Kolkata-based food consultant Sayantani Mahapatra recollects how they used fresh turmeric in winter. “Because of its anti-inflammatory and immunity-boosting properties, we were forced to chew a bit of this along with two or three peppers. As kids, we hated the fresh bulbs as it was a weekly routine for ma to scrub our bodies with a mixture of fresh malai (cream) and kacha holudh bata (fresh turmeric paste),” she says. Then adds, “It felt like torture then but now, as a mother, I am repeating the same with my kids.”
22 July 2020||New Delhi,||For 11th consecutive day, Delhi sees less than 2,000 new cases||As many as 1,349 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 1,25,096, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. The number of new cases has been less than 2,000 for the past 11 days. “Though the number of new cases have been falling, we do not plan to reduce the number of beds kept aside for COVID-19 patients in hotels or other temporary facilities. We will wait for at least two more weeks before taking a call,” an official working with the Chief Minister’s Office said. Also, 27 more deaths have been reported in a single day, taking the toll to 3,690. Of the total cases, 1,06,118 people have recovered and there are now 15,288 active cases. Active cases have decreased from 27,007 on July 1 to 15,288 on Tuesday — a drop of over 40%. The number of people admitted to COVID-19 hospitals has also been decreasing for the past 20 days. On July 1, 5,892 beds in COVID-19 hospitals were occupied, which decreased to 3,517 on Monday and remained the same on Tuesday. The number of COVID-19 patients in home isolation has also decreased from 16,703 on July 1 to 8,126. The positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive, has also dropped from 12.2% on July 1 to 6.4% on Tuesday. The number of containment zones has increased from 461 on June 22 to 480 on June 26 and 689 till Tuesday. After the Delhi government ordered redesigning of containment zones a month ago, the number of such zones has increased by 49.5% till Tuesday. District officials said this has happened as they were given a “free hand” to create smaller zones. Reducing cases The officials added that more zones were helping in reducing new cases. On June 22, under the ‘Revised COVID Response Plan’, the Delhi government had asked for the zones to be redesigned by June 26. This was done based on directions from the Union Ministry of Home Affairs on June 21. A containment zone is a geographical area (colony, lane or larger area) and people are not allowed to enter or leave. Residents are not allowed to step outside their house and essential items are supplied to them by the government. Also, extensive survey and rapid antigen testing are done inside an area once it is declared a containment zone. “We employed a mix of strategies. First, we tracked clustering of cases, which was happening outside the containment zone and made them into new zones,” Nidhi Srivastava, District Magistrate (DM) of Central district, told The Hindu.  “Then we remapped fresh cases in existing large containment zones such as Nabi Karim, Sadar Bazar, Old Rajendra Nagar, Shashtri Nagar; localities inside these areas that were free from active cases were redemarcated and we labelled them buffer zones and thus reduced the size of the zones,” she added. The DM said they have also made about 30 micro-containment zones, which can comprise just 2-3 houses that have reported positive cases. At one point, the number of containment zones in the city was falling despite rise in cases. This prompted Health and Family Welfare Department Secretary Padmini Singla to write a letter to DMs on May 18 to make more zones. Since the June 22 order, there was also an increase in monitoring by the Centre, said officials. Another DM, who did not wish to be named, said that earlier there was a lot of pressure to not declare an area as a containment zone as it curtails the movement of the people living inside. “But after the order, we were given a free hand to make zones and that helped,” the DM said. An official of the North East district said that at the time of the order, there were only three containment zones in the district and it has now increased to 38. “This has definitely helped in reducing cases as testing and monitoring also increases when an area is declared a containment zone,” the official said. The official said that advice and monitoring by the National Centre for Disease Control also helped with the process.
22 July 2020||Ghaziabad,||Journalist shot at in U.P.||In one more indictment of the law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh, a journalist was shot at by assailants in Ghaziabad on Monday night. The attack came days after he complained against harassment of his niece by some locals at the Vijay Nagar police station. By Tuesday evening, nine persons, including two of the three main accused named in the FIR, were arrested, police said. Vikram Joshi, who works for a local newspaper was returning home with his daughters on a motorcycle when he was waylaid by at least half-a-dozen assailants at Mata Colony in the Pratap Vihar area of the city, officers said.  Condition critical The journalist received serious injuries, including a bullet wound on the head, and was moved to the Yashoda Hospital where his condition was said to be critical. Kalanidhi Naithani, Senior Superintendent of Police, Ghaziabad, said they received information about the attack on a journalist late on Monday night. “Nine persons, including Ravi, who allegedly opened fire, have been nabbed by the police team. Some of them were known to the family of Mr. Joshi and it seems Ravi and Mr. Joshi had a dispute in the past as well,” he said. Prima facie it seemed they attacked Mr. Joshi because he had lodged a complaint against them, he added. “In fact, Ravi had admitted that he engineered the plot.” An FIR has been registered under Sections 307, 506 and 34 of the IPC on the complaint of Aniket Joshi, the journalist’s brother. Mr. Naithani has suspended the police post-in-charge and constituted a departmental inquiry under a DSP-rank officer to look into the lapses. Mr. Aniket told reporters that the accused had given a life threat to Mr. Joshi after he lodged a complaint against them.  CCTV footage The incident was caught on a CCTV camera where some men could be seen hitting the journalist on a busy road before a shot was fired from close proximity. In the video, when Mr. Joshi falls down, the assailants run away and the journalist’s elder daughter rushes towards him. Aniket told reporters that some miscreants had misbehaved with his niece and the journalist had lodged a complaint with senior police officers against them at the Vijay Nagar police station. “The police had lodged a complaint two days ago but no arrest was made,” he said. By evening, several political figures assembled at Yashoda Hospital. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi hit out at the State government and described it as “jungle raj” in a tweet.
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||After deluge, uncertainty looms over victims||What washed away with the houses in Anna Nagar were childhood photos of Rekha Rani’s kids, a newly wedded Rani’s clothes, and only photograph of Santosh’s late husband. Rekha Rani’s house is among over 12 others which was washed away in the heavy rain on Sunday morning. There’s absolutely nothing left of it, she said, crying incessantly, while realising how her life changed in a moment. “ Hum kabhi ghar nahi bana payenge dobara . [We won’t be able to build another house]. We live in a country run by Narendra Modi, in a city run by Arvind Kejriwal. We voted for them and urged people to vote for them as well. Can’t they see how we are living?” she said. Building plans A speaker, Rani bought 20 years ago for her love for music is probably one of the only belongings left put on the wall of their now destroyed house. “We had plans of building one floor above our jhuggi for which my husband arranged Rs. 1 lakh. We had to buy the raw material on Monday,” she cried. Rani sat on a mat placed on a wet green-coloured carpet in an open tent and shared how she and others living in tents spent the night when it rained on Monday night. “For a while, we sat under the tent but it started splashing across us. We ran to take shelter under the Indraprastha metro station. Some of us also went to a temple nearby,” she said, adding that she hasn’t changed her clothes since Sunday. “We can fall sick, especially the children. COVID-19 is also a concern and we are living in such terrible conditions”. The public toilets installed nearby, she said, are too dirty to use and haven’t been cleaned since they have moved here. Sitting next to Rani was 19-year-old Rakhi. She had just got married on June 29 and had brought bed, jewellery, new clothes with her. “Everything got washed away. Even the clothes I am wearing have been borrowed from my sister-in-law,” she said. Her mother-in-law Santosh cried, “My husband Padam Kumar’s only photo also got swept away”. He passed away in 2006. Developed cracks Among those putting up tents is also a two-month-old Tanuja whose house is on the banks and has developed cracks. “Nobody is concerned about us, everyone only cares about those whose houses got washed away. We are equally troubled if not more,” quipped Tanuja’s grandmother Kanchi. Across the road, there are several residents whose houses — on the bank of the drain, running between the under-construction WHO headquarters — have developed cracks. The JJ colony is mostly inhabited by sanitation workers who blame the underground construction as the cause for their loss. Boon and bane For 60-year-old Sunehri’s family of 12, a peepal tree turned out to be a boon, but they fear it might prove to be a bane for them in future. “Because of the wide roots of this tree which our house held on to, we were saved and so was the house. But in the future, if the rain is heavier, at least 30-35 houses will be destroyed if the tree fell on them,” said Sunehri’s son Jatin, 25, who claimed to have lost his sanitation job because of the lockdown. Living ahead of Sunehri’s house is Chandrawati’s (60) house where she lives alone. “I am in these clothes for the last three days and I don’t have the courage to open my house because it’s on the edge,” she said. Rekha Rani, Santosh, Harish, his wife Shashi, Neelam, her husband Vinod Kumar and many others are now scared for their lives and don’t know what the future holds for them. “ Hum kab tak road par rahenge, kaha jaenge, kuch nahi pata [Till when we will stay on the road, where will we go, we don’t know],” said Rani as it started pouring heavily again on Tuesday and everyone ran for shelter under the metro station.
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fresh spell of rain hampers city traffic||The Capital received a moderate spell of monsoon showers on Tuesday afternoon that led to waterlogging in several areas and hampered traffic movement. The MeT depatment said that Safdarjung station which records the official reading for the city, recorded 24.8 mm of rain while weather stations at Palam, Lodhi Road and Aya Nagar recorded 23 mm, 28.5 mm and 9.9 mm of rain respectively. Heavy waterlogging The downpour threw the civic agencies into action to avoid a repeat of what the season’s heaviest spell did on Sunday in which one person died and 10 homes were washed away. The Delhi police said that there was heavy waterlogging on Ring Road near WHO office and that the carriageway of Bhairon Road leading to Mathura Road had also caved in, blocking traffic in the area and announced diversions as no vehicle was being allowed towards ITO from Nizamuddin Khatta. The traffic police also issued an advisory for people to avoid the area under Minto Bridge where there was heavy waterlogging on Sunday. However, it later said that there was no waterlogging under the bridge. Active monsoon showers have helped bring down the temperature in the city with the maximum temperature settling at 33.2 degrees Celsius which is two degrees below normal and the minimum at 23.5 degrees Celsius, four degrees below normal. The forecast for July 22 reads “generally cloudy sky with rain/thundershowers accompanied with gusty wind. The maximum and minimum temperature is likely to settle between 33 and 24 degrees Celsius.” On Sunday, the city recorded 74.8 mm rain while Ridge and Lodhi Road weather stations had recorded 86 mm and 81.2 mm rain respectively.
22 July 2020||New Delhi,||CM okays doorstep delivery of ration||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced the ‘Mukhya Mantri Ghar Ghar Ration Yojana’ which will allow beneficiaries to avail doorstep delivery of ration. Announcing it during a digital briefing, Mr. Kejriwal said the scheme, which entitles residents who currently collect ration from PDS shops to get the same ration delivered to their homes, was in line with his government’s dream to ensure that the poor “get ration with respect”. The scheme will be implemented within 6-7 months and from the day of its implementation, the Delhi government would also implement the Centre’s ‘One Nation One Ration Card’ initiative. “Every State government along with the help of the Central government is distributing ration to its people. But, ever since ration distribution has started in the country, poor people are facing a lot of issues in collecting ration. Either the shop is not open, or people have to stand in long queues, or they do not get adequate ration or it is not weighed properly,” Mr. Kejriwal said. “The decision that was taken in the Cabinet meeting is a revolutionary step,” he said. Option available Mr. Kejriwal said wheat grains would be lifted from FCI godowns and taken to grinding shops to be turned into flour. Flour, sugar, rice and other items will be packed and will be delivered to the homes of the people. Beneficiaries will be given an option of taking ration from shops or getting it delivered to their homes. Flour will be provided under the scheme instead of wheat grains.
22 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Percentage of people with antibodies high’||With the results of the Delhi serological survey showing that 22.86% of residents have developed antibodies against COVID-19, experts agreed that the percentage was “high”, but differed on its interpretation. Blood samples of 21,387 people were taken at random and tested for antibodies between June 27 and July 10. If a person has antibodies, it means he/she was infected by COVID-19 at some point. ‘Herd immunity soon’ Jayaprakash Muliyil, an epidemiologist and former principal of Christian Medical College, Vellore, said the seroprevalence in Delhi is “decently high” and it was expected in the city. “There are some questions on how long the immunity last. I think it will be a long-lasting immunity, but I cannot give you an exact number," Dr. Muliyil told The Hindu . He said that people who were infected by SARS (Severe acute respiratory syndrome) virus had immunity against the virus for a long time. “This is a cousin (of SARS) and why should it be different?” he said, adding: “The high percentage shows that the real magnitude of the virus is higher than the total number of positive cases in the city.” Dr. Muliyil said the survey means that 22.86% of Delhi’s population has been infected and they have developed antibodies and recovered. He added that in an urban area, about 50% of the people have to be infected by the virus and develop antibodies to attain herd immunity. “In a few weeks, Delhi will attain herd immunity,” he said. When asked whether the government should change strategy after the results, he said: “At this stage, you should stop looking for carriers of the virus and focus only on the sick. The mortality is low and we do not have a dangerous disease.” ‘False positives’ K. Srinath Reddy, epidemiologist and president of Public Health Foundation of India-Delhi, said that the survey reveals a “high level of exposure” to the virus, but differed in its interpretation. “Surveys in other large cities abroad revealed prevalence rates ranging from 0.1% in Tokyo to 17% in London and 20% in New York. Such surveys have some false positives due to cross-reactivity with other corona viruses and some false negatives due to declining antibody levels. However, serological surveys are good for comparing different populations and for studying time trends in the same population,” he said. Dr. Reddy added that herd immunity threshold for novel coronavirus is estimated to be over 70% of the population. “Delhi is far short of that. Antibodies seem to decline in a few months. We do not know if cell-mediated immunity confers longer lasting immunity against this virus.” He said that a large proportion of the population still remains susceptible and containment measures must be continued with full vigour.
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||IIT graduate stages his own kidnapping||A 24-year-old mechanical engineer from IIThere allegedly staged his kidnapping to buy some time to be able to end his life, the police said on Tuesday. DCP (Rohini) P.K. Mishra said they received a PCR call at 8.20 p.m. on Sunday regarding kidnapping of a youth. The complainant stated that his son had gone to an ATM at 6 p.m. and did not return. Later, he got a message asking for ransom of Rs. 5 lakh. A case was registered and investigation was taken up. While scanning CCTV footage, the police discovered that the youth did not visit the ATM but went to the main road instead. When his call details were checked, another number used by the youth was uncovered and its location was traced to Sarai Rohilla railway station. In the CCTV footage of the station, he could be seen entering a train, which was going to Jaipur. He was then brought to Delhi. He allegedly told the police that he wanted to join IIM where he did not get admission even after trying twice and hence, wanted to end his life. “He sent the message to misguide his parents so he could get time to take his life,” Mr. Mishra added.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.
22 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘SC panel on advertisements has become a tool of political vendetta’||The Aam Aadmi Party government on Tuesday termed a notice issued to it by the Supreme Court-mandated committee on content regulation in government advertising (CCRGA) “politically motivated”. The Delhi government argued the CCRGA, formed in 2016, had only issued two notices till date and both were issued against it. The committee took suo motu cognisance of some points raised on social media related to a Delhi government’s advertisement issued in Mumbai newspapers. “The CCRGA was formed in 2016 by the Central government. Since then, how many notices has it issued? Only two. Both to the Delhi government. It has not issued any notice to either Central government or to any other State government. Every day, Delhi’s newspapers feature full page ads of Uttar Pradesh government or some other State government,” the Delhi government argued in the statement. Other States “Since the CCRGA has taken suo motu notice of the newspaper ads of Delhi government coming in Maharashtra, how come they have not taken notice of any of the ads of all other State governments coming daily in Delhi newspapers? CCRGA’s silence on all these is indicative of how it has become a tool of political vendetta,” the statement also said. Nullified order The last time the CCRGA issued a notice to the Delhi government on violation of advertisement guidelines in 2016, the statement argued, lower courts struck down the order of the CCRGA. Since then, according to the statement, the Delhi government had created its own State-level committee and the CCRGA “doesn’t even have jurisdiction over the Delhi government”.
22 July 2020||New Delhi,||Students oppose ECA quota admissions based on certificates||Students and other stakeholders of Delhi University who were calling for a restoration of the Extra Curricular Activities (ECA) quota in admissions expressed disappointment over the decision to admit students only based on certificates and no trials. Unlike in the sports quota, various disciplines under the ECA do not have stipulated authorities to issue certificates, said Yashvardhan Shukla, a student of Sri Venkateshwara College, who has been campaigning for the restoration of the ECA quota. Mr. Shukla also questioned the validity of marking students under various categories such as the amount of time spent pursuing a particular activity, highlighting that different individuals may pick up skills at a different pace. ‘Can be forged’ Competitions are held at various levels, such as inter-school, intra-school, where judges may be people who are not experts said Manya Dobhal, who got a seat in Lady Sri Ram College through dance ECA quota in 2018. Arguing that certificates were not a representation of an individual’s ability she also said that they may even be easily forged. Members of the academic and executive council also wrote to the Vice-Chancellor on Monday and called for trials. They suggested that such ECA trials be held at college levels in order to ensure physical distancing. A university sub-committee formed to look into the matter had considered various options for holding trials before deciding not to, an official said. The option of holding trials across the country through a third-party agency was considered, however, the cost being quoted for such an exercise was extremely high. Online trials were ruled out because of technological issues.
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Riot victim gets Rs. 50K after 4 months of struggle||A 35-year-old Delhi riots victim — who sustained gunshot injuries — received a compensation of Rs. 50,000 on Tuesday after struggling for four months. Shaan Mohammed from Brahmpuri was allegedly shot at his thigh on February 24 and submitted his compensation form in the first week of March. Moved High Court After receiving no word from the officials, he moved the High Court in the last week of June and the court on July 9 ordered he be given an interim compensation of Rs. 50,000. Mr. Mohammed, according to his petition, was operated thrice in St. Stephens Hospital where he was referred from Jag Pravesh Chandra Hospital. He was subsequently discharged on March 9 after receiving 80 stitches and a metal rod inserted in his thigh. The bullet could not be removed from his thigh due to complications, he was told by doctors. In April, Mr. Mohammed received a call from a government official who stated that they need to submit a copy of his Medico Legal Certificate. His wife, nine months pregnant at the time, went to the Usmanpur police station and then to Sub-Divisional Magistrate Office to submit it as Mr. Mohammed was bed ridden. Financial constraints In May, Mr. Mohammed experienced immense pain and was warned by doctors that he will need to undergo two more operations, including removal of the bullet to be able to fully recover. However, due to financial constraints, he could not get the operations done. He then moved the High Court. However, the government’s counsel argued that the nature of his injuries is not mentioned as “serious” and also the budget for ex-gratia to victims has lapsed. Therefore, the court, on July 9, ordered to release the compensation within a week and the rest of the amount after the nature of injury is certified.  The government’s counsel argued that the nature of his injuries is not mentioned as serious and also the budget for ex-gratia to victims has lapsed
22 July 2020||GUWAHATI,||Deficient rainfall in three Northeast States||Floods in Assam and Meghalaya have so far killed 92 people, but three States in the northeast have received deficient rainfall. Data provided by the Guwahati centre of India Meteorological Department (IMD) said Meghalaya and Assam have received excess rainfall while in Arunachal Pradesh and Tripura it has been normal. On the other hand, Manipur, Mizoram and Nagaland have been 35.33% rain deficit. The IDM has three meteorological subdivisions in the contiguous northeastern States – Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya and NMMT (Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura). Arunachal Pradesh received 16% more rainfall than normal from July 1-21 while Assam and Meghalaya received 31% more by recording 1165.6 mm. With Tripura included, the NMMT States received 30% less rainfall with Manipur’s deficit being 45% followed by Mizoram (34%) and Nagaland (27%). Tripura received 2% less but its rainfall was categorised as normal. Officials of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said a person each drowned in central Assam’s Morigaon and0 Nagaon districts to take the death toll since May 22 to 87. Landslides during this period claimed 26 more human lives. ‘Flood situation better’ “The overall flood situation, however, has improved with 24 districts now affected. The number of people across 276 relief camps has also come down to 44,498 from more than 50,000 two days ago,” an ASDMA spokesperson said. The water level in the Kaziranga National Park rose again on Tuesday after two days of subsiding. Officials said 90% of the park is now submerged with 73 of the 223 anti-poaching camps affected. In Meghalaya’s West Garo Hills district, floods have killed five persons in less than a week.
22 July 2020||New Delhi,||Conduct survey on animals in circuses: HC||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed the Animal Welfare Board to conduct a nationwide survey to find out the number of animals in circuses, which are unable to perform due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and consider rehabilitating them to the nearest zoos. A Bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rajnish Bhatnagar said the Board should raise specific query to circus officials whether they are in a position to maintain the animals or need to be surrendered to it for rehabilitation to the nearest zoos. The court issued notices to the Ministries of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying; Ministry of Environment and Forests; Central Zoo Authority and Animal Welfare Board of India while posting the case for further hearing on August 14. The direction came while heating a plea by the Federation of Indian Animals Protection seeking to declare the Performing Animal Rules, 1973 and Performing Animal (Registration) Rules, 2001 to the extent that they allow registration of animals as ‘performing animals’ for circuses as against the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and the Constitution of India.
22 July 2020||New Delhi,||Sisodia calls for legal proceedings against DU||Education Minister Manish Sisodia has directed the Directorate of Higher Education to initiate legal proceedings against Delhi University in regard to alleged irregularities related to the governing bodies of six of its colleges, government sources said. In an unprecedented move, in response to lack of response from DU to “repeated correspondence” regarding truncated governing bodies, Mr. Sisodia apprehended a “conspiracy to cover up corruption” in these colleges. According to sources, regularly constituted governing bodies of colleges, both partially and fully funded by the Delhi government had not been reconstituted and these were functioning with truncated governing bodies since March 2019. A few of these colleges, according to sources, were also understood to have initiated the process of the election of the chairperson in the absence of a complete panel.
22 July 2020||New Delhi,||Segregation of COVID-19 waste is a must: NGT||Segregation of COVID-19 biomedical waste from general garbage is a must to avoid contamination, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) observed on Tuesday. Referring to a report by the Central Pollution Control Board, a Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed authorities to “urgently bridge gaps” in compliance. “In some States, improper segregation of waste has been reported from COVID-19 facilities and quarantine homes. It is also observed that non-segregation of waste also results in incineration of contaminated plastics, which otherwise should have been collected in red bags for sterilisation and recycling,” the CPCB report stated.  The green panel also directed proper maintenance of deep burial systems. The directions came on a suo-motu matter pertaining to scientific disposal of COVID-19 waste. “Scientific management of such waste is necessary in view of potential infectious waste affecting public health,” the Bench noted.
22 July 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delay in installing smog tower in Delhi irks SC||A visibly annoyed Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the Centre seven days to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Indian Institute of Technology (Mumbai) to instal a smog tower in Delhi to help fight air pollution. The court’s amicus curiae and senior advocate Aparajita Singh and Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati, for the Centre, both confirmed this to The Hindu . The court order has not yet been published online. A Special Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra took a stern view against the Centre when it realised that its order of January 13 to instal an experimental smog tower at the busy Anand Vihar intersection in the National Capital had not been complied even after seven months. The January 13 order had directed that the project be completed in three months. On Tuesday, the court warned that it would initiate contempt if its order was not implemented. IIT(M) blamed A 70-page joint affidavit by the Union Ministry of Environment and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) said the draft guidelines and mechanism for using anti-smog guns in construction projects spanning over 20,000 sq. metres of built-up area in Delhi-NCR had been prepared “and is under the process of appraisal”. The affidavit points a finger at IIT(M) for the smog tower project being a non-starter so far. The government said IIT(M) did not agree to “take the lead and responsibility” for the overall coordination of the Rs. 18.52-crore project and verification of the work to be carried out by Tata Projects Limited, the agency involved by the institute for the construction, operation and maintenance of the smog tower. The affidavit, however, said “three versions of the MoU had been exchanged between the CPCB and IIT(M). Various meetings were convened with IIT(M) and Tata Projects Limited in April 22, May 22 and July 13 to resolve the issues, but the MoU has not been finalised...” The government and CPCB said “several concessions” were made for IIT(M) and Tata Projects, including a hike in the project cost from Rs. 15.46 crore to Rs. 18.52 crore and removal of penalty clause in case of delay in the project.
22 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Have given Rs. 27 cr. to AAP govt. for midday meals’||The Delhi High Court was on Monday informed by the Centre that it has released over Rs. 27 crore to the city government as recurring central assistance under the midday meal (MDM) scheme. The Centre’s counsel said Rs. 9 crore was released on April 29 and over Rs. 18 crore was released on May 1 and sought time to file an affidavit on it. The submission was made by the Centre in response to the High Court’s June 30 order seeking details of money transferred by the Centre for midday meal to the Delhi government. ‘Last chance’ A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan stated that despite its order, no replies have been filed and gave the Centre and Delhi government a “last chance” to submit their affidavits and listed the matter for hearing on August 7. The court’s direction came while hearing a petition by an NGO seeking directions to the Delhi government to provide cooked midday meals or food security allowances to eligible children during the lockdown when schools are shut.
22 July 2020||New Delhi,||‘Pension not given to widows during lockdown’||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday sought response from the Centre and the city government on a petition claiming that pension to around 12,000 widows has been discontinued during the COVID-19 lockdown by the Woman and Child Development Ministry without any valid reason. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan has posted the case for further hearing on August 26. Social activist Harpal Singh Rana in his petition said according to response received under the Right to Information Act, widow pension of around 12,000 women has been discontinued by the ministry during the COVID-19 lockdown. The plea said the pension has been discontinued/ withheld “on fake, filmsy and unfounded grounds”, like address not found. It claimed that the applicants for the pension have been residing at the same address provided in their applications. The women are also being denied the financial assistance that was being given to them for marriage of their daughters. The plea has sought urgent release of the widow pensions after due verification of the applicants. It has also sought that fresh application for pension or any other financial assistance be disposed of within the stipulated 45 days and if rejected, the reasons be also communicated to the applicants.
22 July 2020||New Delhi,||DUTA warns of protest over grant release||Delhi University Teacher’s Association (DUTA) on Tuesday wrote to CM Arvind Kejriwal, warning of physical protest, risking the threat of the pandemic, to demand the release of grants to 12 colleges run by the government. The sanction of grants to these colleges has been sporadic and inadequate, DUTA president Rajib Ray wrote. The grants sanctioned till date are not enough to even meet the basic requirements of payment of salaries and pensions, the letter read, adding that many colleges had not paid employees since May.
22 July 2020||GURUGRAM,||Cases cross 27,000 mark in Haryana||The COVID-19 tally for Haryana breached the 27,000-mark on Tuesday with 604 new cases across the State. The total number of cases in the State now stands at 27,462, including 6,146 active cases. However, only 193 people are in need of critical care, including 38 on ventilator support. As per the latest Haryana health department bulletin, 20,226 people have recovered in the State so far at a rate of 76.29%. However, 364 people have died, including 265 males. The dead include 208 with co-morbidities. Gurugram has witnessed the maximum 116 deaths followed by Faridabad (112) and Sonipat (28). Rohtak, with the fourth-highest number of cases in the state, has recorded 20 deaths. The rest of the districts have recorded deaths in single digits. Panchkula and Kaithal have not reported any death related to the deadly virus so far. Gurugram tops the list of cumulative cases with 7,978 patients, followed by Faridabad (6,679) and Sonepat (2,525). Jhajjar, one of the four districts bordering Delhi, is at the ninth place with 690 cases. Charkhi Dadri, Kaithal and Yamunanagar are at the bottom of the table with less than 200 cases each. Jind has only 10 active cases, the least in the state. The State has a fatality rate of 1.33 %. The cases are doubled every 23 days in the state and the positivity rate is 5.95%. The State is conducting 18,451 tests per million.
22 July 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha raises retirement age of doctors||With the COVID-19 pandemic curve showing no signs of flattening, the Odisha government on Tuesday extended the retirement age of doctors from 62 to 65 years to ensure their availability. A high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik resolved to increase the retirement age in case of medical officers of the Odisha Medical and Health Services cadre as well as allopathic medical officers under the Labour and Employees State Insurance Department from 62 to 65 years. The State government was facing shortage of doctors in Ganjam district, home district of the Chief Minister, where the situation appeared to be spiralling out of control. Last week, the government shifted more than 100 doctors from six other districts to manage the situation in Ganjam. Odisha’s COVID-19 death toll crossed the 100-mark following report of six more deaths on Tuesday.
