22 November 2020||New Delhi,||Parliamentary panel bats for laws to counter bio-terrorism||Formulating effective laws to counter bio-terrorism is one of the important lessons to be learnt from the COVID-19 pandemic, a Parliamentary Standing Committee on Health has said in a report, “The Outbreak of Pandemic COVID-19 And its Management.” Among other things, the report said low testing and shoddy contact tracing were responsible for the spike in cases. The committee, headed by Samajwadi Party MP Ramgopal Yadav, submitted its report to the Rajya Sabha Chairman on Saturday. Strategic partnerships “The adverse effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have taught the lesson on the importance of controlling biological agents and the need for strategic partnerships among different nations. The committee, therefore, feels that the present time is the most appropriate for the government to formulate effective laws to counter bio-terrorism,” the report said. This conclusion is based on the deliberations that the committee had with the Department of Health and Family Welfare, which submitted a seven-point action plan that is needed to ensure security against biological weapons. These include “strengthening disease surveillance, including at animal-human interface, training and capacity building for management of public health emergencies arising from use of bio-weapons and strengthening research and surveillance activities related to development of diagnostics, vaccines and drugs”. The report has suggested that the Health Ministry should engage with agencies and actively participate in ongoing international treaties. Capacity building “The committee strongly recommends the Ministry to conduct more research and work towards training and capacity building for management of public health emergencies arising from the use of bio-weapons,” the report said. The report did not explicitly state that the COVID-19 virus was a bio-weapon. The international scientific community has also repeatedly debunked the conspiracy theory that the COVID-19 virus was developed as a bio-weapon. The standing committee report blamed “poor contact tracing and slow testing” for the alarming rise of positive cases in the first few months of the pandemic.
22 November 2020||Doddagaddavalli (Hassan district),||Damage to idol: Locals highlight absence of care by ASI||Local people and casual workers engaged for watch and ward duty at the historical Mahalakshmi Temple at Doddagaddavalli, where a Kali idol was damaged on Friday, have highlighted the absence of care and attention by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). The temple is a ASI protected monument. There was neither CCTV cameras nor a regular watch at the temple. Worse still, the door of the sanctum sanctorum was not locked, as the latch needed to be replaced. The gates at the main entrance and the compound wall were locked, but anybody could have easily got inside, scaling the walls. The ASI had deputed a permanent staffer to look after the monument. However, he hardly visited in recent months as he had been assigned work at the Hassan sub-circle office. The staffer’s son and another individual, residents of the village, had a set of keys of the temple as they had earlier worked to maintain the monument. The ASI had hired them through an outsourcing agency and their services were terminated whenever the tender of the outsourcing agency expired. Senior ASI officers rushed to the spot only after the incident, locals said. “The temple has remained intact so far because we [villagers] look after it. For the last six months, ASI officials have not bothered to fix the latch of the door of the temple,” alleged Somashekhar, a resident of the village.  Many monuments protected by ASI are maintained by casual labourers, hired through outsourcing agencies. The Bengaluru Circle of ASI had floated a tender to hire workers this August. However, there has been no further process since then. Local officials have taken services of a few “unofficially” for regular maintenance. Dharmesh, president of ASI Non-Permanent Workers’ Union of Karnataka, told The Hindu that the ASI should be held responsible. “It is criminal negligence. They have not hired people to look after the monuments of historical significance,” he said. Further, he alleged that those who worked for years earlier had not got salaries. “Whenever the workers demand salary, senior officers meet them and distribute some cash. There are no proper documents or attendance register,” he added.
22 November 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra reports 5,760 new cases||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 5,760 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the total case tally to 17,74,455, a State Health Department official said. With 62 more people succumbing to the infection, the cumulative death toll has reached 46,573. A total of 4,088 patients were discharged during the day, raising the tally of recoveries to 16,47,004. The State now has 79,873 active cases. Mumbai city reported 1,093 fresh cases, pushing its cumulative tally to 2,74,579, while 17 more fatalities took its death toll to 10,656. The total tally in Dharavi increased to 3,640, with 10 new cases being recorded. The day before, Dharavi had reported only one new case and since Monday, the number of daily new cases had not exceeded three. A total of 3,314 patients have recovered and discharged from hospitals so far. The number of active cases in the area has increased to 15. The Mumbai division, which consists of Mumbai city and its satellite towns, reported 1,977 new cases, raising its cumulative case load to 6,15,499. A total of 18,485 people have died so far in the region, the official said. The tally in the Pune division stood at 4,44,534, and cumulative toll at 10,493. Nashik division’s cumulative case tally stood at 2,38,660 and death toll at 4,470. Kolhapur division has reported 1,12,172 cases and 3,900 deaths, while Aurangabad division’s case tally stood at 66,169 and death count at 1,678. Latur division has reported 73,149 cases and 2,236 fatalities so far. Akola division has 56,439 cases, while 1,332 people have succumbed to the viral infection till now. Nagpur division has 1,65,857 cases and 3,819 fatalities. So far, 1,01,20,470 people have been tested in the State.
22 November 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal govt. to encourage fairs, expos||The art of livelihood, despite the pandemic has to be encouraged and practised, West Bengal Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay said on Saturday adding that Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has mentioned this to officials on numerous occasions. The Chief Secretary said that the State government is encouraging artists and performers of jatras and different folk arts to ensure that their livelihood is protected. “There is no ceiling on open grounds for melas, exhibitions, expos and musical performances if people are maintaining physical distancing and considering the area of the open ground,” Mr. Bandyopadhyay said. The Chief Secretary said that after the festival season and resumption of train services the State government was actively considering providing an opportunity to artists to continue with their livelihood. “We have told District Magistrates, Superintendent of Police, Commissioners of Police through video conference and meetings many times that folk artists and artisans should be encouraged . They should not face any obstacles in organizing their performances within the norms of physical distancing,” he said. Meanwhile, a number of single screen cinema owners are considering closing their halls in Kolkata because there are not enough viewers to sustain their operations . 3,639 new cases In the past 24 hours, 53 deaths were reported in the State due to COVID-19 infections taking the fatalities to 7,976. The state recorded 3,639 new case taking the tally to 4,52,770. State unit BJP president Dilip Ghosh charged that there was an attempt to limit the daily tests to 45,000 so that the daily cases do not rise above 4,000. “Odisha and Bihar are testing about one lakh samples. If one lakh test is conducted here then the number of cases will cross 10,000,” he added.
22 November 2020||CHANDIGARH/New Delhi,||Ready to help Delhi fight pandemic, says Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Saturday said the State government was ready to help Delhi manage its spiralling COVID-19 cases. The national capital, which has seen a sharp spike in daily COVID-19 cases in the festival season, witnessed 5,879 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 5,23,117, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Also, 111 more deaths were reported in the city in the past 24 hours, pushing the toll to 8,270. “Delhi is fighting a tough battle and we are there to help if needed. I have said this earlier too,” Capt. Amarinder said. “While nobody knows when the second wave of the epidemic will strike Punjab, the experience of the National Capital Region and other States shows that it is an almost certain eventuality.” He assured the people that his government was taking all possible measures to meet the situation. The Punjab CM was speaking after digitally launching 107 wellness centres to boost healthcare infrastructure in the State and provide health services to patients at their doorsteps, in both rural and urban areas.  Beds running out In Delhi, 91.1% ICU beds with ventilators reserved for COVID-19 treatment were occupied on Saturday night and 84.5% of ICU beds without ventilators were taken, according to the city government data. Many hospitals, including government-run Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital and Safdarjung Hospital, did not have a single ICU bed with ventilator. Also, of the total 17,311 beds available for COVID-19 treatment, 55.1% were occupied. The positivity rate (percentage of people testing positive for every 100 tests done) in Delhi was 12.9%. The overall positivity rate till now is 9.08%. A door-to-door survey to identify people with symptoms of the virus continued for the second day on Saturday and is expected to be completed by November 25.
22 November 2020||MANGALURU,||MCC says trade licence will be cancelled if establishments use plastic bags||The Mangaluru City Corporation will not just impose a fine but also move ahead to cancel trade licences if traders are found using plastic carry bags and other non-recyclable plastic products, said MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar here on Saturday. Expressing his concern over hotels and other traders continuing to use banned non-recyclable plastic products, Mr. Sridhar said MCC teams have been carrying out surprise checks and collecting fines. “We can cancel trade licences,” he said while pointing to the seriousness the MCC attached to stopping the use of plastic. In a meeting of traders, hoteliers, traders and industry representatives at the MCC auditorium, MCC Environment Engineer Madhu Manohar said there was significant increase in the use of plastic carry bags in the city, more so after the COVID-19 pandemic. Daily, about 40 tonnes of non-recyclable plastic waste was coming to the landfill site. About 370 tonnes of dry waste was being collected every Friday and after separating the recyclable material the remaining portion is going to the landfill site. Mr. Manohar asked hotels to stop using plastic bags for takeaway service and display boards stating that they will not use plastic bags. Claiming that the hotels have significantly reduced the use of plastic bags, Swarna Sunder from the Hotel Owners’ Association asked the corporation to direct plastic manufactures to have a mechanism to collect non-recyclable plastic. Turning down the proposal, Mr. Sridhar said it will be good if hotels stop using plastic and other non-recyclable plastic products. A representative from the Plastic Manufacturers’ Association said there are three units that are recycling plastic. Mr. Manohar said four dry-waste collection centres will shortly come up in the city. When Swami Eekagamyananda of Ramakrishna Mutt sought permission of MCC to operate two dry-waste collection centres, Mr. Sridhar said a proposal will be placed before the MCC council.
22 November 2020||IDUKKI,||Concern over power generation in Idukki||Technical problems in generators of the underground power station of the Idukki reservoir at Moolamattom have raised concerns over power generation in the State’s largest reservoir. The latest technical snag was noticed in the generator three last Wednesday. On inspection, some technical faults to the condenser were detected and it has been taken up for repairs. Kerala State Electricity Board authorities hope that the faults will be rectified by the end of the month. The generator was put into operations after annual repairs only last week. The unexpected turn of events has raised concerns as only three of the six generators are operational now, with generators two, three, and four under repair. Pandemic threat The issues in bringing technicians due to the COVID-19 pandemic is also delaying the repair works, according to sources in the KSEB. After completing the annual repair works of generator three, it was put on trial run and technical snags were rectified. The generator was put into routine operations when the new faults were identified. On October 28, generator four developed technical snags and was shifted for repair. It is expected that this generator will be functional by November 30, an official said. Generator two developed technical snag during trial run after repair works following a blast on January 20. The delay in bringing equipment for repair works due to the pandemic had delayed repairs. The trial run was conducted in October and a technical issue related to insulation was detected, which is expected to be corrected by the end of December. A senior KSEB official said the upgrade of machines was long pending. It was also factored in the proposal for a second power station at Moolamattom. The technical issues related to the generators have dampened the KSEB’s claims to increase generation in case of an emergency situation. The water level in the Idukki reservoir is near to the maximum reservoir level now.
22 November 2020||Hyderabad,||This is Hyderabad, not Ahmedabad: KTR||“This is not Ahmedabad but a clever Hyderabad to believe you people and we reject the divisive policies,” TRS working president, K.T. Rama Rao thundered referring to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) during his road shows in support of his party candidates on Saturday. KTR’s intentions were clear that his tirade against the BJP will not stop till the campaign is over and he stuck to his ‘development vs destruction’ plank saying TRS stood for development and the BJP was here for destruction. Addressing impressive gatherings at four places, he harped on the development agenda and how Hyderabad has emerged as global city with the efforts of the ruling party. “Let us not give an opportunity to party that will destroy it,” was his focus of all the meetings even as he asserted yet again the TRS dreams for Hyderabad. Not a single pie has come from the Centre to the city, he claimed and asked the BJP leaders to get funds to the city rather than making hollow claims. “Pakka local” was our slogan he adopted to remind people TRS was the local party and BJP was a Delhi party. The Minister was visibly happy at the gatherings and he threw caution to the winds removing his face mask. Is there any leader other than KCR with a heart for Telangana, he asked and reminded how the Chief Minister responded after the city was hit by unprecedented floods. Opposition parties don’t help and at the same time put spokes in government’s efforts, he said claiming the financial distribution for flood victims was forcibly stopped with representations to the State Election Commission. It is laughable that they stopped people from getting Rs. 10,000 and are now promising Rs. 25,000, he said in reference to BJP chief Bandi Sanjay’s announcement.
22 November 2020||Chandigarh,||Punjab farmers to lift rail blockade||Members of 30 farmers’ outfits in Punjab on Saturday decided to lift the rail blockade on November 23, after nearly two months of their protest against the Centre’s new agriculture laws. The Railways had suspended train services to the State after the farmers began their rail roko agitation on October 1. “We have decided to lift the rail blockade by the evening of November 23; so from November 24, both passenger and goods trains can have a smooth movement. The decision has been taken keeping in view the problems being faced by the people of Punjab — be it traders, industrialists or workers. Already, we announced on October 21 that movement of goods trains would be allowed, but the Central government is not running them,” Jagmohan Singh, general secretary, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), told The Hindu , after a joint meeting of farmers’ outfits here. They also held a meeting with Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. “We, however, want to make it clear that we are allowing the movement of trains for 15 days from November 24. If, in the meantime, our demands are not met or talks by the Central government are not held with regard to our demands, we will resume our ‘rail roko’ agitation,” Mr. Singh said. Protests to continue Mr. Singh added that members of farmers’ outfits would continue to stage protests outside the residences of BJP leaders and business establishments of ‘corporates’. “Besides, we are all set for the protest on November 26 and 27 in Delhi,” he said. Soon after the announcement by the outfits, Capt. Amarinder Singh urged the Central government to reciprocate by restoring all train services in the State, and also to hold further talks with the farmer representatives to resolve the crisis over the farm laws. He assured the farmer leaders that he would meet the Prime Minister and the Union Home Minister soon to press their demands. “Let us together put pressure on the Centre to see our point of view and understand how these laws would ruin Punjab,” he said, adding that he was with the farmers in their fight. “We all have farmer blood in our veins,” he said. The Chief Minister also promised the farmer representatives that he would look into their other demands, including those relating to sugarcane price hike and clearance of dues, as well as withdrawal of FIRs registered in stubble burning cases.
22 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Govt. moves to give a leg-up to fishermen||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday said the government drew up plans for the construction of seaports at Ramayapatnam, Bhavanapadu and Machilipatnam at a total cost of approximately Rs. 10,000 crore, and that a sum of Rs. 3,500 crore had been earmarked for establishing eight fishing harbours and development of 25 aquaculture hubs. These facilities would help in improving the living standards of fishermen who were languishing below the poverty line in spite of having the country’s second longest (974 km) coastline, the Chief Minister said while laying the foundation virtually for four harbours at Machilipatnam, Nizampatnam in Guntur district and Juvvaladinne and Uppada in Nellore and East Godavari districts respectively. Addressing the officials and fishermen and women, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said tenders for the four harbours to be built in the first phase at an estimated cost of Rs. 1,510 crore would be finalised by December 15 and works would begin soon thereafter. Four harbours would be built in the second phase at Budagatlapalem in Srikakulam district, Pudimadaka in Visakhapatnam, Biyyaputippa in West Godavari and Kothapatnam in Prakasam district. He expressed regret that the fishing community had been extremely backward for a long time, deprived of proper healthcare and education and housing. They had to struggle hard to earn minimum returns on the fish caught by them. The crux of their problem was the absence of adequate number of ports and harbours, the Chief Minister observed. As a consequence, a large number of fishermen families had migrated to Gujarat and other States, and their arrest by the security forces of Pakistan and Bangladesh during fishing in the international waters was quite common, he said. The YSRCP government paid attention to this problem and got hundreds of such fishermen released from prisons in those countries, the Chief Minister said. 25 aqua hubs Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy also said that 25 aqua hubs would be developed in the first phase as part of the government’s endeavour to have such facilities in all the constituencies in the future. Infrastructure required for storing, processing and marketing fish and other aqua products would be created at these places. He further said that the Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation (GSPC) owed Rs. 78 crore towards compensation for 16,500-odd families in East Godavari district that lost their livelihood due to the drilling operations. The State government paid that amount to the affected families as it was not sure when the Centre would give that money, he said. The framing of the AP Fish Feed (Quality Control) Act and the establishment of Aquaculture Development Authority and a Fisheries University in West Godavari district were some of the other significant initiatives of the government aimed at helping the fishermen community in overcoming the problems that had been plaguing them for generations, the Chief Minister said. Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana and S. Appala Raju, Agriculture Mission vice-chairman M.V.S. Nagi Reddy and Special Chief Secretary (fisheries) Poonam Malakondaiah were among those present.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,||‘AIADMK-BJP tie-up will continue in 2021’||The leadership of the ruling AIADMK on Saturday declared in the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah in Chennai that the party’s alliance with the BJP would continue for the 2021 Assembly election in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Shah responded by lauding the “good governance” provided by Chief Minister Edapaddi K. Palaniswami, especially in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. He said the Narendra Modi government at the Centre would stand by the AIADMK government “like a rock” for the development of Tamil Nadu. The announcement on the continuation of the alliance, forged ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha election, was made by Deputy Chief Minister and AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam. Subsequently, Mr. Palaniswami, who is also the co-coordinator, endorsed it. The two leaders later met Mr. Shah at a private hotel, where he was staying, for about 40 minutes. At a function, Mr. Shah said Tamil Nadu topped in the Good Governance Index and won awards in other categories. The Modi government would stand “shoulder to shoulder” with the “Palaniswami government” and the people of the State in implementing schemes, be it for industrial development or the welfare of farmers. Mr. Shah challenged the DMK-Congress alliance to list the development schemes initiated for Tamil Nadu during the 10 years of the UPA government and compare them with those rolled out by the NDA government in the last six years. “We are prepared to respond in a public debate anywhere in Chennai,” he said. He said the budgetary allocation for the State was much higher than what was sanctioned by the Manmohan Singh government. ‘Constructive’ Earlier, Mr. Panneerselvam hailed Mr. Shah as the “modern day Chanakya”. “This function stands as a fine example of how a constructive relationship between the Centre and the State government pays rich dividends to the people. Large projects have been implemented rapidly through the effective coordination that has resulted from the good relationship,” he said.
22 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||1,160 new cases as State’s COVID-19 tally mounts to 8.61 lakh||The State has reported 1,160 new COVID-19 infections and seven deaths in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The tally climbed to 8,61,092 and the toll to 6,927. With 1,765 patients recovered during the period, the total number of recoveries stands at 8,39,395 with a recovery rate of 97.48%. A total of 14,770 patients are undergoing treatment at hospitals and under home isolation. The death rate continues to remain at 0.80%. The number of samples tested crossed 95 lakh and reached 95,43,177 with a positivity rate of 9.02%. During the 24 hours, 68,307 samples were tested and the positivity rate was the lowest in five months at 1.70%. The tests per million ratio increased to 1.78 lakh. Chittoor reported two deaths and Anantapur, East Godavari, Guntur, Kadapa and Krishna one each. Break-up Krishna district reported the highest number of new infections at 189. It was followed by East Godavari (165), Chittoor (148), Guntur (121), West Godavari (120), Kadapa (70), Visakhapatnam (67), Prakasam (66), Nellore (60), Srikakulam (46), Anantapur (43), Vizianagaram (42) and Kurnool (23). The overall tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,21,490), West Godavari (91,433), Chittoor (82,964), Guntur (71,897), Anantapur (66,428), Prakasam (61,201), Nellore (61,115), Kurnool (60,054), Visakhapatnam (57,629), Kadapa (53,986), Srikakulam (45,240), Krishna (44,310) and Vizianagaram (40,450).
22 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Hotel to stay open on December 5; autos and taxis to be off the road||While a section of Kannada organisations have called for a bandh on December 5, opposing establishment of a Maratha Development Corporation, hotel owners and travel operators have said they will not be closing their businesses for the day. However, most other transport unions --- including autorickshaw and taxi unions --- have decided to support the bandh. The Bruhat Bangalore Hotels Association has decided to only extend moral support to the bandh. Stating that hotels and restaurants are considered essential services, president P.C. Rao, in a press release, said the hospitality sector had suffered a big hit owing to COVID-19. As such, all hotels and restaurants would remain open in the interests of farmers, owners, workers, and customers. Tanveer Pasha, president of Ola, Uber Drivers and Owners Association, and Manjunath from Adarsha Autorickshaw Union said cabs and autorickshaws will be off the road. Radhakrishna Holla, president of the Karnataka State Travel Operators Association, said they would extend “moral support” to the bandh. A section of Kannada organisations has set November 30 deadline for the government to withdraw its decision on setting up the corporation. Meanwhile, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday again warned Kannada groups of taking strict action if they did not drop their Karnataka bandh plan. Speaking to reporters, the Chief Minister said: “I am for Kannada and Kannadigas. I am ready to do whatever is required for their development. But I will not allow any forced bandh anywhere in the State.”
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,||‘AIADMK-BJP tie-up will continue in 2021’||The AIADMK leadership on Saturday declared in the presence of Union Home Minister Amit Shah here that the party’s alliance with the BJP would continue for the 2021 Assembly election in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Shah responded by lauding the “good governance” provided by Chief Minister Edapaddi K. Palaniswami, especially in the fight against COVID-19. He said the Narendra Modi government at the Centre would stand by the AIADMK government “like a rock” for the development of Tamil Nadu. The announcement on the continuation of the alliance, forged ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha election, was made by Deputy Chief Minister and AIADMK coordinator O. Panneerselvam. Subsequently, Mr. Palaniswami, who is the co-coordinator, endorsed it. The two leaders later met Mr. Shah at a private hotel for about 40 minutes.
22 November 2020||Doddagaddavalli,||‘No evidence of external force’||The Hassan police say preliminary examination has thrown up no evidence to suggest external force. The officials felt that the idol could have fallen on its own as the edges of its base that connected the idol with the pedestal had eroded over the years. B. Basavaraj, sub-inspector, Hassan Rural police station, said: “We did not find any material to suggest the use of external force to remove the idol. The priest and local people also felt the idol could have fallen on its own.”
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Getting ready||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Sitting pretty||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The aftermath||
22 November 2020||Pune,||Schools to open in rural areas of Pune||Schools in Pune city and Pimpri-Chinchwad will remain closed for now and not reopen from November 23 as decided earlier, officials said on Saturday. However, schools in rural areas of the district will reopen from Monday. Pune Mayor Muralidhar Mohol said the decision on reopening schools in the city will be taken after a review meeting on December 13. Mr. Mohol said the decision not to restart schools immediately was taken after consultation with parents in view of the pandemic. Schools in rural areas will reopen from Monday as directed by the government, said Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad. Parents had agreed to the reopening of schools from next week as the spread of COVID-19 is under control in rural areas, he said. The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has decided to defer the reopening. A final decision will be taken after a review meeting on November 30, a senior official said.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Waiting in devotion||
22 November 2020||Siddipet,||Villagers protest against canal work||Tension prevailed for some time at Tukkapur in Toguta mandal on Saturday when villagers protested against the construction of a canal, as part of the Kaleshwaram 3rd tmcft, adjacent to the village.   The Congress led by Ch. Srinivas Reddy called for the protest, which saw a large gathering of people, mostly women. Some of the women even had a heated argument with the police. Since Saturday morning, a large police contingent was posted in the village to thwart any untoward incident.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Prize catch||
22 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||925 new COVID cases in Telangana||Telangana recorded 925 COVID-19 cases on Friday, taking the total to 2,62, 653. While 42, 077 samples were tested , results of 438 are awaited. Three more COVID-19 patients died. The new cases include 161 from the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 91 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 75 from Rangareddy. The lowest of zero cases were recorded in Narayanpet, five in Medak. From March 2 to November 20, a total of 50,92,689 samples were tested and 2,62,653 have tested positive for coronavirus. Of the total cases, 12,070 were active cases, 2,49,157 have recovered, and 1,426 people have died. In the 61 State government hospitals, 4,800 oxygen beds and 1,476 ICU beds were available on Friday. And in 221 private hospitals, 2,674 oxygen beds and 2,382 ICU beds were vacant.
22 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ayurveda PGs will perform surgeries soon||Postgraduate students in Ayurveda will now be trained and allowed to perform a variety of general surgery, ENT, ophthalmology, and dental procedures. The decision has come after the Central Council of Indian Medicine amended the Indian Medicine Central Council (Post Graduate Ayurveda Education) Regulations, 2016 to allow PG students of Ayurveda to practise general surgery. “The Central Council of Indian Medicine, with the previous sanction of the Central Government, hereby makes the following regulations further to amend the Indian Medicine Central Council (Post Graduate Ayurveda Education) Regulations, 2016,” the gazette notification said. The act has been renamed Indian Medicine Central Council (Post Graduate Ayurveda Education) Amendment Regulations, 2020. The notification, issued on November 19, states that students will be trained in two streams of surgery and would be awarded titles of MS (Ayurved) Shalya Tantra — (General Surgery and MS (Ayurved) Shalakya Tantra (Disease of Eye, Ear, Nose, Throat, Head and Oro-Dentistry).
22 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||T.N. Governor can decide on Perarivalan’s release: CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation told the Supreme Court that convict A.G. Perarivalan has nothing to do with the further investigation conducted by its Multi-Disciplinary Monitoring Agency (MDMA) into the “larger conspiracy” behind the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in 1991. The CBI said it was entirely left to Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit to decide whether to release Perarivalan, who is serving a life sentence. Perarivalan’s mother has appealed to the Governor for his release. He was arrested at the age of 19 and is in his late forties now. The central agency said it has no role whatsoever in the issue, and the question of remission is wholly between Governor Purohit and Perarivalan. “It is for the office of His Excellency Governor of Tamil Nadu to take a call on the issue of whether remission is to be granted ... So far as relief in the present matter is concerned, CBI has no role,” a 24-page affidavit filed by the agency in the top court said. The CBI affidavit said Perarivalan is “not the subject matter of the further investigation carried out by the MDMA”. “The further investigation conducted by the MDMA is only limited to the mandate provided by the Jain Commission Report,” the agency said. The Jain Commission of Inquiry had recommended further probe into the killing.
22 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,||Thammineni escapes unhurt in mishap||Assembly Speaker Thammineni Seetharam escaped unhurt as his vehicle met with a minor accident near Chintada village between Srikakulam and Amadalavalasa on Saturday. According to local people, the vehicle veered into the adjacent paddy fields as the driver tried to avoid a head-on collision with an autorickshaw. None was injured in the incident. Mr. Seetharam told the media that he was returning home to Amadalavalasa after a video-conference with the Chief Minister at the Srikakulam Collector office when the mishap occurred. Several YSRCP leaders reached the spot and enquired about his safety. He said there was no need to worry since it was only a minor incident.
22 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Class 8 pupils to attend school from tomorrow||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Saturday said classes would commence for the students of Class 8 from November 23 (Monday). In a statement here on Saturday, the Education Minister said that parents were willing to send their children to school, and this reflected in the increasing number of children attending their classes daily. The students of classes 9 and 10 have been attending schools since November 2. The Minister said that sessions for the students of classes 8 and 9 would be conducted on alternate days. However, the students of class 10 would attend school every day, the Minister added. Steps were also being taken to open classroom teaching for the students of classes 6 and 7 from December 14, the Minister said. Change in timings Steps were also being taken to conduct classes for primary schoolchildren (classes 1 to 5) after Sankranti, he added. In view of winter, schools would function from 9.30 a.m. to 1.30 p.m., the Minister said. They were at present functioning from 9 a.m. to 1.45 p.m. The changed timings would come into effect from Monday, he added.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Sitting pretty||
22 November 2020||Kolkata,||Jobs for kin of wildlife conflict victims||The West Bengal government has announced that 434 next of kin of persons killed in conflict with wildlife will get jobs with the State police. According to a government notification released on Friday, 584 persons were killed in the State in human-wildlife conflict over the past five years.The 434 next of kin will be appointed as home guard volunteers in the West Bengal police. The decision to provide jobs to 74.3% of families of those killed in conflict with wildlife comes just months ahead of the Assembly polls in the State. More than the timing, the decision is likely to have an impact on wildlife conservation and raises concerns over whether giving jobs to victims’ families, can lead to better wildlife management and mitigating the conflict.
22 November 2020||HUBBALLI,||Two killed in accident||Two persons were killed and two others injured in a accident involving the vehicle of former Minister Umashree near Hubballi on Friday night. She was not in the vehicle at the time of accident. According to the police, the accident occurred when one of the vehicles lost control while overtaking and rammed into the vehicle coming from the opposite direction.
22 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||Yogi asks officials to act tough in illicit liquor case||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath instructed officials on Saturday to seize properties of those involved in the sale of spurious liquor. Four persons died and five were hospitalised in Phulpur area of Prayagraj on Saturday, allegedly after consuming illicit liquor.
22 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Police send notice to Vani Vilas hospital||Following the case of a newborn baby being stolen from the Vani Vilas hospital, the police said there were “serious” security lapses at the medical facility. They have issued a notice to the hospital seeking an explanation.
22 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Panel to examine issues in Akshaya Patra Foundation||City-based Akshaya Patra Foundation, that runs mid-day meal programme for school children and has come under fire over “serious governance issues”, has formed a committee “to look into all the issues raised by the erstwhile trustees and Audit Committee members”.
22 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU admissions under special list from Nov. 24||Delhi University on Saturday announced that admissions to undergraduate courses under the special cut-off list will begin from November 24. The university further said the sixth and seventh cut-off lists will be declared on November 30 and December 7 respectively.
22 November 2020||Srinagar,||Opposition candidates being detained: Farooq||National Conference president and Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration chairman Farooq Abdullah on Saturday approached the State Election Commission and alleged that Opposition candidates contesting the District Development Council polls were being prevented from campaigning.
22 November 2020||Mangaluru,||‘Village officers should curb illegal stone mining’||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Saturday said village accountants and panchayat development officers should ensure no illegal laterite stone mining takes place in their limits.
22 November 2020||Bengaluru,||D.J. Halli: BJP trying to use rift in Cong.||The political fallout of D.J. Halli violence and its probe has left the Congress, which has politically dominated the area for long, deeply divided. The BJP is attempting to improve its standing in Pulakeshinagar, Sarvagnanagar, and Shivajinagar Assembly constituencies.
22 November 2020||MADURAI,||Two held with gold in airport||Officials of Air Intelligence Unit of the Customs Department seized 1.05 kg of gold from two passengers who arrived Madurai airpoort from Dubai on Friday. The sleuths conducted a personal search on them as they moved in a suspicious manner while passing through the green channel of Customs at the airport. They found that they had concealed six packets of complex gold paste. The seized gold was reportedly worth Rs. 53.80 lakh. Both were arrested.
22 November 2020||MYSURU,||Puttaswamy favours one corporation for all||Instead of constituting development corporations for different castes, the State government should consider establishing one common development corporation for all, suggested Deputy Chairman of Planning Board B.J. Puttaswamy.
22 November 2020||Bengaluru,||D.J. Halli: BJP trying to use rift in Cong.||The political fallout of D.J. Halli violence and its probe has left the Congress deeply divided. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party is attempting to improve its standing in Pulakeshinagar, Sarvagnanagar, and Shivajinagar Assembly constituencies.
22 November 2020||Mumbai,||YouTuber opposes notice by Akshay Kumar||YouTuber Rashid Siddiquee has opposed the defamation notice issued against him by actor Akshay Kumar in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput death case and refused to pay Rs. 500 crore in damages saying there was nothing defamatory in his videos. He urged the actor to withdraw the notice, failing which he would initiate “legal proceedings”.
22 November 2020||Chennai,||Govt. permits cultural events from Nov. 25||The State government on Saturday decided to permit cultural events and functions with effect from November 25, paving the way for annual music festivals to be organised in December.
22 November 2020||Chennai,||Revolving fund for those under 7.5% quota: CM||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday announced the immediate creation of a revolving fund to financially help NEET-qualified State government school students, who have been allotted seats in private medical and dental colleges under the 7.5% horizontal quota.
22 November 2020||Chennai,||Tamil Nadu sees 1,663 new cases, 18 deaths||Tamil Nadu reported 1,663 more COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the case count in the State to 7,68,340. It also reported 18 more deaths and 2,133 recoveries.
22 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala seeks nod to probe Ramesh Chennithala||The Kerala government has reportedly sought the permission of Governor Arif Mohammad Khan to conduct a prefatory anti-corruption inquiry against Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala. The inquiry is based on an allegation by hotelier Biju Ramesh that the Kerala Bar Hotel Association (KBHA) had paid Rs. 1 crore as bribe to the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) to salvage their business from a proposed crippling hike in bar licence fees during the tenure of the previous Oommen Chandy government. Mr. Ramesh had alleged that KBHA office-bearers had delivered the cash to the KPCC office at Indira Bhavan here. Mr. Chennithala was the KPCC president at the time. Mr. Ramesh had alleged that in a pre-budget meeting with hoteliers, the then Excise Minister K. Babu had informed them of a proposal to hike the bar permit fee steeply. The KBHA had collected money from its members to bribe the administration and stall the fee hike. He had alleged that KBHA office-bearers had delivered Rs. 1 crore to the office of Mr. Babu in the Secretariat. Another KBHA emissary delivered Rs. 25 lakh at the house of V.S. Sivakumar, MLA. Both leaders have denied the allegation. CPI(M) acting State secretary and Left Democratic Front convener A. Vijayaraghavan had demanded an inquiry into the allegations raised by the hotelier. ‘Political hit job’ While Mr. Chennithala has welcomed the probe, Congress Working Committee member and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy and KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran termed the move a “political hit job”. Mr. Chennithala said on Saturday that he was ready to face any probe and added no such acts of intimidation could silence him from exposing the wrongdoings of the Left Democratic Front government. ‘Bogus claims’  He claimed that the probe was based on bogus claims originally made by Mr. Ramesh six years ago. A preliminary investigation had now been ordered despite there being no new disclosure, he claimed at a press conference. The Pinarayi Vijayan government had attempted in vain to breathe new life into a dead and discredited controversy in a futile bid to turn public opinion against the UDF ahead of the local body polls. Mr. Vijayan’s plot to draw public attention from his follies would prove hollow at the election hustings, he said. “The complainant had then released an audio clip that was subsequently found to be fake following forensic examinations conducted in the State and in Ahmedabad. The purported revelations had been investigated by both the LDF government and the previous United Democratic Front government. They were dismissed by the Vigilance and Anti Corruption Bureau due to lack of evidence when Jacob Thomas and N. Shankar Reddy were at its helm. The preliminary investigation has now been ordered despite there being no new disclosure,” he said. Considering that the cases were pending before the Kerala High Court and the Thiruvananthapuram Vigilance court, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s action amounted to sub-judice, Mr. Chennithala said. He accused the LDF government of scuttling the ongoing probes into the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case by misusing its various agencies. “Such attempts are being made at the Chief Minister’s behest on realising that the Central enforcement agencies are closing in on him. Why has he now changed stance after claiming initially that the investigation was progressing in the right direction,” he asked. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran demanded to know why the government decided against investigating Kerala Congress (M) leader Jose K. Mani’s role despite being named by Mr. Ramesh in his complaint. He challenged the Chief Minister to institute a probe into the reported allegations of two of his Cabinet colleagues acquiring benami property in Maharashtra.
22 November 2020||New Delhi/Riyadh/Beijing,||COVID-19 is world’s biggest challenge: PM||The COVID-19 pandemic is the biggest challenge the world is facing since the Second World War and is a turning point in the history of humanity, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at the G20 Summit on Saturday, as he offered India’s IT prowess for efficient functioning of the grouping. Mr. Modi also said that “Work from Anywhere” is a new normal in the post-COVID-19 world and suggested creation of a virtual G20 secretariat. The Prime Minister also suggested developing a new global index for the post-corona world that comprised four key elements — creation of a vast talent pool, ensuring that technology reached all segments of society, transparency in systems of governance and dealing with Mother Earth with a spirit of trusteeship. Based on this, the G20 could lay the foundation of a new world, he said. India to host in 2022 Saudi Arabia’s King Salman opened the Group of 20 Summit as the coronavirus pandemic overshadowed this year’s gathering of heads of state that is being held in the virtual format. India is scheduled to host the G20 Summit in 2022. “Had a very fruitful discussion with G20 leaders. Coordinated efforts by the largest economies of the world will surely lead to faster recovery from this pandemic. Thanked Saudi Arabia for hosting the Virtual Summit,” Mr. Modi tweeted. “Transparency in our processes helps in inspiring our societies to fight crisis collectively and with confidence. Spirit of trusteeship towards planet Earth will inspire us for a healthy and holistic lifestyle,” he said. Mr. Modi offered India’s IT prowess to further develop digital facilities for efficient functioning of the G20. China favours dialogue Addressing the G20 Summit, President Xi Jinping said China was ready to pursue peaceful coexistence with all countries on the basis of mutual respect, equality and mutual benefit. He suggested narrowing differences through dialogue and resolving disputes through negotiations. Mr. Xi said China would always be a builder of global peace, a contributor to global development and a defender of international order.
22 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Remdesivir is no magic bullet but it has its uses’||Many doctors who have been treating COVID-19 patients in India say that remdesivir is no magic bullet but it may still have its uses. The World Health Organisation has recently been advising against the use of remdesivir, which is listed as experimental therapy for COVID-19 by the Health Ministry. The doctors said that to read the WHO recommendation as a strict do or do-not-do might be a “misinterpretation of the evidence”. Neeraj Nischal, associate professor in the Department of Medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said, “The final decision (to use or avoid the drug) should be done after discussion with the patient. They should be given facts about the relative lack of benefit of the drug on the ultimate survival.” Dr. Nischal noted that remdesivir, which was initially developed for use in the treatment of ebola and hepatitis C was found to be a promising candidate for COVID-19 through in vitro studies. “There has been a lot of hype regarding remdesivir since the start of pandemic. It was hyped so much that it was seen as a magic bullet by the general public. The medical community, however, was reserved in judging its effect and utility barring any evidence for its use. However, the drug eventually became the drug of choice for COVID-19 treatment, not due to its efficacy, but mainly through its popularity. This frenzy put social pressure on doctors for its use in even mild disease. This has led to indiscriminate use of this drug,” he said. Expensive drug The doctor warned that there are many logistic and efficacy issues with remdesivir. “It is an expensive drug requiring IV administration, and the timing and duration of therapy are still fairly unknown. The side effect profile of the drug has also been largely unknown and there are chances that some of its side effects may have been wrongly attributed to COVID-19,” he said. The Health Ministry on its part has been advising against the wide and indiscriminate use of experimental therapies such as remdesivir and plasma therapy. Rajesh Malhotra, head, Trauma Centre, AIIMS, notes that there are several reasons why hospitals are still using the drug. “Certain trials have shown that remdesivir reduces the time needed for recovery and they showed improvement in patients needing low flow oxygen. We are using remdesivir in early stages of the disease and have had good results with minimum side effects. But we cannot attribute it to remdesivir alone, as all these patients are candidates for and received steroids as well. Even we believe that it may not be of much use once disease has advanced in severity,” he said. A.S. Soin, chief hepatobiliary and liver transplant surgeon of Medanta, said, “This is no silver bullet and yes it is widely used. But we cannot blindly take in or give up any drug or therapy right now in a dynamic situation like this unfolding pandemic.” Meanwhile, the Health Ministry on Saturday said that India has conducted 10,66,022 COVID-19 tests in the last 24 hours, which has increased India’s total cumulative tests to 13,06,57,808. Also in the last 24 hours, 46,232 persons were found to be infected with COVID-19 while 49,715 new recoveries were registered during the same period. Maharashtra, Delhi and West Bengal have registered the maximum number of fatalities in 24 hours.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Ready to take off again||In what has been described as a comprehensive and safety review process that took 20 months in all to complete, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) of the U.S., on November 18, signed an order that clears the way for the aircraft, the Boeing 737 MAX, to return to passenger service. The step follows the global grounding of the latest iteration of Boeing’s best selling narrowbody jet after two crashes in five months that claimed 346 lives. The 13-minute flight of Indonesia’s Lion Air Flight 610, on October 29, 2018, that ended in the Java Sea, and that of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302, on March 10, 2019, airborne for six minutes before a hard impact in the countryside in Ethiopia, had pointed to clues of serious safety issues having overwhelmed the flight crew. As questions swirled thick and fast around the fate of the fourth generation version of the popular plane which promises economic efficiency as its key selling point, and the image of its manufacturer, the over 100-year-old aerospace company, Boeing, regulators, in collaborative and independent efforts, scrambled to find remedies to the core issues involving the craft’s design, certification and operation processes. In the process, there have been quiet and far-reaching changes to the aviation ecosystem, especially to regulation, safety practices and quality in the U.S. What are the modifications that have been made to get the MAX back in the skies after the grounding estimated to have cost $20 billion? To begin with, the crucial pilot training programme, specifically for the 737 MAX is populated with the recommendations of a Joint Operations Evaluation Board (JOEB), which comprises civil aviation authorities from the U.S., Brazil, Canada, and the EU. The FAA has released an Airworthiness Directive with specific and crucial design changes that must be made before the twin-engine jet returns to service, a Continued Airworthiness Notification to the International Community (CANIC) and MAX training requirements. The FAA has to approve the MAX pilot training programme revisions for every American airline operating the type. Importantly, the FAA says it retains the authority to issue airworthiness certificates and export certificates of airworthiness for all new 737 MAX airliners built since the grounding order. Also, it adds, MAX aircraft parked since then have to undergo maintenance checks, including for foreign object debris. Revisions in software The major revisions are in the software, to the plane’s Manoeuvring Characteristics Augmentation System, or MCAS, which will now have readings from two Angle of Attack (AoA) sensors. An alarm will be standard to warn pilots of flight data variations. Pilot training will be rigorous, for AOA malfunctions, with multiple flight-deck alerts during unusual conditions. Wiring bundles are to be sorted out to eliminate the danger of a short circuit in certain conditions, and deemed a crash risk factor. The process of a safety review in the U.S., one that has been of global collaboration, will now translate into validation in various countries and regions. Europe, Canada and Brazil are expected to make a decision soon, though it could take longer in China. SpiceJet, India’s sole MAX operator, has 13 aircraft on the ground out of an estimated order of 205 planes. It has been reported that India’s Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) will carry out its own valuations before re-certifying the aircraft. In a statement, a Boeing official said: “Boeing is placing a 737 MAX simulator in India to provide increased training support in the region.” However, Capt. Mohan Ranganathan, a senior aviation safety expert, has a word of caution: “In the overseeing of the MAX training, it is important that the DGCA person from the Flight Standards Division is a qualified 737 MAX pilot. It is very important that the DGCA shall not allow any shortcuts in training.” In his remarks in September, after his test flight on a revamped 737 MAX, FAA Administrator Stephen Dickson said, “I like what I saw [during the flight].” The flying machine was designed for a market where airlines needed new planes and when fuel prices were high. But much has changed. The hard part now is whether passengers will indeed be convinced of the safety changes in the backdrop of a COVID-19 world that has sapped travel demand.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The President who went to war||With the recent military victory over Armenia, Ilham Heydar Oglu Aliyev, Azerbaijan’s President, has regained some of the territory the country lost to its neighbour in the 1991-94 war. The bigger challenge before the 56-year-old leader is to win the hearts of the thousands of Armenians in the area restored to his country, who must live alongside the Azeri population that has been fed on mistrust and hatred about them. Right through the six-week confrontation, however, Mr. Aliyev demanded an apology from Armenia, ruled out a dialogue and insisted on the capture through military force of the Armenian majority region of Nagarno-Karabakh, which seceded from Azerbaijan towards the end of the Soviet Union. The President’s handling of the decades-long dispute demonstrated a total disregard of the 1975 Helsinki principles of the Organisation for European Security and Cooperation (OESC), which prohibit the use of force and accord recognition for the equal right to self-determination. The long political career of the ex-oil executive, who has received a doctorate in political science and other honours for his contribution in the arena of sports, predates his anointment as Prime Minister by his ailing father and former President ahead of the 2003 Presidential bid. While that election was widely criticised as rigged, Mr. Aliyev’s 17-year rule has been marked by an authoritarian style of governance at home, leveraging the country’s oil wealth and the pursuit of deft diplomacy abroad. Mr. Aliyev dispensed with the constitutionally stipulated two term limit for the President in a 2009 referendum, one year after his re-election. He was merely following in the footsteps of his father who, in a 2002 plebiscite, made a provision for the President to be succeeded by the Prime Minister, rather than the Speaker of Parliament. His tightly controlled 2016 referendum to alter the constitution was severely criticised by the Venice Commission, a Council of Europe body which monitors constitutional law. Among the sweeping changes were the extension of the presidential term from five to seven years and the creation of the office of Vice President. The position, occupied by Mr. Aliyev’s wife Mehriban Aliyeva since February 2017, makes her a potential frontrunner for the presidency. Activists alleged that the move contravened the provisions of an anti-corruption law that barred officials from appointing close relatives to serve under them. Another change, to dispense with the age criterion for candidates, sparked speculation that Mr. Aliyev could be grooming his son for high office one day. Human rights abuses The extensive human rights abuses against activists challenging the Aliyev family’s record of corruption has garnered global attention. Most notable is the May 2019 European Court of Human Rights’ unanimous ruling on Baku’s infringement of its original 2014 verdict. The latter relates to the detention between 2013 and 2018 of Ilgar Mammadov, a prominent opposition politician, who had proposed to contest the 2013 presidential race. Mr. Mammadov was finally acquitted in April 2020. In 2016, U.S. Congressmen proposed the Azerbaijan Democracy Act to sanction individuals in the higher echelons of the country’s political and administrative apparatus. The European Parliament in the previous year adopted a resolution condemning the ban on peaceful protests in the capital Baku since 2006 and the intimidation and repression of defenders of human rights under Mr. Aliyev’s watch. The release among others, of Khadija Ismayilova, the investigative journalist who was sentenced to seven and a half years was seen as an attempt to mollify western powers by Mr. Aliyev’s government faced with a financial crunch following the slump in oil prices. And then he launched the war in late September and the military gains seem to have bolstered his strongman image. After six weeks of fighting, Mr. Aliyev agreed to end the operations in the Russia-brokered deal in return for Armenia’s retreat. The peace-keeping deal, however, is not substantially different from the ceasefire of the 1990s the senior Aliyev brokered but without any lasting settlement. That’s the challenge President Ilham Aliyev is facing even amid victory.
22 November 2020||Bengaluru,||HC upholds life term for murder||The Karnataka High Court upheld a 2016 trial court verdict of life imprisonment for a youth who had stabbed a girl to death at her home after she declined his proposal. Rejecting the convict’s plea for leniency that he had stabbed the victim after “grave and sudden provocation” after she rejected his proposal the court said agreeing to his claim will have the “effect of robbing the victim of her right to express her choice”. “In other words, the defence of ‘grave and sudden provocation’ shall not avail an accused if the result of permitting such a defence is to dehumanise the person of victim, stultify her individual autonomy, agency and dignity,” the court held. A Division Bench, comprising Justice S. Sunil Dutt Yadav and Justice P. Krishna Bhat, delivered the verdict while upholding a trial court’s 2016 order of convicting Vijay alias Vijendra, a resident of Javalaga in Aland taluk of Kalaburagi district, and sentencing him to life imprisonment. The convict, who was a B.Ed. student, stabbed Pushpa, 18, at her house in the presence of another woman in 2009. The Bench noted that Vijay had gone to Pushpa’s house with a knife, imposed himself upon her to marry him, and on her refusal, stabbed her. Asserting domain “In other words, he was trying to assert some kind of domain over her only because he was a male and he was unwilling to reconcile to the situation that victim as a woman could rebuff the same and assert her individual autonomy and agency to take a decision on the choice of her life partner,” the Bench observed. In such a situation, the Bench said, it is completely absurd to contend that there was ‘grave and sudden provocation’ from the side of the victim especially when, while she was rejecting the proposal what she was essentially doing was asserting her individual autonomy, which was entirely legitimate for her to do. The Bench also observed that to permit him to take a defence of ‘grave and sudden provocation,’ in the facts and circumstances of this case, apart from being “obnoxious”, will result in negation of the fundamental rights of the victim under Articles 14, 19 (1) (a) and 21 of the Constitution of India. “He betrayed utter disdain to the inherent right of victim as a human; to her individual autonomy to choose who to love and to her right to choose a husband and even, to defer to the wishes of her parents in matters of significance in her life, which in itself is a conscious ‘choice’,” the Bench said.
22 November 2020||Dubai,||Saudi King urges united response to virus||Saudi Arabia’s King Salman opened on Saturday the Group of 20 summit as the coronavirus pandemic overshadows this year’s gathering of heads of state, transforming it from an in-person two-day meeting of the world’s most powerful leaders to a virtual gathering of speeches and declarations. The pandemic, which has claimed more than 1.37 million lives worldwide, has offered the G-20 an opportunity to prove how such bodies can facilitate international cooperation in crises — but has also underscored their shortcomings. The G-20’s member-countries represent around 85% of the world’s economic output and three-quarters of international trade. “We have a duty to rise to the challenge together during this summit and give a strong message of hope and reassurance,” King Salman said in his opening remarks. The kingdom, which assumed the G-20 presidency this year, is the host of the virtual summit that is bringing together leaders from the world’s richest and most developed economies, such as the U.S., China, India, Turkey, France, the U.K. and Brazil, among others. President Donald Trump is among those expected to participate in the closed-door virtual sessions that are taking place on Saturday and Sunday. The COVID-19 pandemic has been an unprecedented shock that affected the entire world within a short period of time, causing global economic and social losses, said the Saudi monarch, who convened G-20 heads of state for an emergency meeting in March as the coronavirus was fast-spreading around the world. At the time, the recorded global death toll from the virus had just climbed past 22,000. G-20 leaders vowed to share information and the material needed for research, to exchange epidemiological and clinical data, and to strengthen health systems. They also promised to work together to increase funding for vaccine research. While quick research and sharing of scientific information for the development of COVID-19 tests and vaccines has happened, individual G-20 countries have mostly focused on securing their own vaccine supplies. King Salman urged G-20 leaders to provide support to developing countries in a coordinated manner. The Saudi monarch touted G-20 efforts to inject more than $ 11 trillion into the global economy this year as stimuli to support businesses and the most vulnerable. He also commended the group for extending protections to those most impacted by the global economic recession.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The End of an Era: unravelling the mysteries of India’s last days in Tibet||For a development as significant as the end of India’s presence in Tibet, the events surrounding the closure of India’s Consulate General in Lhasa in December 1962 still remain a small footnote in the history of that period, forgotten in the immediate aftermath of the war earlier that year.  The End of an Era: India Exits Tibet is the fourth volume of a sweeping work of research by the south India-based scholar Claude Arpi, who has drawn on official documents to write the most detailed history yet of India-Tibet relations from 1947 to 1962. In the book, Mr. Arpi notes that information about the Lhasa Consulate and this period in history remains scarce. “Unfortunately,” he laments, “the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) still zealously keeps classified all documents related to 1961-62.” He does, however, piece together the chain of events leading up to the fateful decision, which was, finally, conveyed “in a laconic note” from the MEA to a surprised Chinese Embassy in India, saying it had “decided to discontinue the Indian Consulates in Lhasa and Shanghai from December 15, 1962.” Mr. Arpi writes that even the Indian Embassy in Beijing appeared to be kept in the dark. The then charge d’affaires P.K. Banerjee, would write in his memoirs that Delhi took the call on Shanghai “because there was hardly any work to carry out.” Unsettled matters That certainly wasn’t the case in Tibet, at a time when, not only was being in Lhasa crucial in the aftermath of the war, but there was also the unsettled matter of 3,900 Indian PoWs in Tibet. In the memoirs, Mr. Banerjee suggests one reason could have been Delhi being “anxious” to close Chinese consulates in Mumbai and Kolkata because “they were indulging in activities other than consular work”, but that doesn’t explain why Delhi would voluntarily close Lhasa. What we do know is that in the lead up to the war, Indian officials in Lhasa began to come under increasing harassment from Chinese authorities. On October 9, 11 days before China launched its offensive, the consulate’s telegraphic lines were cut, as were its telephone lines and courier communication. All outsiders were barred from entering the Dekyilinka area where the mission was located, while supplies of essential commodities like milk and eggs were also stopped. On November 4, 1962, the MEA in a note complained this treatment was “against all established norms” and its staff were subject “to the most willful harassment by local Chinese authorities.” 1962 ceasefire Yet after the November 20, 1962 ceasefire, this would stop, Mr. Arpi notes, leaving unclear why the closure still went ahead. “These are among the many questions without answers,” he writes. Mr. Arpi traces the closure to India’s gradual withdrawal from Tibet, where it was also maintaining trade agencies in Yatung, Gyantse and Gartok under the 1954 agreement on trade and intercourse — now famous as the “Panchsheel” agreement — and its decision to not renew the agreement when it expired in April 1962. Beijing had offered a renewal, but India’s contention was that with every tenet of panchsheel violated by then — the MEA highlighted China’s actions in Aksai Chin starting in 1957-58 — it could not renew. The trade agencies, where Indians were coming under increasing restrictions, were all shut, and by the end of the year, the consulate would follow. India would later try unsuccessfully on numerous occasions to return to Lhasa. In 2006, Mr. Arpi notes, when both sides agreed to open new consulates, India suggested Lhasa but had to settle for Guangzhou, while China returned to Kolkata. As trade boomed, India had also returned to Shanghai and China reopened Mumbai, but Lhasa still remained off-limits. In 2015, an agreement was reached for India to open a consulate in Chengdu and for China to open one in Chennai, although that remains stalled. That year, India had again sought Lhasa but was turned down again, unable to return to the city it left under a cloud of mystery.
22 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Paddy procurement goes up by 18%||Almost two months after the kharif harvest procurement began, the level of paddy procurement is 18% higher than last year, according to Agriculture Ministry data. About 70% of rice procured so far is from Punjab, which is more than the entire procurement from the State last year. At the same time, more than 40% of rabi or winter season sowing is complete, with a 10% increase in acreage mostly coming from increased sowing of pulses this year. Paddy procurement began earlier than usual this year, starting on September 26 in Punjab and Haryana due to the early arrival of crops. So far, 295 lakh tonnes of paddy have been procured, in comparison to 250 lakh tonnes last year, recording an increase of 17.8%. Punjab alone has contributed 201 lakh tonnes, or 68.2% of the total. According to Food Corporation of India data, 133 lakh tonnes of rice have already been procured from Punjab so far this year, a 23% increase from the full amount of rice procured during the last kharif marketing season. (About two-thirds of the quantity of paddy is converted into rice.) 25.8 lakh benefited In total, 25.8 lakh farmers have benefited from the ongoing paddy procurement. There has also been a 17% increase in procurement of pulses and oilseeds in comparison to last year, with about 67,000 tonnes of moong, urad, groundnut and soybean having been procured so far, benefiting almost 40,000 farmers in Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Haryana and Rajasthan. Approval was given for 45 lakh tonnes of pulses and oilseeds to be procured this year under the price support scheme.
22 November 2020||ANDRAHAL,||Odisha tribe sees rise in migration||Perched at a height of 3,500ft above sea level in the hilly Malkangiri district of Odisha, this village is difficult to access and so are its inhabitants — the Bondas, a particularly vulnerable tribal group, known for their secluded lives away from the mainstream. However, the lack of access has not prevented young Bondas from being forced leave their pristine hamlets for low-paid jobs in distant towns of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and States even farther. The COVID-19 pandemic appears to have quickened the ‘distress’ migration. Sombari Muduli, 60, has visited the Malkangiri district headquarters, 80 km from her village, just once in her life. However, her 16-year-old daughter Gurubari has crossed State borders to work in prawn processing plant in Visakhapatnam. Without waiting for the COVID-19 pandemic to abate, Gurubari left her single room hut months ago. In her neighbourhood, Pradan Batri, 16, and Khuji Sisa, 17, too migrated to Andhra Pradesh immediately after the lockdown. The disturbing trend of distress migration has also caught up with Bonda students who were studying in residential schools before COVID-19 pandemic. According to Sada Hantal, a resident of Andrahal, students sat idle for months as they could not pursue their education due to lack of online facilities during the outbreak. “The moment they came in contact with labour agents, they did not take much time to decide. They brought down the curtain on their studies. Arjun Sisa (Class 8) and Krushna Sisia (Class 9) have already migrated to work,” Mr. Hantal said, adding that the list of students dropping out of school was growing. Markets closed Though the pandemic did not have much impact on Bondas as they mostly depend on government food subsidies, many were not able to sell their farm and and forest produce as the weekly markets remained closed for months during lockdown period. “I sell cashew nuts in bulk which takes care of our cash needs for round the year. Now, our needs are increasing too. To arrange more cash, my daughter had to migrate,” said Ms. Muduli. Former Malkangiri district collector Manish Agarwal, however, said the administration could not prevent individuals from migrating for better opportunities as long as the migrations are not distressed or under duress. “Bondas are extremely cautious about preserving their unique culture and tradition. We will take action if Bondas are being taken away for cheap labour,” Mr. Agarwal said. Given that the highland tribal community are extremely vulnerable, the Odisha government had set up a micro project to ensure focused development of Bondas as early as 1976-77. The Bonda Development Agency (BDA) covers 32 habitations (21 under Mudulipada, 9 under Andrahal, and one habitation each from Rasabeda and Baddural gram panchayats) in total from four gram panchayats. There are 1,919 Bonda households living in high reaches of Malkangiri. Little improvement However, despite years of goveafterrnment intervention, there has not been much visible development among Bondas. As per latest an evaluation conducted by Odisha’s Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Research and Training Institute (SCSTRTI), although Rs. 18.23 crore have been allotted to the BDA in last five years, only Rs. 11.57 crore have been spent, leaving Rs. 6.66 crore or 36.52% unutilised. It clearly shows the BDA does not have capacity to spend funds even though the livelihood options for the Bondas have reduced. One of the major reasons has been the lack of coordination with other departments to improve the life and livelihood of the group. Of the 32 habitations, 16 villages do not have all weather roads and hamlets can be accessed only by rough footpaths. “If migration is taken as the single largest indicator to assess the livelihood status of a community, it is seen that the incidence of migration has increased over the years amongst the Bonda households,” the SCSTRTI said. As per the study, 221 Bondas have migrated from seven sample villages in 2019-20 alone.
22 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Sabarimala shrine witnesses highest footfall of the season||Seven days after the annual pilgrim season began at Sabarimala, the Ayyappa temple on Saturday witnessed the highest daily footfall with 2,000 pilgrims visiting the shrine. Unlike the previous days, the Valiyanadapandal leading to the temple witnessed a moderate rush during the morning hours. Except on weekends, the daily number of pilgrims to the temple has been limited to 1,000. In view of the COVID-19 situation, 351 markings were made at the location to ensure physical distancing between the devotees. Arrangements are also in place for the devotees to help them clean their legs and hands. The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) is distributing free meals to the pilgrims at the Sannidhanam, Pampa and Nilackal. Seats for devotees have been arranged in line with the COVID-19 protocol while the food is served in disinfected plates. Food is served at the Sannidhanam from 5.30 a.m. till 9 p.m., when the temple closes for the day. The Annadana Mandapam, near Malikappuram, in the Sannidhanam currently employs 40 people, including Travancore Devaswom Board staff and temporary staff, for the preparation and distribution of food. Food distribution at Pampa begins by 7 p.m. and ends at 10 p.m. There are currently 20 people on board, including Devaswom staff and temporary staff, for cooking and serving food. At Nilackal, a team of 15 people led by TDB Administrative Officer G. Binu has been entrusted with the preparation and distribution of food. Meanwhile, the Pathanamthitta District Medical Office has erected boards and banners in six different languages at different locations, including the trekking route, to create awareness on COVID-19 guidelines and other health emergencies. This is in addition to the announcements at Pampa, Nilackal and the Sannidhanam in various languages and the social media campaign.
22 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||We have nowhere to go, says dancer||Having lived in the Gulmohar Park house allotted to her in Delhi since 2004 under the quota for artistes, Bharatanatyam dancer and teacher Rani Shinghal said it came as a shock to her when she received a notice from the Directorate of Estates to vacate by December 31. “We were allotted accommodation for being artistes of eminence, but now we are being called unauthorised occupants,” she said. Ms. Shinghal is among the 21 eminent artistes, including Kathak exponent Birju Maharaj and painter Jatin Das, who have been asked to leave their government-allotted houses by December 31 for over-staying. The artistes have maintained that they have been paying licence fee to the DoE regularly and were not given any prior notice. Ms. Shinghal said she received the notice on November 2 and replied to it on November 9 saying that she would not be able to vacate. “Where will we go? We have no other house in Delhi. This is our place of work,” she said. ‘No pension’ She added that artistes like her did not have pensions or provident funds and had continued to practise their art from their homes. Under the artistes quota, the Culture Ministry recommends eminent artistes to the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry’s DoE for allotting houses. The houses were allotted for an initial period of three years starting from the 1970s to 2004, with extensions being given over the years. The artistes had to have an income of less than Rs. 20,000 a month and not own any other house in the National Capital Region. “We were not informed that the Culture Ministry did not give recommendations since 2014. We were also not informed that our licence fees were increased and only came to know when they told us that we had to pay lakhs in arrears. They have increased our fees to Rs. 15,000 a month while expecting our income to be less than Rs. 20,000,” she said. Pandemic woes She added that since the COVID-19 pandemic started and classes had to be cancelled at Natya Sudha, the institute started by her father — the late N.V. Venkatraman — in 1959 and run by her now, there had been no income for the past seven months. Plea for extension “We are not against the government giving accommodation to other artistes. They should have told us earlier; now we won’t find any other house. We want justice. They should give us an extension and come up with a solution, like giving us alternative accommodation,” Ms. Shinghal said. Earlier, Union Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel had said the artists would be asked to vacate by December 31 or pay market rent. The licence fee charged by the Directorate of Estates is far lower than the market rate. Mr. Patel had said the criteria for selection would be revisited once the houses were vacated.
22 November 2020||Srinagar,||Opposition candidates being detained: Farooq||National Conference (NC) president and Peoples Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) chairman Farooq Abdullah on Saturday approached the State Election Commission (SEC) and alleged that Opposition candidates contesting the District Development Council (DDC) polls were being prevented from campaigning. “Security cannot and should not be used as a tool or an excuse to interfere in democratic processes. It is a desecration of the sacrifices [made in Kashmir] when the very conflict that consumed their lives is used as an alibi to customise democracy,” Dr. Abdullah wrote in a letter to SEC Commissioner K.K Sharma. He alleged that candidates put up by the PAGD, comprising seven political parties, including the NC and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), were immediately whisked away to “secure locations in the name of security and confined.” “They are not allowed to canvass. The current state of affairs in the realm of security is blatantly oriented towards providing security to a select few and confining others,” Dr. Abdullah said. Elections from Nov. 28 Jammu and Kashmir is witnessing its maiden DDC polls and bypolls for panchayat and urban bodies from November 28. PDP president Mehbooba Mufti has also accused the police of detaining candidates fielded by the party. “The government of India is sabotaging participation of non-BJP parties in DDC polls. PDP’s Bashir Ahmed, despite having adequate security, has been detained at Pahalgam on the pretext of security,” Ms. Mufti said. Another party leader Rouf Bhat was summoned to the police station and asked to report everyday till the Srinagar Municipal Corporation polls are over. “Is this going to be the new norm for elections in J&K?” she asked. However, the police described Bhat as “a released militant.” “Bhat was called for updating of his personal profile, as he was associated with the Hizbul Mujahideen,” the police said. Peoples Conference chairman and PAGD spokesperson Sajad Gani Lone also accused the government of harassing candidates.
22 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Honour for Bhutan’s Queen Mother||In a first for the Himalayan Kingdom, and a rare honour in the subcontinent, Bhutan’s Queen Mother Gyalyum Sangay Choden Wangchuck has been awarded the United Nations Population Award in the individual category for 2020 for her work on sexual health and ending gender violence. The awardee in the organisational category is HelpAge India that works on elder care. Only two Indians have been awarded in the past four decades since the award was established in 1981: former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in 1983 and industrialist-philanthropist J.R.D.Tata in 1992. “It is of great honour to our region as the recipients of the prestigious UNFPA Population award this year, both in the individual and institutional category are from the Indian sub-continent,” the Bhutanese Queen Mother, who will receive the UN award on December 10, told The Hindu , in replies to questions from Thimphu. “I am truly humbled by this recognition for the achievements that Bhutan has made over the past decade in the areas of sexual and reproductive health.” Enabling environment In particular, the UN Population Fund (UNFPA) that announced the award said Gyalyum Sangay Choden, popularly called “Ashi Sangay” (Princess Sangay) has been recognised for creating “an enabling environment to openly discuss sexual reproductive health in the [Bhutanese] kingdom” and for founding a volunteer organisation called ‘Respect, Educate, Nurture and Empower Women’ (RENEW). Since its start in 2004, RENEW has been involved in spreading sexual education amongst students, ensuring reproductive healthcare for women and counselling services. India has supported RENEW through the Embassy in Thimphu, and helped construct the RENEW crisis centre as well as Bhutan’s first shelter for victims of gender-based violence, “Gawailing Happy Home”. Gyalyum Sangay Choden Wangchuck,57, is the youngest of four sisters, all married to Bhutan’s former monarch, the Fourth King Jigme Singye Wangchuck, who abdicated in favour of his son Jigme Khesar Namgyel Wangchuck in 2006. Despite the abdication, each of the Bhutanese royals stays engaged with public engagements and charity work, and much of Ashi Sangay’s work is supported by the Fourth and Fifth Kings and the Bhutanese government, as well as foreign grants. In 1999, the Queen Mother was appointed UNFPA Goodwill Ambassador. Recounting the beginning of her fieldwork, which she clearly takes beyond celebrity endorsements and photo-ops, Ashi Sangay said sexual and reproductive issues were considered “taboo subjects” in Bhutan. Challenging years Although the first case of HIV/AIDS in the country was detected in 1993, it was hardly spoken of. The numbers have grown to about 627 cases last year, a reason for some concern in a small country with a population of just 7,71,000 people. “The initial years were very challenging as there was an inherent denial and non-acceptance to address sexual and reproductive health issues which were obviously prevalent in our society,” Ashi Sangay, told The Hindu . “Some of my travels have involved perilous journeys on foot, pony and even yaks through unforgiving terrain. Through these very personal interactions I was able to identify the needs of the people,” she adds, explaining the start of RENEW. While Bhutanese women enjoy a status, a place in the workforce and property rights that are considered more equitable than much of the SAARC region, there are growing concerns about violence. A 2017 study by Bhutan’s National Commission for Women and Children found that 14% of women surveyed had suffered physical violence that year, 4.5% suffered sexual violence and more than 72% had never sought help for it. It is that gap that Ashi Sangay says she is trying to bridge, even as RENEW grapples with the new challenge of the coronavirus pandemic. Although Bhutan has not had a single COVID-19 related death, she says an increase in domestic violence against women and girls, who were forced to stay at home during the lockdown, has been a growing concern, and her group of about 3,000 volunteers are trying to visit as many homes as possible as a way to monitor their situation.
22 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED conducts searches in J&K Bank case||The Enforcement Directorate conducted searches at seven places in Kashmir on Saturday in connection with a case related to suspicious transactions in the J&K Bank. “Of them, six are in Srinagar and one is in Ananatnag district,” said an official. The ED probe is based on an FIR registered by the Srinagar CID against officials of the J&K Bank and others. It is alleged that the bank’s accounts were used for routing money belonging to public servants as well as some private parties. Bank officials deliberately did not raise alerts, as is required under the anti-money laundering norms. The money laundering probe had revealed that the transactions in many of these bank accounts were not genuine. Based on the findings, the agency searched the premises of Mohammed Ibrahim Dar, Murtaza Enterprises, Azad Agro Traders, M&M Cottage Industries and Mohammed Sultan Teli. “The parties covered under searches are involved in the hospitality and agro-based industries, civil construction and real estate. Statements of the persons covered in the searches are being recorded,” the official said.
22 November 2020||Kolkata,||Jobs for kin of wildlife conflict victims||The West Bengal government has announced that 434 next of kin of persons killed in conflict with wildlife will get jobs with the State police. According to a government notification released on Friday, 584 persons were killed in the State in human-wildlife conflict over the past five years. The 434 next of kin will be appointed as home guard volunteers in the West Bengal police. The decision to provide jobs to 74.3% of families of those killed in conflict with wildlife comes just months ahead of the Assembly polls in the State. More than the timing, the decision is likely to have an impact on wildlife conservation and raises concerns over whether giving jobs to victims’ families, can lead to better wildlife management and mitigating the conflict. The data on human deaths provided by the State government seems to be in consonance with data tabled in Rajya Sabha earlier this year, where it was pointed out that three States account to almost half (48%) of human deaths when it comes to human-elephant conflict over the past five years from 2014-15 to 2018-19. West Bengal has the highest number of human casualties at 403, followed by Odisha with 397 and Assam with 332 deaths due to elephant attacks, as per the data tabled in the Upper House in February, 2020. According to the State government’s notification 434 people from 11 districts will be appointed of which 205 persons are from five north Bengal districts. Most candidates from the families of those killed are from Jalpaiguri (96), followed by Alipurduar (73) in north Bengal. Twenty-six people in Darjeeling will get jobs followed by eight in Kalimpong and two in Coochbehar. Districts like Jalpiaguri and Alipurduar where forests are intersected by tea gardens with habitations on its fringes are hot spots of encounters with elephants. Similarly, in south Bengal districts, Bankura where 62 candidates have been selected, Paschim Medinipur (47) and Jhargram (46) are other areas of human-elephant conflict. Tiger in Sunderbans The notification also points out that 66 persons whose family members died in South 24 Parganas will be given jobs. Senior forest officials said most of these deaths are due to human-tiger encounters in the Sunderbans region, the mangrove forests home to Royal Bengal Tigers. “There may be one or two deaths due to crocodile deaths but most deaths are due to tiger attacks,” a forest official said.
22 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CPI(M) sees attempt by ED to incriminate Pinarayi||CPI(M) State secretariat on Saturday accused the Enforcement Directorate (ED) of being part of a criminal plot to sabotage the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. A voice clip that surfaced in the public domain recently pointed to a deep-rooted conspiracy to undermine the democratically elected government by implicating Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in a false case. (The voice supposedly belonged to gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh. The narrator had accused Central agencies of coercing her into giving a false and incriminating statement against Mr. Vijayan.) The ED’s ‘informal’ rejoinder to the audio clipping that appeared in media on Saturday did not deny the intrigue to unseat the LDF government. Instead, the ED's purported version echoed the theme of the coordinated campaign of subversion unleashed by the BJP and the Congress to unsettle the LDF government. The CPI(M) said the special judge for the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in Kochi appeared to have treated the baseless claims of the ED with a measure of scepticism. The CPI(M) said another accused in the case (M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Mr. Vijayan) had told the court that the ED had attempted to pressurise him into giving a statement that would enable the agency to embroil the political leadership in its anti-money-laundering investigations. The deposition, when seen in conjunction with that of Swapna's averments, threw light on the plot against the government. The ED's claim that the audio clipping was a conspiracy to undermine its integrity was laughable. By leaking cherry-picked portions of the statements of the accused to the media, the agency had damaged its credibility on its own, the CPI(M) said.
22 November 2020||KOCHI,||ED to serve notice on C.M. Raveendran||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) will issue notice again to C.M. Raveendran, additional private secretary to Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, to appear at its office here as part of its probe into the money laundering and layering aspects of the UAE gold smuggling case. The agency had reportedly asked him to appear on November 6. However, it was delayed after Mr. Raveendran informed the ED that he was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The ED has now received a communication from him stating that he has tested negative but will remain in home quarantine till November 26. A decision on the date of summoning Mr. Raveendran will be taken by the agency on Monday. IT projects The ED wanted to quiz the Chief Minister’s additional private secretary following the arrest and subsequent interrogation of M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister. Even though the investigating team remained tight-lipped on Mr. Raveendran’s role in the case, it is learnt that they are keen to probe his role in the allotment and funding for some of the flagship projects initiated by the Information Technology Department. The agency would also investigate whether Mr. Raveendran had any links with Swapna Suresh, the key accused in the gold smuggling case.
22 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||High testing levels stressed to prevent second wave||Kerala’s test positivity rate of 9.59% for COVID-19 was reflected in 5,722 new cases on Saturday from testing of 60,210 samples. The test positivity rate was 9%-10% for the past three days. COVID-19 deaths on Saturday rose again as 25 more fatalities were added. Seven deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, five from Alappuzha, four from Kozhikode, three from Palakkad, two each from Malappuram and Kottayam and one each from Thrissur and Kollam. Ernakulam topped the districts on incidence with 797 new cases, Malappuram 764 cases, Kozhikode 710, Thrissur 483, Palakkad 478, Kollam 464, Kottayam 423, Thiruvananthapuram 399, Alappuzha 383, Pathanamthitta 216, Kannur 211, Idukki 188, Wayanad 152 and Kasaragod 104 cases. Andhra Pradesh added 1,160 infections and seven deaths on Saturday. The total samples tested, at 95,43,177, had a positivity rate of 9.02%, while 68,307 fresh samples tested had 1.70%. Chittoor reported two deaths and Anantapur, East Godavari, Guntur, Kadapa and Krishna one death each. Telangana recorded 925 cases and three deaths on Friday. There were 161 cases in Greater Hyderabad , 91 in Medchal Malkajgiri, 75 in Rangareddy and five in Medak. Karnataka’s total tests crossed one crore on Saturday, but experts wanted continued high testing till March to avoid a second wave. The test positivity rate (TPR) was 1.46% in the last three days. The State reported 1,781 new cases and 20 new deaths on Saturday. The day’s test positivity rate was 1.42%.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad and Bengaluru bureaus)
22 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka HC castigates KPTCL for denying terminal benefits to employee for 21 years||Observing that Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Ltd. (KPTCL) had left a retired employee “fall on the thorns of life and bleed” by not paying terminal benefits even 21 years after retirement, the High Court of Karnataka set a two-week deadline to pay all that is due to him. The KPTCL will have to pay 9% interest on the entire amount due to 77-year-old K.T. Thimmaiah since his retirement in 1999, the court said while directing the corporation to pay him Rs. 50,000 as costs. “To quote Shakespeare from the Fall of Wolsey, with a slight variation to suit the context ‘Had I served my God with half the zeal that I served my King, I would not have fallen in these days of impecuniosities’, is the cry of the petitioner in this petition,” observed Justice M. Nagaprasanna while allowing the petition. The court also observed that “the KPTCL has procrastinated beyond imagination to release terminal benefits of the petitioner without any justifiable reason”. “Terminal benefits will enable a retired employee to live a life free from want, with decency, independence, and self-respect. Depriving such right to livelihood, will leave a pensioner fall on the thorns of life and bleed,” the court observed. Mr. Thimmaiah’s legal fight began after he was terminated from service on May 24, 1999 for misconduct and theft without holding any inquiry when he was working as a storekeeper in Bengaluru in the erstwhile Karnataka Electricity Board. The court delivered the verdict in his favour in January 2000, directing the authorities to take action after inquiry and by then he had retired from service on June 30, 1999. Thereafter, he approached the High Court three more times as the authorities without holding any inquiry went on denying retirement benefits and pension by stating that the amount was adjusted towards loss caused owing to his alleged misdeeds. Finally, the authorities in 2015 dropped disciplinary proceedings and held that he was entitled for pension. But terminal benefits remained unpaid despite repeated representations, prompting him to knock the doors of the court in 2018 with this petition, which was the fifth one.
22 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||VACB probe politically motivated: Chennithala||Leader of Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has termed politically motivated the move of the government to initiate a Vigilance probe against him and former Ministers K. Babu and V.S. Sivakumar on the basis of the revelations made by hotelier Biju Ramesh in the bar bribery scam. Mr. Chennithala said on Saturday that he was ready to face any probe. He claimed that the probe was based on bogus claims originally made by Mr. Ramesh six years ago. A preliminary investigation had now been ordered despite there being no new disclosure, he claimed at a press meet. “The complainant had then released an audio clip that was found to be fake following forensic examinations in the State and in Ahmedabad. The revelations were investigated by the LDF government and the previous United Democratic Front government. They were dismissed by the Vigilance and Anti Corruption Bureau (VACB) due to lack of evidence when Jacob Thomas and N. Shankar Reddy were at its helm,” he said. ‘Sub-judice’ Considering that the cases were pending before the Kerala High Court and the Thiruvananthapuram Vigilance court, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s action amounted to sub-judice, Mr. Chennithala said. He accused the LDF government of scuttling the ongoing probes ino the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case by misusing its various agencies.
22 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Trade unions call for nationwide strike||A joint committee of 10 central trade unions have given a call for a nationwide general strike on November 26 in protest against the Central government’s policies including new labour and farm laws and privatisation of public sector units. In a press meet on Saturday, union leaders said workers from all sectors, except those involved in essential services, would take part in the strike. Besides 10 major trade unions, employees’ organisations in the banking, insurance, and railway sectors and State and Central government institutions would take part. Taxi drivers and workers from the unorganised sector too would participate. An estimated 1.6 crore workers will be part of the 24-hour strike, which will start from November 25 midnight. The leaders requested owners of private vehicles to keep off the road, except in cases of emergency. Considering the upcoming local body polls in Kerala, the strike would be organised without disrupting the activities of the State Election Commission. Unions taking part The participating unions include Centre of Indian Trade Unions, All India Trade Union Congress, Indian National Trade Union Congress, Hind Mazdoor Sabha, All India United Trade Union Centre, Trade Union Coordination Centre, Self-Employed Women's Association, All India Central Council of Trade Unions , Labour Progressive Federation (LPF) and United Trade Union Congress .
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Ayurveda PGs will perform surgeries soon||Postgraduate students in Ayurveda will now be trained and allowed to perform a variety of general surgery, ENT, ophthalmology, and dental procedures. The decision comes after the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) amended the Indian Medicine Central Council (Post Graduate Ayurveda Education) Regulations, 2016, to include the regulation to allow PG students of Ayurveda to practise general surgery. “The CCIM, with the previous sanction of the Central Government, makes the following regulations to amend the Indian Medicine Central Council (Post Graduate Ayurveda Education) Regulations, 2016,” the notification said. The Act has been renamed Indian Medicine Central Council (Post Graduate Ayurveda Education) Amendment Regulations, 2020. The notification, issued on November 19, states that students will be trained in two streams of surgery and would be awarded titles of MS (Ayurved) Shalya Tantra — (General Surgery and MS (Ayurved) Shalakya Tantra (Disease of Eye, Ear, Nose, Throat, Head and Oro-Dentistry). Procedures to be taught The list of procedures that will be taught include — all types of skin grafting, ear lobe repair, excision of simple cyst and benign tumours (lipoma, fibroma, schwannoma, etc.) of non-vital organs, excision/amputation of gangrene, traumatic wound management — all types of suturing, ligation and repair of tendon and muscles, foreign body removal from stomach, colostomy, cataract surgery, local anesthesia in the eye, rhinoplasty, hair lip repair, loose tooth extraction, carries tooth/teeth, root canal treatment. The Indian Medical Association has been opposing the Centre’s move to allow traditional systems of Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) to offer allopathic therapies and treatment. IMA in its release on Saturday has demanded the withdrawal of the order. It added that “corrupting modern medicine by mixing with other systems and poaching the disciplines of modern medicine through back door means is foul play”.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||‘T.N. Governor can decide on Perarivalan’s release’||The CBI affidavit said Perarivalan is “not the subject matter of the further investigation carried out by the MDMA”. “The further investigation conducted by the MDMA is only limited to the mandate provided by the Jain Commission Report,” the agency said. The Jain Commission of Inquiry had recommended further probe into the killing. Its mandate included the monitoring/ tracking of absconding persons suspected of the crime, probe into the role of 21 Sri Lankan and Indian suspects identified by the Commission, looking into the delay in the interception of messages, among other things. The CBI clarified that it did not receive any request from the Governor’s office to divulge the status or details of the investigation. The probe is spread across several countries. The agency said it cannot reveal the details anyway. A June 1999 order of the designated TADA Court in Chennai prevents it from doing so. The proceedings are held in-camera. However, a status report has been filed in the Supreme Court. The CBI has thus agreed with the apex court's oral remarks that the probe into the larger conspiracy does not concern convicts like Perarivalan. “Larger conspiracy probe is only to prove if any other people are involved. It is not for them [people already convicted],” Justice L. Nageswara Rao, leading a three-judge Bench, had observed orally during a hearing on November 3. Perarivalan had applied to the Governor for pardon on December 30, 2015. Almost three years later, on September 2018, the Supreme Court asked the Governor to decide the pardon plea as he “deemed fit”. Three days after this court order, on September 9, the Tamil Nadu Cabinet recommended to the Governor to remit Mr. Perarivalan's sentence and release him forthwith. “However, it seems neither the recommendation was signed by the Tamil Nadu Governor neither the order of September 6 has been honoured by Governor for the past two years,” an application filed by Perarivalan, through his lawyer, Prabu Ramasubramanian, said. On January 20, the apex court had sought information from Tamil Nadu, represented by Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan and Yogesh Kanna, on the steps taken by the Governor pursuant to the September 6 order and the Cabinet’s recommendation. In February, the State government informed the court that the Cabinet recommendation had been sent to the Governor for his signature. The court had responded by asking the State to ensure that the Cabinet decision to release Perarivalan is enforced. The court is scheduled to hear the case on Monday.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Panel bats for laws to counter bio-terrorism||The plethora of guidelines issued by the Health Ministry caused confusion and chaos, the report noted. Many of these guidelines were contradictory and different quarantine rules imposed by the State governments added to the panic, the report said. The committee has also pulled up the Union Health Ministry for “grossly inadequate” number of hospital beds in government hospitals. Citing an example, the report said, “The committee is pained to observe that in RML Hospital, out of 1,572 beds, only 242 were dedicated COVID-19 beds whereas in Safdarjung Hospital, out of 2,873 beds, only 289 were reserved for COVID-19 patients. The committee fails to understand the rationale behind the miniscule number of beds reserved for COVID-19 patients in the Central government hospitals, especially at a time when the number of patients was increasing rapidly in the capital city.” Since the demand for oxygen cylinders has reported an exponential increase, the committee has strongly advocated that necessary measures be taken to cap their price.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Punjab farmers to lift rail blockade tomorrow||Mr. Singh added that members of farmers’ outfits would continue to stage protests outside the residences of BJP leaders and business establishments of ‘corporates’. “Besides, we are all set for the protest on November 26-27 in Delhi,” he said. Soon after the announcement by the outfits, Capt. Amarinder Singh urged the Central government to reciprocate by restoring all train services in the State, and also to hold further talks with the farmer representatives to resolve the crisis over the farm laws. Capt. Singh assured the farmer leaders that he would meet the Prime Minister and the Union Home Minister soon to press for their demands. “Let us together put pressure on the Centre to see our point of view and understand how these laws would ruin Punjab,” he said, adding that he was with the farmers in their fight. “We all have farmer blood in our veins,” he said. Other demands The Chief Minister also promised the farmer representatives that he would look into their other demands, including those relating to sugarcane price hike and clearance of dues, as well as withdrawal of FIRs registered in stubble burning cases. He said he would hold talks with them on these issues within the next one week, and would also set up a committee of officers to discuss the matter. In his appeal earlier, the Chief Minister said his government would not interfere in their peaceful agitation, which was their democratic right. T erming the fight against the Central legislations a partnership between the State government and the farmers, he said: “We have to protect Punjab’s interests together.” The railway blockade had caused Rs. 40,000 crore in losses to the State so far.
22 November 2020||Islamabad,||Pak. summons Indian envoy, rejects charge||Pakistan on Saturday summoned the Charge d’Affaires of the Indian High Commission and rejected India’s assertion that Pakistan-based terror group Jaish-e-Mohammed was planning to carry out attacks in Jammu and Kashmir ahead of local elections there. The move came hours after India summoned the Charge d’Affaires of the Pakistan High Commission in New Delhi and demanded that Pakistan desist from its policy of supporting terrorists and terror groups operating from its territory and dismantle the terror infrastructure operated by terrorist outfits to launch attacks in other countries. Pakistan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs in a statement rejected the charge and expressed the hope that India would desist from making any miscalculation. Earlier in New Delhi, the Ministry of External Affairs, referring to the Nagrota incident, told the senior Pakistani diplomat that the huge cache of arms, ammunition and explosive material indicate detailed planning for a “major attack to destabilise peace and security” in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir... to derail the ongoing democratic exercise of conduct of local district development council polls.
22 November 2020||Mumbai,||Comedian Bharti Singh arrested in drug case||Comedian Bharti Singh was arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau on Saturday for possession and consumption of cannabis. This was confirmed to The Hindu by Sameer Wankhede, the Indian Revenue Services officer leading the investigation. Mr. Wankhede said Ms Bharti’s husband Harsh Limbachiya was still being questioned by the NCB. Their residence and official premises were searched and 86 grams of cannabis was found. Ms. Bharti was arrested under several provisions of the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. “Both Ms. Bharti Singh and her husband Harsh Limbachiya admitted to consumption of ganja,” an NCB release said. The quantity allegedly seized from Ms. Singh’s possession is considered “small.” Up to 1,000 gm of ganja is considered small quantity and attracts a jail term of up to six months and/or fine of Rs. 10,000. Possession of commercial quantity — 20 kg or more — can attract up to 20 years in jail.
22 November 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Central team in Gujarat as COVID-19 cases surge||A three-member Central team met top officials in Gujarat in the wake of a surge in COVID-19 infections, as the State imposed weekend curfew in Ahmedabad and night curfew in major cities to contain the pandemic. The team — led by Dr. Sujeet Kumar Singh, Director of the National Centre for Disease Control — met senior officials of the State Health Department in Gandhinagar and visited the civic body-run SVP Hospital in Ahmedabad, where several patients have been admitted. According to Dr. Singh, the team will make a realistic assessment of the situation after getting feedback from the ground. “We met the State Principal Secretary, the Health Commissioner, the Municipal Commissioner and other senior Health Department officials, and discussed the COVID-19 situation in Gujarat. They have shared detailed information on how the number of cases rose and told us about the measures taken by the State,” Dr. Singh said. Meanwhile, Gujarat on Saturday recorded its highest daily case load of 1,515 new infections and nine deaths. The total number of cases rose to 1,95,917 while the fatality count has touched 3,846.  The daily life came to a standstill in Ahmedabad as the curfew progressed.
22 November 2020||Agartala,||One killed as jawans fire at protesters in Tripura||One person was killed and two others suffered bullet injuries on Saturday when jawans of the Tripura State Rifles fired at a huge mob that turned violent while protesting against a plan to settle Bru refugees from Mizoram in the Kanchanpur subdivision in north Tripura. The deceased has been identified as Srikanta Das, a resident of Kanchanpur. Twenty-three people, including 15 police and fire service personnel, were injured in subsequent clashes between the police and the protesters. The injured were admitted to two hospitals of the district. Police said a staff member of the fire service department was critically wounded in mob fury and later succumbed to his injuries. Police claimed protesters damaged five security vehicles. The incident occurred when at least 15,000 protesters marched to Chamtilla in the adjacent Panisagar subdivision to block the Assam-Tripura National Highway. The Joint Movement Committee (JMC) spearheaded the strike that had started in Kanchanpur on November 16 against the government’s plan to rehabilitate 5,000 Brus.
22 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Cong. activists lathicharged in Hyderabad Corpn. ward||Police resorted to mild lathicharge as Congress workers protested in Gajularamaram ward of GHMC on Saturday morning over disqualification of party candidate Kuna Srinivas Goud from the ward during scrutiny. He is former MLA Kuna Srisailam Goud’s brother. Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) had announced Srinivas Goud’s name as contestant from the Gajularamaram (Ward number 125) in the first list issued on November 18 and he filed the nomination on Thursday. However, police said that, someone filed an objection that Mr Goud mentioned in the nomination that he has only two children though he has three children. The rule book Telangana State Election Commission states that a person having more than two children shall be disqualified for contesting elections as per provisions under Section 21-B of GHMC Act, 1955. However, exception is given to those with more than two children who were born before June 1, 1994. “We allowed their lawyer into the GHMC office. A little later, MP A Revanth Reddy and Mr Srisailam Goud too wanted to go into the office. We asked them to wait till the lawyer returned. More than 100 members of the party protested. When they entered the 100-metre limits of the GHMC office, we resorted to mild lathicharge. We did not act under pressure from anybody,” police said.  When they entered the 100-metre limits of the GHMC office, we resorted to mild lathicharge. We did not act under pressure from anybody. Police
22 November 2020||Bengaluru,||More conservation areas for medicinal plants mooted||The Karnataka Biodiversity Board (KBB) has recommended increasing the number of conservation areas of medicinal plants in the State from the existing 10 to at least 30 with one medicinal plants conservation area in each district. It has also recommended identifying in Kannada medicinal plants found in the State. The KBB, on Saturday, submitted to the State government the report ‘Assessment of population status and removal of bioresources in forest with special emphasis on medicinal plants in Karnataka’ under the project ‘Distribution of Medicinal Plant Resources in the Forests of Karnataka.’ The project was sponsored by National Medicinal Plants Board (NMPB). The project included a survey of identifying medicinal plant species diversity and assessing their population and availability in forests of the State. The project has information on the medicinal plants (trees, shrubs and herbs) at the the beat, range, division, circle and State levels. The report has recommended formulation of Circle-wise Status Report and State-Level Status Report using the data and information available now. Anant Hegde Asisara, Chairman, KBB, said the project had produced a credible baseline data on the availability, distribution and estimation of population density of medicinal plants species in the State. “Out of the 4,800 flowering plants species found in Karnataka, around 2,000 species have high medicinal values. Until now, we did not have any quantitative data on the species. The report has prepared it,” he said.
22 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rethink move, says RSS wing||Sanskar Bharti, a Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) affiliate, on Saturday came out in support of artistes facing eviction and urged the government to re-think its decision. Amid the pandemic, decisions that add to their problems shouldn’t be taken, it said.
22 November 2020||Srinagar,||Soldier killed, three injured in Pak. firing||One soldier was killed and another was injured on Saturday in Pakistan Army’s firing along the Line of Control (LoC) in the Pir Panjal valley’s Rajouri district. “Pakistan Army resorted to unprovoked ceasefire violation on the LoC in Nowshera Sector of Rajouri. Our troops responded strongly to the enemy fire,” a Jammu-based Army spokesperson said. The Army said Havaldar Patil Sangram Shivaji was critically injured in the firing. “He later succumbed to his injuries,” the spokesperson said. The soldier hailed from Maharashtra. In a statement, a defence spokesman said Havaldar Shivaji, a resident of Nigave village in Kolhapur, was a brave, highly motivated and sincere soldier. “The nation will always remain indebted to him for his supreme sacrifice and devotion to duty,” he said. Meanwhile, two women were injured in Pakistan firing in the Poonch secor in the evening. They were identified as Mansha Bi, 18, and Sakina Bi, 40. “They are undergoing treatment at hospital,” officials said. (With PTI inputs)
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Grand offering||
22 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||GHMC polls: 90 nomination papers rejected||A total of 90 nomination papers for the December 1 GHMC polls were rejected by the election authorities following scrutiny of papers on Saturday. According to an official statement, a total of 2,575 nomination papers were filed by 1,893 candidates. Officials rejected papers filed by 90 of them due to discrepancies and false information. After the scrutiny, the number of nominations found valid were 539 from BJP candidates, 527 from TRS, 348 from Congress, 202 from TDP, 72 from AIMIM, 143 from recognised and registered political parties, 613 from independents, 22 from CPI and 19 from CPI(M). Sunday is the last day for withdrawal of nominations. Cong. complaint A delegation of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) led by its president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy submitted a complaint to State Election Commissioner C. Parthasarathi on Saturday against TRS, alleging that flex sign boards and other publicity material on government schemes are still up. Meanwhile, the SEC has given instructions to returning officers of all divisions of GHMC to issue postal ballot papers to persons (voters) with disabilities, persons aged above 80 years and COVID-19 positive persons on demand. Persons with disabilities and persons aged above 80 years, however, could also cast their vote personally by visiting the polling stations. SEC authorities have issued instructions to make arrangements such as ramps and wheelchairs for casting of vote by such persons along with mothers with babies in arms. COVID-19 positive persons are also allowed to cast their vote personally by wearing mask, face shield and gloves between 5 p.m. and 6 p.m. on the polling day.
22 November 2020||Jaipur,||IAS couple Tina Dabi, Athar Aamir to divorce||IAS officers Tina Dabi and Athar Aamir-ul-Shafi Khan, who had tied the knot in 2018, have filed for divorce by mutual consent in a family court in Jaipur. Both of them are officers of the Rajasthan cadre. Ms. Dabi, 27, had stood first in the Union Public Service Commission’s examination in 2015, while Mr. Khan, 28, who hails from Kashmir, had come second. The couple’s wedding made headlines when it was hailed as an example of communal harmony.
22 November 2020||Lucknow,||Hathras rape victim’s family living in fear: PUCL||A civil rights body on Saturday claimed that members of the Hathras rape victim’s family were living in conditions akin to house arrest and they feared for their lives once the CRPF cover given to them was withdrawn. The People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) also released a report on the state of investigation into the case. The PUCL demanded security for the family and their rehabilitation through the Nirbhaya fund, adding their normal social life was cut off.
22 November 2020||New Delhi,||Petrol, diesel price hiked for second day in a row||Petrol price on Saturday was hiked by 15 paise per litre and diesel by 20 paise, the second straight day of increase in rates after firming international oil rates broke nearly a two-month-long hiatus in price revision. The price of petrol in Delhi was hiked to Rs. 81.38 per litre from Rs. 81.23, according to a notification from oil marketing companies. Diesel rates went up from Rs. 70.68 to Rs. 70.88 per litre.PTI
22 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Police Commissioner swings into action to regulate crowd||City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Saturday swung into action to regulate the crowd that had thronged the Labour Statue signal minutes before the convoy of Union Home Minister Amit Shah was to arrive. Traffic policemen had a tough time regulating traffic. After the end of a public event, the convoys of Mr. Amit Shah and Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami were moving slowly as the leaders responded to the cheering crowd on Kamarajar Salai and Walajah Road. Many citizens complained about traffic jams across the city because of the visit of Mr. Amit Shah. “People have to suffer every time a political leader visits the city. Though the police are aware of the visit and the schedule beforehand, it is surprising that no traffic arrangements were made,” said Prabhu, a resident of Adyar. Many residents felt the Union Home Minister could have avoided the visit during the COVID-19 pandemic. “Traffic came to a standstill for nearly one hour on the GST Road near the airport. An ambulance was stuck. It is high time senior politicians understood the plight of the common man,” said A. Raghavan, a motorist who was stuck at Meenambakam. Traffic was affected between 1.30 p.m and 3 p.m. on the GST Road near Alandur, Meenambakkam, Pallavaram and Pazhavanthangal that witnessed an unprecedented traffic snarl-up as the police stopped traffic for the movement of the convoy. A couple of ambulances were reportedly struck in the gridlock.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Shah inaugurates several projects for T.N.||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday dedicated a new reservoir at Kannankottai-Therovy Kandigai in Tiruvallur district, unveiled the foundation stone for Phase-II of the Chennai Metro Rail Project and inaugurated several other infrastructure projects for Tamil Nadu, in the presence of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. The Chief Minister utilised the occasion to request funds for multiple projects, including the Nadanthai Vazhi Cauvery scheme for rejuvenation of the Cauvery and its tributaries. While the new reservoir was constructed at a cost of Rs. 380 crore, Phase-II of the Chennai Metro Rail Project would be implemented at an estimated cost of Rs. 61,843 crore. Mr. Shah also unveiled the foundation stone for an elevated highway along Avinashi Road in Coimbatore district at a cost of Rs. 1,620 crore. Mr. Palaniswami handed over a letter to Mr. Shah, requesting him to facilitate the sanctioning of Phase-II of the Chennai Metro Rail Project, at an estimated cost of Rs. 61,843 crore, under a 50:50 joint venture partnership basis between the Centre and State as done for Phase-I. He also sought early sanction of the revised cost of the Phase-I project, under examination by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. The Chief Minister requested support for the speedy approval of the Godavari-Cauvery and the Cauvery-Vaigai-Gundar river linking projects, both of which are pending approval from the Centre. Technical support He also urged Mr. Shah to instruct the Ministers concerned to provide technical and financial support to Tamil Nadu for a few other proposals. The State has proposed to set up a bulk drug park and a medical devices park near Chennai, and expressed willingness to set up mega textile parks, for which it has identified sites in Dharmapuri and Virudhunagar. Foundation stones for the construction of a barrage across the Cauvery at Nanjai-Pugalur in Karur (Rs. 406 crore); the expansion of the Chennai Trade Centre (Rs. 309 crore); the Indian Oil Corporation Limited POL Terminal at Vallur (Rs. 900 crore); a lube plant at Amullaivoyal (Rs. 1,400 crore); and a new jetty at Kamarajar Port (Rs. 900 crore) were unveiled by Mr. Shah. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, Assembly Speaker P. Dhanapal, Industries Minister M.C. Sampath, several MPs, MLAs and other senior officials were also present. Mr. Shah, Mr. Palaniswami and Mr. Panneerselvam also paid floral tributes to the portraits of former Chief Ministers M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Memorial for Jayalalithaa to be completed by early December||The AIADMK government’s ambitious project to construct a memorial for former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa on the Marina beachfront is set to be completed by early December. The memorial, resembling a phoenix with two granite lion statues at the entrance, would be surrounded by lush gardens and small ponds. It would also house a state-of-the-art museum and a knowledge park. According to the Public Works Department (PWD), which is executing the Rs. 57.96 crore project on the nine-acre site, the finishing touches are being put to the structure coming up behind the memorial of M.G. Ramachandran. PWD officials said the aesthetically designed main edifice is a cantilever shell structure, with two arches acting as the spine, and would primarily be in white colour. The 75-foot-wide and 50-foot high columnless winged structure was designed by a team of the Structural Engineering Department of IIT-Madras, headed by S. Arul Jayachandran. “We used formwork designed by a U.K.-based company and manufactured in Dubai for the unconventional superstructure. Formwork is temporary moulds that are crucial in holding the cement concrete structure intact. About 200 props were used for each wing,” a senior official said. The work had to be continued through the COVID-19 pandemic to ensure its stability and about 200 labourers were engaged to execute the challenging and unique design. Nearly 400 tonnes of steel were used for the foundation alone. “We took nearly a year for the design and the work on the main structure alone,” the official said. As an extension of the bird’s wings on the northern and southern sides, a museum and a knowledge park have been built on space of 8,500 sq ft each. While the museum would have a chronicle of the events in Jayalalithaa’s life through audio-visual presentations, photographs and virtual reality, the knowledge park would have digital shows on her achievements and speeches. A life-size statue of the former AIADMK leader would also be installed. An additional sum of Rs. 12 crore has been allotted to give finishing touches to the project. “We visited Rajahmundry in Andhra Pradesh and chose saplings that will arrive next week. The memorial will also have disabled friendly ramps, pavilions, ornamental lights and service blocks,” the official said. The new constructions have come up on a space of about 50,000 sq ft. The MGR Memorial has also been refurbished and a compound wall has been built as part of the project. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami laid the foundation for the Jayalalithaa Memorial in 2018. It is expected to be inaugurated around Jayalalithaa’s birth anniversary in February next.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State sees 1,663 new cases, 18 deaths||Tamil Nadu reported 1,663 more COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total case count in the State to 7,68,340. It also reported 18 more deaths and 2,133 recoveries. The total deaths and recoveries in the State stood at 11,586 and 7,43,838 respectively. Chennai reported 486 cases. Six other districts recorded more than 50 cases. They were Coimbatore (148), Chengalpattu (116), Tiruvallur (114), Kancheepuram (92), Tiruppur (70) and Salem (66). Chennai and these six districts accounted for more than 65% of all the cases reported on Saturday. Six other districts reported less than ten cases, while Perambalur did not report any case on Saturday. Of the 18 persons who succumbed to the infection on Saturday, 11 deaths happened in government hospitals and the remaining seven took place in private hospitals. All the deceased had co-morbidities, according to a medical bulletin released by the Health and Family Welfare Department. Six persons succumbed to the infection in Chennai. The remaining 12 deaths were reported from eight districts. The youngest among the deceased was a 35-year-old man from Coimbatore who had diabetes. He was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on November 6 after testing positive for COVID-19. He died on November 19. The oldest was a 93-year-old woman from Chennai. She had tested positive for COVID-19 on November 12 and was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital the next day. She died three days later. Fourteen of the 18 people were above 60 years. The number of persons who tested for COVID-19 continued to gradually go up after a drop during Deepavali last week. As many as 68,479 persons were tested on Saturday. The test positivity rate, meanwhile, continued to drop and stood at 2.43% on Saturday. One government lab and two more private labs in the State were authorised to conduct RT-PCR tests for COVID-19. A total of 217 labs in Tamil Nadu are eligible to conduct the tests now, including 67 government and 150 private laboratories.  One government lab and two more private labs in the State were authorised to conduct RT-PCR tests for COVID-19. A total of 217 labs are eligible to conduct the tests now.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Low pressure to bring rain: IMD||Most parts of the State may begin to experience an increase in rainfall from Monday. Some parts of Tamil Nadu may receive extremely heavy rainfall in isolated places during the upcoming rain spell. According to the India Meteorological Department, a low-pressure area has formed over the equatorial Indian Ocean and adjoining central parts of the south Bay of Bengal on Saturday. It is expected to concentrate into a depression over the southwest Bay of Bengal by November 23 and further intensify into deep depression in the subsequent 48 hours. The weather system is likely to move west-northwestwards towards the Sri Lanka–south Tamil Nadu coast and reach near the Tamil Nadu-Puducherry coast on November 25. Met officials said rainfall would initially cover the coastal districts on Monday and move to interior places from Tuesday. While there are chances of the weather system developing into a cyclone, the spell may last till November 26 and bring down the deficit in seasonal rainfall, particularly in coastal districts. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, said, “We will get a better picture of the weather event in the Bay of Bengal on Sunday, particularly rainfall intensity and landfall of the weather event. It is now near the equatorial Indian Ocean and possibilities may vary. As of now, landfall has been predicted to occur between a broad region of Cuddalore to Ramanathapuram.” The department is monitoring the weather system through its integrated weather observation systems, including surface observatories, integrated water vapour observations, ocean buoys and satellite images. “We have only issued a warning to be prepared and informed the State government authorities to be on alert about the approaching weather system,” he said. The IMD has forecast that rain with moderate intensity may occur in many places over south coastal Tamil Nadu. Heavy rain is likely in one or two places in the delta districts on Monday. As the system intensifies, moderate rain would cover more areas and extremely heavy rain of more than 24.4 cm are likely in one or two places over Nagapattinam, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Ramanathapuram and Pudukottai districts on November 24 and 25. Heavy to very heavy rain (6.4 cm to 24.4 cm) is also likely to occur at isolated places over Cuddalore, Mayiladuthurai, Sivaganga and Thoothukudi districts and Karaikal. On November 25, a few places in Tiruchi, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Villupuram, Kallakurichi, Salem and Mayiladuthurai districts may receive very heavy rain. However, the department has forecast Chennai will have dry weather till Monday, and details on rainfall would be updated in the coming days.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No pressure from BJP leadership: CM||Chief Minister and AIADMK co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami is believed to have told his party colleagues that neither did the BJP’s central leadership “interfere” with the functioning of the State government nor did the AIADMK “have to feel obliged” to anyone. Sources said he was responding to the remarks of deputy coordinator K.P. Munusamy on the need for effectively tackling the perception battle about the ties between the AIADMK and the BJP at a meeting of senior functionaries held at the party headquarters on Friday. Mr. Munusamy recounted how he had declared that only those who accepted the AIADMK’s decision to name Mr. Palaniswami as the candidate for Chief Minister could remain with the ruling party as allies. Recalling that the Centre was “helpful in facilitating a smooth transfer of power” after the death of Jayalalithaa, the Chief Minister told party leaders that there were “friendly ties” between the Centre and the State government. He also wanted the party leaders to highlight the government’s achievements, like the 7.5% horizontal reservation for the NEET-qualified government school students in admission to undergraduate medical courses, at public fora. O. Panneerselvam, Deputy Chief Minister and AIADMK coordinator, wanted the zonal pointpersons and district secretaries to ensure enrolment of all eligible voters in the electoral rolls and stick to the practice as followed when Jayalalithaa was at the helm. The leaders called upon the functionaries to see to it that the services of 20-25 women were enlisted at the level of every polling booth for intensifying party work. This would be in addition to the work of the wings for young men and women. They also explained the functions of the zonal pointpersons and district secretaries. Among those who attended the meeting were E. Madhusudanan, chairman of the presidium, and R. Vaithilingam, deputy coordinator. ‘BJP aspires for power’ BJP Mahila Morcha president Vanathi Srinivasan said on Friday that her party aspires to come to power in Tamil Nadu, while also asserting that its alliance with the AIADMK continues to be strong. “Every party will aspire to come to power one day. BJP has that aspiration too,” she told mediapersons at Coimbatore airport. She also stressed that there are no changes in the AIADMK-BJP alliance and that it remains strong. The BJP’s national leadership will announce the seat-sharing details for the Assembly election, she said.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM receives Shah at airport with a rousing reception||A rousing welcome was given to Union Home Minister Amit Shah when he arrived in Chennai for a two-day programme, with Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and other Cabinet Ministers receiving him at the airport. This was perhaps the first time in recent decades that a visiting Union Minister was given such a grand reception. The Chief Minister and the Cabinet Ministers arrived at the airport more than 20 minutes before Mr. Shah’s arrival. The Union Minister came in a special aircraft, landing at 1.40 p.m. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy and other BJP leaders, including L. Ganesan and L. Murugan, were among those who welcomed him. Security arrangements The police had made elaborate security arrangements along the route that led to the Leela Palace Hotel, where Mr. Shah checked in, and at Kalaivanar Arangam, where he participated in public programmes organised by the State government. Police personnel were seen standing along the route. Welcome arches decorated with flowers and fruits were erected on the airport premises. Traffic was stopped on GST Road for the passage of the convoy. Mr. Shah was escorted by CRPF commandos in a bulletproof vehicle. Party functionaries from the BJP and the AIADMK gathered on the sides of the roads, waving party flags and beating drums. Mr. Shah stopped his car and got down from the vehicle, waving at an enthusiastic crowd. BJP State president Mr. Murugan also walked with him. During the roadshow, an elderly man, who came with a placard reading ‘Go back Shah’, threw it a few yards from the Minister. Police personnel took him away and later identified him as Durairaj, 67, who was angry that he did not receive Rs. 15 lakh in his bank account that he said was promised to him by the BJP in 2014. Meanwhile, Mr. Shah tweeted, “It is always great to be in Tamil Nadu. Thank you Chennai for this love and support.”
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A special day for Messiah Das||Saturday began for Messiah Das with his family presenting him a new suit, for it was his birthday and a special one at that. A printer by profession, an avid footballer, a health buff and a stickler for time, this Mugalivakkam resident turned 100 with close family members wishing him early in the day. “He was so happy that we all came to wish him. His three children, their spouses and grandchildren have all gathered here. It was a busy day for us since we were preparing for the party. But it was fun, talking with him and listening to his stories,” said his granddaughter Karen Roshie, who is pursuing her Masters in English literature in a city college. The family had a simple party in the evening with a cake and ended the day with some biryani, Mr. Das’ favourite dish. “He has no problem eating rich foods, since he exercises well and does everything on time. If we eat late or skip a meal, he will ensure that we don’t repeat it,” she added. Mr. Dhas was born on November 21, 1921 at an estate in Munnar. He then returned to Kanniyakumari where his father Needhiyudiyan Samuel taught him the tradition of Varma and encouraged him to be active in sports. He learnt to play football from his father and has won many prizes in various tournaments. “He was saying he missed the opportunity to go on to become a professional footballer because his mother would not let him go to Mexico for training,” she added. He later moved to Sri Lanka where he worked in various printing presses and came back to Nagercoil where he ran the Quality Printing Press till his 80s. The family has taken a video of the day’s proceedings to share it with the extended family.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Hard work can ensure BJP rule in the State in 5 years’||Within hours of the announcement of the electoral alliance between the BJP and the AIADMK for the 2021 Assembly election, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday evening urged State BJP leaders and party members to work hard to ensure that the party could capture power in Tamil Nadu in the next five years. Mr. Shah held a marathon meeting with senior party functionaries at a private hotel in Chennai. The meeting, which began after his official engagement at the Kalaivanar Arangam in the evening, continued past 11 p.m. Sources who attended the meeting told The Hindu that the former BJP national president had pointed out how the party, which was previously not a major force in several States like Tripura and Bihar, was able to emerge as a ruling party, either on its own or through a coalition arrangement. Mr. Shah was confident of replicating the party’s success in West Bengal and Tamil Nadu during the Assembly poll next summer, and also in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, if party cadres worked tirelessly to strengthen the organisation, sources said. When some leaders expressed dissatisfaction over the alliance with the ruling AIADMK, Mr. Shah told them that the party high-command would take care it. “You strengthen the party organisation and booth committees,” he said. BJP women’s wing national president Vanathi Sriniavan told presspersons that there would be a “coalition government” in Tamil Nadu after the Assembly poll. “The BJP will certainly be part of the government,” she said.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Announcement on alliance surprises many||The announcement by the AIADMK leadership on Saturday regarding the continuance of the party’s alliance with the BJP has surprised several sections of the ruling party. Since the news of Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s visit to Chennai came out a week ago, a discussion was triggered in various political circles on its significance. Many senior leaders in the AIADMK had no idea that the announcement was to be made by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam during the day’s function. Another reason was that in the last three to four months, the ruling party and the BJP were openly taking different positions on a variety of issues. But Mr. Shah’s reception on his arrival in Chennai, regarded widely as uncommon, gave enough indication that the AIADMK leadership viewed his visit as an event of great significance. The Chief Minister, the Deputy Minister and many Cabinet Minister were at the airport to receive him. K.P. Munusamy, deputy coordinator, said this was not surprising as the Union Minister was also “one of the most important leaders” in the BJP. Acknowledging that the announcement was unexpected, a Minister, however, felt that “it is good that they [Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami] have come out openly about the alliance. This will facilitate better coordination at the field level, a factor that was lacking during the Lok Sabha elections in 2019”. A veteran of the party from the western belt said the announcement would be beneficial to the party as otherwise the BJP would seek to rope in the Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK), the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) and the Tamil Maanila Congress (Moopanar) to its fold. “In such an eventuality, we would be on a weaker wicket.” As for the workers’ acceptance of the decision, the party’s minorities wing secretary and former Ramanathapuram MP, A. Anwhar Raajhaa, who had criticised the BJP on a host of issues, said one could always debate the pros and cons of a particular proposal. “But once the leadership decides about an alliance, it is the duty of every party member to ensure the success of the decision,” he said. S. Semmalai, Mettur legislator and an organisation secretary, expressed hope that the party members would fall in line with the leadership’s move. However, some senior leaders said the leadership could have waited for a few more months to make the announcement. Also, the importance of various party forums, including the executive committee and the general council, should not have been overlooked.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||More changes to be incorporatd in policy on M-sand||The M-sand policy is likely to come into force in a few months with more changes, pertaining to issues such as licence and transport, incorporated in it. The Public Works Department has revised the time frame to renew the licences for quarries and M-sand manufacturing units following representations from federations. This was announced at a meeting with stakeholders, including representatives of government agencies, convened on Saturday to improve the draft M-sand policy. Those who own both quarries and M-sand manufacturing units may now renew their licences issued by the PWD once in five years, instead of three years, along with other licences provided by the Department of Mines. Similarly, manufacturers who take quarries on lease may renew their licences once in three years instead of every year, according to officials. In his presentation on the draft policy, K.P. Sathyamurthy, Joint Chief Engineer (Buildings), PWD, highlighted the procedures for getting licences, periodical checks, measures to streamline the trade and also the penalty for violations. “We have approved 270 M-sand manufacturing units so far across the State for quality. While 60 applications are under scrutiny, nearly 450 manufacturers are yet to seek approval. Once the 110-page M-sand policy is in place, we will have more powers to control adulteration and violations in manufacturing and transport,” he said. For instance, those operating without getting their licences renewed or quality approval or those who are guilty of making adulterated material would attract a penalty of two years in jail and a fine of Rs. 5 lakh. If units are found to be producing poor quality material, they would be given two months to rectify the mistakes and levied Rs. 1 lakh in fine. Similarly, lorries transporting the material without proper documents would face penal action. Representatives from the associations of quarry owners and manufacturing units noted that only the licences of the manufacturing units must be cancelled instead of a ban on the entire quarry operations for violations. Officials said the demand would be considered. When the issue of price control and streamlining of the cost across the State was raised, officials said M-sand manufacture was largely dominated by private players and it need to be discussed. Sella Rajamani, president, Tamil Nadu Sand Lorry Owners Federation, said, “We demanded that transporters not be held responsible for overloading by manufacturing units. We also sought free transit passes and surveillance cameras in the units. M-sand should be loaded only after the dry process.” Officials noted that the suggestions pertaining to overloading and sales of sub-standard sand would be incorporated in the draft policy.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tribunal cuts accident relief as victim did not wear helmet||The Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal in the city has cut compensation by 10% as the accident victim was not wearing a helmet, and also because his kin did not produce a valid driving licence belonging to him. On December 25, 2017, Praveen Kumar was riding a motorcycle in front of Anna University exit gate. A car hit the motorcycle, according to a petition filed by his family members. Grievous injuries Kumar sustained grievous injuries and was admitted to the Government Royapettah Hospital. Later, Kumar was shifted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, where he died on the same day. The petitioners blamed the car driver for the accident and sought compensation. R. Sivasubramanian, owner of the car, and HDFC Ergo General Insurance Co. Ltd., its insurer, were named as the respondents. In its response, the insurance company alleged that the accident occurred due to the rash and negligent act of the victim, who was not wearing a helmet at the time of the accident. Rash driving  Based on the First Information Report and other evidence, the tribunal ruled that the accident was due to the rash and negligent act of the driver of the car. It noted that the petitioners had not produced the driving licence of the victim, who was also partly responsible for the accident and fixed his contribution at 10%. The Tribunal directed the insurance firm to pay compensation of about Rs. 21.85 lakh, after deducting 10% from the total compensation of Rs. 24.28 lakh to the kin of the victim.  The Tribunal directed the insurance firm to pay a compensation of Rs. 21.85 lakh, after deducting 10% from total compensation of Rs. 24.28 lakh to the family of the victim
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||School’s intra-house cultural event ‘Thiran’ goes online||Taking their inter-house cultural event ‘Thiran’ online this year, primary and secondary students from Akshar Arbol International School participated in a range of competitions from November 17 to 20. Over 280 students participated in the four-day cultural event, through which the school aimed at building a sense of camaraderie as well as giving a platform and celebrating the talents of the students. Among the events and competitions held were meme making and gaming, to suit the online format. Several alumni from across the globe were roped in to judge the events online as well. Vedant Tidke and Ayushi Bothra were awarded the individual championships in the primary school category and Santino and Hansini were recognised as the individual champions in the secondary school - junior category. Arya, a student of grade 12 was given the individual championship in the secondary school - senior category. Mental well-being “The very purpose of organising Thiran - Virtual 2020 was steeped in our steadfast focus to ensure the mental and emotional well-being of our community of students and staff. The event was planned and curated by grade 11 students, with assistance from a team of their teachers,” said Priya Dixit, Head of the school.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu seeks 15% share capital for Metro phase II project||Tamil Nadu has urged the Centre for 15% of share capital for the Metro Rail phase II project, for which Union Home Minister Amit Shah laid the foundation on Saturday, sources said. It was a rather challenging time for Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) with exchanges between the Centre and the State requesting funds, sources said. On Saturday, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said the project was estimated to cost Rs. 61,843 crore and the State had already sought funds from the Centre for executing it. While the State requested 15% share capital, the Centre said 10% would be given as grant. “Since the contribution of the Government of India as grant will affect the present share holding pattern and such a grant is also revenue expenditure, we have been requesting it to consider the support as share capital, which is taken as capital expenditure with a sharing pattern of 50:50 between the Centre and the State,” Mr. Palaniswami said in a letter to Mr. Shah. The original cost of the phase II project had run up to nearly Rs. 88,000 crore; later, it was trimmed to nearly Rs. 80,000 crore. But sources said the Centre had asked to cut down the cost drastically as the investment seemed massive. After making a host of changes, the estimate was brought down to nearly Rs. 69,000 crore. However, the Centre insisted that the cost be cut even further. “It was an extremely difficult task but we managed to lower it even further to Rs. 61,843 crore. We are now only hoping at least this gets sanctioned,” a source said. This apart, CMRL has also sought loans from the Japan International Cooperation Agency, the Asian Development Bank, the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank and the New Development Bank. With a length of 118.9 km, the phase II project will comprise three corridors — Madhavaram to SIPCOT, Madhavaram to Shollinganallur and Light House to Poonamallee.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Apsara Reddy rejoins AIADMK||Transgender activist and national general secretary of the women’s wing of the All India Mahila Congress Apsara Reddy on Friday returned to the AIADMK. The activist, who had been in the BJP too, re-joined the party in the presence of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam at the party headquarters here. The AIADMK announced that Janani P. Satishkumar had been made secretary of the Vellore zone of the party’s Information Technology (IT) wing, in the place of M. Kovai Sathyan. M. Kovai Sathyan would remain spokesperson of the party, it was said. R. Gopalakrishnan, former Member of Parliament, has been included in the committee for drafting the election manifesto. K. Manickam, Member of the Legislative Assembly, has been included in the panel for the election campaign.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Revolving fund for those under 7.5% quota: CM||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday announced the immediate creation of a revolving fund to financially help NEET-qualified State government school students, who have been allotted seats in private medical colleges and dental colleges under the 7.5% horizontal quota. Mr. Palaniswami said the government school students would not have to wait for scholarship funds. “The government school students who have been allotted seats in medical colleges and dental colleges need not wait for the scholarship funds. I have set up a revolving fund in the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation to make sure that the tuition fees and the hostel fees can be paid to the college administration from the fund”. Financial aid The Chief Minister added that while making the announcement about the 7.5% reservation for government school students in admissions to medical courses in the State on November 18, he had said, “Post-matric scholarship and other financial aid will be provided due to the financial difficulties faced by poor government school students, including those from corporation schools, municipality schools, Adi Dravidar schools, tribal welfare schools, Kallar Denotified Tribes School and Forest Department schools”. Earlier in the day, DMK president M.K. Stalin had announced that his party would bear the educational expenses of these students. In a statement in Chennai, Mr. Stalin said a total of 227 students had joined government medical colleges, while others had been allotted seats in private medical colleges. “Poor students are not able to pay their fees and their parents are facing anxiety as they depend on the AIADMK government. They fear that their hopes will be dashed,” he said, while explaining the reason behind his party’s decision to meet the students’ educational expenses. Mr. Stalin reiterated that once the DMK was elected to power, it would ensure the cancellation of NEET. However, the Chief Minister, in a statement, accused Mr. Stalin of enacting a “political drama”.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fruit semi-wholesalers start returning to Koyambedu market||After nearly seven months, most fruit semi-wholesalers vacated from the Madhavaram market, which served as their temporary trade premises, and prepared to return to the Koyambedu market on Saturday. As the Tamil Nadu government allowed them to reopen shops on Sunday evening, fruit semi-wholesalers finished their last-day sales at Madhavaram on Saturday morning. Fewer truckloads Traders said only 30 truckloads of fruits arrived at Madhavaram on Saturday as against the usual 100 trucks. About 10 truckloads of stocks were transported to Koyambedu to facilitate the reopening of the market. Fruit wholesalers were allowed to reopen 120 shops in Koyambedu from November 1. Members of the Federation of All Koyambedu Fruit Merchants Associations said that a function had been arranged at the market at 7 p.m. on Sunday to mark the reopening of 700 semi-wholesale shops. S. Srinivasan, one of the coordinators of the federation, said while unloading of goods would be permitted from 7 p.m. to midnight, retailers could visit the market for purchase from midnight to 9 a.m. Wholesale and semi-wholesale trade on the same premises would help to stabilise the prices. “We also urged the government not to allow wholesale trade at various places without licence as this would affect trade at Koyambedu and lead to issues like traffic congestion,” he said.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal Haasan releases voter awareness video||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Friday released a video urging people to apply for a Voter ID card in the run up to the Assembly poll in 2021. In the video, Mr. Haasan said that many who dance “kathakali on the keyboard” that “the system is rotten and all politicians are thieves” do not have a voter ID card. “The Election Commission of India has announced that it will organise special camps on November 21 and 22 and December 13 and 14 where all the doubts can be resolved,” he said.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Suspects in triple murder case remanded in custody||A special team of police personnel brought three suspects, including the prime accused, in the Sowcarpet triple murder case and remanded them in judicial custody on Saturday. City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal tweeted, “In an operation spanning across Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujrat and Uttar Pradesh, the Chennai City Police secured three on-the-run suspects in connection with the Sowcarpet triple murder case.” On November 11, Dileep Thalil Chand, 74, who ran a finance firm, his wife Pushpa Bai, 68, and their son, Shithal Kumar, 42, were found dead in their home on Vinayaga Maestri Street, Sowcarpet.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Women allowed to travel in suburban trains||Southern Railway has decided to allow women passengers to travel in suburban trains during the non-peak hours from November 23, according to a press release. Now, Southern Railway has increased the number of services to 244 trains a day and also permitted women passengers, who do not fall under the essential services category, in the non-peak hours of the day. Passengers can use their season tickets or get single journey tickets. Also, children over the age of 12 accompanied by women passengers can travel in the non-peak hours, the release said.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held under POCSO Act||The All-Women Police, Anna Nagar, has arrested a 62-year-old man on charges of sexually assaulting a minor girl at his house. According to the police, the offender, G. Ramanujam, sexually assaulted his 16-year-old relative. The girl had come from the U.K. and stayed in the same house as him. Based on a complaint from the victim, he was arrested after a case was booked under the provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP only party attracting the youth: ex-MP||Former DMK MP K.P. Ramalingam, who joined the BJP in Chennai on Saturday, said the BJP was the only party where the youth were joining voluntarily, without being given any positions. Mr. Ramalingam, who represented the AIADMK in the Assembly twice when the party founder M.G. Ramachandran was alive, before joining the DMK, said he could not accept the leadership of DMK president M.K. Stalin. Mr. Ramalingam was suspended from the party earlier this year. Mr. Ramalingam said though the BJP’s support in the Kongu region would be known only before the run-up to the elections, there was a support base for the party. “A lot of youngsters are joining the BJP on their own. I do not think that they are driven by the objective of positions in the party”
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cultural events from Nov. 25: govt.||The State government on Saturday decided to permit cultural events and functions with effect from November 25, paving the way for annual music festivals to be organised in December. If held in closed spaces, such events and functions would be allowed to have 50% of the hall capacity with a ceiling of 200 persons. For similar events and functions to be conducted in open spaces, a maximum of 200 persons would be permitted. The decision has been taken in view of representations received from Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan chairman N. Ravi and others, according to an order issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam. Prior permission would have to be obtained from the Police Commissioner in Chennai district and from District Collectors in other parts of the State. The order also stated that directives on COVID-19 management, such as face masks, personal distancing, thermal screening, use of sanitisers and strict adherence to the SOPs, would have to be “mandatorily followed”. However, the prohibition on social, political, entertainment, academic and religious congregations would remain in force. Even though the government, through an order on October 31, proposed to allow all social, political, cultural, academic and other functions from November 16, it revoked the nod by another order on November 13. This was done after people began crowding and did not adhere to personal distancing norms and the wearing of face masks, the order stated, making it clear that the latest order only applied to cultural events and functions.  The order also stated that directives on COVID-19 management will have to be “mandatorily followed”
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. defends cancellation of arrear exams||The State government has justified its decision to cancel the arrear examinations of arts, science, engineering and MCA students, except for those in the final year. When semester and annual examinations have been cancelled due to COVID-19, it is but natural to cancel arrear examinations too, it reasoned. In a counter-affidavit filed before a Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha of the Madras High Court, the government said it had cancelled the arrear examinations, too, this year to avoid discrimination between “regular and arrear students” and to desist from creating “inequality among equals”. Allaying the apprehension of Anna University former Vice-Chancellor E. Balagurusamy, who had filed a public interest litigation petition against the cancellation, the government claimed that the cancellation would neither bring down academic standards nor demoralise merit students. The government said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced the decision to cancel the arrear examinations only after consulting the universities. The decision did not violate any of the guidelines issued by the University Grants Commission as well as the All-India Council for Technical Education. M. Ilango Henry Dass, Joint Secretary, Higher Education Department, filed the counter-affidavit before the court on behalf of the Principal Secretary. The government pointed out to the court that the guidelines issued by the UGC during the pandemic did not state anything with regard to the conduct of arrear examinations.
22 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TNSCB official, associate held on graft charges||The officers of the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Department (DVAC) have arrested a Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board official and his associate on charges of demanding Rs. 20,000 bribe. According to a press release, the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption, Special Investigation Cell, Chennai, received a complaint that Gunasekaran, estate officer demanded Rs. 20,000 bribe from the complainant and instructed him to handover the money to Velayutham, a retired junior assistant. The complainant had approached the TNSCB office for getting the sale deed of his house. A case was registered on Friday and a trap was laid. The accused, Gunasekaran, reiterated the demand and asked the complainant to handover the money to Velayutham. Accordingly, the complainant gave the bribe to Velayutham and both the accused were arrested, the DVAC said.
22 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Hike in raw material prices hits MSMEs||Steep hike in raw material prices in October and November is a blow to Micro, Small and Medium-Scale Enterprises (MSMEs) in the engineering sector here, say industry owners. The MSMEs resumed operations in May after relaxations were announced in the nationwide lockdown that came into effect in March to control the spread of COVID-19. However, till August the industries were unable to run at higher capacities because of low volume of orders. It was only in September that manufacturing activity started picking up. Raw material prices started moving up in June-July. In October and November, the increase is frequent and steep, says R. Ramamurthy, president of Coimbatore District Small Industries Association. The MSMEs cannot hold inventory and usually purchase raw materials from the local traders in small quantities. Prices of copper, steel, zinc and brass have moved up 30% to 35% since August, he says. “MSMEs which entered into annual contracts with government or private buyers are suffering a loss as they will not get higher price for the components supplied. In the case of end product manufacturers, they have no option but to increase the price of the products,” according to Mr. Ramamurthy. The prices of steel and allied foundry items such as coke, pig iron, cast iron, steel scrap, CI boring, HR sheet, CR sheet, copper, and aluminium have gone up 30% to 35% in the last six months. Further, there is shortage in availability of some of these materials, too. The government should fix a maximum retail price for the raw materials. Government organisations such as SAIL should open an yard in Coimbatore, Mr. Ramamurthy said in a press release. Coimbatore is the second largest consumer in the State of most of these raw materials, next only to Chennai. If industries need to source from SAIL yard, they need to go to Tiruchi or Chennai now and it is not viable for MSMEs. Hence, SAIL should open an yard here, he said. The Central and State governments should take necessary steps to control the prices of raw materials. If needed, they should open up imports and ensure that MSMEs get the materials at a subsidised price, he said.
22 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Flyover works on Avinashi Road set to take off||With Union Home Minister Amit Shah laying the foundation on Saturday for a 10-km flyover on Avinashi Road, the construction works are expected to begin shortly. An official of the State Highways Department said a bhoomi puja would be performed here, probably within a week. This is the longest flyover in the State running from Uppilipalayam to Goldwins in Coimbatore city. The four-lane flyover project will include four up ramps and four down ramps. To be constructed at a total cost of Rs. 1,620 crore and completed in four years, the project involves land acquisition. Though land acquisition is minimum, it has to be completed soon. Part of the acquisition details has been submitted to the government and the rest will be shared within a week. Shifting of utility lines will have to be done too and the Highways Department is discussing this with the other departments concerned. Alternative land should be provided to them. “All the works - shifting of utility lines, construction, and land acquisition - will go on simultaneously,” the official said. The traffic signals also need to be removed when the construction work is taken up at the junctions. Vehicle movement will be permitted on a single lane on either side of the existing road, the official said.
22 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Inspector offers to bear expenses of medical student||B. Sastha Somasekaran, an Inspector with the Coimbatore City Police, has volunteered to bear the expenses of a medical student who got an MBBS admission under the 7.5 % horizontal quota. The police officer posted on social media that he was willing to bear the expenses of one student from a Government school background who got admission in a Government medical college. “We have received several requests that will be scrutinised to find the most deserving student,” the officer said. Mr. Sastha, his sibling B. Sastha Indhusekaran, a Sub-Inspector, and a few of their friends are forming a trust to support the education of economically weak students. The two police officials have already supported the education of six students hailing from a nomadic community.
22 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||New aprons being built at Coimbatore airport||The Airport Authority of India (AAI) is speeding up construction of seven new aprons at the Coimbatore International Airport to attract airlines to operate more base flights from the city. The new aprons (aircraft parking area) under construction are in addition to the nine existing ones at the airport. Airport Director R. Mahalingam said that the works of the new aprons are expected to be completed before March. “Of the seven new aprons, five are designed to accommodate narrow-body aircraft like the A320. The two other are made for ATR flights. The works were expected to get over in December which got delayed due to the COVID-19 situation,” he said. The existing nine aprons can accommodate narrow-body aircraft. For the new aprons, AAI converted some of the existing unused lands at the airport which are away from the terminal building. “We expect that the COVID-19 situation will ease by March and the aviation sector will function normally as before. Availability of more aprons will be an advantage for the airport when an airline plans to operate new base flight,” said Mr. Mahalingam. Base flights are the ones that arrive at the airport late night and leave early morning for which parking is required for long hours. Such flights are suitable for people who leave the city to a destination early in the morning and return late night the same day. At present, the airport is having only two or three base flights, said Mr. Mahalingam. As the State Government is giving concession in the VAT for aviation turbine fuel for flights operating between 11 p.m. and 7 a.m., AAI hopes that airlines might consider starting new base flights. Mr. Mahalingam noted that IndiGo’s direct flight to Ahmedabad was witnessing good patronage. Other direct flights operated from Coimbatore are to cities namely Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Mumbai and Delhi. At present, Air Arabia’s flight on Sharjah- Coimbatore- Sharjah segment is the only international flight operated through the airport. Mr. Mahalingam added that the connectivity to Singapore might resume soon.
22 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Medical admission: MLA offers financial aid to govt. school students||Kavundampalayam MLA V.C. Arukutty on Saturday provided financial assistance to two government school students who got admissions to medical and dental colleges through the 7.5% horizontal reservation. At an event held at the Government Higher Secondary School in Asokapuram, he issued cheques for Rs. 2 lakh each to N. Gokulan and M. Jeeva. The two medical aspirants were students of the government schools in Asokapuram and S.S. Kulam respectively, which are located in the Kavundampalayam Assembly constituency. Mr. Arukutty told presspersons that he had also offered to provide any assistance to the two students in the future. Kongu Peravai Meanwhile, the Maanila Kongu Peravai announced on Saturday that students from Coimbatore district who had got admissions to medical and dental courses and required any assistance could visit their office on 100 Feet Road in Gandhipuram or contact 99655 77155/98422 05454. KMDK welcomes move Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi (KMDK) general secretary E.R. Eswaran welcomed the DMK’s announcement that it would bear the educational expenses of the government students who got seats in medical and dental courses in private colleges through the horizontal reservation.
22 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Protest staged to oppose Vetrivel Yatra||Members from 14 outfits, including Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam (TPDK) and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK), staged a protest here on Saturday to oppose the arrival of the BJP’s Vetrivel Yatra in Coimbatore on Sunday. According to the police, around 100 members participated in the protest. Initially, the protest was planned to be staged in front of the Police Commissioner’s office. But, the police stopped the protesters near the BSNL Customer Service Centre on State Bank Road and the protest was held at that spot. TPDK’s general secretary K. Ramakrishnan, VCK leader Susi. Kalaiarasan and members from other organisations such as Dravidar Viduthalai Kazhagam and May 17 Movement participated in the protest. In a statement, Mr. Ramakrishnan, who led the protest, condemned the Coimbatore City Police for not stopping the yatra. Accusing the Vetrivel Yatra of spreading communal hatred among the public, he alleged that the State government was allowing the yatra to take place despite COVID-19 restrictions being in force.
22 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Five held with marijuana||Five persons were arrested by the police with a total of 6.1 kg of marijuana in separate cases registered on Friday. The Kuniyamuthur police arrested M. Abuthahir (30) from Arivoli Nagar near Sugunapuram and a 38-year-old person of the same name from LIC Colony near Selvapuram with 1.1 kg and 1.15 kg of marijuana. A. Jonsha (34) from Edayarpalayam and Mohammed Farook (33) from South Ukkadam were arrested by the Bazaar Street police with 1.6 kg of the contraband. In another case, the Sulur police arrested A. Saravanan (23) from Bharathipuram near Pallapalayam after he was found possessing 1.3 kg of ganja. All the accused were produced before courts and remanded in judicial custody.  Gambling busted  The K.G. Chavadi police arrested 28 persons who were found gambling in a farm house near the Kerala border early on Saturday. The police said that the gambling was busted in a surprise check conducted at a farmhouse near Masthigoundenpathi. The police seized Rs. 2.34 lakh from them. The arrested persons were released on bail.
22 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||All India Congress Committee secretary Sanjay Dutt on Saturday inspected the venue in Karumathampatti where the party will stage a protest against the Centre’s farm legislations on Sunday. AICC in-charge for Tamil Nadu Dinesh Gundu Rao will participate in the protest on Sunday, a release said. Coimbatore North District Congress Presient V.M.C Manoharan and Tiruppur North District Congress Committee President P. Gopi were among the functionaries who accompanied Mr. Dutt to Karumathampatti, the release said.
22 November 2020||COIMBATORE/Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Special camps conducted for revision of electoral rolls||Ahead of the State Assembly elections, special camps were held across Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts for voters to make changes in the draft electoral rolls on Saturday. According to officials from the District Administration, the special camps covered 3,048 polling stations across the 10 Assembly constituencies in Coimbatore district. The camps were held from 9.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the polling stations, where the forms for enrolment, deletion and correction in the electoral roll were made available for the voters. The draft electoral roll for the voters in the 10 Assembly constituencies namely Mettupalayam, Kavundampalayam, Coimbatore North, Sulur, Thondamuthur, Kinathukadavu Coimbatore South, Singanallur, Pollachi and Valparai was released on November 16. The special camps will continue in the same locations on Sunday and will also be held on December 12 and 13, officials said. In Tiruppur, District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan inspected the special camps held at three schools in Avinashi and Tiruppur North Assembly constituencies on Saturday. The camps covered 2,493 polling stations in the district, officials said. The eight Assembly constituencies in Tiruppur district are Dharapuram, Kangeyam, Avinashi, Tiruppur North, Tiruppur South, Palladam, Udumalpet and Madathukulam.
22 November 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Camps held to include new voters||As part of including eligible names in the electoral rolls, a special campaign was launched in the district on Saturday. The Election Commission of India had instructed to hold special camps (two days in November and two days in December). On November 16, the draft electoral rolls were released in Tamil Nadu. The general elections would be held around May 2021. The draft electoral roll was kept for public scrutiny in all the designated polling stations. Collector M Vijayalakshmi on Saturday visited Arul Jothi Vallalar Higher Secondary School in Adiyanoothu panchayat and checked the petitions submitted by the public for inclusion in the voter list. Interacting with some of the applicants, the Collector inquired with them about the identity cards they possessed and appealed to the public to ensure that their names figured in the voter list. The district, which has seven Assembly Constituencies, has a total voter population of 18.16 lakh, including 8.86 lakh men and 9.29 lakh women from Dindigul, Natham, Vedasandur, Athur, Palani and others. The Collector told reporters that the special camp would be open tomorrow (Sunday) also. Similarly in December, the camp would be held on 11 and 12, she added. Sivaganga Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy visited Idayamelur panchayat in Sivaganga district on Saturday. He was briefed about the number of applications received by the revenue officials present at the camp. The Collector said that the district should ensure that 100 % enrolment was done in the district. No eligible applicant should miss the opportunity. The ECI was keen that qualified voters should register their names in the electoral rolls and for this purpose, the administration had made elaborate arrangements, he added. The district officials said that they had campaigned adequately for the people to make use of the special camps and enrol their names. Based on the registration in the respective forms (6,7,8 and 8 A), the officials would conduct enumeration and include their names. Similarly, for deletion and modification too, it would be carried out after proper verification.
22 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Dalit movement seeks action against Kodumudi police||Alleging that police inaction led to the murder of a Dalit couple at Kodumudi on November 14, Dalit Liberation Movement – Tamil Nadu has urged the Director General of Police to register a case against the personnel at the Kodumudi police station. Father-son duo In a petition sent to the DGP, the movement's State general secretary S. Karuppiah said that S. Ramasamy (58) of Chitta Pulla Palayam Colony in Kodumudi and his wife R. Arukani (56) were murdered in the early hours of November 14 by a father-son duo living in the same taluk but belonging to another community. The petition said that Ramasamy’s daughter Menaka and her husband Perumal had come to the village to celebrate Deepavali when a seven-member gang, led by one Surya, teased her at 9.30 p.m. on November 13. The couple suffered injuries in the attack by the gang. Her father questioned Surya and left home. Menaka and Perumal went to the government hospital for treatment and the police were alerted about the incident. But the police, instead of initiating action against Surya and others, pacified them and let them go, the petition alleged. At 1.30 a.m. on November 14, the elderly couple was murdered. "If police had taken action and arrested the gang, the murders would not have taken place," the petitioner said and demanded action against the Inspector of Police, Sub-Inspector and personnel on duty at the station. “A case should be registered under Section 4 (neglect of duties) of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989”, the petitioner said.
22 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plea to operate passenger trains||Former member of Zonal Railway Users’ Consultative Committee K.N. Basha has urged the Ministry of Railways to operate passenger trains between Salem and Coimbatore. In a letter to Minister for Railways Piyush Goyal, he said that due to COVID-19 pandemic, passenger trains between Salem and Coimbatore that pass through Tiruppur were stopped and the services are yet to be restored. Also, the unreserved compartments in superfast and express trains were removed and trains were operated only with reserved coaches. The letter said that the fare from Erode to Tiruppur, Coimbatore and Salem in passenger trains is Rs. 15, Rs. 25 and Rs. 15 respectively. But, currently commuters from Erode to Coimbatore have to reserve a second class ticket for Rs. 355 in the Hyderabad – Trivandrum festival special express train or Rs. 165 in other express trains for travel. “Ticket price is very high and commuters face hardship during the pandemic”, the letter said. The letter said that commuters have to pay Rs. 83 in the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation buses for travelling from Erode to Coimbatore to cover the 100 km distance. If passenger trains are operated, workers, pilgrims, patients and others in Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode, Kodumudi, Karur, Salem, and Namakkal will get benefited, the letter said and wanted them to be operated at the earliest.
22 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode Corporation completes nine Smart City projects||Under the Smart City Mission projects, the Erode Corporation has so far completed nine projects worth Rs. 233.75 crore, while 14 projects are being executed at Rs. 576.33 crore. Other projects are under various tender stages. The civic body was selected by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs for implementing projects worth Rs. 912.92 crore under Round 4 in 2018-19. In January this year, the civic body bagged 18th rank for showing best performance in implementing projects among 100 Round 4 cities in the country. Scores in various categories were as follows: 32.61 in project implementation, 7.87 in fund transfer, 13.48 in fund utilisation and 8.5 in compliance. Thus, the civic body with a total score of 62.46 bagged 18th rank in the country. Salem with 70.66 score bagged eighth rank in the country while Erode stood next to Salem among the cities in the State. A senior engineer in the Corporation said micro compost centres, smart classes, street lights, water supply distribution system and green space development works were completed at Rs. 233.75 crore while underground sewerage scheme, bio-mining, smart roads, development of Perumpallam Canal, construction of modernised textile market on Gani market premises, shopping hub, incineration plant and installation of CCTV cameras, all at Rs. 576.33 crore, are under execution. Likewise, tender has been floated for modernisation of bus terminal and providing Integrated Command and Control Centre at Rs. 49.75 crore. Detailed Project Report is being prepared for modernisation of vegetable market and its improvement works, installation of cold storage and the second incineration plant, all at a cost of Rs. 18.50 crore.
22 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Development works at VOC Park to be completed by December-end||Development works that are being carried out at V.O. Chidambaranar Park (VOC Park) and the Children’s Park at a cost of Rs. 6.42 crore is expected to be completed by the end of December. The VOC Park, established in the 1920s, is spread across 25 acres and is a famous spot for the public to spend their leisure time. The Children’s Park, spread over two acres, is located opposite the VOC Park. Both the parks are owned and maintained by the corporation and were closed for carrying out works in April, 2019. However, work commenced only in August, 2019, and was halted during COVID-19 pandemic. Under the Smart Cities Mission, sports equipment and play materials were being installed at the Children’s Park while redesigning the layouts, installing modern chairs, fountains, footpaths and construction of compound walls were nearing completion at the VOC Park. A senior corporation engineer said that most of the works were completed and painting and installing of play materials were in progress. He said the work is expected to be completed by the end of next month after which they will be opened for the public.
22 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Take measures against lumpy skin disease in cattle’||The district administration has asked farmers to take their cattle to the nearest veterinary hospital immediately if their cattle were affected by the lumpy skin disease. Milk yield In a release, Collector C. Kathiravan said the disease was fast spreading among the cattle in the district affecting the milk yield. Large sized lymph nodes were formed in the body of the cattle and the virus was spread by mosquitoes and flies. Precautionary measures could be taken at home and symptomatic treatment could be provided. There was no vaccine in the country and providing treatment could help retain the milk yielding capacity, the release said. The farmers were asked to keep the infected cattle at an isolated place and maintain hygiene at the spot. The farmers should wash their hands properly after touching the infected cattle and steps should be taken to keep the cattle away from bees and mosquitoes. The cattle would not consume fodder properly and the milk yield would be affected temporarily. If symptoms were found in cattle, the farmers should take the animal to the veterinary hospital immediately, he added.
22 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Cases registered against BJP functionaries||The district police registered a case against 1,330 BJP functionaries and cadre, including its State president L. Murugan, for attempting to undertake Vetrivel Yatra at Sampath Nagar here on Friday. Since, the police did not give permission for the Yatra, over 700 police personnel, led by Superintendent of Police T. Thangadurai, were posted at various places in the city. Mr. Murugan participated in the public meeting and attempted to take out the Yatra when he and others were removed and lodged at a marriage hall. They were released in the evening. The Surampatti police registered a case against the cadre, including 425 women, for defying the order and attempting to take out the Yatra.
22 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Survey to identify school dropouts begins||A survey to identify school dropouts and children with disability began in the district on Saturday. Under the Samagra Shiksha, school dropouts from pre-primary to higher secondary will be identified during the survey from November 21 to December 10 and they will be admitted to the nearest school. Teachers, special teachers, headmasters, village administrative officers, anganwadi workers, self-help group members, officials from Childline, labour department, ICDS, district child protection office, police, social welfare and health department will be participating in the survey. Joint raids will also be conducted in brick kiln units, paddy processing units, quarries, industries and other places to check whether children are employed there.
22 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance work at Ingur sub-station , power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on November 24 at Perundurai South areas, Kongu College, Nandha College, Moolakarai, Vellode, Kavundachipalayam, Ingur, Palapalayam, Mugasi Pedariyur North areas, Velayuthampalayam 1010 Weavers Colony and Perundurai Railway Station areas.
22 November 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||DVAC raids sub-registrar office in Hosur||Officials from the Directorate of Vigilance of Anti-Corruption (DVAC) raided the premises of a sub-registrar office in Hosur and seized about Rs. 3.86 lakh of unaccounted cash. Based on a tip-off, the DVAC team led by DSP Krishnarajan conducted the raids on the premises on M.G.Road and seized the cash. The officials have registered case against sub-registrar Paneerselvam and joint-sub registrar Nehru. Further investigation is on.
22 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Take better care when dealing with children’||Child Welfare Police Officers should educate fellow officers and men to scrupulously follow procedures laid down in Juvenile Justice Care and Protection Act while dealing with children in conflict with law, said Superintendent of Police N. Sujit Kumar. Addressing a training programme on ‘Child protection and laws related to children’ for Child Welfare Police Officers here on Saturday, he said often the police officers were blamed for not following the latest procedures while handling children. Even in some recent cases, juveniles in conflict with law were produced before Judicial Magistrates instead of the Juvenile Justice Board. As Child Welfare Police Officers were trained to handle juveniles, they should educate fellow officers and men on the right procedures. “Whatever be the duty in the station, when there was a case involving children, Child Welfare Police Officers should give priority to attend those cases,” he said. Additional Superintendent of Police S. Vanitha said children up to the age of 14 should not be employed in any enterprise as the Right to Education Act ensured that children in the age of six to 14 received free education. Not only minor victims of crime, but also those children in conflict with law should be carefully dealt with by law enforcers. “Not only their rights maintained, but also their dignity should be upheld,” she said. The objective must be to reform them so that they could be join the mainstream of the society, the Additional Superintendent of Police said. District Child Protection Officer A. Ganesan credited the increase in number of POCSO cases to better awareness about the Act among people. Since lockdown led to closure of schools, there was an increase in number of crimes perpetrated against children, he said. Founder Chairman of Madurai Institute of Social Sciences D.V.P. Raja; Principal M. Nishanth; Director of Childline-Nodal S. Charles; and Executive Ddirector C. Jim Jesudoss spoke.
22 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar sees a spurt||Madurai recorded 25 new COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 19,479. A total of 31 persons got discharged and active cases stood at 264. A total of 12 new cases were recorded in Dindigul, increasing the distric’'s case tally to 10,114. There were 18 discharges and active cases were 77. Three new cases were recorded in Theni district, increasing the district's case tally to 16,499. Eight persons were discharged and the active cases stood at 30. Ramanathapuram recorded six new positive cases, taking up the total number of cases in the district to 6,162. Four persons got discharged and 44 persons are undergoing treatment. One death was recorded, increasing the district's death toll to 131. Thirteen new cases were recorded in Sivaganga district, increasing the total number of cases in the district to 6,205. A total of 24 persons got discharged and active cases stood at 68. Virudhunagar district on Saturday saw a sudden spurt in number of positive cases with 30 new cases being reported. This was in sharp contrast to the single-digit positive cases reported on many of the days in the past few weeks. With this, the total number of positive cases jumped to 15,762. Meanwhile, with the discharge of nine patients, the number of discharged patients has increased to 15,458. The number of active cases rose to 79, while the death toll remains at 225. Southern districts Kanniyakumari saw the death of a COVID-19 patient on Saturday taking the district’s fatality to 251. The district saw 16 fresh cases and the total number of cases moved up to 15,516. The number of persons undergoing treatment in hospitals stood at 149 after 23 people were discharged. In Thoothukudi, 29 new cases were recorded that took the total tally to 15,542 and the number of active cases to 128 even as 15 patients were discharged from hospitals. Infection tally in Tirunelveli district rose to 14,684 and the number of active cases stood at 148 after seven more fresh cases were admitted and 31 patients discharged on Saturday. Tenkasi, recorded the lowest number of fresh cases among the southern districts. There were four new cases and the overall infection tally rose to 7,972. After five patients were discharged from hospitals, 46 active patients were undergoing treatment.
22 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||20 arrested in two weeks||The city police have arrested 20 anti-social elements in the last two weeks. In a statement, Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha said 13 history-sheeters, who were involved in murder and attempts to murder, and seven persons in possession of deadly weapons and engaged in robberies were arrested and remanded. Seven anti-rowdy special teams led by Sub-Inspectors of police and supervised by Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) were continuously on the job. A total of 65 persons were detained under Goondas Act this year, and 69 had been arrested. A total of 29 ganja peddlers were arrested and 352 kg of narcotics substances were seized from them. Similarly, 170 kg of gutka products were seized and 75 persons arrested. Action against rowdy elements and history-sheeters would continue relentlessly to control their activities, he said.
22 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Not many aware of palliative care, says Health Secretary||The government was willing to work with non-governmental organisations to expand community-based palliative care, said Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan on Saturday. He was speaking through video conference at the inaugural session of a State-level pain and palliative care conference titled ‘Compassionate Care Con 2020’ organised by RMD Pain and Palliative Care Trust in Madurai on Saturday. He emphasised that palliative care, which relieved patients from pain and offered support system for patients’ families, was still not known much among the public. Around 7% of the population in Tamil Nadu required palliative care. It was estimated that 60% of the people who were dying would benefit from palliative care. Explaining the need for palliative care, the Health Secretary said pain was the main reason most people sought medical care. But 80% of the people with severe pain did not receive adequate treatment. This showed the need for palliative care. Apart from institution-based palliative care, there was also community-based care system, which was a more financially-sustainable and socially-viable model. More number of NGOs must work with the government in extending community-based palliative care, he said. Plea to doctors Founder and Managing Trustee of RMD Pain and Palliative Care Trust Republica Sridhar said that in most cases doctors advised patients to choose palliative care only in the terminal stages. “Doctors must advise patients to go for palliative care as soon they find that the patient cannot be treated through curative care,” she said. Rohini Sridhar, the Chief Operating Officer of Apollo Hospital (Madurai division), said palliative care was the need of the hour. K.S. Kirushna Kumar, Head, Radiation Oncology at Meenakshi Mission Hospital and Research Centre, said many cancer patients needed palliative care. Mohanasundaram, president, Tamil Nadu Palliative Care Society, also spoke.  The Hindu was the official media partner for the event.
22 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC takes serious view of bad quality of roads in Kanniyakumari district||Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has suo motu impleaded various State departments in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the State to constitute an expert committee to supervise rural road works in Kanniyakumari district. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that it was common knowledge that indiscriminate repair and relaying of roads without milling / scrapping the existing roads would lead to considerable increase in the height of roads. During rainy season, buildings and houses would get flooded and drainages blocked as a result of such indiscriminate repairs. The quality of roads in the State was not up to the mark in the past 25 years. Unless quality roads were laid, accidents could not be prevented, the judges said and suo motu impleaded the departments of Highway and Minor Ports; Water Supply; Public Works; Rural Development and Panchayat Raj; Municipal Administration and the Directorate of Town Panchayats and sought responses in the case. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by S.M. Anthony Muthu from Nagercoil who sought a direction to the State government to check and verify the measurement and quality of roads by constituting an expert committee. The court sought a status report and sought to know if earlier orders on similar issues were complied with. The case was adjourned to November 30.
22 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Two held at Madurai airport||Officials of Air Intelligence Unit of Customs Department on Friday seized 1.05 kg of gold from two passengers who arrived here from Dubai. The sleuths conducted a personal search on them as they moved in a suspicious manner while passing through the green channel at Madurai Airport.. They found that they had concealed six packets of complex gold paste. The seized gold is worth Rs. 53.80 lakh. Both were arrested and further investigation is under way.
22 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Ready-to-eat ‘keerai’ products launched||Keeraikadai.com, an e-commerce portal that focuses on farm fresh products, has launched ‘Greeny meal,’ a line of ready-to-eat ‘keerai’ (greens) products, at the Agricultural College and Research Institute here on Saturday. The event was held as part of Tamil Nadu Traditional and Healthy Food fair. Over 100 varieties of greens were on display at the fair organised by Keeraikadai.com in association with Community Science College and Research Institute, Technology Business Incubator, Agribusiness Incubation Society (ABIS), Directorate of Agribusiness Development - all wings of Tamil Nadu Agricultural University in Coimbatore. G. Sriram Prasad, founder and CEO of Keeraikadai.com, said ‘Greeny meal’ was a healthy option as it had no preservatives. The meal, packed in four layers, was tested and certified in accordance with norms governing health food. His team had also developed ‘Greeny Dip’ soups, similar to green tea sachets, besides ready-to-eat plantain stem and flowers. These products were well received in the domestic market and also in Australia, Sri Lanka and other Asian and European countries, he said. Keeraikadai.com had retail outlets in Madurai and Coimbatore. It sourced the greens directly from farmers in both the cities without engaging middlemen. The aim was to take the greens to the doorstep of people, Mr. Sriram said.
22 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Guest lecturers were being paid poor salaries’||Discussion on salary disbursal for guest lecturers of self-financing colleges took place at the Senate meeting of Madurai Kamaraj University here on Saturday. Senate member P.S. Chandra Prabhu said salary paid to the guest lecturers was extremely low and in discordance with rising inflation. It must be ensured that their salaries were at least on a par with their counterparts in university-constituent colleges. Syndicate member S. Theenathayalan said guest lecturers at constituent colleges received salaries in four slabs between Rs. 15,000 and Rs. 25,000. A circular would be issued to all colleges to make sure that the salary fixed by the University Grants Commission was paid to the guest lecturers. A discussion was held on drafting unqualified staff in inviglation and evaluation for examinations at private colleges. Former registrar V. Chinniah highlighted non-payment of pension to many professors who retired from service. Mr. Theenathayalan said there were many audit objections regarding pension. But the university would take steps to help in dropping the audit charges, he said. Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan said OMR (optical mark recognition) sheets had been introduced along with main answer scripts of semester and non-semester examinations from November, as part of the ongoing automation process at the university. New courses New courses such as M.Sc. (Visual communication), M.Sc. (Psychology), B.Sc. Computer Science (Data Science and Analytics) under CBCS (choice-based credit system) semester pattern had been proposed to be offered by non-autonomous colleges from this academic year, he said.
22 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Armed patrol team on the anvil||Madurai City police plans to introduce special armed patrols to deter anti-social elements from committing daylight murders and attempts to murder rival gangsters. Though they have identified around 20 gangs that are involved in murders, two gangs are very active in taking revenge against each other, ending up in brutal murders for the past few years. Even recently, a police constable aspirant B. Muruganandam was hacked to death in broad daylight on Sunday last near St. Mary’s Church. Though the target was someone else, the armed gang ended up killing “at least someone” to take revenge on the rival gang, according to police sources. “We are planning to have around 10 two-wheeler patrol teams in areas identified as prone to such gang rivalry. While one police constable will ride the bike, the pillion rider will carry a pistol,” Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha said here on Saturday. Stating that the objective was not to shoot someone down, Mr. Sinha said the pistol would help deter attack. A senior police official recalled that in a recent incident in Thoothukudi, an unarmed policeman was killed in an attempt to nab a history-sheeter who was in possession of bombs. An Inspector of Police said that the gang members were seen carrying big and deadly weapons. Unarmed policemen could neither prevent them from attacking their rivals nor protect themselves. “The weapon will give a morale boost to the police personnel to nab the anti-social elements and also deter them from executing the murder,” Mr. Sinha said. The police will identify the patrol team members among around 100 police constables who have undergone commando training.
22 November 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Udhayanidhi arrested again||DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin was arrested in Nagapattinam for the second consecutive day on Saturday on charge of violation of physical distancing regulations in place for COVID-19. On Friday, he embarked on the DMK’s pre-poll road show “Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural” at Thirukuvalai when he was arrested. Mr. Udhayanidhi, who stayed here overnight after being released by the police at Thirukuvalai, visited Akkarapettai fishing harbour on Saturday morning and ventured into the sea on a mechanised fishing boat. He interacted with fishermen and enquired whether they were receiving assistance from the government properly. Upon his return to the harbour, the police detained Mr. Udhayanidhi and took him to a marriage hall.  ‘Tremendous response’ Taking strong exception to his arrest, he told reporters that he had received tremendous response from the people wherever he visited. “The AIADMK could not stomach the growing popularity of the DMK. Hence, the ruling dispensation has misused the police machinery to disrupt the DMK’s public outreach programmes,” he claimed. “Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, under the guise of COVID-19 review meetings, indulges in campaign. But we are prevented and DMK men are booked,” he said and added that theparty would continue with its public outreach programme “in spite of the misuse of the official machinery by the AIADMK.”
22 November 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Udhayanidhi Stalin rearrested||DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin was arrested here for the second consecutive day on Saturday on the charge of violation of physical distancing regulations in view of the spread of COVID-19. Mr. Udhayanidhi, who stayed here overnight after being released by police at Thirukkuvalai, visited Akkarapettai fishing harbour on Saturday morning and ventured into the sea on a mechanised fishing boat. He interacted with the fishermen and enquired whether they received assistances from the government properly. Upon reaching the harbour after taking out a sortie, police detained Mr. Udhayanidhi and took him to a marriage hall. Taking strong exception to his arrest, he told reporters that he received tremendous response from the people wherever he visited. The AIADMK could not stomach the growing popularity of the DMK. Hence, the ruling dispensation had misused the police machinery to disrupt the DMK’s public outreach programmes. “Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, on the pretext of COVID-19 review meetings, indulges in campaign. But we are prevented and the DMK men are booked,” Mr. Udhayanidhi said. He added that the DMK would continue with its public outreach programme in spite of the misuse of the official machinery by the AIADMK. Over 400 cadre and functionaries of the DMK resorted to demonstrations across nine different locations in Sivaganga district on Saturday. Demanding the State government to release the DMK's youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin, they shouted slogans against the AIADMK government. Cadre in Sivaganga Town, Tiruppuvanam, Manamadurai, Karaikudi, Devakottai and Singampunari were detained.
22 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records no death, 65 new COVID-19 cases||The Union Territory recorded 65 new COVID- 19 cases in the last 24 hours. In a release, Health Secretary T. Arun said the Union Territory recorded 65 new admissions from 3,537 tests in the last 24 hours. Of the total new admissions, Puducherry region recorded 32 cases, 14 in Mahe , 10 in Karaikal and 3 in Yanam. No deaths were reported during the period. Currently, there are 602 active cases, including 371 under home quarantine. As many as37,7294people have been tested for the virus in the four regions of the Union Territory, the status report said. So far, the region has reported 609 deaths, 36,648 cases and as many 35,437 patients treated and discharged. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, in her response to the prevailing situation, said the Union Territory is one of the safest places from COVID-19 infection at the moment. “Thanks to the collective efforts, Puducherry is one of the safest places. The hard work has provided a lot of relief. This is possible because of the remarkable team work under the guidance of the Centre, ICMR and doctors,” Ms. Bedi said in an audio message. The Lt. Governor said Lawspet has reported higher number of cases on Saturday. She urged the healthcare workers to concentrate more in Karuvadikuppam areas. The Lt. Governor said the feedback she received showed that 25% of the population have already been tested for the virus in Union Territory. She advised people not to show any resistance in getting tested for the virus and also assist the healthcare workers in contact tracing. “We are wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. We need to keep detecting early and preventing it to spread any further. Should continue all right practices and right team work,” Ms. Bedi said.
22 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Ahead of election, AICC leader begins a week-long tour||AICC secretary Sanjay Dutt has commenced a week-long tour of Puducherry to prepare the Congress for the upcoming Assembly election. He would be holding talks with Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Ministers, legislators and other important functionaries during the next seven days. Mr. Dutt, along with Pradesh Congress Committee chief A.V. Subramanian, would review party works in each of the 25 Assembly segments in the Puducherry region. The party has made Member of Parliament (Lok Sabha) and former Chief Minister V. Vaithilingam in-charge of Raj Bhavan, Muthialpet, Kamaraj Nagar, Nellithope and Indira Nagar Assembly constituencies. Minister for Public Works A. Namassivyam would be in-charge of Thirubuvanai, Mangalam, Villianur, Ossudu and Mannadipet. While Minister for Social Welfare M. Kandasamy will be in-charge of Nettapakkam, Bahour, Embalam, Manaveli and Uppalam, Minister for Revenue M.O.H.F. Shahjahan will handle the affairs in Kalapet, Lawspet, Uzhavarkari, Thattanchavady and Kathirkamam constituencies.
22 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Villianur sub-registrar convicted in graft case||Chief judge-cum-special judge for Prevention of Corruption Act P. Dhanbal convicted Sub-Registrar of Villianur V. Gurubatham in a disproportionate assets case. The conviction was based on a case filed by the Anti-Corruption Bureau of the Central Bureau of Investigation, Chennai. A release from the CBI said that during the period from 1996-2008, the accused had amassed wealth of Rs. 34 lakh, disproportionate to his known sources of income. The court sentenced him to rigorous imprisonment for one year and imposed a fine of Rs. 10,000. The court also ordered the confiscation of his assets worth Rs. 50 lakh, the release said.
22 November 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||‘Administration prepared to handle heavy rainfall’||Following an ‘alert’ from the weather department about a possible heavy rainfall to very heavy rainfall in the next couple of days, the district administration got into a preparatory mode here on Saturday. Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver presided over a meeting in which senior officers from various departments, including the Superintendent of Police E. Karthik, and others participated. The multi-department meeting, which lasted for over two hours, had decided to step up surveillance in low-lying areas in the district. The Indian Meterological Department (IMD), according to the officials, had forecast about a possible heavy rain on November 23 and very heavy rains from Nov 24 to 26. Hence, in tune with the forecast, Mr Oliver said that they would be fully prepared to face the challenge and expected the officials to effectively coordinate in this crucial hour. Apart from the 39 low-lying areas identified, the possible flash floods closer to the tanks in the district would also be under watch. There are about 3,500 first line responders across the 429 panchayats in the district. This would be functioning directly with the specially installed control room at the Collectorate. The police would be deployed in all the relief centres. The highways officials were instructed to take steps to repair worn-out roads as they may hamper vehicle movement. The coastal agencies along the fisher hamlets would be instructed to stay off sea as a precautionary measure. In a nutshell, all the department heads would be coordinating and be on the alert till further instructions, the Collector said and inspected the relief centres in the district. According to the revenue officials, they have 32 relief centres. For any details about the rainfall or for any assistance, the public may contact 1077 or 04567-230060.
22 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Liquor bottles seized, one arrested||In a joint operation conducted by the City Police and Central Investigation Unit, police seized liquor bottles worth Rs. 3 lakh stocked for illegal sales here. According to the police, based on a tip-off, a team led by Deputy Police Commissioner (Crime and Traffic) S. Senthil raided the premises of a parking lot near Four Roads. Police seized 390 liquor bottles brought from Puducherry for illegal sale. Police have arrested Sathish Kumar in this connection.
22 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||World Vasectomy Day observed in Salem||World Vasectomy day was observed at the Collectorate here on Saturday. Collector S.A. Raman inaugurated an awareness rally and distributed pamphlets. According to officials, special camps will be held at Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital and selected primary health centres in the district from November 21 to December 4. Campaigns Awareness campaigns will be held among eligible couples through individual or group counselling. Officials said vasectomy was safe and would not require hospital admission. A release said 23 persons underwent the surgery last year. Public can contact 79047 54688, 97904 62426, 99407 09571 for further details, the release added.
22 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Social service projects||As part of Round Table India (RTI) formation day, Erode Spice Round Table 211 will be conducting social service activities from November 21 to 28. A release said that RTI was formed on November 14, 1961 and various service activities were regularly carried out to celebrate the formation. During the week, members would visit orphanages and donate water heaters and bedsheets, and provide safety shoes to animal watchers and forest guards of Bargur Reserve Forest among others.
22 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||CM forced to announce fund: Stalin||DMK president M K Stalin on Saturday contended that Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had announced a revolving fund for the medical education of state government students, who joined under the 7.5% quota, only because of the Opposition’s role. Thanking the Chief Minister for the decision, he denied indulging in politics on the issue, as charged by Mr. Palaniswami. “It is only because the Opposition did politics, the CM was forced to make the announcement,” Mr Stalin told DMK cadres in Salem during a video conference. He charged that Mr Palaniswami, though born into an agriculture family never took up farming or was dependent on farming for livelihood. Hence the CM had supported the three farm legislations enacted by the Central Government. Mr. Stalin said that none would be happier than him if a true farmer became the Chief Minister of the State. Listing various development projects announced and implemented during DMK regime in Salem, Mr. Stalin claimed that the CM deliberately sabotaged the progress of these projects since they were announced during the erstwhile DMK government. Mr. Stalin alleged that the Government Botanical Garden started during DMK regime is covered by bushes and the Salem Super Specialty Government Hospital has become ordinary hospital and there are reports of ‘Rat infestion’ there. Mr. Stalin said that he assumed that the Chief Minister would have turned Salem into a model city through his frequent visits but he was only making empty promises.  Mr. Stalin alleged that the production at Mettur thermal plant has been reduced so that government could procure power at high prices from private players. He said that Mr. Palaniswami not once interacted with the farmers who opposed the green corridor project. On the Chief Minister’s charge that he had not offered constructive feedback, Mr. Stalin said that he did not feel bad for being called ‘Statement Hero’ by the CM and said that its only after he made statements, government increased tests for COVID-19 disease, decided to cancel class 10 examinations, and provided provide cash relief to people affected by COVID-19 lockdown.
22 November 2020||SALEM/Erode,TAMIL NADU||Electoral rolls revision camps being held in western districts||A two-day special summary revision camps to verify and edit voter details in the draft electoral rolls are being held at polling booths in western districts on Saturday and Sunday. In Erode, the special camps are being held in all the 2,215 polling stations at 926 locations across the district. The special summary revision of electoral rolls with reference to January 1, 2021, as the qualifying date is being held for persons completing 18 years of age on that day. They could apply for inclusion in the electoral rolls by submitting Form 6. For deletion of name from the rolls, Form 7 should be submitted while Form 8 is for correction to particulars entered in the rolls. Form 8A should be submitted for transposition of entry from one part of rolls to another part of a constituency. Respective forms can be submitted to the booth level officers at the respective polling stations on both the days. E lection officials said the camps would also be held on December 12 and 13. As per the draft electoral rolls released for all the nine Assembly constituencies in Erode district, there are 19,16,531 electors comprising 9,36,022 men, 9,80,414 women and 95 transgenders. Besides, there are 278 service electors. In Salem, the camps are being held at 1,163 polling booths. Collector S.A. Raman inspected the camps at Saradha Vidyalaya Matriculation Higher Secondary School and Sooramangalam Sri Ramakrishna Saradha Higher Secondary School. In a release, Mr. Raman said differently abled persons could call toll-free number 1950 and the respective polling station officers would visit their residence and collect the forms for any corrections or inclusion in the rolls. In Namakkal, Electoral Roll Observer S. Sivasanmugaraja inspected the special camps at Namakkal North Government Boys Higher Secondary School and Namakkal South Government Boys Higher Secondary School. Mr. Sivasanmugaraja held meeting with Collector K.Megraj, officials and representatives of political parties and advised party representatives to cooperate with government officials for revision of electoral rolls. In Dharmapuri, Collector S.P. Karthika inspected the camps organised at Illakyampatti Girls Higher Secondary School, Avvaiyar Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Madhikonampalayam Municipality Middle School and Old Dharmapuri Panchayat Union Middle School. The camps are being held at 856 polling centres. In Krishnagiri, M. Vallalar, Electoral Roll Observer, held discussions with officials. Mr.Vallalar along with Collector V. Jayachandra Banu Reddy inspected the special camps held at Orappam Government Higher Secondary School and Boganapalli Government Middle School.
22 November 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Protests seek release Udayanidhi Stalin||Over 400 cadre and functionaries of the DMK resorted to demonstrations across nine different locations in the district here on Saturday. Demanding the State government to release the DMK's youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin, the members shouted slogans against the AIADMK government. Former MLA Mathiarasan said that the AIADMK was unable to stomach the popularity of the DMK leader M.K. Stalin. Now that the elections are fast approaching, the AIADMK was in a frustration. People were with the DMK and a new government would be in place under the leadership of Mr Stalin, he added. Police said they detained cadre in Sivaganga Town, Tiruppuvanam, Manamadurai, Karaikudi, Devakottai and Singampunari.  Ramanathapuram In a similar agitation, the members led by the district office-bearers staged demonstrations in as many as 15 locations across Ramanathapuram. According to the police, they picked up over 700 DMK men during the day and detained in private marriage halls.
22 November 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||‘Work on stormwater drains to be over within five months’||Water stagnation issues in the port town would be addressed within five months as the construction of ongoing stormwater drains would be completed before this deadline, Commissioner of Revenue Administration (CRA) and State Relief Commissioner K. Phanindra Reddy has said. Addressing the meeting held here on Saturday to review the preparations made in the wake of north-east monsoon, Mr. Reddy said the local bodies of the district, which performed in a laudable manner when pandemic was in peak, should take all-out efforts to save rainwater instead of wasting it. Besides ensuring better water management and improving groundwater table, it would also mitigate monsoon-related woes. Though the recent rains had caused damages in places like Thoothukudi, Kaayalpattinam and Vilaathikulam, the district administration and local bodies concerned had jointly addressed the issues to restore normalcy at the earliest. “Construction of the stormwater drains in Thoothukudi will be completed within five months to provide effective solution to rainwater stagnation problems,” Mr. Reddy said. District Collector K. Senthil Raj, Corporation Commissioner V. P. Jayaseelan, Additional Collector Vishnu Chandran, Sub-Collector Simranjeet Singh and senior officials of various departments participated in the meeting. The CRA visited a few areas of the port town including P and T Colony, Bryant Nagar and Lourdhammalpuram to assess the damage caused by the stagnant rainwater.
22 November 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||ICG detains mechanised boat near Minicoy Island||A mechanised boat from Tharuvaikulam in the district that reportedly entered the prohibited zones close to Minicoy Island inadvertently following technical snag has been detained by the Indian Coast Guard (ICG). The mechanised boat of Thangasamy of Tharuvaikulam ventured into the sea from Tharuvaikulam Fishing Harbour on November 5 with ten fishermen, including driver M. Johnson, for multi-day deep sea fishing. When the boat was near Minicoy Island on November 17, the vessel was detained by the Indian Coast Guard for allegedly fishing in prohibited waters. Following preliminary inquiry by the ICG officials, the mechanised boat crew and the boat were reportedly handed over to the Minicoy Island police for further investigation. While the ICG claimed that the fishermen had entered the prohibited zone close to the Minicoy Island for fishing, Mr. Thangasamy denies it. “After the fishnet got entangled around the propeller of the mechanized boat, the vessel could not be operated. Even before the issue could be sorted out by the crew, the boat drifted due to strong winds and entered the prohibited zone only to be detained by the Indian Coast Guard. Since the boat entered the prohibited area inadvertently, the ICG should release the boat with the crew,” Mr. Thangasamy prayed.
22 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Amit Shah lays foundation for new barrage across Cauvery||The proposed barrage across the Cauvery between Nanjai Pugalur in Karur district and Anichampalayam in Namakkal district has been designed to store .80 tmc of water. Union Home Minister Amit Shah laid the foundation for the barrage through video conferencing from Chennai in the presence of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and senior Ministers in Chennai. Shortly after the foundation-laying ceremony, Collector S. Malarvizhi took part in the bhoomi puja held at the project site in the presence of senior officials and farmers of Karur and Namakkal districts. R. Geetha, Executive Engineer (project division), Public Works Department, and others participated. Ms. Malarvizhi said the Chief Minister had made the announcement in the State Assembly on construction of a new barrage across the Cauvery at Nanjai Pugalur. The new barrage was designed to store about .80 tmc of water. It was estimated to cost Rs. 406 crore. Administrative sanction had been accorded to the project in June and a sum of Rs. 106 crore had been earmarked in the first phase. She said it was aimed at recharging groundwater in and around Nanjai Pugalur and Mohanur (Namakkal district). It would be implemented with financial assistance of National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). According to sources in the Public Works Department, the barrage would have a length of 1,056 metres and a height of 5 metres. The depth of storage would be 5 metres. With 73 vents, it had been designed to regulate 3.6 lakh cusecs of water. A senior PWD official said the project would clear glitches in supply of water to paddy fields along Vangal canal in Karur district and a canal at Mohanur. The barrage would have backwater spread for 7.5 km on the upper reach of the Cauvery and would help recharge groundwater. The pumping station of Tamil Nadu News Paper Ltd (TNPL) was situated 3.5 km from the barrage. It would support TNPL to draw water. Tender for the project would be called for in a few days. It would be finalised by January or February. The barrage would be completed within 36 months from the date of award of contract.  The Chief Minister had made the announcement in the State Assembly on construction of a new barrage across the Cauvery at Nanjai Pugalur S. Malarvizhi Collector
22 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Gandhi Market traders to observe indefinite fast from November 27||An indefinite hunger strike has been planned by vendors attached to Tiruchi Gandhi Market All Kinds of Wholesale and Retail Traders Association demanding the reopening of the Gandhi Market. The move comes in the light of an upcoming hearing of a batch of petitions filed in connection with Gandhi Market’s closure and shifting of the vendors to the Central Market for Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers at Kallikudi. It is to be heard by the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on November 26. A public interest litigation petition stating that the congested market would turn into a hotspot and lead to rapid spread of COVID-19 led to the closure of the market amid the lockdown . “Even the Koyambedu market in Chennai, which was a major source for the spread of the infection, has been allowed to open. Markets across the State are functional. Yet, the district administration and the government is colluding to keep us out of our place of business,” said association president Ve. Govindarajulu at a meeting of all traders held in the city. While the hearing at the High Court, vegetables, fruits and flowers had gone to waste, Mr. Govindarajulu said. “The temporary markets, including G. Corner Grounds, have no shelter and is not a permanent solution for our traders,” he claimed. At the meeting, the vendors decided that they would refuse to sell vegetables or fruits anywhere in the district from 6 p.m. on November 24. They would do business only if the hearing was in their favour. “No vegetables will be sold until we get justice. The market is our place of work and we will not go anywhere else, come what may,” a trader said. The traders also decided to launch an indefinite hunger strike along with their families from November 27 if they did not receive positive results in the hearing. “We will man the roads of the city and ensure that no vehicles carrying vegetables are able to enter. This is to show how important our market is to the people of Tiruchi and why it is important that we stay at Gandhi market," said Mr. Govindarajulu. The vendors were not willing to negotiate with district authorities and demanded concrete action, he added.
22 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||One death, 135 fresh positive cases recorded in central region||The central districts on Saturday recorded a further dip in fresh cases of COVID-19 with 135 patients testing positive for the viral infection. The region recorded one death, in Thanjavur, according to the health bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. A 71-year-old woman with a history of coronary artery disease, diabetes and hypertension succumbed to the viral infection in Thanjavur. All districts in the region reported less than 30 COVID cases on Saturday. Nagapattinam, Thanjavur and Tiruchi reported 27 cases. All patients in the districts were isolated cases and were primary contacts, interdistrict travellers and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. Meanwhile, 13 patients undergoing treatment at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the infection. In Karur, 17 new cases were reported among which patients hailed from Kamarajapuram and Kulithalai among other localities. Interdistrict travellers, from Namakkal also tested positive. Meanwhile, Tiruvarur reported 16 fresh cases for COVID-19 among which were patients detected at various fever camps held in the district. Pudukottai reported a further dip in cases with 16 fresh cases reported on Saturday. Among them were local index cases and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses. Ariyalur reported a further drop in cases with only five fresh cases for the viral infection. Meanwhile, in Perambalur, no new atients tested positive. All containment zones in the district have been removed. Meanwhile, a total of 449 throat swabs were lifted at the government hospitals and primary healthcare centres in the district and sent for processing.
22 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Biomethanisation of waste resumes||Biomethanisation of food and domestic waste and biomining of a dumpyard in Neduvasal has resumed after a brief hiatus. The work seeks to process nearly 18 metric tonnes of waste generated in the town per day. A biomethanisation plant has been set up near Neduvasal, where microorganisms are introduced to biodegradable waste to turn it into biogas and manure. “The natural fertilizer is being distributed to farmers for free on request,” said S. Kumarimannan, Perambalur Municipality Commissioner. Garbage piled up at the old dumpyard in Neduvasal, functional until a few years ago, is also being processed, he said. “A project worth Rs. 3.18 crore is underway to biomine the dumpyard. We are taking the help of experts at Anna University, who are monitoring it,” Mr. Kumarimannan said. Meanwhile, a concrete decentralised plan to segregate waste generated in 21 wards of the civic body’s limits is under way. Two fully functional microcomposting yards and one on-site compost centre are being used to turn biodegradable waste generated within the town to compost. People are becoming aware of the need to segregate waste and avoid using plastics, Mr. Kumarimannan said. “We are creating awareness drives and ensuring that conservancy workers collect only segregated waste,” the Municipality Commissioner added.
22 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||IUML warning to State govt.||Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) president K.M. Kader Mohideen on Saturday said the suppressive actions of the AIADMK government against DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin would be counter productive. Speaking to reporters, he said it was the duty of the Opposition parties to highlight the misdeeds of the ruling party by meeting people. But, the ruling party in the State was going all out to stop the public outreach programmes of Mr. Udhayanidhi, he alleged. People were observing everything. The suppressive actions would actually benefit the DMK, he cautioned. Mr. Mohideen said it was unfortunate that the AIADMK was simply toeing the ideas and policies of the BJP on all aspects. The visit of Union Home Minister Amit Shah was of no use to the interest of the State.. If the AIADMK listened to his whims and fancies, it would end up eroding its support base, he added.
22 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Dalit girl makes it to MBBS fighting all odds||The 7.5% horizontal reservation provided by the State government for government school children in medical admissions has lit up the life of M. Bhagavathy, a poor Scheduled Caste girl who grazed cattle while preparing for NEET. She is a resident of Thenkalampudur in Tirunelveli. Bhagavathy’s father Mariappan, who worked as a private bus conductor, had died of cancer when she was just six. Her mother Samuthirakanni had to work as a farm hand to support her four children. With the little income she was getting from the three cows and the wages as a farm worker, the poor woman vowed to provide better education to her children. After selling the land the family had, Ms. Samuthirakani admitted her first daughter in nursing and she is doing her postgraduate programme in nursing in Coimbatore. After getting the degree in mechanical engineering, her son is undergoing coaching for the competitive exams. The mother’s tireless work ensured bachelor’s degree to another daughter. When Bhagavathy wanted to become a doctor, NEET stood between her and her ambition. Bhagavathy was an outstanding student of Adi Dravida Government Higher Secondary School at nearby Nallammalpuram and scored 516 out of 600 in the Plus Two public exam in 2019. However, she could score just 111 marks in the NEET in 2019. “Since my mother always wanted me to become a doctor, she sold one of our three cows and borrowed from a moneylender to pay my fees of Rs. 74,000 to a private coaching centre in Palayamkottai and the hostel fee as well,” Bhagavathy recalls. Instead of discouraging the girl, the poverty she had experienced in fact made her more determined and work hard in the coaching centre till the small hours. As she had to pay Rs. 7,500 for the hostel, Bhagavathy left the hostel once the coaching was over within the first five months and started taking the tests regularly as a day-scholar in a bid to save the hostel expenses. While preparing for NEET, the girl had to take the cows for grazing at times and milk the animals whenever her mother was held up in the farm. The hard work and perseverance has paid rich dividends as the girl has now scored 364 in NEET and bagged a seat in Tirunelveli Medical College. This time, Samuthirakani’s ear studs and the rings were sold to pay tuition fee. “I want to purse my postgraduate programme either in neurology or paediatric medicine. I will work hard to achieve this dream too,” says Bhagavathy.
22 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Special camps for summary revision of poll rolls begin||Special summary revision camps to enroll eligible voters were conducted here on Saturday. As the Election Commission of India has proposed to organise special summary revision of electoral rolls on November 21 and 22 and December 12 and 13 ahead of the Assembly election to be held in May 2021, the camp was organised in all 1,475 polling stations across the district on Saturday, the first day of the special camp, between 10 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. Though the schools, which would usually be polling stations during the elections, are closed now due to pandemic, the heads of the institution and a good number of teachers, who would be the polling officers, were asked to be in the schools along with the revenue department personnel to receive applications for addition and deletion of voters. The voters submitted Form 6 for addition, Form 7 for deletion (in case of dead or double entry), Form 8 for correction in name, address or photo and Form 8A for shifting of voters within the constituency. Collector V. Vishnu visited a few special camp centres. Apart from submitting applications during the special summary revision camps, the voters can also submit the forms online via www.nvsp.in or Voters Helpline Mobile App. In Thoothukudi, the special camps were organised in 1,603 places and Tenkasi had 1,504 camps. In Kanniyakumari, special summary revision camps were conducted in over 1,500 polling stations.
22 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||She fought all odds to crack NEET||The 7.50% reservation ensured by the Tamil Nadu Government for government school students in the medical admission has done wonders in the life of a poor Scheduled Caste girl student. When a private bus company conductor Mariappan from Thenkalampudur near here died of cancer, his wife Samuthirakani, a farmhand, and his three daughters and a son were virtually on the streets. With little revenue she was getting from her three cows and the wages as a farm worker, the poor widow vowed to provide better education to her children. After selling the land the family had, Samuthirakani admitted her first daughter in nursing and now she is doing her postgraduate programme in Coimbatore and the son, after getting a degree in mechanical engineering, is undergoing coaching for competitive exams. The mother’s tireless work ensured a bachelor’s degree to another daughter. Her last daughter M. Bhagavathy, who lost her father when she was just 6 years old, wanted to become a doctor. She was an outstanding student of Adi Dravida Government Higher Secondary School at nearby Nallammalpuram and scored 516 out of 600 in the Plus Two public exam in 2019. However, she could score just 111 marks in the NEET in 2019. “Since my mother always wanted me to become a doctor, my mom sold one of our three cows and borrowed from a moneylender to pay my fees of Rs. 74,000 at a private coaching centre in Palayamkottai and the hostel fee as well,” Bhagavathy recalls. Instead of feeling discouraged, poverty made Bhagavathy more determined and work hard in the coaching centre till the small hours. As she had to pay Rs. 7,500 for the hostel, Bhagavathy left the hostel once the coaching was over within the first five months and started taking the tests regularly as a day-scholar. While preparing for NEET, she also had to take the cows for grazing at times and milk the animals whenever her mother was held up in the farm. The hard work and perseverance has paid rich dividends as the girl has now scored 364 in NEET and ultimately bagged a seat in Tirunelveli Medical College. This time, the widow’s ear studs and rings were sold to pay Bhagavathy’s tuition fee. “I want to purse my postgraduate programme either in neurology or paediatric medicine. I will work hard to achieve this dream too,” says Bhagavathy.
22 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Seven trees get a new life after being translocated||Seven trees, which were facing the axe for a road widening work in Palayamkottai have been safely translocated and replanted along the bunds of Vaeinthaankulam around the new bus stand. When renovation of the Vaeinthaankulam new bus stand and a few other construction works were started recently at the bus terminus under the ‘Smart City’ programme, 106 trees on this premises, mostly neem, faced the threat of being axed. On coming to know about the 15-year-old trees’ destiny, the then Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish put forward the idea of translocating the trees to the Vaeithaankulam surrounding the bus terminus. Subsequently, all the trees were uprooted with the help of heavy equipment in mid-October and moved to the new ‘home’ by a team, led by ‘Osai’ K. Syed Kattuva, Project Officer, Department of Environmental Sciences, Bharathiyar University, Coimbatore. Meanwhile, the Corporation, which is constructing a median on the road between Perumalpuram Police Station and Maharaja Nagar Railway Crossing, had to remove at least eight trees as part of the widening work. Again, the services of these experts were utilised to uproot the trees and plant it along the bunds of Vaeinthaankulam. “While we were able to translocate seven trees, a parakeet family has its nest in the eighth tree, which now has chicks. So we did not disturb the tree as of now. It will be translocated only after the chicks fly out,” said Mr. Syed. Corporation Commissioner G. Kannan said the urban civic body, which was developing ‘urban jungles’ through Miyawaki planting system, would not allow any tree to be sliced unnecessarily for any development work. Chief Executive Officer of Tirunelveli Smart City Limited V. Narayanan Nair said cutting down age-old trees along the roads instead of translocating them would be the worst sin to commit.
22 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Saturday stood at 127.20 feet (maximum level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 1,777.78 cusecs and no water was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 93.70 feet (maximum level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 515 cusecs and no water was discharged.
22 November 2020||TIRUPPUR,TAMIL NADU||Credit potential for Tiruppur projected at Rs. 13,777 crore||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has projected the credit potential for Tiruppur district for the financial year 2021-22 at Rs. 13,777.9 crore, according to its potential-linked credit plan released on Saturday. A release said Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan released the potential-linked credit plan and Lead District Manager T. Alexander received the first copy. Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said the plan had been prepared based on the Reserve Bank of India guidelines on priority sector, government policies, available rural infrastructure and gaps and consultative process with the bankers. The credit potential as projected by NABARD for the district is around 11 % more than that of the current financial year. Assistant General Manager (Tiruppur) for NABARD E. Raju said of the total projection, Rs. 7,733.88 crore or 56.13% was estimated to be the credit outgo for the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector and Rs. 3,771.95 crore (27.38%) for agriculture sector. Other estimations were Rs. 572.90 crore (4.16%) for sectors including self-help groups and joint liability groups, Rs. 567.34 crore (4.12%) for renewable energy, Rs. 562.50 crore (4.08%) for export credit, Rs. 278.74 crore (2.02%) for education, Rs. 270.33 crore (1.96%) housing and Rs. 20.25 crore (0.15%) for social infrastructure.
22 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Three youths killed in accident||Three youths died on the spot in a collision between a two-wheeler and a truck at the Salem-Kochi National Highway near Avinashi on Saturday. The police identified the deceased as Murali (23), Thangadurai (23) and Sureshkumar (23). The three were travelling on a bike with Thangadurai driving it. At around 5.30 p.m., the allegedly speeding two-wheeler rammed the rear side of a truck carrying paper load from Andhra Pradesh to Kerala on the highway. The youths died on the spot. The Thirumuruganpoondi police visited the spot, recovered the bodies and sent them for autopsy at the Avinashi Government Hospital. Truck driver Dhanapal (35) was booked. Further investigations are on.
22 November 2020||Tiruvallur,TAMIL NADU||Micro-level planning to help boost agriculture in Tiruvallur district||To facilitate micro-level planning and technology transfer to farmers, and thereby increase their yield and income, the State Agriculture Departmenthas starteda Farmer-Official contact system. As part of this scheme, the Agriculture Department has selected 10 farmers in each village panchayat who will serve as role models for the others by implementing the techniques and advice given by the agriculture officers. There are 526 village panchayats in Tiruvallur. While paddy is cultivated on 1 lakh hectares of land in the district, pulses are grown on 12,000 hectare, oil seeds on 12,000 hectares and sugarcane on 6,000 hectares of land. There are 60 Assistant Agriculture Officers (AAO) in the district and they are supposed to visit each village panchayat every fortnight and spend time with the farmers from 9 a.m to 5 p.m and guide them on new methods, seed-to-harvest technology, methods to prevent pest infestations and other schemes related to agriculture. “They have to prepare a plan for the village panchayat every fortnight and prepare a booklet. They will identify 10 farmers and form a message-sharing group where the members can share their grievances. A committee comprising scientists from Krishi Vigyan Kendra, and block-level agriculture and horticulture department officials will meet every fortnight, review the progress and plan for the next 15 days,” said R. Sambath Kumar, Joint Director, Agriculture Department, Tiruvallur. Mr. Kumar said that earlier, planning pertaining to cultivation was done at the district level.
22 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tigress found dead, two cubs rescued in MTR||The Forest Department on Saturday rescued two tiger cubs from the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) after their mother was found dead near Achakarai in the Singara Forest Range. K.K. Kaushal, Field Director of MTR, said the carcass was found on Friday evening by the Forest department staff. As it was dusk, they decided to do the post-mortem on Saturday. “When we reached the spot on Saturday, we heard the cries of two cubs near the carcass,” said Mr. Kaushal. Following the development, the focus quickly shifted to the well-being of the two male cubs. “We have two options; one is to send them to a zoo or send them to a facility where they will remain captive. However, it has been decided that we will go with the second option and slowly reintroduce them back into the wild,” he said. He said that efforts would be made to minimise the contact the two cubs would have with humans till the time of their release, which would be after they are two years of age. “We have the expertise to give the two cubs a chance at becoming wild tigers, so we will do our best to make this a reality,” said Mr. Kaushal.  A post-mortem was conducted on the tigress, which, officials said, was around nine years old. Deputy Director of MTR (Buffer Zone) L.C.S. Srikanth said the cause of death was not known but he did not rule out poisoning. “We have collected samples of the stomach contents of the tigress as well as samples of the animal’s other visceral organs for analysis. We will send them to different laboratories for testing and only after the results are returned will we have a better idea of what caused the animal’s death,” said Mr. Srikanth.
22 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||41 new cases reported in Vellore||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 19,024 with a total of 41 new cases reported on Saturday. While a total of 18,459 have been discharged, the active cases in the district stand at 239. The district's death toll is 326. In Ranipet district, 17 cases were reported positive taking the total to 15,480. In Tirupathur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,143 with 14 new cases on Saturday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 37 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 18,449. Out of this, 17,968 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 210.
22 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Last day to pay premium for crop insurance||The last day to pay premium for crop insurance for samba paddy crop for Rabi special season 2020-21 is December 15, 2020. In a statement, Collector R. Kannan said that sowing of samba paddy crop in Virudhunagar district was going on in a full fledged way. Under the Revamped Prime Minister’s Crop Insurance Scheme, the State Government’s subsidy has been increased to Rs. 1,470 crore from Rs. 721 crore. The new scheme under Cluster V will be implemented in Virudhunagar district by public sector insurance company, Agriculture Insurance Company India Limited. “Virudhunagar district has been facing moderate to heavy rainfall in which the standing crops could be affected. Farmers who have not registered themselves can register for the crop insurance scheme through the nationalised banks, cooperative societies or through common service centres,” the Collector said. Farmers need to pay only 1.5% of the premium or Rs. 355 per acre out of the Rs. 23,650 premium. Along with their insurance proposals, the farmers should produce the report for crop sowing issued by village administrative officer, photocopy of first page of the bank passbook, Aadhaar card copy. They should get the receipt for the premium paid through the banks, societies and CSCs. Farmers should pay the premium to get compensation for any crop loss due to natural disasters or pest attacks.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two tiger cubs rescued at Mudumalai Tiger Reserve||Officials of the Forest Department on Saturday rescued two tiger cubs from the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) after their mother was found dead near Achakarai in the Singara Forest Range. K.K. Kaushal, Field Director of MTR, said the carcass of the tigress was found on Friday evening by Forest Department staff. As it was nearing dusk, a decision was taken to conduct a post-mortem on the carcass on Saturday. “When we reached the spot on Saturday, we heard the cries of two tiger cubs near the carcass,” said Mr. Kaushal. Following this development, the focus quickly shifted to ensuring the survival of the two cubs, who were males. “We have two options: one is to send them to a zoo or a facility where they will remain captive. However, it has been decided that we will go with a second option, to raise them in-situ at the tiger reserve and slowly reintroduce them back into the wild,” he said. Mr. Kaushal said that efforts would be taken to minimise the contact the two cubs would have with humans till the time of their release, which will be after they reach two years of age. “We have the expertise to give the two cubs a chance at becoming wild tigers, so we will do our best to make this a reality,” he said. The circumstances surrounding the death of the adult tigress remain a mystery, with no obvious external signs of injury. Forest officials refused to rule out the possibility of the animal being poisoned and said that only a post-mortem would throw more light on the cause of death. Tensions have been high in the area where the tiger was found dead, after a woman was mauled to death during an accidental encounter with a tiger,a few months ago. Following this, five Asiatic wild dogs died after they had fed on the carcass of a wild animal which is suspected to have been poisoned by locals. Till date, no arrests have been made in connection with the case, which activists claim was retaliation by local residents targeted at tigers in the region.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||148 new cases in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district reported 148 new COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday, and two men, aged 57 and 35 died of the infection. The number of active cases remained below 150 for the third consecutive day in the district. The district had 748 COVID-19 patients under institutional care as of Saturday, including the 148 persons who tested positive for the disease on the day. The two deaths took the district's toll to 597. As many as 190 persons were discharged from hospital upon recovery. Tiruppur district reported two COVID-19 deaths and 70 cases on Saturday, taking the district’s overall tally of positive cases to 14,763. The deceased were two women aged 87 and 75, according to the medical bulletin. The toll so far is 206. The district has 650 active cases. On Saturday, 98 patients from the district were discharged from various hospitals upon recovery from COVID-19. Salem district reported 66 cases, of whom five had returned from Namakkal district, health officials said. Namakkal reported 38 indigenous cases. Krishnagiri saw 10 new cases and Dharmapuri 16 -- all of them were indigenous cases. Erode district reported 48 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 11,871. While 97 persons were discharged, 285 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 138. The Nilgiris saw eight new positive cases on Saturday, taking the overall tally to 7,202. The death toll in the district is 40. The district administration said 136 people are undergoing treatment.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||IIFPT, Thanjavur, to conduct free online training in food processing tomorrow||The Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology (IIFPT) will conduct a State-level free online training programme for stakeholders of food industry on November 23 under the Prime Minister Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises (PM-FME) scheme. The purpose of the programme is to brief stakeholders on the significance of the PM-FME scheme. The programme, which will start at 10 a.m., will be conducted through Webex online platform. Interested candidates can register their names through the website linkhttp://www.iifpt.edu.in/pmf me-registration.php. Further information can be had from the website linkhttp://www.iifpt.edu.in/ab-pmf me.php The objective of the Centrally-sponsored scheme is to provide financial, technical and business support for upgrading the existing micro-level food processing enterprises with an outlay of Rs. 10,000 crore. Around two lakh micro food processing units will get credit-linked subsidy with focus on supporting self-help groups, food processing outlets and cottage industries through the scheme implemented under Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan, IIFPT Director C. Anandharamkrishnan said in a press release. The Institute will act as the nodal agency for 19 States for capacity building and training of State and district officials; develop curricula and training modules and partner with State-level technical institutes for imparting further training to micro-enterprises and groups; prepare standard detailed project reports (DPRs) for products for micro-units; develop technologies/ machines for upgradation of micro-units; partner with other research and training institutions for the above activities; and provide technical support for the delivery of scheme requirements. The Institute will also facilitate access to credit-linked subsidy for setting up new food processing units and upgradation of existing units. Under the scheme, according to Mr. Anandharamkrishnan, the food processing units will get credit-linked grant of 35% of the project cost with maximum grant up to Rs. 10 lakh to existing unorganised food processing units for upgradation. A similar percentage of the project cost will be provided as credit-linked grant for SHGs/FPOs/cooperatives for capital expenditure with maximum limit as prescribed. Seed capital of Rs. 40,000 per member of SHGs engaged in food processing will be extended as working capital. Besides, a credit-linked grant of 35% of the project cost will be provided for creation of common infrastructure with maximum limit as prescribed, and up to 50% of the expenditure with maximum limit as prescribed as support for marketing and branding exercise. Further, the individual micro food processing units will be provided with credit-linked capital subsidy of 35% of the eligible project cost for expansion/technology upgradation with maximum ceiling of Rs. 10 lakh per unit. The beneficiary contribution should be minimum 10% and the balance should be in the form of a bank loan, he added.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Brisk sales||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||A report published in these columns on Friday erroneously mentioned that Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu had called on Governor Banwarlilal Purohit at the Raj Bhavan. The Governor had called on the Vice- President at the Raj Bhavan. The error is regretted.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK-BJP tie-up will continue’||Mr. Shah challenged the DMK-Congress alliance to list the development schemes initiated for Tamil Nadu during the 10 years of the UPA government and compare them with the numerous schemes rolled out by the NDA government in the last six years. “We are prepared to respond in a public debate anywhere in Chennai,” he said. Reeling out multiple figures and listing the schemes launched under the Modi government that he said benefited Tamil Nadu, he said the budgetary allocation for the State was much higher than what was sanctioned by the Manmohan Singh government. He added that the Centre was implementing schemes that were “entitlements” to the State. He said that since Mr. Modi entered the national political scene, corruption, caste and dynastic politics were shackled. The DMK and the Congress, he said, had no locus standi to speak about corruption after the 2G scam and other cases. He hoped the people of Tamil Nadu would put an end to dynasty politics.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Triumph of good over evil||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fake bill trading racket busted||Officials from the Directorate General of GST Intelligence conducted raids at the residence and premises of a businessman in Hosur and busted a fake bill trading racket through which Input Tax Credit of Rs. 25.4 crore was claimed. A release said that officials during the raid on November 19 found that fake bills were generated and fraudulently passed on as Input Tax Credit to manufacturers and traders in Benguluru and Hosur. The taxable value of the fake bills amounted to Rs. 141 crore. The accused had registered five GST numbers using PAN cards of his kin and friends. Officials seized printed bill books, cheque books of bank accounts attached to the firm and signed cheque leaves during the raid. Officials said in a release that the proxy firms set up by the accused had availed or passed on the Input Tax Credit without actual supply or receipt of goods. Investigation is continuing, the release added.
22 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police issue notice to Vani Vilas hospital over security lapses||Following the case of a newborn baby being stolen from the Vani Vilas hospital, the police said there were “serious” security lapses at the medical facility. They have issued a notice to the hospital seeking an explanation. The hospital has around 12 CCTV cameras, out of which 10 are defunct, a senior police officer said. “Apart from this, there are other major security lapses found during the course of the investigation, and we have issued a notice to the hospital administration seeking information about the medical and paramedical staff, and the security staff present at the time of the incident,” the officer added. This is not the first time the police have raised the issue of security lapses in the hospital. Last year, the police conducted a security audit and found that CCTV cameras were not working, apart from the lack of security measures to secure the area. The administration had reasoned with the police that the CCTV cameras were not working owing to Namma Metro work, but it was not true, police officials, who conducted the inspection, said. Such security lapses lead to criminal activities and the hospital is liable under the laws related to public safety, the police added. In the recent case of child theft , the accused Ayesha was seen walking unnoticed and there were no security guards present. This is a serious breach of security which needs to be strictly dealt with, an officer said, adding that necessary action would be taken based on the response of the hospital. The police found Ayesha talking on her mobile phone in a CCTV footage. The police recorded the timing and analysed thousands of call record details before zeroing on her. “We were lucky that she happened to pass through one of the CCTV cameras which was functioning. This helped us,” the police officer added.
22 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||D.J. Halli: BJP trying to use rift in Cong.||The political fallout of D.J. Halli violence and its probe has left the Congress, which has politically dominated the area for long, deeply divided. Sensing this, the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is attempting to improve its standing in Pulakeshinagar, Sarvagnanagar, and Shivajinagar Assembly constituencies — neighbouring segments with large Muslim and Dalit pockets. The alleged role of the former Mayor and Congress leader from the area, R. Sampath Raj, in instigating violence against MLA for Pulakeshinagar (reserved constituency) R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy (Congress), over a derogatory social media post against Islam by the nephew of the legislator, has exposed the intense factionalism in the Congress. “I am a Congress MLA who has been attacked, but our party president has been supporting Sampath Raj on this issue. [The former Chief Minister] Siddaramaiah and [the former Minister] B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan are supporting me within the party,” Mr. Murthy told The Hindu . This comes after Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar recently defended Mr. Raj alleging that the BJP was targeting Congress leaders and that there was no evidence of his role in the violence. The police claim that Mr. Raj was an aspirant for the party ticket in Pulakeshinagar in the 2018 Assembly election, but Mr. Murthy’s entry into the party scuttled his plans. He shifted to C.V. Raman Nagar but was defeated.  Factionalism Mr. Raj has been a long-time associate of Mr. Shivakumar while Mr. Murthy is close to Mr. Siddaramaiah. “Factionalism between camps led by Mr. Shivakumar and Mr. Siddaramaiah is a sad reality,” admitted a senior Congress leader. Sensing an opportunity, the BJP has been courting Mr. Murthy from the day the violence broke out in D.J. Halli. His new-found closeness to several BJP leaders has raised red flags in the Congress. A senior BJP Minister said they were keen to make room for a Dalit leader. “With the party president batting for the person who attacked his house and who is also an aspirant for the party ticket from the same constituency, what is the guarantee that Mr. Murthy will get the ticket from the party for the Assembly polls in 2023? It will soon become untenable for him to continue in that party,” he said. Mr. Murthy, however, said, “My family has been a Congress family and my constituency has traditionally supported the Congress.” Sources in the BJP said even if Mr. Murthy does not join them, they see an opportunity to gain a foothold in not only Pulakeshinagar, but also in neighbouring Sarvagnanagar and Shivajinagar constituencies. “These constituencies are dominated by Muslims and Dalits, among other religious minorities. Reverse polarisation of Hindu votes is the only way we can win in these seats. We had won Shivajinagar in 1999 and 2004. The way a section of the minority community went on the rampage in D.J. Halli on August 11 has angered others in the area,” said a BJP strategist. BJP and govt. narrative “The narrative of ‘terrorism’ that the BJP and the State government have built around the violence — handing over the probe to the NIA over alleged terror links to the violence, call to ban the SDPI and the PFI, and Bengaluru South MP Tejasvi Surya calling the city a “terror hub” — seem to be aimed at demonising the minority community,” alleged a senior Congress leader. The BJP, led by its national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh, has never missed an opportunity to emphasise that Mr. Murthy is a Dalit and that the Congress has failed to protect him.
22 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Country should up its millets production by 40%: IIMR||There is a need to increase the production of millets by at least 40% as demand for them in the Indian diet is on a constant rise, said Vilas Tonapi, director, Indian Institute of Millets Research (IIMR). At a seminar organised in connection with Bengaluru Tech Summit here on Saturday, he said there was a need to expand the areas under the cultivation of millets following a rise in their consumption not only across the country but also overseas. “We need to up our millets production at least by 40%. Several farm research organisations are working on crop improvement and fortification methods. Interestingly, 14 States in the country are currently on a mission to cultivate millets incrementally. These national and State-level initiatives will bring a significant amount of millets cultivation back to farms and fields,” Mr. Tonapi anticipated. He said the year 2023 has been declared as the international year of millets and every effort would be made to increase their area of cultivation and consumption in the country. Termed as nutri-cereals, millets are also increasingly finding favour among farmers for being climate-friendly crops that are drought resistant, growing in infertile soil. Mr. Tonapi said millets were found to be gluten-free with low glycemic index which constitutes good food for people suffering from diabetes. It had also been found that millets were anti-carcinogenic foods and anti-hypertensive and they help prevent obesity and heart diseases, he added. A dozen varieties India currently has around 14 million hectares of land under millets cultivation and produces around 14 million tonnes a year with Rajasthan, Maharashtra, and Karnataka leading in millet farming. The country grows close to a dozen varieties of millets and widely consumed among them include pearl millet, foxtail millet, sorghum, finger millet, and kodo millet.
22 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Keep up pace of testing to avoid second COVID-19 wave’||Although the number of total tests in the State breached the one crore mark on Saturday, experts said it is vital to continue the same pace of testing till March to avoid a second wave. The State’s daily test positivity rate (TPR) has been hovering around 1.46% in the last three days. However, it is important now to sustain the same rate for the next four months, experts said. “It is vital to maintain a TPR much below 5% at least till March-end. This means, for every positive patient, the State should test 20 persons. Going by the second outbreak in several States, we should continue testing over one lakh cases till March, 75% of which should be RT-PCR,” V. Ravi, senior professor and head of the department of neuro virology at NIMHANS, who is also part of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee, told The Hindu on Saturday. The TAC, which will meet on November 24, will finalise its recommendations on how the State should brace for a second wave. “We will recommend that the State’s testing strategy be reviewed only after March,” he said. This is based on the experience of some States and countries where a second wave has begun now. “Delhi, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh had gone slow on testing after their first outbreak was on a decline,” he said. “People should not become complacent now. They should continue following all COVID-19 precautions diligently.” New cases Meanwhile, the State reported 1,781 new cases on Saturday taking the total number of cases to 8,71,342. With 20 new deaths, the toll rose to 11,641. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. With 1,799 patients discharged on Saturday, the total number of recoveries touched 8,34,968. Of the remaining 24,714 active cases, 494 patients are being monitored in the ICU.
22 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power cut on Sunday||There will be power supply disruption on Sunday from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. in the areas serviced from 66/11KV ‘A’ station, in view of civil works. According to a Bescom press release, the areas that will be affected are: Sheshadri Road, Kurubara Sangha Circle, 1st main road, Gandhi Nagar; 1st Cross, and part of 2nd Cross, Crescent Road, Race Course Road, Shivananda Circle, Sheshadripuram, Vinayaka Circle, Kumara Park East. Tank Bund Road, SC Road, part of KG Road, part of Hospital Road and Lakshman Puri, 6th cross, 10th Cross Cubbonpet, Vasanthanagar, Palace Road. D.K. Lane, and Chickpet Main Road.
22 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Chitra Santhe goes online||The 18th edition of Chitra Santhe will be held from January 3, 2021. Organised by Karnataka Chitrakala Parishath (KCP), the Santhe will be held online due to the COVID-19 pandemic. According to a release from KCP, Chitra Santhe 18 will be inaugurated on January 3. Many programmes have been scheduled on the inaugural day, which can be viewed on Facebook, Instagram, Youtube and the Chitra Santhe.org website, which will be dedicated exclusively for the event and will be online for an entire month. The event, this year, will be dedicated to the noble service of corona warriors. As many as 1,500 artists across the country and abroad are keen on participating in the online Chitra Santhe, the release stated. During the event, awards will be conferred on four artists along with a cash award of Rs. 50,000 and a citation. Besides, there will be one national award, which will be conferred on a senior artist. It will have a cash award of Rs. 1 lakh and a citation, the release added.
22 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CBI issues summons to Shivakumar||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has summoned Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar for questioning in connection with the disproportionate assets case. The CBI had conducted searches on properties linked to Mr. Shivakumar on October 5.  To appear on Nov. 25 Mr. Shivakumar said that CBI issued summons to him on November 19, the day of his daughter’s engagement, to appear for questioning on November 23. “I will be on a political tour that day. I have requested them to allow me to join the probe on November 25, to which they have agreed,” Mr. Shivakumar said.
22 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘State riding on wave of innovation amid COVID-19’||The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the need for rapid innovations and Karnataka is truly riding this wave, said Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan. At the finale of the three-day Bengaluru Tech Summit 2020 here on Saturday, he said Karnataka fought the pandemic bravely, with a strong sense of responsibility, showing remarkable resilience, and what helped clearly were three factors: people, policies, and processes. Calling upon the entrepreneurs and innovators, he said, “Entrepreneurs have to actively work together and come up with solution-oriented innovations that can help solve our problems, including the ones brought by the pandemic. Innovation, especially in leveraging disruptive technologies, is the need of the hour.” This year’s summit, themed ‘Next is now’, has created a wider platform for the global exchange of knowledge and ideas. “This summit has witnessed eight MoUs with our partner countries and four more are in the pipeline, out of which two MoUs will be signed with the U.S. in the aerospace sector. We are expecting exchange of ideas in this sector between India and our global innovation alliance partner countries, which may translate into investments in future,” he said. The summit registered a total virtual footfall of around 2.5 crore visitors.  Smart Bio Awards Startup of the year: Fibroheal Woundcare, a healthcare biotech startup Innovator of the year: Nibedit Dey, founder and CEO of Ibrum Technologies Woman entrepreneur of the year: Kavitha Iyer Rodrigues, co-founder and CEO of Zumutor Biologics Best product against COVID-19: Mobile Infection Testing and Reporting Labs of ShanMukha Innovations Best social enterprise/institute: Jalodbust
22 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Dy. Consul General of Republic of Korea to visit Bengaluru||Deputy Consul General of Republic of Korea in Chennai, Hong-yup Lee, will be visiting Bengaluru to explore and enhance trade and investments with Karnataka from November 24 to 27. According to a release, during his stay in the city, Mr. Lee will be meeting senior officials of the State government, the police, Customs and Immigration, and representatives of the Korean community and Korean businesses. Given the interest of Korean companies in multiple industry sectors, the Korean government wishes to be the facilitator for the smooth investment operations between Karnataka and Korean companies, said the press release. Mr. Lee said, “Before COVID-19, some Korean companies and regional governments showed their interest in investing in Bengaluru. Now is the time for the consulate and the Karnataka government to start a joint campaign to resuscitate Koreans’ interest here.” Currently there are around 40 Korean companies, with more than 1,000 Korean nationals, in Karnataka. The consulate hopes to expand and largely enhance Korean presence and business operations in and around Bengaluru, so that it meets the level of Chennai within three years. Sponsors’ interest An investment of $300 million in Ola by Hyundai and Kia last year and a more recent likely investment of $40 million in Zomato are few evidence of Korean sponsors’ interest and willingness to invest in Bengaluru, the release stated.
22 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||UG NEET: Option entry extended till 4 p.m. today||In view of the inclusion of medical seats in Chamarajanagar Institute of Medical Sciences, option entry has been extended till 4 p.m. of Sunday. The last date for reporting at the allotted medical/dental college for choice 1 candidates is November 28 before 4 p.m. For details, visit KEA website www.kea.kar.nic.in/
22 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sampath Raj’s expulsion sought||Congress MLA R. Akhanda Srinivasa Murthy on Saturday called on KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar and demanded expulsion of the former Bengaluru Mayor R. Sampath Raj from the Congress for his alleged involvement in the violence at D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli here on August 11. Mr. Raj is now in judicial custody. Mr. Shivakumar has asked disciplinary committee of the KPCC to look into the letter given by Mr. Murthy seeking expulsion. Mr. Murthy, who has been seeking justice for damage to his house during the violence, told reporters that he had demanded expulsion of both Mr. Raj and his aide and former councillor Abdul Rakeeb Zakir. The police have filed chargesheet against both of them for their alleged role in the violence.
22 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bus service resumes||Karnataka Road Transport Corporation resumed operating Ambari Dream Class bus service between Bengaluru and Shirdi, via Chitradurga, Hubballi, and Pune, from November 20. According to a KSRTC release, the service from Bengaluru will leave at 1 p.m. and reach Shirdi at 6.30 a.m. the next day. In the return direction, the bus will depart from Shirdi at 1 p.m. and arrive in Bengaluru at 7.30 a.m., the following day. The fare per person is Rs. 1,600.
22 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Canara Bank celebrates Founder’s Day||Canara Bank on Thursday celebrated its 115th Founder’s Day at its head office in Bengaluru. Pai remembered L.V. Prabhakar, Managing Director and CEO, in his address, recalled the founding principles of the bank’s founder, the late Ammembal Subba Rao Pai, and said that he wanted an organised bank to help the poor with best products at reasonable pricing and added that his dreams are being fulfilled. Ammembal Siddharth Pai, the great-great grandson of Ammembal Subba Rao Pai, Debashish Mukherjee and Manimekhalai, executive director, and senior executives of the bank attended. The bank in a release said that the day was also celebrated at its Mangaluru branch. The event was attended by customers and well-wishers, including staff of Canara Back, across India through videoconferencing.
22 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah extends support to Shivamogga environmentalists||Former Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah has extended his support to the environmentalists of Shivamogga who are fighting against acacia plantations in the district. He has written to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa urging him to return the forest land, earlier leased to Mysore Paper Mills (MPM) to grow acacia plantations, to the Forest Department. The leaders of the forum fighting against acacia plantations in Shivamogga had met Mr. Siddaramaiah during his recent visit to Shivamogga and appealed to him to support their cause. In the letter written on Friday, Mr. Siddaramaiah said people of Malnad have opposed the State government’s proposal to hand over 20,000 ha of forest land to private people. Earlier, the government had given the land to MPM to grow captive plantations, necessary for raw material. The lease period had also expired. “The MPM has also stopped functioning. Now the State government should return the land to the Forest Department and allow natural forest. Any move to hand over the forest land to private people is unacceptable,” he said.
22 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Hassan DC warns marriage organisers who violate norms||Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish has said the district administration will take action against organisers of marriages and owners of marriage halls if more than 200 people gather for the events. In a press release issued on Friday, Mr. Girish said that as per the guidelines issued by the State government, a gathering of more than 200 people for marriages was not allowed. However, there had been reports of large gatherings at marriage halls in Hassan. “The administration will take action against the organisers and hall owners for the violation of the guidelines,” he said. Those who attend the programmes should wear face masks and maintain social distance, he added.  As many as 26 people tested positive for COVID-19 on Friday. With that, the total number of confirmed cases in the district is 26,007. Among them, 25,709 have recovered and 448 are under treatment. Of them, 13 are in the intensive care unit. So far, 450 people have died of the infection in Hassan district, said a bulletin issued by the district administration.
22 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Upgraded DIMHANS to be linked with NIMHANS||Minister for Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education K. Sudhakar has said that DIMHANS (Dharwad Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences) would be upgraded by being linked with NIMHANS in Bengaluru. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating the new ‘Bendre Block’, ‘Full Body CT Scan’ and Digital Library at DIMHANS in Dharwad on Saturday, Mr. Sudhakar said that qualitative changes would be soon brought in health services in the State. The government was contemplating providing early promotion to doctors serving in rural areas and also increasing their salaries. Many to benefit On the upgradation plan of DIMHANS, he said that the move would benefit the people of Bombay Karnataka and Hyderabad Karnataka regions and they would be able to get better mental healthcare facilities. A healthy community would be able to bring about educational, social and economical progress, he said. Awareness needed Mentioning about the misconceptions around mental health problems, the Minister said that more awareness programmes would be conducted to sensitise the general public on mental health and neurological ailments. He said it was necessary as people often hesitated approaching hospitals when facing mental health issues. Mr. Sudhakar said that around 1.15 crore families in Karnataka were getting benefits under the Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka (ABAK) scheme and all BPL and APL families would be able to get treatment for 1,685 ailments under the scheme. Mentioning that the number of primary health centres in North Karnataka taluks was less compared to South Karnataka, he said that steps would be taken to address the issue in the coming days. Funds utilised Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi said that DIMHANS was the first institute in the country to completely utilise funds under National Mental Health Programme in a very short span of time. The institute had also effectively utilised the funds for improvement of the health care facilities, he said. Mr. Joshi said that steps would be taken to get necessary assistance from the UNion government for upgradation of DIMHANS, if the State government sent a suitable proposal. He said in the last six years, the Union government had permitted State governments to establish 156 medical colleges including four sanctioned for Karnataka. And the Union government had sanctioned Rs. 15.7 crore grants to DIMHANS of which Rs. 8.33 crore had already been released. MLA Amrut Desai presided over the function. Director of DIMHANS Mahesh Desai spoke about the institute’s activities. Former minister Basavaraj Horatti, Deputy Commissioner Nitesh Patil and others were present.
22 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Eight aspirants in Cong. for Belagavi LS ticket||Former Minister and chairman of KPCC selection committee for Belagavi Lok Sabha byelection M.B. Patil has said that there were eight aspirants for party ticket, including former Minister Satish Jarkiholi, and the candidate would be finalised after a second meeting after a week. Speaking after holding a meeting of aspirants and party leaders at the party office in Belagavi on Saturday, he said that the election would be fought under the leadership of Mr. Jarkiholi and the opinions of former MLAs and party leaders had been considered. “This is the first meeting and names of eight aspirants have come up in the meeting. All leaders have openly expressed their feelings and opinions and a second meeting will be held within a week. The candidate will be finalised after the second meeting and sent for approval of the high command,” he said. Mr. Patil said that all the party leaders were united on the issue and together they would fight the election. Regarding leaders who remained absent in the meeting, he clarified that they would be participating in the second meeting. Mr. Jarkiholi, MLAs Laxmi Hebbalkar and Mahanthesh Kaujalagi, former Minister H.M. Revanna, former MLA Firoz Sait, and others were present. Speaking to presspersons later, Mr. Jarkiholi said that he would abide by the decision of the party on the candidate for the Belagavi Lok Sabha byelection. He said that there were 7 or 8 aspirants for party ticket and opinions and suggestions of the party leaders and workers would also be taken by the party. He asked the party workers to convey their feelings and opinions to the committee in the next 10 days. On whether he was interested in contesting, he said that he would abide by the party’s decision.  I will abide by the decision of the party on the candidate for Belagavi Lok Sabha byelection. There are 7 or 8 aspirants for party ticket and opinions and suggestions of party leaders and workers will also be taken by the party.Satish JarkiholiFormer Minister
22 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Second wave in country: Minister||Minister for Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education K. Sudhakar has said that the second wave of COVID-19 pandemic had hit several countries including India, which was evident in the reports of the spreading of the disease in Ahmedabad and Delhi. Speaking to presspersons in Dharwad on Saturday, Mr. Sudhakar said that the possibility of the second COVID-19 wave hitting the State depended on how responsibly the people behaved. “If people continue to be cautious and adhere to the COVID-19 advisory issued by the Health Ministry, there will be no problem. But if people are reckless, then the possibility of another wave cannot be ruled out,” he said. The Minister negated reports about laxity in testing as the reason for the decline in number of cases and said that till Saturday, nearly one crore people had been tested in the State for COVID-19 infection. “Everyday nearly 1.15 lakh people are being tested. In fact even in districts where there is increased testing, there is no spike in the number of infections,” he said. He claimed that Karnataka was among the top States in the country that had effectively handled the effects of the pandemic. While the situation had seen improvement, there would be no complicity from the administration, he said, adding that he expected the COVID-19 curve to be flat by end of March. Defending the decision to reopen colleges, he said that it was also equally important to ensure educational progress of the students. The Minister clarified that in the eventuality of further rise in number of students getting infected, the decision could be revoked.
22 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Sudhakar: Is it a crime to meet Santhosh?||Health and Family Welfare Minister K. Sudhakar on Saturday sought to know if it was a crime to meet BJP’s national general secretary B.L. Santhosh. Speaking to presspersons at Sambra Airport in Belagavi, Dr. Sudhakar made this comment when asked about the reported meeting of Minister for Major and Medium Irrigation Ramesh Jarkiholi with Mr. Santhosh in New Delhi. Dr. Sudhakar said that there was nothing special in Mr. Jarkiholi visiting Delhi. “He had to attend to various works pertaining to his department, including court matters. Moreover, every party worker wishes to meet party’s senior-most office-bearers. Maybe it was a courtesy call and about administration and politics”, he said. Regarding the COVID-19 vaccine, the Minister said that all arrangements had been made for smooth distribution of the vaccine in advance. Already a videoconference was held with the Union Health Minister on the preparations for vaccine distribution and accordingly steps had been taken so that there was no delay in distribution once it was made available, he said. The Minister clarified that the Union government and the Prime Minister had held discussions with the companies that had entered the critical phase of vaccine testing and also MoUs had been initiated. Whichever company got the approval from World Health Organization, that company would supply the vaccine, he added.
22 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Haveri railway station named after freedom fighter Mahadeva Mailar||Close on the heels of issuing an official gazette notification on renaming Hubballi railway station after Siddharoodha Swami, the State government has issued a notification on renaming Haveri railway station after freedom fighter Mahadeva Mailar. According to the notification issued on Friday by Under Secretary to Government S. Veena, Haveri station has been renamed ‘Mahadevappa Mailara Railway Station’. She mentioned in the notification that Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs, had no objection to changing the name of Haveri railway station as ‘Mahadevappa Mailara Railway Station’ in Haveri district and has requested the Government of Karnataka to issue gazette notification spelling the new name accordingly in Devanagari (Hindi), Roman (English) and the regional language. Hubballi station  It might be recalled that the Government of India had announced renaming of Hubballi railway station after Siddharoodha Swami in September 2020, and Ms. Veena had issued a gazette notification declaring renaming of Hubballi railway station as Sri Siddharoodha Swami Railway Station - Hubballi on November 17.
22 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||DC directs sugar factories to pay cane farmers within 15 days||Deputy Commissioner V.V. Jyothsna has directed all the sugar factories in the district not to withhold payments due to farmers for the sugarcane supplied to them for more than 15 days. Chairing a joint meeting of the sugarcane growers and representatives of sugar factories in Kalaburagi on Saturday, Ms. Jyothsna was responding to the complaints of sugarcane growers that the factories are not settling their dues for cane crushed during the current season. The delay in liquidating stocks should not be the reason for the inordinate delay in payment. As per the Sugarcane Control Order, 1966, the factories were bound by the stipulation fixed by the government to clear payments within 15 days after the supply of cane. District president of the Sugarcane Growers’ Association Jagadish Patil Rajapur and Aland taluk president of the association Dharmraj Sahu argued that though the Centre has fixed the Fair and Remunerative Price for 2020-21 at Rs. 2,850 per tonne, the KPR Sugar Factory in Vijayapura district was paying Rs. 2,300 per tonne. Mr. Rajapur demanded the sugar factories in the district pay at least Rs. 2,500 per tonne of Sugarcane. Sugarcane growers demanded to fix FRP at Rs. 2,500 per tonne for the ex-field in which the factory themselves will cut and transport the sugarcane from the field. For the current year, the ex-gate price fixed for NSL Sugars is Rs. 2,756, Shree Renuka Sugars is Rs. 2,853, Ugar Sugars is Rs. 2,753. The factories must pay a fixed amount to the farmers those harvesting and transporting themselves to the factory’s gate. The Deputy Commissioner was chairing a meeting of representatives of Shree Renuka Sugars Ltd., NSL Sugars, and Ugar Sugar Works Ltd. in Kalaburagi district and Core Green Sugar in Shahapur taluk in Yadgir district and the Karnataka State Sugarcane Growers’ Association. She ordered the issue of show-cause notice to the Core Green Sugar for remaining absent at the meeting.
22 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Pained by Ballari bifurcation, says Somashekhar Reddy||“I am extremely pained by the government’s decision to bifurcate Ballari district to form the new Vijayanagara district. The pain of district’s division will haunt me forever,” G. Somashekhar Reddy, the MLA for Ballari city, who had been opposing the government’s move to bifurcate the district, said in Ballari on Saturday. Speaking to presspersons after flagging off the special campaign for blindness eradication, Mr. Reddy also expressed his helplessness to prevent the district’s division. “After the Cabinet resolved to bifurcate Ballari to form Vijayanagara district, I met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and once again appealed to him to drop the idea. The CM and other senior Ministers said that the bifurcation would be done one day, if not during this government, it would be during any of the next governments. They also appealed to me to stop opposing and resisting the Cabinet decision,” he said. When asked whether he had changed his mind after meeting the Chief Minister, Mr. Reddy responded negatively. “I continue to hold that Ballari district should remain undivided. If all the legislators from the district are ready to oppose the bifurcation, I will once again take their delegation to Chief Minister and try to convince him,” he said.  Ballari bandh To a question on whether he would participate in the Ballari bandh agitation scheduled for next Thursday to oppose the bifurcation of Ballari, Mr. Reddy said that he would not directly participate in the demonstrations, but wished for its success.
22 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||AIDSO supports Thursday’s general strike||All India Democratic Students’ Organisation (AIDSO), a student-wing of the Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist), extended its support to the all-India general strike scheduled for Thursday. It also appealed to the student community to actively participate in the agitations called by farmers’ and workers’ organisations to oppose the anti-people legislations recently enacted by the Union government. “The anti-people and pro-corporate policies of the successive governments have gathered a new momentum under Narendra Modi government which is hell-bent on serving its corporate masters by sacrificing the interests of the common people it was elected by. The privatisation of strategic and profit-making Public Sector Units has taken a new pace. The recently-enacted and amended legislations are essentially a part of the sustained anti-people approach of the government and we need to resist it,” Suresh G. and Ravikiran J.P., Ballari district president and secretary of the AIDSO, said in the memorandum. They also called upon the people, especially the student community, to oppose the National Education Policy – 2020, that would fasten the commercialisation of education.
22 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Webinar on UPSC training on Tuesday||As part of its sustained efforts to cater to the growing demand of those who want to crack the civil services’ examinations, especially the aspirants of Indian Administrative Service (IAS), Indian Police Service (IPS), Karnataka Administrative Services (KAS) and so on, The Hindu, in association with Gnyana Sudha Civil Services Academy – an initiative of Gnyana Sudha Vidyalaya, Bidar, is going to organise a webinar between 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. on Tuesday. Titled ‘Train the brain to be a Civil Servant’, the three-hour programme is designed to prepare aspirants with skills and knowledge required. D. Roopa Moudgil, an IPS officer known for her bold and uncompromising actions and the recipient of President’s Police Medal for her committed service to the society, will be the main resource person. Swami Jyotirmayananda, head of Sri Ramakrishna Vivekananda Ashram, Bidar; Poornima George, president, GSV Group of Institutions; and Muneshwara Lakha, director of Gnyana Sudha Vidyalaya, Bidar, will grace the occasion. The webinar is free and open to all. Aspirants are requested to register in advance. Registration Link: https://thehindutheme. zoom.us/webinar/register/ WN_0XC3wystTfqgQxvU4 mv2FQ. Call on 98488 34944
22 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Village officers should curb illegal laterite stone mining: DC||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Saturday said village accountants (VA) and panchayat development officers (PDO) should ensure no illegal laterite stone mining takes place in their limits. At the same time, the administration will launch a drive to regularise illegal stone quarrying provided records were in order. Speaking at a ‘meet the press’ programme, organised by the Dakshina Kannada District Union of Working Journalists and the Mangaluru Press Club here, Dr. Rajendra said if VAs and PDOs fail to curb illegal stone quarrying, disciplinary action will be initiated against them. At the same time, those indulging in stone quarrying even after being given an option to regularise the same would also be heavily penalised, he cautioned. The DC said the Mines and Geology Department had been giving licence to quarry laterite stones from patta (own) lands without keeping the district task force on mining in the loop. This was already brought to the notice of the Industries and Commerce Department, seeking necessary correction. While no one could quarry laterite stones from government land, there were reports of people having quarrying licence for own land indulging in illegal quarrying on government land. The administration has obtained technical reports on illegal stone/muck extraction from places namely, Balepuni, Phajeer, Mudipu, etc., he added. Speaking about infrastructure works being undertaken in the city, Dr. Rajendra noted that several works got delayed owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. One such work was improving the Hampanakatte junction that has now been taken up. Admitting that the public was inconvenienced, the DC said that the work would be completed soon. Dr. Rajendra also said he would get feedback from the public about the Smart City projects as people were upset with many of the works being executed. Dr. Rajendra said maintenance of popular beaches, including Panambur, Tannirbhavi, Surathkal etc., would be handed over to private partners through tenders. The heli-tourism package for international tourists visiting New Mangalore Port that has already started would be fine-tuned with advance booking facility.
22 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Special voter registration drive from today||The district administration will launch a special electoral enrolment drive on four Sundays starting November 22 till December 13, said Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra. Speaking to reporters here on Saturday, the DC said the drive would be on between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. during the four Sundays wherein all eligible voters could register their names or file objections if any. The draft electoral roll was published on November 18 while claims and objections would be received till December 17. They would be disposed of on January 7 and the final electoral roll would be published on January 18. New voters should be aged 18 as on January 1, 2021. Documents, namely school certificate, birth certificate, Aadhaar card, passport, SSLC/PUC marks card or PAN card could be submitted as proof of age while ration card, LPG refill receipt, electric bill, copy of bank pass book, passport, driving license or rent agreement could be provided as proof of residence, Dr. Rajendra said. While new voters have to submit their application in Form 6 for enrolment, non resident Indians may submit application in Form 6A. Those who wish to get their name deleted have to submit application in Form 7, for correction Form 8 and for change of address within the same assembly constituency, one has to submit application in Form 8A. There were 17,23,960 voters in the final electoral list published in January 2020 while there were 17,32,641 voters in the draft electoral list published on November 18. The Assistant Commissioner, Mangaluru, was designated as the district electoral registration officer and tahsildars as assistant electoral registration officers for the revision of the rolls, Dr. Rajendra added. The DC urged voters to verify their names in the draft list now itself and apply for necessary changes instead of complaining deletion of name, wrongly spelled name etc., during elections. One may also visit www.ceokarnataka.kar.nic.in or www.dk.nic.in to verify the details or call voter helpline 1950.
22 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Malaria cases decline to 1,092 so far this year in Mangaluru||Though malaria cases so far this year have significantly reduced to 1,092 in Mangaluru, it still constitutes 85% of the total cases in the State. Among the areas with more cases are Bunder, Central Market, Court Old Port, and Bengre wards, said District Disease Surveillance Officer Naveenchandra Kulal here on Saturday. In a meeting of traders, hoteliers, industrialists and caterers chaired by Mayor Diwakar, Dr. Kulal said the total number of malaria cases in the district was 1,175, while there were 220 dengue cases. The malaria and dengue cases last year were 2,797 and 1,539 respectively in the district. Active source reduction exercise taken last year following dengue deaths is among the factors that has contributed to the reduction in cases. Dr. Kulal said there is still a worry about the infection of hotel workers, construction labourers, and other workers, who sleep in unprotected environment and are exposed to mosquitoes. Since the last two months, the Health Department has been carrying out random blood tests of people, more so in hot spots, for early detection and treatment. “We want people to cooperate with the staff who are doing the tests,” he said. The officer asked the hotel owners and construction agencies to come forward to conduct the blood test of labourers. “These workers might be carriers of the infection. Early testing is beneficial not only to prevent the spread of infection but helps in providing effective treatment for infected labourers,” he said. The blood test is done free at the urban primary health centre and the treatment is also conducted for free there. People can call 9448556872, he said. MCC Environment Engineer Madhu Manohar said employers can give a list of labourers working at the site for whom the MCC will provide mosquito repellent coated nets. MCC Commissioner Akshy Sridhar asked traders to ensure there are no mosquito breeding sites around their work places. A councillor asked MCC to make the mobile malaria testing van available for random testing of labourers.
22 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRTC’s Puttur division too resumes services to Kerala||The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation’s Puttur Division too commenced operations to Kasaragod region in Kerala following resumption of services between Mangaluru and Kasaragod by the corporation’s Mangaluru Division. Out of 26 buses operating before COVID-19, 20 buses have resumed their services between Puttur and Sullia and different parts of Kasaragod district, including Manjeshwara, Uppala, Kasaragod as well as one service to Malappuram, said KSRTC’s Puttur Divisional Controller Jayakar Shetty. While five buses ply between B.C. Road and Kasaragod via Mudipu and Thokkottu, 12 buses were deployed from Puttur and surrounding places to Kasaragod, he said. These include Puttur-Vitla-Manjeshwara, Puttur-Vitla-Badiyadka-Malla, Puttur-Vitla-Kurchipalla, Puttur-Vitla-Kasaragod, Sullia-Panjikallu-Kasaragod etc. The Kasaragod-Bengaluru Rajahamsa service via Puttur will resume from Sunday. Kerala SRTC too is expected to resume its services to Puttur region. Meanwhile, there has been good response for the Mangaluru-Kasaragod bus service.
22 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Policemen from twin districts receive Chief Minister’s Medal||As many as 13 policemen serving in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts were among the 243 who received the Chief Minister’s Medal in Bengaluru on Friday. Udupi Superintendent of Police N. Vishnuvardhan; Inspector Ravish S. Nayak from Coastal Security Police, Udupi; Assistant Sub Inspector (ASI) M. Sunder from Ullal Police Station, and Civil Head Constable (CHC) Uday Rai from the Bantwal Traffic police station, were among the 121 police personnel to receive medals for 2017. As many as nine personnel from the twin districts were among the 122 personnel to receive medals for 2018. They are Deputy Superintendent of Police A.C. Gourish from the Finger Print Bureau, Western Range, Mangaluru; Circle Inspector from Kundapura, K.R. Gopikrishna; Circle Inspector from Udupi, Manjunath; ASI Harish from Central Crime Branch, Mangaluru; Armed Head Constable (AHC) Varun Alva from the office of Police Commissioner, Mangaluru; CHC K. Gopalakrishna from Kavoor Police Station, Mangaluru; CHC Rasheed Ahmed Tahsildar from State Intelligence Department, Mangaluru; CHC N. Dinesh from Mangaluru North Police Station, and AHC Santosh J. from District Armed Reserve, Udupi.
22 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Three dead, 65 new COVID-19 cases in Udupi, DK||Three COVID-19 patients with co-morbidity died, while 46 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada on Saturday. With 92 persons discharged, the number of active cases stood at 582. A fine of Rs. 14.83 lakh has so far been collected in 13,714 cases of people not wearing masks, said a bulletin by the Dakshina Kannada district administration. With 19 new cases and 35 patients discharged in Udupi on Saturday, the active cases stood at 195. Fine of Rs. 16.91 lakh has so far been collected from 15,329 cases of not wearing masks and violation of social distance norms, said the bulletin by the Udupi district administration.
22 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Check-posts to be set up to curb illegal sand extraction||Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra on Saturday said the district administration will set up joint check-posts manned by personnel from the Revenue, the police, and the Mines and Geology departments at vulnerable locations to curb illegal sand extraction and transportation. He said 88 traditional sand extractors were issued permits to remove sand from rivers in coastal regulation zone in the district. Strict monitoring is in place with the use of long-range high power cameras, compulsory installation of GPS for boats and trucks etc. A meeting of officials from the departments has been scheduled next week.
22 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Citizens demand naming Mangaluru International Airport as Tulunadu airport||Adding to the host of names for Mangaluru International Airport, a group of citizens on Saturday demanded naming it ‘Tulunadu Airport’. Ritesh D’Souza, secretary, Yuva Tulunadu, said erstwhile Tulunadu-covered regions from Kasaragod in Kerala to Barkur in Kundapura taluk. “As this airport serves people in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada and Kasaragod taluks who are part of Tulunadu, it will be good to name it ‘Tulunadu Airport’,” he said. Social activist and bus fleet operator Dilraj Alva said different names suggested by people, including Koti Chennayya, Rani Abbakka and U. Srinivas Mallya have led to controversies with political parties blaming each other. “But nobody will question naming the airport after Tulunadu,” he said. Umanath Kotekar, convenor, Swachh Mangaluru Abhiyan, questioned the Adani Group’s act of prominently displaying ‘Adani Airports’ on the welcome arch of MIA. “This gives the feeling that the airport is owned by Adani Group. This has not been done by any of the private firms managing airports in New Delhi, Bengaluru, Mumbai and Ahmedabad,” he said, and claimed the norms do not allow a lease holder to prominently display its name. Mr. Alva said if Adani Group failed to properly display the name of the airport, activists will take up the issue legally. Referring to recent the ruling of the Delhi High Court barring the firm managing the Delhi airport from opening new commercial stalls there, He added that private firms should give regard to local culture and traditions.
22 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Drastic fall in COVID-19 cases’||There was a considerable reduction in the number of COVID-19 positive cases being reported in the district with the positive rate coming down to 1.08% for an average daily test of 3,500, said Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra. The positive rate was as high as 25% when an average of 1,000 tests were conducted earlier. Following the reduction, officials from various departments were able to concentrate on their routine works thereby giving fillip for development. However, one cannot remain complacent with the present situation as the second wave of COVID-19 was expected to surface in January. The administration has geared up to face any eventuality, he said. District Health Officer Ramachandra Bairy and others were present.
22 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||briefly||Mangalore University has extended the last date for admission to postgraduate courses in its different departments of postgraduate education, University College, Mangaluru, University Evening College, Mangaluru, Field Marshal K.M. Cariappa College, Madikeri, PG Centre, Chikka Aluvara, University’s affiliated colleges (government quota seats), and different PG diploma and certificate courses by government colleges to November 30 for the current academic year. Application forms and details may be had at www.mangaloreuniversity .ac.in or contacting the respective colleges.    Mangalore Electricity Supply Company has said it has proposed to energise the newly constructed 7.5 km long 33 kV single circuit line between MUSS Nitte and the newly constructed MUSS at Malpe in Udupi district on or after November 23. Consequently, people staying in and around the alignment, including in areas of Lakshminagar, Kodavoor and Malpe, have been asked not to climb the poles or not to engage in any activity beneath the line.    Dakshina Kannada in charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari will lay the foundation stone for development works approved under the schemes of the Coastal Development Authority at the Dr. K. Shivaram Karanth Pilikula Nisargadhama on Monday at 11.30 a.m. The works include four-lane concrete road till the entrance of the nisargadhama and laying bitumen road on the outer periphery of the nisargadhama. MLAs Umanath A. Kotian and Y. Bharath Shetty, Authority Chairman Mattar Rathnakar Hegde and others will be present.
22 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MUDA to crack down on dumping of building debris along Outer Ring Road||The illegal dumping of building and demolition debris along the Outer Ring Road (ORR), marring the city’s beauty and heritage value, has woken up Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA), which has resolved to crack down on those dumping wastes on the vacant land and initiate legal proceedings against them after a one-time clearance of the already-dumped rubble on the road. It has identified 13 hotspots among 30 vulnerable sites on the ORR where building wastes were prominently and regularly dumped, causing unhygienic surroundings and health hazard as a lot of residential layouts have come up around the ORR. MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajeev told presspersons here on Saturday that the MUDA and the Mysuru City Corporation have to work together for restoring the beauty of the city which had earned the reputation as the cleanest city under Swachh Bharat. Importantly, the support and cooperation from the public was crucial for keeping our vicinity uncontaminated. The discarding of building and concrete wastes besides solid wastes was also prominent on the vacant plots in MUDA-approved layouts. In a bid to restore the beauty along the six-lane ORR, the MUDA has proposed one-time clearance of the already discarded rubbish on the ORR and this exercise will be carried out until November 28. “Once the debris was cleared, it is henceforth prohibited to dump wastes again at those spots. Such debris has to be disposed of at the area identified for this purpose by the MCC at the Sewage Farm in Vidyaranyapuram,” the MUDA chairman said. It is not just MUDA’s job to keep our surroundings clean. If everyone joins hands with the MUDA and MCC, the city will retain its beauty. The MUDA has urged the public to share photographs of those dumping wastes on Ring Road or any other vacant plot to the Whatsapp number 88840-00750 and it will initiate legal proceedings against the offenders. Mr. Rajeev said the MUDA has proposed to constitute vigilance squads to keep an eye on the public discarding the waste and they would be patrolling hotspots and other locations to prevent illegal dumping. Plans are also afoot to install closed circuit television cameras at select locations, mostly around the hotspots, to stop the public from resorting to illegal dumping. Besides lodging complaints against the offenders, the vehicles used to dump the waste would also be seized, the MUDA warned.
22 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Conservation: A saga of limited resources and shortage of manpower||Shortage of staff, inadequate budget, and disappearing monuments and sites owing to encroachment are some of the major issues plaguing conservation efforts in the State. The damage to the Kali idol at the Mahalakshmi Temple belonging to the Hoysala era at Doddagaddavalli in Hassan taluk highlights challenges in protecting the State’s heritage sites and monuments. Karnataka has nearly 650 sites under the protection of the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), the second highest in India after Uttar Pradesh. But sources said the annual budget is hardly adequate and is around Rs. 20 crore inclusive of wages for the security staff. However, not all monuments are sanctioned security staff and that is restricted to sites that tend to have tourist attraction. In addition to centrally protected monuments, the State Department of Archaeology, Museums, and Heritage has nearly 850 sites, but again the budget is around Rs. 25 crore which is inadequate. The department is also plagued by an acute shortage of staff. The sanctioned staff is around 232 and there is nearly 50% vacancy. The sanctioned strength for Group D workers — mainly monument attendants — is 119 posts and 89 are vacant, according to sources. The situation is so grave that experts have cautioned that artifacts and sites could disappear owing to encroachment in the absence of protection. Recently, the Karnataka State Council for Science and Technology (KSCST) completed the 3D and laser mapping of 105 monuments in the Bengaluru revenue division. But its report noted that at least two of the sites included “did not exist.” The report said that the Siddeshwara temple at Neerthadi in Davangere did not exist, while 35 megalithic monuments on site number 14 and 185 in Jadigenhalli in Hoskote was either encroached upon or destroyed. Similarly, the KSCST could not carry out the 3D laser mapping of a megalithic monument in Kannuru, also in Hoskote, as it was submerged. N.S. Rangaraju, convener of Mysuru chapter of INTACH, said the threat to historical sites are real but no importance is attached to them. “We document their presence during field visits but the area gets converted to agricultural tracts or are removed from the site during our subsequent visits,” he said. As a solution, Mr. Rangaraju mooted the idea of constituting heritage committees at taluk levels comprising locals and elected representatives. He said as the department alone cannot extend security to all the sites, given the manpower and financial implications, the public should get involved and suggested that the police make frequent visits to the sites to ensure that they are not vandalised.
22 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Constitute corporation for economically weak from all castes, says Puttaswamy||Instead of constituting development corporations for different castes, the State government should consider establishment one common development corporation for the benefit of the economically weak from all castes, suggested Deputy Chairman of Planning Board B.J. Puttaswamy. Fielding reporters’ queries on the recent announcements by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to set up development corporations for Marathas and Veerashaivas-Lingayats, Mr. Puttaswamy said the trend of setting up exclusive development corporations for different castes would lead to the State government incurring a huge expenditure. He said he had already spoken to Mr. Yediyurappa in this regard and added that he would follow it up with him shortly. The common development corporation could have economically weak beneficiaries from all the communities. For, economically weak persons were found in backward as well as forward castes, he reasoned. Pointing out that if development corporations were set up for each of the estimated 200 different castes, the State government would incur a huge financial burden. The constitution of each development corporation comes with the appointment of a chairperson, an office, a car, besides at least five members --- with their TA and DA --- and their expenditure would have to be borne by the State government, Mr. Puttaswamy pointed out. At a conservative estimate, the State government would have to spend Rs. 3 to Rs. 4 crore on each development corporation, he said. He recalled that former Chief Minister D. Devaraj Urs set up the first development corporation for the backward classes to help the youth from the working class of backward communities. Later, development corporations for SCs and STs, besides minorities too were set up. However, Mr. Puttaswamy said Mr. Yediyurappa was not the only Chief Minister to announce new development corporations. Former Chief Ministers H.D. Kumaraswamy and Siddaramaiah too had set up such corporations for different communities. Though he was against setting up of exclusive development corporations for castes, Mr. Puttaswamy hoped that the discriminatory attitude of Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti towards Kannadigas would be replaced by harmony with the establishment of the Maratha Development Corporation.
22 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa to lay foundation stones for works on M.M. Hills||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will be visiting Sri Kshetra Malai Mahadeshwara Betta in Chamarajanagar district on Wednesday and Thursday to lay foundation stones for the Rs. 110-crore development works planned atop the hills. This is the first visit of Mr. Yediyurappa to Chamarajanagar district in his current tenure as the Chief Minister. Minister in charge of Chamarajanagar district S. Suresh Kumar recently met the Chief Minister in Bengaluru and invited him to M.M. Hills for giving a start to various development works. Mr. Yediyurappa is also the chairperson of Sri Kshetra Malai Mahadeshwara Temple Development Authority. The Chief Minister will arrive at 5 p.m. on Wednesday and stay overnight after holding a meeting of the temple authority at Nagamalai Bhavan. On Thursday, at 10.30 a.m., he will first lay foundation stone for eight development works estimated to cost Rs. 13.84 crore and later nine works costing Rs. 110 crore. Shivarathri Deshikendra Swami of Suttur Mutt and Pattada Guruswamy of Salur Mutt, M.M. Hills, will be present. Minister for Muzrai, Fisheries and Ports Kota Srinivasa Poojary, Mr. Suresh Kumar, V. Sreenivas Prasad, MP, R. Narendra, MLA, and others will attend. To cater to the needs of devotees visiting the temple, a dormitory complex has been proposed at a cost of Rs. 4.86 crore. A sum of Rs. 4.27 crore would be spent on developing “Antharagange Kalyani”. In addition, a spacious dining hall has also been planned at a cost of Rs. 2.15 crore and 65 toilets at a cost of Rs. 1.23 crore. A 416-room mega guesthouse has been planned at a cost of Rs. 45 crore besides a facility behind the temple for devotees to conveniently stand in queue for the temple darshan, at Rs. 24 crore. Besides devotees from across the State, pilgrims from neighbouring states, especially Tamil Nadu, visit the temple in large numbers. Granite slabs would be laid on the steps leading to the hills from Talabetta at a cost of Rs. 22 crore besides the launch of a second stage of dormitory complex at a cost of Rs. 7.9 crore. The restoration of Doddakere at a cost of Rs. 4.8 crore and the construction of a road connecting the helipad and Dasoha Bhavan at a cost of Rs. 3 crore will also get the start. In addition to various development works, the Chief Minister will also be laying the foundation stone for the laddu making unit at a cost of Rs. 90 lakh. Recently, the laddu and the prepared food (served to devotees as Dasoha meal) were certified under the FSSAI. The licence is renewable every year. The temple authorities had to meet all protocols for securing the certification under the Food Safety Act.
22 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Railway medical officer succumbs to COVID-19||D. Arun Kumar (47), Additional Chief Medical Superintendent at Railway Hospital, Mysuru, succumbed to complications related to COVID-19 on Saturday. A release said he was in the intensive care unit at a private hospital sine more than a month and passed away on Saturday due to cardiac arrest. The railway authorities suspect he contracted the infection while attending to patients. Mr. Kumar completed his MBBS from Vijaynagar Institute of Medical Science, Ballari, in 1996 and belonged to the 1996 batch of the Combined Medical Services Examination conducted by the UPSC. He joined the railways in 1998 and had served in different hospitals and health units of the South Western Railway. He is survived by his wife Devatha Laxmi, Medical Officer, Department of Health and Family Welfare, and a son Srikar. Raghu Agarwal, Divisional Railway Manager, Mysuru, condoled the death of Mr. Kumar and said he worked relentlessly treating railway fraternity during COVID-19 times.
22 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Cricket matches to restart on Nov. 28||KSCA Mysuru zone is relaunching cricketing activities here from November 28. The activities had come to a halt in view of COVID-19 pandemic since March. The pending KSCA Mysuru zone two-day 1st division league matches of 2019-20 season has been scheduled from November 28. According to Sudhakar Rai, convener, KSCA Mysuru zone, the decision to recommence cricketing activities was approved at the Managing Committee meeting of the KSCA in Bengaluru recently. Eleven first division league matches that were pending will begin from November 28 onwards and the two-day matches will be played at the SDNR Wadiyar grounds, JSS-SJCE grounds and PET (Mandya) respectively. The semi-finals and final of the Sri M. Gopalaswami memorial tournament which was also pending, will also be held on December 1 and 3 respectively, a release said here. Use of sanitisers, temperature checks, ban on using saliva on the ball and so on will be in place to ensure players’ safety, Mr. Rai said.
22 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||CM to hold meeting on ‘Panchalinga Darshana’||In view of Panchalinga Darshana at Talakad in Mysuru district in December, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa will be holding a meeting of senior district officials at Talakad on November 25. Mr. Yediyurappa, who will be on a two-day visit to Mysuru district on November 24 and 25, will review the preparations made for the event which happens once in few years. Panchalinga Darshana is scheduled on December 14. The Chief Minister will hold the meeting at the Inspection Bungalow in Talakad at 2.30 p.m. Prior to this meeting, he will lay the foundation stone for renovation of Sri Mallikarjunaswamy Temple at Mudukuthore Sri Kshetra. In Mysuru, he will inaugurate the newly constructed Police Commissioner’s office at Nazarabad and also 108 quarters built for policemen under Police Gruha-2020 project on November 24 at 4.50 p.m. He will also visit Sri Kshetra Suttur on November 25 and lay the foundation stone for the guesthouse and other development works at the Suttur Mutt. He will participate in the idol installation ceremony of Sri Doddammatayi at Suttur.
22 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Will MCC find a workable solution?||After making no headway in the plans of recycling building wastes into bricks and pavement tiles, the Mysuru City Corporation has shown interest to take up the project on a PPP model joining hands with the people in the construction industry. The project is awaiting the MCC council’s approval. The proposal is already before the council which is expected to take up the subject in the next meeting. The land for recycling of construction waste had been identified near Koppalur. Residents of layouts abutting the Ring Road are unhappy over the authorities turning a blind eye to rampant dumping of wastes along ORR. The vacant spots on ORR are also being targeted to dump garbage by the MUDA-approved areas from where the solid wastes are not lifted daily. One can see heaps of debris dumped on the isolated stretches of the road.
22 November 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Cotton procurement centres in Yadgir to open tomorrow||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya said that cotton procurement centres will be opened from Monday and registration centres for the process of paddy procurement will also be opened from November 30 respectively to purchase produces under minimum supportive price (MSP) scheme. She was addressing at a meeting in Yadgir on Saturday while farmers were present. The farmers demanded to increase the number of quintals of the purchasing of paddy from 40 to 100 quintals per acre to help paddy growers. Dr. Ragapriya assured that she would send a proposal to the government on this and added that additional procurement centres for paddy will be opened on demand. The DC strictly directed Agriculture and Revenue Department officials to take action to prevent substandard sowing seeds and register cases if any cases found. She directed the officials of Animal Husbandry Department to provide treatment to sick animals using mobile clinics.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Two-member panel to examine issues in Akshaya Patra Foundation||City-based Akshaya Patra Foundation (APF), that runs mid-day meal programme for school children and has come under fire over “serious governance issues”, has formed a two-member committee headed by former Central Vigilance Commissioner (CVC) K.V. Chowdary “to look into all the issues raised by the erstwhile trustees and Audit Committee members”. M.S. Unni Krishnan, former MD and CEO of Thermax, is the other member of the committee. Whistleblowers had raised concerns over diversion and misappropriation of funds, among other governance issues, sources said. Non-executive independent trustees had differences with the temple trustees on the board of APF over the audit into these allegations leading to three independent trustees, including Infosys co-founder Mohandas Pai, resigning from the board recently. “There are serious governance issues with the running of APF. When some of us brought it to the notice of the chairman, they not only did not pay any attention but forces were trying to stifle our voices. So I quit,” Mr. Pai had told The Hindu recently. APF reconstituted the Board with three new members. They are Mr. Chowdary, M.S. Unni Krishnan, and Anil Swarup, former secretary in the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD), government of India. The two-member committee of Mr. Chowdary and Mr. Unni Krishnan “will review the observations of the erstwhile Audit Committee and those in the communications received from former trustees, and submit a comprehensive report after thoroughly examining all the issues raised within 4 weeks”, a statement from APF said on Saturday. The internal auditors will assist the two-member committee in this exercise, it added. On the need for another committee to look into the allegations, Navina Nirada Dasa, head - communications, APF, said the erstwhile Audit Committee had made some observations, but many have now quit and the new committee will only continue their work.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Two men caught carrying 6 kg of gold jewellery||Alert beat police caught two persons carrying 6.55 kg of gold jewels on a scooter on Friday night without proper documents. Constables Hanumatha and Anand were checking vehicles randomly at Doddapete Circle when they stopped two men on a scooter who were carrying two bags. On checking, the police found that the two bags were filled with 65 necklaces, seven pairs of gold bangles and 150 small earrings. The duo – Dalpath Singh, 34, from Mumbai and Vikas, 35, from Rajasthan – claimed that it was artificial jewellery. The police alerted their seniors who rushed to the spot and took the accused to the station for further inquiry. The duo claimed that they were taking the gold valuables to a jewellery shop, but they had no documents, said Sanjeev Patil, DCP West division. The total value of the seized jewels is estimated to be around Rs. 3 crore. A preliminary probe revealed that the accused had received the consignment from Mumbai. The police have called a jeweller from Nagarthpet, who the consignment was addressed to, for questioning. The police have taken the duo into custody and alerted the Income Tax department.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Finance company owner arrested for blackmailing||The owner of a finance firm was arrested by the Peenya police for allegedly blackmailing and extorting from a cable operator posing as a CCB officer. The accused, Srinivasa Gaddige, 40, owns a finance firm in Peenya. He was arrested after the victim filed a complaint with the police when he started demanding more money. According to the police, the victim, Manjunath, 49, is a cable operator in T. Dasarahalli. He was in a relationship with a woman who works in the office of Srinivasa. The couple used to meet at a lodge in Basaveshwaranagar. Srinivasa, who came to know about the relationship, managed to install a camera to record the private moments of the couple. Using the clip, he called Manjunath posing as a CCB officer and threatened to foist cases on him. Srinivasa took Rs. 6 lakh from Manjunath promising to “close the case”. After receiving the money, Srinivasa started demanding more money. Unable to pay more money, Manjunath approached the police and filed a case. Bases on his complaint, the police arrested Srinivasa and charged him for extortion and blackmail.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Fire in chemical factory||Material worth over Rs. 5 lakh was gutted in an accidental fire at a chemical factory in Jigani industrial area on Saturday. No one was injured in the incident. After two hours, the fire and emergency service personnel managed to contain the fire. The exact cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. Over 20 employees ran helter skelter on noticing fire engulfing the building before alerting the fire control room. A senior police officer said that the fire broke out at 2.15 p.m. in the three-storey building. The police are awaiting the FSL report.
22 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Scrutiny of nominations over, election scene hotting up||With the completion of scrutiny of nomination papers, the electoral scene is hotting up for the December 8 local body polls in the district. After the scrutiny, all 244 nominations received for the Alappuzha district panchayat were accepted. Returning officers accepted 1,585 nominations for six municipalities in the district while rejecting 109. Of the 971 nomination papers received for block panchayats, 941 were accepted. As many as 8,280 nominations were accepted for grama panchayats while 181 were rejected. The last day for withdrawal of nominations is November 23. A majority of the candidates have started to campaign in full force by visiting houses and through the digital media. Meanwhile, rebels are giving sleepless nights to political fronts in several seats in the district. With two more days to go for the withdrawal of nominations, political parties are trying to convince rebels to withdraw their nominations. A number of district leaders of the Congress testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 in recent days have put the party in a difficult situation. With electioneering gaining momentum, District Collector A. Alexander, who is also the District Election Officer, has urged the political parties and candidates to follow the COVID-19 protocols. He called them to strictly follow the directions issued by the Health Department. Mr. Alexander also visited counting centres at Mavelikara, Bharanikavu, and Chengannur ahead of the polls.
22 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Spurt again in leptospirosis cases in Alappuzha district||Leptospirosis is rearing its ugly head once again in Alappuzha. According to officials with the Health Department, there is a spurt in leptospirosis cases in recent weeks in the district. At least 10 confirmed leptospirosis cases were reported from different parts of the district between November 1 and 20. “A total of 14 suspected cases were reported so far this month. Of these, 10 have been confirmed. Besides, the district also witnessed one suspected leptospirosis death during this period. Compared to the previous months, there is a rise in leptospirosis cases being reported in the district this month,” said a Health Department official. As leptospirosis is spread through the urine of infected animals, officials have urged the people involved in jobs that make them come into contact with stagnant water to ensure personal protection. “The COVID-19 patients and those recovered from the disease should take precautions. Contracting rat fever and dengue fever could be fatal to this group of people. Those with symptoms of leptospirosis should seek immediate medical attention,” the official said. Officials added that people can get doxycycline free of cost from health centres in the district.
22 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||KVVES seeks probe||The Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi (KVVES) has sought a Crime Branch probe into an extortion racket allegedly involving one Onida Kabeer, the police, and other government officials. In a letter to the Chief Minister, Raju Apsara, president, KVVES district committee, said Onida Kabeer with the support of a few police, Income Tax and Registration Department officials had extorted money from several traders in Alappuzha in connection with real estate deals.
22 November 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Tribespeople in Wayanad to go on relay fast from Dec. 1||A group of tribespeople in the district under the aegis of the Adivasi Gothra Mahasabha (AGM) and the Kerala Adivasi Forum is gearing up to launch a five-day relay fast in front of the District Collectorate from December 1 onwards, raising a slew of demands, including entrusting the execution of tribal rehabilitation projects in the district to the Tribal Resettlement and Development Mission (TRDM). Speaking to mediapersons here on Saturday, AGM convener M. Geethanandan and Adivasi Forum president A. Chandunni said the government had handed over land documents to those who had taken part in the Muthanga agitation in 2015, but had failed to hand over the land to the families concerned. If the government had handed over the project to the TRDM, it would have been implemented successfully, said Mr. Geethanandan. The government was handing over the construction work of houses under the tribal resettlement project to agencies such as Nirmithi Kendra, he said. As the agency was handing over the work to contractors, many a time it adversely affected the quality of work. Such works should, therefore, be handed over to tribal cooperative societies or to the beneficiaries, he added. Other demands raised by the leaders included stopping the eviction of tribespeople from Kurichyad tribal hamlet under the Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary, handing over allocated land to tribespeople after evicting encroachers, proper execution of the Forest Rights Act, launching agriculture-related development projects and ensuring job opportunities for qualified tribal youths.  The government had handed over land documents to those who had taken part in the Muthanga agitation in 2015, but had failed to hand over the land to the families concerned Adivasi Gothra Mahasabha and Kerala Adivasi Forum
22 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Robotic multi-level car parking facility for city||A robotic Multi-Level Car Parking (MLCP) system capable of parking 140 cars at a time has been envisaged at Kacheripady Junction here by Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML). The elevator-shuttle robo-parker parking system is part of measures that the agency is taking to tackle problems like obstructive and illegal parking by motorists, which has been stifling smooth traffic and pedestrian movement in the city and its immediate suburbs. The agency’s CEO Jafar Malik said that the Rs. 25-crore project would be executed by National Highways and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (NHIDCL), a subsidiary of Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH). “The work will be awarded in December and the agency would kick-start the construction in January 2021. The structure will be commissioned in October 2021. Its advantage over conventional MLCPs is that it can be built in limited space, while having capacity to park more cars. Manpower requirement too is minimal and two personnel can manage the entire system.” The NHIDCL would be responsible for operation and maintenance of the system which would cover seven floors, for five years. The agency is confident of its feasibility if it gets 75% patronage. “A survey revealed the need for a pay-and-park facility in the area that is capable of accommodating 115 cars. We decided to entrust the agency with the task, including floating of tenders since it has undertaken similar projects in other States,” Mr. Malik said. CSML will give nine per cent of the total project cost of Rs. 25 crore to the agency as fee for DPR, design and execution of the fully automatic system. An MoU has already been linked. A conventional MLCP system mooted at Kacheripady by CSML and its operation and maintenance had no takers, despite tenders being floated thrice. Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) too has roped in the same agency for establishing similar automated parking lots in the city, it is learnt. CSML has further mooted feeder systems like e-autos from Kacheripady to ferry people to locales in M.G. Road and to hubs like High Court and Menaka.
22 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Here, veteran trade unionist takes on senior Congress leader||The Island North division of the Kochi Corporation, comprising a section of Willingdon Island with only a small clutch of voters, will see a contest between a senior Congress leader and a veteran trade union leader, both known to people in the area. N. Venugopal, a Mayor probable for the United Democratic Front (UDF), will contest from Island North this time, rather than the neighbouring Island South, from where he posted victories in 2005 and 2010. The Congress leader who has also represented the combined division of Island North and Island South in 2000, when the two areas were yet to be constituted as separate divisions, is confident of a win. Pitted against Mr. Venugopal is Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate C.D. Nandakumar, general secretary of the CITU-affiliated Cochin Port Employees’ Organisation. A debutant, he is banking on his sway over a section of port employees as well as familiarity with staff at other establishments, thanks to his tenure as a technician at the Port Trust. In two decades, the LDF has bagged the seat once, in 2010. Padmakumari T.A. is the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate. With only 649 voters, the division could be one of the smallest in the State, Mr. Venugopal said. Restrictions on painting walls and sticking posters on government property keep the campaign muted. The number of voters had been shrinking since 2005, when the coming of the Vallarpadam container terminal reduced the need for staff on the island and retirees were not replaced with new hires, he said. The figure had dipped from nearly 1,500 in the year 2000. The polling percentage stood only at about 50%, he added. Mr. Nandakumar draws on this stagnation and the financial crisis of the Cochin Port in his campaign. “Kochi is a port city, but problems associated with the port, which is a significant source of revenue for the local body, have rarely become a subject of discussion at the corporation. As traditional cargo handling activities fall at the island, we should be able to attract tourists, but the corporation has never had any sort of vision for the area, which has become dormant. The corporation can play a crucial role in its revival,” he said.
22 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Tough contest on the cards for Fort Kochi Veli||The election to the Fort Kochi Veli division of the Kochi corporation is likely to be complicated by the candidature of former Mayor K.J. Sohan, who is contesting independently. Mr. Sohan has contested and won five times from Fort Kochi Veli. He became the Deputy Mayor in 1983, Mayor in 1990 and was elected chairperson of the town planning standing committee in 2010, which was the last time he won from the division. Fort Kochi Veli was reserved for women in 2015 and he contested from nearby Nazreth instead, where he lost. “This time the CPI(M) insisted on fielding a candidate from Fort Kochi Veli. But the seat has been held since 1979 by the parties that constituted the erstwhile Janata Party, and then splintered,” said Mr. Sohan, who is miffed that Loktantric Janata Dal candidates were not accommodated in seat-sharing agreements. The issues he raises are systemic ones of corruption, the trust deficit that governments suffer and the lack of utilisation of funds under the Smart Cities and solar cities projects. Problems cannot be resolved at just the division level, he says. Two-time LDF councillor Benedict Fernandes, who has earlier represented Amaravathy and Island North, is contesting from Fort Kochi Veli for the first time. Mr. Fernandes says that he is banking on his work as a councillor over the past decade to get him the votes. UDF candidate Soly Joseph, who is contesting for the first time and has been a part of the Kerala Students Union and the Youth Congress, says that he perceives the contest in the division only as one between the LDF and the UDF. The BJP candidate from the area, Nivin Hubert, is also a first-time a candidate.
22 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||New faces for Ernakulam district panchayat polls||The contest for seats in the Ernakulam district panchayat promises to be a stiff one with both the political fronts choosing to field mostly fresh faces. Both Dolly Kuriakose, the outgoing president of the district panchayat and Congress veteran and Abdul Muthaleeb, vice-president, are not in the fray this time. However, Asha Sanil, who was president of the district panchayat in the first term of the UDF rule, will contest from the Pampakuda seat. She had represented Mulanthuruthy in the last council. Sarada Mohan of the CPI will be the only other member of the outgoing council, who is in the fray among the LDF constituents. She will contest from the Kalady seat, which she represented in the council in the last term. She said that she wanted to continue the good works over the past five years. She knew her constituency well and had understood the major problems facing the people and it would be easier to work for them in the new term. Asha Sanil said that the UDF was seeking votes in the name of the good performance of the district panchayat over the past five years. The district panchayat had been able to intervene positively in all aspects of welfare, especially for women and children, she said. She said that during 2016-17, Ernakulam District Panchayat had won national level recognition as the best district panchayat in the country. The State government too had honoured the district panchayat for its performance with the Swaraj Trophy. The following two years, 2017-18 and 2018-19 too had seen the district winning honours for its good performance, she said. The outgoing council was quite finely balanced with the UDF having the support of 15 members and the LDF 12 members in the 27-member council. Though surviving on a thin majority, the district panchayat rule was stable through the five years of its term. The UDF comprised one seat from the Kerala Congress (Mani) group and the shift of allegiance by the Mani group to the LDF may play a role in deciding the power equations in the new council.
22 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Road Ashram, documenting pandemic crisis on wheels||A three-member team documenting the impact of the COVID-19 crisis across the country spent a day in Kochi on Saturday, meeting with people here to understand how the pandemic was handled. The team — Siddhartha Dutta who has been fundraising for various international organisations, communications specialist Ahmer Siddiqui, and Neha Chaturvedi who is documenting the journey and their interactions — is driving along the country’s borders to gauge the humanitarian crisis caused by the pandemic. They spent a day in Thiruvananthapuram, where they met filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan, before they arrived in Kochi. “Having travelled through 15 States so far, we have been told by people that the governments were proactive in Kerala, West Bengal and the northeastern States. People in Kerala have told us that the preparedness of the government here was good and that they received a lot of support in dealing with the crisis,” Mr. Dutta said. Mr. Dutta and Mr. Siddiqui are funding the journey, which began from Delhi on October 4 and might conclude by December 15. Their car, covered in stickers, and the trip is called Road Ashram. Here, they met artist and writer Bony Thomas who told them of his experiences of feeling helpless during the lockdown, and the ways in which the State tackled the crisis. Mr. Thomas said that it was important to document the manner in which different States handled the pandemic, since experiences would have been markedly different across the country. They also met people who have been up in arms against the Puthuvype LPG terminal. The team is also seeking to raise relief funds which will be donated directly to Rise Against Hunger India, an NGO. Among others, they have met migrant workers who walked from Mumbai to Uttar Pradesh during the lockdown, and have observed delays in immunisation.
22 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||215 medians below metro corridor to be beautified||A total of 215 medians below the Kochi metro corridor will be beautified and maintained with the help of sponsors. These medians on the Edappally-Pettah stretch have been given to sponsors — corporates and business community from Kochi, for upkeep, Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has informed. “The median beautification is part of our endeavour to have a zero-carbon footprint system. They can choose either normal gardening or biodegradable gardening. The sponsor should spend money for the upkeep of the medians for two years. Major jewellers, hospitals, bakeries, textile shops and other institutions along the stretch have sponsored the medians. They include Cochin Shipyard which is currently maintaining 16 medians. The others include Petronet and a few banks. We have thus found sponsors for close to 70% medians in the corridor,” the agency said. “We implemented several green initiatives. Maintaining all the medians was not practical and financially sustainable. Hence, sponsors were roped in. They will thus not only look good but also help the cause of environment protection,” said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, managing director of the metro agency.
22 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Bank hands over 700 books to college||As part of its foundation day, Canara Bank Learning and Development Centre, Ernakulam, donated about 700 books on banking, management, official language to Maharaja’s College. Bank assistant general manager C. Sathyanarayan handed over the books.
22 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||797 new COVID cases in district||The district recorded 797 new COVID-19 cases and 658 recoveries on Saturday. The active case load stands at 9,382. Over 30 cases of the infection were reported from Maradu, Thripunithura, and Kadungalloor. A police official and 11 health workers tested positive on Saturday. Cases were also reported from areas including Okkal, Chengamanad, Kizhakkambalam, Edapally, and Kunnathunad. A total of 6,409 samples were sent for testing. As many as 7,076 people are recovering at home, 111 patients are admitted at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, and 45 patients are at PVS Hospital.
22 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Security drill held at South railway station||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) conducted a security mock drill “Code Red” at the South railway station on Saturday to analyse the security preparedness in scenarios such as bomb threat, miscreant attack or any other major security emergency. Local police, GRP, Force and Rescue Services and health authorities took part in the drill. The mock drill was organised under the supervision of T.S. Gopakumar, Asst. Commissioner, RPF, Ernakulam, and Suresh Kumar, ACP of Ernakulam.
22 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Assailants stab businessman at home||The owner of a transporting firm was stabbed at his house in Kalamassery on Saturday night by unidentified attackers. Shajahan, 42, was admitted to a private hospital in Kalamassery with injuries. The Kalamassery police said that his condition was out of danger now. A hunt had been launched to nab the attackers, they said.
22 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Medical team examines Ebrahim Kunju||A medical board on Saturday assessed the health status of former Public Works Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju, MLA, who was in a private hospital in the city before his arrest was recorded by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) in connection with the Palarivattom flyover case. A six-member team of medical specialists from the Ernakulam General Hospital completed their assessment and will submit a report to the District Medical Officer (DMO) on Monday. The court of the Enquiry Commissioner and Special Judge at Muvattupuzha had directed the DMO to constitute a medical board and submit the report to the court on Tuesday.
22 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||464 new cases in Kollam||The district reported 464 new cases of COVID-19, one death, and 681 recoveries on Saturday. While 458 patients contracted the infection through contact, others include two NRIs, two cases with no known source, and two persons who had travelled from other States. The Health Department also confirmed that the death of a 47-year-old Vadakkumbhagam resident was owing to COVID-19. Cases with no known source include a 73-year-old Kottarakara resident and 50-year-old Kadavoor resident. At present, the number of active cases in Kollam is 4,292. Meanwhile, the department has instructed all the destitute and old age homes in the district to stay alert. Officials have been directed to ban visitors since there is a threat of transmission. A 14-day quarantine will be mandatory for new residents and those returning after spending time outside the institutions.. 8% TPR in Kottayam As many as 423 persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Saturday. All but three contracted the virus through local contact. The test positivity rate (TPR) for the day was 8%. With 271 recoveries during the day, the district has currently 3,843 persons under treatment. Of the 31,921 affected persons, 28,015 persons have recovered so far. Kottayam continued to top the tally with 51 cases, followed by Madappally panchayat with 23 and Changanassery municipality with 22 cases. 5 deaths in Alappuzha Alappuzha district logged 383 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. As many as 375 patients contracted the disease through local contact, while the source of infection of seven others remains unidentified. One person who came from another State also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district also recorded five COVID-19-related deaths, taking the official toll to 140. Meanwhile, 919 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active caseload in the district stands at 7,261. Ward 5 in Karuvatta grama panchayat was declared as a containment zone. Pathanamthitta caseload As many as 216 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Saturday. Of the new cases, 196 contracted the virus through local contact. Among the local bodies, Adoor, Erathu, and Kadambanadu reported 15 cases each. With 200 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 1,908 active cases. ( With inputs from Kottayam, Alappuzha, and Pathanamthitta bureaus )
22 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||10 lakh labourers from Kollam to strike work||A total of 10 lakh labourers from Kollam will participate in the nationwide general strike on November 26 called by various trade unions against the new labour and farm policies of the Centre, said Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) district secretary S. Jayamohan. “Except Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), all other State and Central trade unions will be part of the strike. All cashew workers will participate and mark their protest in front of Central government offices,” he said. Dharnas will be held at all centres on November 21 and CITU district committee will organise online Samarasargotsavam on November 23. M. Mukesh, MLA, will inaugurate the event to be held from 8 p.m. to 9 p.m.
22 November 2020||Kollam,KERALA||Panels to check diseases||Health officials have intensified measures to prevent the spread of contagious diseases in the district. Ward-level committees have been formed for the purpose and health inspectors and supervisors will be in charge of various activities. Inspections were held in 685 hotels, 465 bakeries, 290 cool bars, 36 factories, and 249 shops.
22 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Two vacancies for lift operator||A government office in the district has two vacancies for lift operator (daily wages). SSLC and experience not less than six months are the qualifications required and those coming in the age group of 18 to 41 years can apply. Interested candidates should register their names at the nearest employment exchange before November 30
22 November 2020||Kollam,KERALA||Keltron invites applications for courses||The Keltron Kollam Knowledge Centre has invited applications for its various vocational courses. Diploma in Computer Applications, Word Processing and Data Entry, Hardware and Network Maintenance with Laptop Technologies, Network Administration and Linux, PHP and MYSQL and Wed Design and Development are the courses offered. For details, contact 0474-2731061 or visit the centre.
22 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Symbol advantage for Jose faction||Hard on the heels of a High Court order upholding the Central Election Commission’s order allocating the ‘two leaves’ symbol to the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M), the State Election Commission (SEC) on Saturday reallocated the name and reserved the symbol of the Kerala Congress (M) to the party led by Mr. Mani. In an order, State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran stated that the symbol of ‘two leaves’ be designated to the candidates as nominated by the party’s functionaries. The commission withdrew its earlier order to allot ‘table fan’ as the election symbol of the Mani group, which could now be assigned to Independent candidates. Earlier this week, the SEC had frozen the symbol in view of the continuing claims by Jose K. Mani and P.J. Joseph and allotted ‘table fan’ and ‘chenda’ (drum) as their respective election symbols for the upcoming local body polls. The decision, however, was subject to the orders from the High Court of Kerala on the cases pending over the issue. “After this, the respected HC pronounced its order on the cases (WP (C) No. 18556/ 2020, 18638/ 2020), which had been under its consideration, and entitled the Kerala Congress led by Jose K. Mani to use the party’s name and its reserved symbol of Two Leaves,” the order said.  Plight of Joseph group The SEC’s order is expected to give an edge to the Mani group over the rival group ked by P.J. Joseph as the candidates fielded by the rival faction will now have to contest as United Democratic Front Independents in the absence of a stay from the Division Bench of the High COurt. “Even if the Joseph group seeks to secure a stay on this, this has to happen by Monday when the deadline to withdraw nominations ends,” a senior UDF leader said. The possession of ‘two leaves’, a party symbol perceived to be emotionally connected to Kerala Congress (M) cadre and sympathisers of Central Travancore, assumes significance particularly as the local body election marks a direct confrontation between the Mani and Joseph groups. In the Kottayam district panchayat alone, the two regional parties have squared up to each other in as many as five divisions. The Joseph group has fielded 25 candidates across 11 district panchayats and the Mani group is contesting from 27 seats across 14. The outcome of these fights, following a vertical split in the regional party, will also establish their positions within the respective coalitions.
22 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Bharananganam has highest nominations||After the completion of the scrutiny of the nomination papers for the local body polls, the election officers have rejected three out of the 203 papers for the district panchayat divisions in Kottayam. According to officials, nominations of candidates from Kumarakom, Vellore, and Ayarkunnam divisions were rejected owing to lack of adequate documents. However, they can still contest the election as other nominations submitted by the same candidates were accepted. The highest number of nominations was received in the Bharananganam division with 14 nominations followed by Erumeli with 13 nominations while Uzhavoor recorded the lowest number with five nominations. Details of the final status of nominations in other local bodies were yet to be clear. The election authorities had received a total of 12,163 nomination papers to the different local bodies in Kottayam. Of these, 12,068 have been approved. Of the 1,031 nominations received in the block panchayats, 1,011 have been approved while 1,928 out of the 1,940 nominations to the municipalities have been accepted. Meanwhile, 8,929 nominations received to the gram panchayats have been accepted while 60 were rejected.
22 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Reopening of beaches remains a challenge in Kozhikode||The reopening of Kozhikode’s major beaches continues to be a challenge for the District Tourism Promotion Council as COVID-19 screening measures at the tourist destinations are yet to be improved. The Kappad beach, which was thrown open to visitors after it won the prestigious Blue Flag certification, has been closed again after 18 cleaning labourers in the area who showed COVID-19 symptoms were quarantined. Though the beach is likely to be reopened after a week, the Health Department authorities do not support the move. Tourism Department officials said the Kappad beach and the Sarovaram Biopark were the two main destinations that generated good returns for the DTPC. The closure of the Kappad beach, which attracted national and international tourists, was definitely a setback in terms of revenue during the peak season, they added. Though there were calls to reopen the Kozhikode South beach and Bhatt Road beach with better screening arrangements, the authorities did not respond positively to them. The main challenge, according to the authorities, is the uncontrolled flow of visitors with no respect for safety measures. The police officers posted on duty had a tough time dealing with protocol violations. An official attached to the DTPC said the proximity of various containment zones to the beaches was another major hurdle. “We make the decisions now on the basis of the Health Department advisory. Though the Kappad beach may be reopened by complying with improved safety arrangements, the same approach cannot be adopted in the case of other beaches with vast shoreline and multiple entrances,” said the official.
22 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Alliance arithmetic and electoral chemistry||As electioneering is gradually picking up steam, the realignment of political forces has seemingly given an arithmetic edge to the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the local body polls next month. The so-called rainbow coalition of Left parties has gained strength with the entry of the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) and the faction led by Jose K. Mani of the Kerala Congress (M) and the formal induction of the Indian National League (INL). The LDF has nearly 11 constituents, including the motley groups of the splintered Kerala Congress, the Communist Marxist Party (Aravindakshan) and Revolutionary Socialist Party (Leninist). Besides, there are the Nationalist Congress Party, Congress(S) and Janadhipathya Samrakshana Samithi led by K.R. Gouri. Such a big coalition was reminiscent of the realpolitik employed by the late Congress leader K. Karunakaran when he had been at the helm of affairs during the 1980s. Perhaps this coalition of the CPI(M)-CPI combine, which has the largest number of constituents irrespective of ideological moorings, may be a record in the recent political history of the State. It remains to be seen whether the LDF experimenting with so many political hues will be able to exorcise the spectre of anti-incumbency haunting the government. At least, their leaders believe so. UDF stance However, the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) leadership feels that big coalitions threw up alliance arithmetic but not necessarily the political chemistry in elections. As such, electoral chemistry works in a different format in different regions. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, the Congress candidates won both the Kozhikode and Vadakara seats despite the LJD supporting the CPI(M) nominees in a fiercely contested polls. Nevertheless, the entry of the Janata Dal (United), which metamorphosed into the LJD, could not do wonders when it aligned with the Congress-Indian Union Muslim League combine in the 2015 local body polls and the subsequent 2016 Assembly elections. Too many coalition partners in the LDF have already given a headache for the CPI(M) over seat-sharing arrangements. Differences of opinion cropped up with the long-time partner Janata Dal (Secular) accusing the Left parties of favouring the LJD. Many believe that the role of minor partners will be confined only to the three-tier local body polls. But these elections will be a decisively indicative test for both coalitions in the Assembly poll next year.
22 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||710 new cases in Kozhikode||The District Medical Officer said 710 new COVID-19 cases were reported from Kozhikode on Saturday, of which 671 were cases of local transmission. Three of the new patients are health workers while two had recently come from abroad and 13 from other States. The source of infection is unknown in 24 cases. As many as 622 people have recovered from the disease, and the number of active cases is 7,696. There are 24,683 people under observation across the district. In Wayanad As many as 152 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Saturday. Of the new cases, 150 persons, including four health workers, were infected through local contact while two had recently returned from Maharashtra. The district recorded 79 recoveries on Saturday. There are 1,056 active cases and 10,995 people under observation in Wayanad.
22 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Historian opens activities of Malabar Education Movement||Historian and former Vice-Chancellor of Calicut University, K.K.N. Kurup, on Friday opened the activities of the Malabar Education Movement, which was founded by a group of academicians and researchers to highlight the developmental needs of the northern Kerala districts in the education sector. Addressing the online inaugural event, Dr. Kurup observed that the educational backwardness of Malabar region could be addressed only through a special education package. “Our students are struggling mainly because of the uneven and unscientific distribution of available learning opportunities. When the southern Kerala districts have plenty of vacant higher secondary seats, students from the northern Kerala region are struggling to get one for continuing their higher studies,” he said. Speakers at the inaugural event pointed out that students from the Malabar region were the majority who went to other States for continuing their higher education in various self-financing institutions. It was mainly because of the lack of better opportunities in their own area, they claimed. Z.A. Ashraf, Associate Professor, Kozhikode Government College, chaired the inaugural event.
22 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Candidates thrive on live online discussions||Social media ‘war rooms’ shaped by professional campaigners for candidates in the local body election have started hosting live chats and online discussions, with campaigning entering the next phase. The goal this time is to assess the impact of the first round of campaigns and feel the voters’ pulse. Social media strategists anchoring the live interactive discussions carefully defend their clients from unwanted arguments and allegations. The moderators play a balancing game, treating the supporters and critics equally. “We know the risk of hosting live interactions since the candidate’s political opponents too might sign in and fire counterarguments, which in turn might provoke the candidate or their supporters. When things heat up, our moderators deploy trained supporters to divert the discussion to a healthier track,” says N. Navas, a digital war room operator in Kozhikode district. Short voice messages, video clips, well-edited online posters, and digital election manifesto are used by the operators to set the mood for interactive discussions on specific topics. Personalised messages Apart from Facebook pages and Instagram accounts for live sessions, there are now 24x7 active WhatsApp groups to give instant response to voters’ comments. Personalised online messages too are common in Kozhikode’s rural areas. Mostly, the target group in such campaigns is young voters. Video and voice call features of social media apps are very effective tools. “If social media platforms were not there, this maiden battle would have been tough for me,” says T.T. Sanjay, a candidate in home quarantine. The 21-year-old who tested positive for COVID-19 says he liberally puts to use his social media skills to reach out to voters. His rivals in the ward at Olavanna are experienced, and a tough competition awaits the youth. The ‘real’ feel However, T. Raneesh, another candidate from Kozhikode’s Puthiyara ward, feels that virtual campaigns can never replace the door-to-door ones. “Only people we know personally will favourably respond to our virtual campaign. I am keen to explore the best of both options,” he adds.
22 November 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Cycle expedition against hydel project||Shakkir Njanikkadavu, an activist on a cycle expedition from Kasaragod to Thiruvananthapuram in protest against the proposed Anakkayam hydel power project, was accorded a welcome in Kozhikode on Saturday under the aegis of Samajwadi Jana Parishath. He started the expedition on November 19 and expects to finish it by November 27. Protests have been brewing across the State against the project proposed around 20 km from Athirappilly, says a press release.
22 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||3,710 left in fray for 53 grama panchayats||A total of 3,710 candidates are left in the fray for the local body elections to the 53 grama panchayats in Pathanamthitta after the scrutiny of nomination papers. According to officials, as many as 77 nominations for the panchayat polls were rejected owing to various reasons while 6,368 nominations have been accepted. With 181 candidates, the Kalanajoor grama panchayat has the highest number of contestants, followed by Pallickal with 120 candidates. Similarly, 627 candidates have been qualified to contest to the four municipalities in the district with the authorities rejecting 16 out of the 1,250 nominations. The Thiruvalla municipality, which received 3,760 nominations, has 186 candidates in the fray, followed by Pandalam with 183 contestants. Among the eight block panchayats, 638 applications have been found valid while 12 were rejected. As many as 406 contestants are left in the fray. With 59 candidates, the Parakkodu block panchayat has the highest number of candidates, followed by Ranni with 55 candidates.
22 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Protest against church ‘takeover’ at Vallikodu||High drama prevailed at Vallikodu in Pathanamthitta on Saturday when parishioners of the St. Mary’s church, who have been on a protest, dug a trench along the main entry to the church. The drama began to unfold in the morning hours with members of the Jacobite faction converging on the church premises and staging a protest in view of a proposed takeover of the parish by the district administration for handing it over to the Orthodox faction of the Malankara Church. The protesters also dug a trench in front of the church, reportedly to prevent the police from entering the premises. Despite reports that the district administration had sought police assistance to complete the takeover proceedings, the tension diffused by the afternoon with none of the authorities turning up. The protesters, however, continued to remain on the church premises till the evening.  Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church Episcopal Synod secretary Youhanon Mar Diascoros condemned the attempt to vandalise the church.
22 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LDF confident in Corpn. despite stiff challenge||The city Corporation became a topic of discussion across the State after the local body elections in 2015 threw up an unexpected result. Though the Left Democratic Front (LDF) managed to retain power in the local body, which it has held for decades, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) threw up an unexpected challenge, pushing the United Democratic Front (UDF) to the third place. But, going into the elections now, the LDF puts up a more confident face, projecting its record of the past five years, which had got some sort of a public approval with the by-election win last year of former Mayor V.K. Prasanth, who served for four of those five years. It had managed to finalise its list of candidates, consisting of a large number of young, educated women, far ahead of its competitors too. S. Pushpalatha, one of the probable Mayor candidates of the LDF, says that the main campaign plank is a continuation of the developmental works of the past five years. “We have covered most of the areas in the first round. Even though now online campaigns have gained in importance, our main focus in local body elections has been door-to-door campaigns,” she says. Clear intent BJP has fielded its district president V.V. Rajesh in one of the wards to send a message that it is expecting nothing short of a win in the local body. BJP Parliamentary party leader M.R. Gopan says the party has been focusing more on the 20 wards where it came second in 2015, and especially in those wards they lost by a thin margin. “We have fielded many councillors who have proved their mettle in the previous term. There are fresh faces too. There is a strong anti-Left feeling in the ground,” says Mr. Gopan. Among the three fronts, the UDF was the last to finalise its list of candidates, with major opposition from the ward committees in some places to the candidates chosen by the district leadership. Rebel candidates have also popped up in some wards. Yet, the leadership is confident of a turnaround in its fortunes, from the mere 21 seats it won in 2015. “The response to our campaign has been positive. We are highlighting the failure of the LDF in solving the many issues in the city, despite being in power for so long,” says D. Anilkumar, deputy leader of the UDF in the council. The smaller outfits, including the newly formed Thiruvananthapuram Vikasana Munnani, and the Independents also could upset the calculations of the major fronts in close contests, even if they manage to win only a few votes.
22 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Crime Branch to probe ‘audio leak’||State Police Chief Loknath Behera has referred the request of the Prisons and Correctional Services Department to investigate the ‘intentional disclosure’ to media of a voice recording purportedly belonging to gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh to the Crime Branch of the police. The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has requested the department to investigate the disclosure. The widely circulated voice clipping had triggered a controversy with the narrator implying that ‘investigators had coerced’ her into giving evidence against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The ED had pointed out that the narrator did not name any agency. However, the ED perceived that the appearance of the voice clipping heralded by digital captions on a website with a marked political slant pointed to a plot to discredit its investigations. Sources said the ED had requested the department to share its findings with the agency. The department has, in turn, sought the help of the State police to get to the bottom of the matter. Tight surveillance A preliminary inquiry by the Prisons department suggested that the voice might belong to Swapna. However, officials said it was unlikely that her voice was recorded in prison. Swapna had served time in the sub-jail at Kakkanad in Kochi following her arrest by the National Investigation Agency from Bengaluru in August. Currently, the suspect is a COFEPOSA (Conservation of Foreign Exchange and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act) detainee at the Attakulangara Women’s Prison here. Officials said Swapna was under tight watch at the prison. She is permitted to meet close relatives once a week on Wednesday. Applications to meet Swapna are sent to the Customs for vetting. So far, the Prisons department has allowed only her mother, children, and husband to meet her.
22 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Governor gives nod for Police Act amendment||Governor Arif Mohammad Khan has signed an Ordinance amending the Kerala Police Act (KPA) to give the law enforcement more teeth to prosecute persons who exploit social media to target women and children. The Cabinet had in October decided to give an edge to the KPA to curb online vilification by recommending the addition of a new provision, Section 118-A, to the law passed in 2011. The amendment proposes five years of imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 10,000 for those convicted of producing, publishing or disseminating derogatory content through any means of communication to intimidate, insult or defame any persons on social media. The government moots the revision in view of the high-profile instance of a group of women activists taking the law into their own hands to confront a blogger who used his YouTube channel to broadcast abusive comments about them. The Communist Party of India, a constituent of the ruling LDF, felt the amendment granted wide latitude to the law enforcers to crack down on freedom of speech and bully critics, journalists and commentators into obedience. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the amendment would reverse the course on media freedom, muzzle free speech, and jeopardise civil liberties. Journalists’ unions had also expressed scepticism. However, the government clarifies that 118-A targets slanderous social media and online content and it does not seek to curb reportage, political satire or commentary as feared.
22 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State logs 5,722 more cases||Kerala’s cumulative burden of COVID-19 rose to 5,57,441 cases with 5,722 new cases being registered on Saturday when 60,210 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate, which has been hovering in the 9-10% range for the past three days, was 9.59% on Saturday. The trend of the State reporting more recoveries than new cases continued for the 14th consecutive day with 6,719 patients recovering from their disease and leaving hospitals. Active caseload  The active caseload of the State was reduced to 66,856 cases while the cumulative recoveries till date went up to 4,88,437. The State’s cumulative COVID toll crossed the 2,000 mark on Saturday to reach 2,022 cases when 25 new deaths were added on to the official COVID death list. The unofficial list of the State’s COVID deaths maintained by public health experts put the actual COVID toll to be at least 1,500 more because the State has not been acknowledging many deaths of those with terminal illness or post-COVID sequelae as COVID deaths. Seven of the new deaths on Saturday were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, five from Alapuzha, four from Kozhikode, three from Palakkad, two each from Malappuram and Kottayam, and one each from Thrissur and Kollam. Of the patients currently being treated in hospitals, 851 patients are said to be critically ill with 217 requiring ventilator support. According to the Health Department, 5,681 out of the 5,722 cases reported on Saturday are locally acquired infections. No epidemiological link could be established in the case of 639 infections. The number of health-care workers who contracted the infection is 53. Districtwise Among districts, Ernakulam topped the chart with 797 new cases, Malappuram 764 cases, Kozhikode 710, Thrissur 483, Palakkad 478, Kollam 464, Kottayam 423, Thiruvananthapuram 399, Alappuzha 383, Pathanamthitta 216, Kannur 211, Idukki 188, Wayanad 152, and Kasaragod 104 cases.
22 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital reports 399 cases||The district registered 399 more COVID-19 cases and 609 recoveries on Saturday. The number of active cases fell to 5,307. While 4,469 persons were tested during the past 24 hours, the COVID-19 test positivity rate stood at 8.92%. Seven deaths The death toll mounted to 520 with seven more recent deaths being attributed to the pandemic. The deceased included an 82-year-old woman who hailed from Vellayani, a 74-year-old man from Thirupuram, a 42-year-old woman from Karikkakom, a 68-year-old man from Pallithura, a 57-year-old woman from Kanjirampara, a 55-year-old woman from Kottakkal and a 61-year-old man from Pachalloor. Among the new cases, all except two imported cases have been attributed to local transmission of SARS-CoV-2. The sources of infection of 121 cases are unknown. Five health care workers are also among those who tested positive. As many as 1,381 people were placed under quarantine on the day. With this, the number of people undergoing quarantine in the district has gone up to 25,819.
22 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||UDF moots alternative mode of governance||Accusing the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government of weakening decentralisation, the United Democratic Front (UDF) has proposed an alternative mode of governance that it promises to implement through its manifesto for the local body polls. The 19-page document, prepared by a subcommittee chaired by Communist Marxist Party (CMP) leader C.P. John, was formally launched by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala by presenting the first copy to Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee Mullappally Ramachandran on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Chennithala accused the government of suffocating local self-government institutions by denying them adequate funds and delaying those eligible through the ‘Q’ billing system. In addition to diverting funds meant for local bodies, the government usurped their decision-making powers. Besides, the government has failed to implement the recommendations of the Fifth State Finance Commission. Accusing the government of replacing the Panchayati Raj system with ‘Consultancy and Commission Raj’, the UDF alleged that the LDF reversed or scuttled several acclaimed governance models that had been introduced by the previous government. These included the total quality management system that was intended to improve quality of service delivery. The coalition claimed that the implementation of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Scheme was hit during the last five years. Slew of promises Among the slew of promises it has made through its manifesto that raises the slogan of ‘Rejuvenated Villages, Awakening Cities’, the Congress-led coalition has assured to increase Plan fund allocation. The UDF promises steps to find a permanent solution to the garbage woes of municipalities and Corporations. While picking holes in the implementation of LIFE Mission projects, the UDF promises steps to provide houses for all sections. The COVID-19 pandemic also finds mention among the proposed programmes. While the UDF has promised to ensure adequate supply of the much-awaited vaccine as soon as it is made available, it has also pledged measures to bridge the digital divide that has come to the fore amid online classes.
22 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Notices for withdrawal till Monday||Notices for withdrawal of nominations filed for the local body elections will be accepted till 3 p.m. on November 23, said the State Election Commission on Saturday. Applications which are not duly filled in the prescribed Form 5 will not be accepted, State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran said, directing returning officers to ensure the validity of the applications before accepting them. The candidate, proposer and the election agent are authorised to submit the notice for withdrawal. If the application is filed by the proposer or the agent, they have to produce the consent of the candidate in writing. The final list of candidates is expected to be ready by Monday evening. The list will be posted on the notice boards at the offices of the returning officers. The list will contain the name of the candidate, address and the election symbol allocated to him/her. Approximately 1.7 lakh nominations have been filed across the State, as per a commission update. More than 3,000 nominations were rejected in the scrutiny held on Friday. The commission is also giving candidates an opportunity to incorporate additions to their names to distinguish them from candidates with similar names in the fray. The applications have to be submitted to the returning officers concerned before 3 p.m. on Monday.
22 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||TCMC circular on PG studies raises eyebrows||The Travancore-Cochin Medical Councils (TCMC) has issued a circular that all medical students who have secured admission for postgraduate medical studies, including DNB (Diplomate of National Board) courses, in any institution in Kerala should obtain permanent registration with the TCMC within a period of one month from the date of admission, failing which the admission will be cancelled. It has pointed out that most students are at present seeking registration with the TCMC after completing their PG course and this is a violation of the Postgraduate Medical Education Regulations, 2000 of the Medical Council of India and the Travancore-Cochin Medical Practitioners Act, 1953. However, objections have now been raised that the TCMC is misquoting or misinterpreting the Postgraduate Medical Education Regulations, 2000, which states that registration with any State medical council will suffice for students seeking admission to PG medical courses. What Section 8(3) of the Postgraduate Medical Education Regulations, 2000 says is that “every student selected for admission to PG medical course in any of the medical institutions... should have obtained permanent registration with the MCI or any of the State medical councils... within a period of one month from the date of admission...” As the statutory body in the State in charge of maintaining uniform standards of medical education and the ethics of medical practice, the TCMC should not be misquoting or misinterpreting existing regulations, says K.V. Babu, a physician and public health activist.  TCMC clarifies However, Registrar of the TCMC A. Muhammed Hussain chooses to disagree. “The State law says that anyone practising medicine here should seek registration from the State medical council. PG medical training should be considered as medical practice itself as these students would be fully engaged in the treatment of patients here. Hence, the TCMC is particular that any student of modern medicine seeking PG studies in Kerala should be registered under the State medical council,” says Mr. Hussain.
22 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Campaigning norms for containment zones||District Collector Navjot Khosa has urged political parties and candidates to exercise caution when organising election campaigns in the containment zones for the local body elections. Election-related events in the containment zones should not have more than 20 people. Large public gatherings should be avoided in the non-containment zones also, given the COVID-19 scenario, she said. Ms. Khosa, who is the District Election Officer, told a meeting of the monitoring cell for the model code of conduct that the COVID-prevention guidelines should be strictly enforced on electioneering activities in the district. The district has, to a large extent, succeeded in arresting the outbreak. To prevent a repetition, the guidelines should be strictly followed during election campaigns, she said. The State Election Commission requirement that house-to-house visits should be conducted only by five persons, including the candidate, should be strictly followed, the Collector said. Materials removed Meanwhile, the anti-defacement squad formed in the district removed 117 campaign materials which were erected without authorisation. The activities of the squad will be strengthened in the coming days. The number of squads also will be increased. The meeting was attended by cell convener and panchayat deputy director Thressiamma Antony, members District Police Chief (Rural) B. Ashokan, Deputy Collector (Elections) John V. Samuel and District Information Officer G. Binsilal.
22 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||76 fined for not wearing mask||Seventy-six people who failed to wear face mask were fined on Saturday, the City police said. They, along with two others who failed to maintain physical distancing prescribed by the COVID-19 containment measures, were fined for Rs. 39,000.
22 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NQAS certification for six health-care centres||Six more public sector health-care institutions in the State have secured the prized National Quality Assurance Standards (NQAS) certification. With this, 80 such institutions in the State, including 62 family health centres (FHCs), six urban primary health centres (PHCs), five community health centres (CHCs), four taluk hospitals and three district hospitals, have secured the certification In a statement here on Saturday, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said the NQAS certification secured by the State’s public health institutions, even in the thick of the pandemic, was a credit to the hard work being put in by the health workers. The six institutions are the Mattool PHC in Kannur; FHC at Chathannur, Kollam; Panangad FHC in Kozhikode; Vazhoor FHC in Kottayam; Munderi FHC in Kannur and Vazhikkadavu FHC in Malappuram. The first 12 best PHCs in the country with NQAS certification also belong to Kerala. These include the Poozhanad FHC at Ottasekharamangalam, Thiruvananthapuram, and the Kayyoor Memorial FHC in Kasaragod, both of which have been acclaimed as the top public sector health institutions in the country with a score over 99%. Among district hospitals, the W&C Hospital in Kozhikode and among taluk hospitals, the taluk hospital at Chalakudy are also the top-rated institutions in the country.
22 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NITI-Aayog acclaim for KITE||KITE (Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education) has figured on the list of best models in human resource development published by the NITI-Aayog. A report, released on November 17, highlights the interventions made by KITE in infrastructure upgrade of schools, use of information and communications technology (ICT) in education, training, content development, Internet connectivity, e-learning, satellite-based education, support systems, and e-governance as a model to be followed not only by other States but also other nations, a statement from KITE here on Saturday said. Hi-tech school project As part of the hi-tech school projects, KITE has completed the deployment of 3.74 lakh ICT equipment in 16,027 government and aided schools and provided broadband Internet in 12,678 schools in the State. It has imparted specific IT training to 1.83 lakh teachers, and rolled out other initiatives such as the Samagra resource portal and Little KITEs IT clubs. From June 1, the First Bell digital classes are being aired on the KITE VICTERS educational channel. The NITI-Aayog has documented 23 best practices, covering areas such as innovation, technology, gender mainstreaming, convergence, and involvement of civil society organisations, based on their impact and contribution to wider public policy context that may be useful for scale-up or cross-adoption, the KITE statement said.  It figures on list of best models in human resource development published by NITI-Aayog
22 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New poll observer||The State Election Commission has appointed Chitra S., IT Mission director, as election observer for Thiruvananthapuram district for the local body elections in December. She replaces R. Girija, director, Survey and Land Records Department, in the post.
22 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||123 papers rejected||In all, 123 nominations filed in the district for the local body polls were rejected in the scrutiny held on Friday. This leaves 13,972 candidates in the district. The deadline for withdrawal of nominations is 3 p.m. on Monday. In the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, five nominations were rejected and 963 accepted. Seventeen nominations were rejected in the four municipalities and 1,201 accepted. Seventy-three nominations were rejected in the grama panchayats while 10,454 accepted. Nine nominations in the block panchayats were rejected, while 1,139 accepted. In the district panchayat, 19 were rejected, and 215 were accepted.
22 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Containment zones||Micro-containment zones have been declared in the following areas as part of the measures to control the spread of COVID-19, District Collector Navjot Khosa said. Thuruthumoola in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, Mavinmoodu colony in Ottur grama panchayat and Vettiyara (Kannankode Lakshamveedu colony) in the Navayikulam grama panchayat.
22 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||IGNOU extends date for new admissions to courses||Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU) has extended the last date for submitting applications for fresh admission to all its programmes except certificate and semester-based programmes till November 30 for the July 2020 session. Contact For details, call 0471 2344113, 2344120 or e-mailrctrivandrum@ignou.ac.in
22 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Training by KILA||The Kerala Institute of Local Administration (KILA) will conduct an online training programme for members of administrative committees in charge of the three-tier panchayats and municipalities in the district on Sunday. District Collector Navjot Khosa will take part in the meeting, which will be held from 12 noon to 2 p.m.
22 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Admission to fashion designing course||The last date for applying for admission to the two-year fashion designing certificate course in the Government Institute of Fashion Designing under the Directorate of Technical Education and government-recognised private fashion designing schools has been extended to November 28. Application forms and prospectus can be downloaded fromwww.sitttrkerala.ac.in
22 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Keltron invites applications for courses||Applications are invited by Keltron for computer hardware and network maintenance with e-gadget technologies, DCA, fire and safety, medical coding, and digital marketing courses. Those interested should contact the Keltron Knowledge Centre at Spencer Junction here. For details, call 0471 2337450, 2320332.
22 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BSNL Employees’ Union to stage protests||The BSNL Employees’ Union will be organising protests across all offices of the public sector telecom company on November 25 against the Central government’s decision to freeze the additional instalments of Dearness Allowance (DA) to employees of central public sector enterprises. Union leaders say the move will cause a serious dent in benefits of employees retiring between October 2020 and June 2021.
22 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Wild elephant found dead||The carcass of a wild elephant was found at Kombazha, near Peechi, on Saturday. It was found near the solar fencing along the Perunthumba forest area. According to preliminary reports of the Forest Department, the elephant could have got trapped between the solar fences installed to stop wild animals from entering human habitations. Usually, such solar electric fences will not have enough power to kill animals. Elephants used to retreat once they got minor shock from the fence. There will not be continuous electric flow in the line. But forest officials suspect that the elephant got trapped between the fences and failed to escape. The Perunthumba area used to be frequented by wild elephants, according to local people. They say the elephant, in poor health, was found in the area for the last few days.  10-12 years old The elephant was about 10-12 years old. Tapping workers found the carcass in the morning. Only a detailed examination can confirm the cause of death.
22 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Faculty development programme in science education held||Christ College (Autonomous), Irinjalakuda, and Guru Angad Dev Teaching and Learning Centre (GADTLC), Ministry of Human Resource Development, jointly organised a national faculty development programme on ‘Quality science education in India in the 21st century for science teachers’ under the Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya National Mission on Teachers and Training recently. The aim of the programme was to enhance the quality of teaching and learning for science teachers, which was conducted for seven days using the online zoom platform. More than 200 participants, most of them college and university teachers, attended the programme. The programme was inaugurated by A.K. Singhvi, vice president, Indian National Science Academy, New Delhi, and A.K. Bakhshi, Vice Chancellor, PDM University, Haryana, was the guest of honour. In his inaugural address, Prof. Singhvi spoke on the role of teachers in transforming the nation and highlighted the qualities that a teacher should possess in the learning process of new generation students. Vimal Rarh, Project Head & Joint Director, GADTLC, and national coordinator, gave an overview of the programme. The programme attracted resource persons in the field of science from all over the nation. The sessions saw lectures and practical sessions on basic sciences, its modern applications. They also gave an insight into the National Education Policy 2020.
22 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||483 new cases, 680 recoveries in Thrissur||A total of 483 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Thrissur on Saturday. The district also reported 680 recoveries. There are 7,257 active cases in the district and 83 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far, 54,533 COVID-19 cases have been confirmed in the district while 46,878 people have recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 464 people, including three health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Saturday. They include 62 persons above the age of 60 and 23 patients below the age of 10. As many as 4,963 people are under home care. In all, 202 people were admitted to hospitals on Saturday and 5,696 samples were taken for testing.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Worshipping the sun||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Remembering EMS||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Symbol of pride||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In tune with the times||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In for change||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Recognition||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Undying wanderlust||
22 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gandikota waters to Chittoor mandals soon, says Minister||Panchayat Raj Minister Peddireddi Ramachandra Reddy on Saturday said that the project of drawing 26 TMC of water from the Gandikota reservoir for the western mandals of Chittoor district would be taken up on a war-footing soon. He said this project will effectively address the agrarian issues of the drought-prone region, covering more than 60% of agricultural land. Addressing a public meeting at S.R. Puram in GD Nellore Assembly constituency, after inaugurating the various government schemes, including secretariat buildings and rural roads, Mr. Ramachandra Reddy said that providing a permanent solution to the water needs of the people of Chittoor district was high on the agenda of the State government. He said as 70% of the farmers in the district are directly connected to the dairy sector, the proposal to provide 4% incentive to them would be expedited and as part of this, the Amul Dairy project had already launched its operations collecting milk from rural areas. Deputy CM K. Narayanaswamy, who represents the GD Nellore Assembly constituency, said that the State government during the last one-and-a-half years had grounded developmental activities worth Rs. 238 crore in the region. He said steps would be initiated to enhance water storage facility at both NTR Jalasayam, Krishnapuram reservoir.
22 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP has no moral right to seek votes in Tirupati: Congress||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) president Sake Sailajanath on Saturday said the Bharatiya Janata Party had no moral right to field its candidate in the ensuing Lok Sabha by-election in Tirupati, an SC reserved constituency. Addressing a meeting of party activists at Tirupati, the APCC leader said that it was at Tirupati in 2014 general elections that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had promised the special status to Andhra Pradesh. He said the BJP was in an illusion of winning the Tirupati parliamentary by-poll after the party’s victory in Dubbaka in Telangana. “After Independence, the Tirupati Lok Sabha seat witnessed as many as 16 elections, of which the Congress party won 12 times, followed by YSRCP which won twice and BJP and TDP won one each. It’s an undisputed fact that Tirupati is the bastion of Congress party, and it would be proved in the by-election,” Mr Sailajanath observed. The APCC chief said that Chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy won the 2019 elections with a single-point agenda that he would bring special status to Andhra Pradesh. “Despite having 22 MPs, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy has not been able to realise it yet. He is afraid of the Centre,” he said. He further deplored that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy remained silent and did not come with any condemnation of the atrocities against Dalit family in Hathras. Important projects Mr. Sailajanath also flayed the Telugu Desam Party, saying that despite being in power, in alliance with the NDA for five years post bifurcation of the State, Mr. Chandrababu Naidu did nothing to realise the important projects of Dugarajupatnam port, the cancer hospital project, and the Mannavaram BHEL-NTPC project for the region of Tirupati. The Congress party would soon announce its candidate for Tirupati and would expose the empty promises of its opponent parties, he said.
22 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Child marriage’ creates flutter||An attempt to perform a child marriage led to a flutter at Irala, 25 km from here, on Saturday, and after much deliberation, the police foiled the move. Acting on information that a child marriage being performed, the police rushed to a local temple in the early hours. With stiff resistance from both sides that the bride was a major, the police insisted that a proof to that extent be furnished. After confirming that the girl was about one and half month short of attaining the status of a major, the police advised the girl’s parents to postpone the event. The sub-inspector (Irala) said that as both sides agreed to wait till the girl attained major status, and that too as only one and half months was left, the girl was allowed to stay with their parents and no case had been registered.
22 November 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 85 lakh stolen from SBI’s Nadikudi branch||Unidentified miscreants broke open the cash chest in the State Bank of India’s Nadikudi branch and decamped with Rs. 85 lakh late on Friday night. The robbery was believed to have been committed by a professional gang. Superintendent of Police, Guntur Rural, Vishal Gunni, who rushed to the scene of offence early on Saturday, said the miscreants cut off the CCTV lines and sprinkled chilli powder to avoid detection by the dog squad before breaking the cash chest open with gas cutters. Special police teams were formed to nab the culprits, he said, and added that anyone having information about the culprits could call or WhatsApp details to 8866268999. The information would be kept confidential, the SP said. The police CLUES team also visited the spot and gathered information.
22 November 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Noted writer Devipriya no more||Devipriya, a well-known poet, writer, journalist and Sahitya Akademi awardee, died of illness in the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS) hospital here in the wee hours of Saturday. He was 69. Born in Guntur in Andhra Pradesh on August 15, 1951, Devipriya studied Telugu and English literature in the prestigious Andhra Christian College there. He pursued passionately both poetry and journalism with equal zeal although he became closer to commoners through journalism, particularly his daily political commentary run as a popular column by name “Running Commentary” in a few Telugu newspapers. The writer had several books and compilations of poems to his credit and his compilation of newspaper editorials with title ‘Adhyakshaa Mannichandi’ (Pardon me, President) is one of the most read books not only by journalism students but senior writers too in the regional language and politicians of all hues. Devipriya was honoured with kedriya Sahitya Akademi award in 2017 for his collection of poems – ‘Gaali Rangu’. He also bagged several other awards at the national and State-level for his contribution to the field of Telugu literature. He also bagged the Nandi film award as best lyricist in 1992. His documentary film script on saving the girl child also brought him the UNICEF award in 2010. Among others, Devipriya also scripted two national award winning Telugu films, and one of his film lyrics still linger in the memory of people. His full length English documentary ‘Music of a Battles’ on balladeer Gaddar also brought Devipriya international recognition as a film-maker. Recollecting his unique contributions to poetry, journalism, cinema, television and advertising fields, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao expressed grief at the death of the celebrated writer. In a statement, he said Devipriya had created awareness among people through all of his art forms. He extended his heartfelt sympathies with the bereaved family. People from different walks of life mourned the death of Devipriya and paid homage to him by visiting his residence in Alwal.
22 November 2020||KAKIKADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SHG members to help curb liquor consumption||State Madya Vimochana Prachara Committee president V. Lakshman Reddy on Saturday said that the Self-Help Group members would be roped in to help curb liquor consumption. Cases registered Speaking to reporters here, Mr. Lakshman Reddy said action was being taken against the production of ID liquor and over 50,000 cases were registered by the Special Enforcement Bureau against those involved in the ID liquor production, trade and illegal transportation of liquor. “Nearly 61,000 persons involved in the ID liquor trade have been arrested, and 17,000 vehicles were seized by the SEB since April in the State,” Mr. Lakshman Reddy said. Review meeting The State government has closed 43,000 belt shops till date. In a meeting with district officials, Mr. Lakshman Reddy has reviewed the measures being taken to prevent ID liquor trade and production and functioning of de-addiction centres. East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy and other officials were present.
22 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM lays stone for fishing harbour at Ameenabad||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday laid foundation stone virtually for the construction of a fishing harbour at Ameenabad village on the Uppada coast in East Godavari district, aiming at commissioning it by 2024. The Fisheries Department has called for tenders for the Rs. 422-crore project that will have an annual handling capacity of 1.10 lakh tonne. The project will provide livelihood for nearly 50,000 families in the district. The last date for submission of tender is December 12. Financial assistance The department will get financial aid of Rs. 245 crore from the Fisheries Infrastructure Development Fund (FIDF) and Rs. 150 crore from the NABARD Infrastructure Development Assistance. The State government will spend Rs. 27 crore. This is the second fishing harbour in the district, where 4,722 boats are engaged in the marine activity. The annual catch in the district is 35,164 tonnes. In 2019, the catch was 82,911 tonnes. In his address marking the World Fisheries Day, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, “The State government has released Rs. 78 crore compensation, which the Gujarat State Petroleum Corporation Limited (GSPC) owes to the fishermen for the loss of livelihood due to the drilling activity on the East Godavari coast in 2012. I have released the compensation within six months of assuming office. The issue was left unaddressed since 2012.” “More than 16,500 families from 68 villages in eight mandals of the district received the compensation,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said. The Chief Minister said construction of AP State Fisheries University proposed in West Godavari district would begin early next year. Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna and P. Viswaroop, East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, and fishermen from Ameenabad and Uppada were present during the video-conference. Nizampatnam facility Staff Reporter writes from Guntur: The Chief Minister also laid the stone for the Phase II works of the Nizampatnam fishing harbour. Taking part in the virtual launch, district Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said there were 202 mechanised boats, 1,733 motor boats and 8,300 fishermen directly dependent on the sea for a living. Further, the government credited Rs. 10,000 into the accounts of 8,300 fishermen.
22 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials seize PDS rice bags in E. Godavari||The Vigilance and Enforcement officials on Saturday booked cases against three persons and seized 11.5 metric tonnes of rice, procured from PDS beneficiaries, during the raids in three locations in Tuni and S. Annavaram under Tuni police limits in East Godavari district. The officials led by Vigilance and Enforcement SP T. Ramprasad Rao on Saturday found the rice stored in three houses. “We have handed over the case to the Tuni Law and Order police, who registered cases against the trio identified as A. Srinu, T. Govinda Rao and C. Pothuraju. As many as 54 bags of rice were seized in the house of Mr. Srinu, 81 bags and 95 bags were seized in the houses of Mr. Govindra Rao and Mr. Pothuraju respectively,” Mr. Ramprasad Rao said.
22 November 2020||MANIKONDA (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||State tops in seafood production, says official||Aqua farmers celebrated World Fisheries Day with Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) and Fisheries Department officials at the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Aquaculture (RGCA) on Saturday. RGCA, a research and development (R&D) wing of MPEDA, has taken up Tilapia fish cultivation and research project at Manikonda. Farmers from different villages interacted with the officials on the occasion. RGCA Tilapia project in charge B. Appala Naidu gave a presentation of their research activities. MPEDA Vijayawada office Deputy Director Sivarajan, Deputy Director (Fisheries) Solomon Sudhakar and RGCA assistant project manager at Sirkali in Tamil Nadu N. Babu Rao cut a cake along with the farmers. Mr. Sivarajan said that Andhra Pradesh was in the first place in producing seafood and the credit went to the aqua farmers, traders and other stakeholders in the State. The government was ready to extend support to aquaculture farmers in taking up the culture in a scientific method, he said. RGCA technical staff Mathew, P. Srinivas, Gnanavelu, Senthil and Guna Shekar gave a presentation to the farmers at the ponds. Ten lakh juvenile fish will be released into various reservoirs in the district to increase yield for the fishermen dependent on fishing. Meanwhile, District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz and Mylavaram MLA Vasantha Krishna Prasad together released juvenile fish into the Krishna river at Pavitra Sangamam in Ibrahimpatnam on Saturday on the occasion of World Fisheries Day. Mr. Imtiaz said that the naturally available fish in the reservoirs of the district do not meet the requirements, and the programme was aimed at increasing the yield for the fishermen. He said over 3,000 fishermen would benefit from the programme.
22 November 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recovery rate improves to 98.23%||The number of fresh cases edged up slightly in south coastal Andhra Pradesh while more persons recovered from the illness in the region in the last 24 hours. The region recorded zero deaths during the period. As a result, the toll remained unchanged at 1,070, 577 in Prakasam and 493 in Nellore district, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Saturday night. COVID-19 hospitals had fewer number of patients when compared to their bed strength as the recovery rate improved further to 98.23% in the region. As many as 126 persons contracted the disease in the last 24 hours, taking the number of cumulative confirmed cases to 1,23,882. However, with 204 patients getting discharged from hospitals during the period, the caseload declined to 1,606 in the region. As many as 1,21,699 patients won the battle against the disease in the region so far. The total number of positive cases rose to 62,681 in Nellore district as 60 persons got infected in a span of 24 hours. As many as 140 patients were recuperated during the period, bringing down the number of active cases to 1,023. The positive trend continued in Prakasam district also as 60 persons contracted the disease during the period, while 64 patients were discharged on recovery. The 11 COVID-19 hospitals with a bed strength of 1,471 had less than 200 patients under treatment now, including 73 patients requiring ventilator support. The other 390 persons who had tested positive for the disease were receiving treatment at home. As many as 3,294 persons tested negative for the disease in the last 24 hours. So far 7.26 lakh patients had been subjected to testing in the district.
22 November 2020||POLAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Work suspended at Polavaram project site||Labourers at the Polavaram project site stayed off work on Saturday, following the death of a worker, Md. Murtuza (23), on Friday. Murtuza was a native of Rasounk village in Bihar. He was engaged for work a few months ago, along with his father. The victim accidentally slipped and fell from about 40 feet when he was working at the spillway. Workers stopped work and staged a protest alleging that Murtuza died due to the negligence of the management. They alleged that no safety gadgets were provided to the victim. Even the safety and rescue teams were not present at the spot when the accident occurred at the spillway, the workers alleged. “The Police, Revenue and the company personnel held discussions with Murtuza’s father and other workers at the site till Friday morning. They agreed to give some compensation,” the labourers said. Polavaram SI R. Srinu said that a case has been registered under Section 172 CrPc (death occurred under suspicious circumstances) and investigation taken up. “The accident occurred due to the negligence of the management. They did not stop the work and search for the body immediately after the mishap. Mr. Wasim had lost his only son,” said a worker preferring anonymity. Polavaram Sub-Collector R.V. Suryanarayana said the body had been handed over to the victim’s father after post-mortem at the government hospital. The situation was peaceful, he said. “The government will see that insurance is paid to the bereaved family as per labour law. Steps would be taken to improve safety at the project site,” Mr. Suryanarayana said.
22 November 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Install Vajpayee’s statue at Polavaram site: BJP||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Saturday appealed to the State government to install the statue of former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee at the Polavaram irrigation project site in recognition of his pioneering efforts to interlink the rivers in the country. Mr. Veerraju said, “The BJP will not oppose the idea of installing the statue of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. However, we appeal to the State government to also install the statue of Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who had played a key role in speeding up the plan of interlinking the rivers in the country.” “The Polavaram project is a part of the idea of interlinking the rivers. It is aimed at diverting water from the Godavari to its surrounding districts in the State, including north Andhra Pradesh,” he said. “The BJP at the Centre will prepare a plan of action to install the statue of Vajpayee at the Polavaram site if the State government does not respond,” he added.
22 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Involve youngsters in Rotary Club activities’||Punjab Rotary Club’s central past governor Bhag Singh Pannu (Rotary International District-3090) urged Rotary Club Central-Srikakulam to involve all sections of the society, including youngsters, in service activities in the district. He handed over Rotary Club founder Paul Percy Harris’s bronze statue to Srikakulam Rotary Club Central’s regional secretary C.V. Rajulu and president M.R.K. Das at a function organised in Srikakulam on Saturday. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Singh said that he was distributing Paul’s statues to motivate people and learn about his life. “Paul established the club in Chicago in 1905 and participated in service activities till his death in 1947. An advocate by profession, he devoted a lot of time to the club’s charitable activities despite his busy workload,” Mr. Singh said. Mr. Das said that the club had helped develop a park and contribute to greenery in Srikakulam town. Rotary Club representatives Manjit Singh, D. Sivasankar, Mantri Venkataswamy, P.S.V.S.N. Varma and others participated in a plantation drive along with a visiting team. The Rotary Club members visited historic temples including the Sun God temple and Srikurmam located in Gara mandal.
22 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirupati police on high alert ahead of President’s visit||The Tirupati (Urban) Police on Saturday carried out an Advanced Security Liaison (ASL) in connection with the high-profile visit of President Ram Nath Kovind to Tirumala on November 24 (Tuesday). The security rehearsal was conducted from the Tirupati airport to Tirumala hills, covering the Tiruchanoor temple, Padmavati guesthouse and the Lord Venkateswara temple. The Urban district police is on high alert as Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy who will also be arriving in Tirupati to receive the President in accordance with protocol. TTD Chief Vigilance and Security Officer (CVSO) Gopinath Jatti, along with other officials, also carried out inspections atop the hill town. Earlier, IG Intelligence Sasidhar Reddy held a meeting with Tirupati Urban Superintendent of Police Avula Ramesh Reddy, District Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta, Joint Collector Rajasekhar, airport officials and officials from other departments at the airport and took stock of the security arrangements. Mr. Ramesh Reddy said that security forces will be deployed on both ghat roads and special teams pressed into service. Care will be taken to ensure that visiting devotees are not subjected to any difficulty during the dignitaries’ visits, he said.
22 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pushpa Yagam performed with 7 tonnes of flowers||Fervour marked the annual Pushpa Yagam festival at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here on Saturday. Lord Malayappa was seated atop a high altar at the Kalyanotsava Mandapam inside the temple where priests ceremoniously carried out the ritual. It took off with Agni Sthapana followed by homam where priests offered ‘Ahutis’ to the recitals of sacred texts by Vedic pundits. TTD Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy said seven tonnes of flowers had been used for the yagam. They comprised 14 varieties like roses, chrysanthemums, lilies, sampangi, lotus and water lilies besides six varieties of leaves - tulasi, bilwam, davanam, maruvam, kadiripaccha and panneru. While donors from Tamil Nadu contributed four tonnes of flowers, it was two tonnes from Karnataka and the rest from A.P, and Telangana. In the morning, Snapana Thirumanjanam was performed to the deities.
22 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vanabhojanam to be held in private||The annual Kartika Vanabhojanam scheduled on Sunday will be observed in ekantham (private).  Limit on attendees Participation of the people including officials of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) and staff in the community dining programme has been limited to below 200 in compliance with the COVID-19 protocols. However, other religious activities relating to the event will be observed normally.
22 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSRTC looking for ways to offset losses||Staring at huge revenue losses as COVID-19 pandemic eats into their daily business, officials at the helm of the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) are trying to get their act together. Hopes pinned on resumption of inter-State bus services with the neighbouring States faded, especially after the much-awaited agreement with the Telangana RTC came a cropper. Whither parity? Sources indicate that by having its way in the inter-State agreement, Telangana has inflicted an annual loss of not less than Rs. 260 crore on Andhra Pradesh on the issue of parity. Before lockdown, the APSRTC operated 1,009 buses to Telangana, but it had to bring down the number to 638 as part of the new agreement while Telangana increased the number of its buses operating in A.P. from 746 to 822. The parity issue cost dearly to the APSRTC, which had to reduce 371 buses to Telangana while the latter now operates an additional 72 buses to Andhra Pradesh. In the new agreement, AP buses operate in 13 routes in Telangana against the latter running its buses in 33 routes in AP. In the key Vijayawada-Hyderabad route, the APSRTC, which operated 139 buses till March 22, is now permitted to run only 75 buses. On the contrary, TSRTC has increased its buses from 89 to 200 in the route. To make up for what has been lost in the agreement with Telangana, the APSRTC officials are trying to find alternative sources of revenue generation. “We want to increase the volume of operations, and this has been conveyed to the government. We also want to re-position the bus services within the State,” said K.S. Brahmananda Reddy, Executive Director (Operations). The focus currently is on restoring hired ‘Express’ buses in the State from December 1. Private operators making hay At a recent meeting of the EDs and Regional Managers, the officials were asked to inspect the buses thoroughly for mechanical fitness, upkeep, upholstery of seats and safety aspects by means of a road test in 5-km stretch as the vehicles would be put to use after a gap of over eight months. Mr. Reddy said, for now, a total of 298 buses had been confirmed. Expressing concern over the fact that reduction in the number of APSRTC buses in important routes has given ample scope for private bus operators to grab the opportunity and operate their contract carriages as stage carriages in violation of the rulebook, leaders of the Public Transport Department Employees’ Union have urged the government to crack the whip on them. “The only way to address the issue is to add new buses in the APSRTC fleet and cover every possible area, without giving scope to the private operators. Taking advantage of the situation, 750 private buses are operating, eating into the RTC income,” said P. Damodar Rao, union general secretary.
22 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. files SLP against High Court’s interim order on Vizag guest house||The Andhra Pradesh government filed a Special Leave Petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court praying for a stay on the High Court's interim order dated November 2 on the proposed construction of a State guest house in Visakhapatnam. Government's advocate-on-record in the apex court, Mahfooz A. Nazki said in the petition that the High Court virtually took over the State’s executive functions and had seriously violated the doctrine of Separation of Powers by assuming to itself the power of deciding whether the State should (or should not) construct something as innocuous as a guest house. In doing so, the High Court ignored the warning which the Supreme Court time and again sounded, advising courts to respect the other co-equal organs of the States and to refrain from assuming such powers to themselves. Citing various case laws and judgments, Mr. Nazki said the status quo order granted by the High Court in August on development activities envisaged in the A.P. Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Acts was subsequently modified to “permit” the State to prepare a plan for the construction of the guesthouse and submit the same to it (High Court). The impugned order was a serious encroachment on the powers of the executive and ought to be stayed, the government argued through the SLP. It sought to know whether the High Court order amounted to “judicial adventurism” as explained by the Supreme Court in Divisional Manager, Aravali Golf Course V/s Chander Haas (2008).
22 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Irregularities found in sale of meat in city||Officials of the Public Health Department of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation (VMC) and Food Safety department found many irregularities in the storage and sale of meat during recent raids in the city. The VMC, Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) and the Vigilance and Enforcement officials raided some hotels and restaurants and found huge quantities of meat stored in ice boxes and refrigerators. Even half-boiled meat and non-vegetarian dishes were stored. In some establishments, the meat was in a highly decomposed condition and was unfit for consumption, the food safety authorities said. “Some hotels stored seafood, chicken, mutton and parts of lamb in huge quantities. We suspect that the raw meat was stored for more than a month,” said an officer. They also suspected that in some establishments the staff were serving beef in the name of mutton, as stocks of beef were also seized besides rotten chicken, fish, prawns and other items.  Midnight trade Veterinary Assistant Surgeon A. Ravichand, who participated in the raids, said some traders were supplying meat to restaurants and hotels during midnight hours which raised doubts. “An inquiry revealed that some mutton traders colluded with beef sellers and were supplying beef to some hotels instead of mutton, deceiving customers,” said Dr. Ravichand. “It was also revealed that some were selling meat of dead animals. Eating of stale and decomposed meat may cause severe health disorders,” Dr. Ravichand said.
22 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||12 vehicles seized for illegal sand mining||In a joint operation, the Chandarlapadu police and Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) conducted raids on Krishna River bank on Saturday, and seized 10 tractors, two earthmovers and 400 tonnes of sand, that was being transported illegally. On information that sand was being smuggled to the neighbouring Telangana and other places, the team led by SEB Additional Superintendent of Police Vakul Jindal and Nandigama Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Nageswara Reddy conducted raids in Kasarabad village, Chandarlapadu mandal. They seized the vehicles and the sand, said Krishna Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu. Special teams have been conducted on the Andhra Pradesh-Telangana borders to check sand and liquor smuggling. The raids would continue and stern action would be taken against the smugglers, the SP warned.
22 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers stage protest||In response to a call given by the Municipal Teachers’ Federation of Andhra Pradesh, teachers working in civic schools across the State staged a protest on Saturday seeking promotions. Federation president S. Ramakrishna said the teachers had been waiting for promotions for the last 18 months. They also demanded amendment to the rationalisation policy.
22 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM mourns Perni’s mother||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday visited the residence of Minister for I&PR and Transport Perni Venkataramaiah in Machilipatnam and consoled him following the death of his mother Nageswaramma. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy took a chopper to reach Machilipatnam and paid floral tributes at the portrait of Nageswaramma, who breathed her last on Tuesday after being severely ill for over a month.
22 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. ‘curbs’ on priests decried||BJP State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said on Twitter that the government was ‘harassing Brahmins’ during the Tungabhadra Pushkaram by interfering with the rituals. He expressed regret that unfair restrictions were imposed on the priests and rates were fixed for the ceremonies, and questioned whether the government would treat mullas and pastors with such disdain. He demanded that the government give up ‘its attitude’ and allow poor Brahmins earn their livelihood.
22 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||P.V. Ramesh’s resignation accepted||The Andhra Pradesh government on Saturday accepted the resignation of retired IAS officer P.V. Ramesh from the post of Additional Chief Secretary to the Chief Minister with effect from November 1. Dr. Ramesh was inducted into the CMO in June 2019 and was handling medical, health and education departments. A reallocation of subjects in the CMO in July left him with no specific portfolio.
22 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Go-karting facility demolished||Officials from Town Planning Department, Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), have demolished the go-karting facility at Mangamaripeta in Visakhapatnam, citing Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) violations apart from encroaching government land. The centre belongs to Kasi Viswanath, a close associate of former Minister and TDP MLA Ganta Srinivasa Rao. A large number of police personnel along with the Town Planning wing officials have started the demolition with cranes and earthmovers at the facility, on Saturday morning. The management had objected to the action saying that it didn’t receive any notice from the corporation. According to the Town Planning officials, the centre has been violating CRZ norms. They did not take any CRZ clearance from the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) earlier and neither from the GVMC, after Bheemili was merged in the corporation, the officials said. GVMC Chief City Planner R.J. Vidyullatha said that the GVMC is undertaking Beach Front Development Project in which beach stretch from R.K. Beach to Bheemili will be developed. Special drive “After capital city was announced, many have started constructing compound walls illegally. We have taken up a special drive on them. We are also checking CRZ violations along the stretch. We have received complaints over the violations by the facility and action was taken,” she said. “The go- karting management has taken 4.48 acres on lease from a private person. But more than half an acre of government land was encroached,” she said. Refuting the allegations that no notices were served, Ms. Vidyullatha said that the corporation has followed all procedures.  ‘Ganta’s associate’ Mr. Kasi Viswanath alleged that as he was close to Mr. Ganta Srinivasa Rao he was targeted. He denied that he had encroached the government land. “If the GVMC had served notices or imposed fine or asked to take some permission, we would have done it. But without serving any notice, the GVMC started demolition from 5 a.m. My staff asked the officials to wait for my arrival, but they did not listen,” he said. Admitting that the facility did not have CRZ clearance, Mr. Kasi Viswanath said that the centre did not had any permanent structures. “We have a track and a temporary structure for indoor games,” he said.
22 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sea Harrier museum likely to be ready by Feb. 2021||Works for the Sea Harrier museum, which is being set up by Visakhapatnam Metro Region Development Authority (VMRDA) at Beach Road, have been put on fast track mode. A Bengaluru-based company has been awarded the contract for the Rs. 5.6 crore project on November 19, after the VMRDA floated tenders last month. The VMRDA expects the project to be completed by February 2021. Speaking to The Hindu , VMRDA Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao said that the Sea Harrier, which is stationed on the premises of the TU-142M museum, will be arranged at Rajiv Smrithi Bhavan on Beach Road. The Sea Harrier will be hung from the roof/ceiling surrounded by glasses to make it look like it is airborne, he said. “On the ground floor, we will arrange all the artefacts of the Sea Harrier to explain to visitors what type of missiles it carried, and its components. On the middle floor, we will arrange a gallery with pictures. In the meantime, the entire museum will also be developed,” he said. “The Sea Harrier was brought from Goa last year. The artefacts will also be brought from Goa. We have communicated regarding the shifting of artefacts six months ago. Our team of officers will leave for Goa and will bring the artefacts once the museum is ready,” Mr Koteswara Rao said. The Commissioner also said that though the concerned company has sought six months’ time for completion of the project, they have appealed to them to finish the project within four months, at least by the end of February 2021. The officials feel that after INS Kursura submarine museum and the TU-142M, the Sea Harrier museum will be an additional attraction on Beach Road. The museum is also a component of the Integrated Museum & Tourism complex project by the VMRDA at Beach Road. Sea Harriers are fighter jets that were placed on INS Viraat, the aircraft carrier that the Indian Navy possessed. In 1983, Indian Navy acquired 30 British-made Sea Harriers which adorned the deck of INS Viraat. The Harriers were retired after INS Viraat, nicknamed ‘the grand old lady’, was decommissioned on March 6, 2017. While Viraat gave way to INS Vikramaditya, the Harriers paved way for the more advanced MIG 29Ks, which now occupy the deck of INS Vikramaditya.
22 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kannababu: city will lead State in industrial development||The City of Destiny (Visakhapatnam) will lead the State in industrial development, said Agriculture Minister and district in-charge Minister Kurasala Kannababu. He was speaking at a press meet after the conclusion of the industrial meeting held here on Saturday. He said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was committed to develop Visakhapatnam on all fronts and the city. The city has good road, rail and air connectivity besides sea connectivity. He said there was a large human talent in north Andhra districts and people of the region are calm and peace-loving. Food processing policy He said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy had given Rs. 1,000 crore for industries as incentive and also announced SC, ST industrial package under YSR Navodaya scheme. He said young entrepreneurs should utilise the opportunity and the government will extend all help for their all-round development.  Mr. Kannababu said suggestions, problems and issues raised by the industrialists at the meeting will be brought to the notice of the Chief Minister. He said food processing policy will be released soon. YSRC MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy said Visakhapatnam will be developed as the nerve centre of the industrial development. He said the government would strive for development of agriculture, industry and service sectors in the north Andhra region. He said tourism also has a great potential in the district. Minister for tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao said the government was ready to extend help to industrialists and they should utilise the opportunity. He said if young industrialists set up units in Visakhapatnam they will be given incentives. District Collector V. Vinay Chand said the government recently announced new industrial policy and the industries should utilise the schemes offered for them. Pratap Reddy, Industry Representative for A.P. government, AP Chamber Vizag zone representative M. Sudheer, J Srinivasa Rao of CII, Gangavaram port CEO N. Sambasiva Rao, education institutions representative Pyda Kirshna Prasad, representatives of power, pharma, auto and medical sectors attended the meeting. MPs Satyavati and M.V.V. Satyanarayana, GVMC commissioner G. Srijana, VMRDA Commissioner P. Kotswara Rao and others attended the meeting.
22 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Support strike on Nov. 26, workers urged||Members of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), Greater Visakha Committee, took up a bike rally appealing workers from Visakhapatnam region to support the strike call given by various central trade unions on November 26, against policies of Bharatiya Janatha Party (BJP), here on Saturday. The bike rally started from Gandhi Statue at GVMC and covered Judge Court, Jagadamba Junction, Daba Gardens, Seethammadhara, Maddilapalem and culminated at the RTC Complex. Speaking at the meeting held after the rally, CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao said that the proposed strike was against the Union government, which has been implementing ‘anti-worker’ policies in the country. He alleged that the Centre was supporting the managements and was not at all concerned about issues of workers. He appealed to the workers from the region to take part in ‘Karmika Maha Pradarshana’ near DRM office on November 26.
22 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||DRDO chief flags off Varunastra||Secretary, Department of Defence R&D and Chairman, DRDO, G. Satheesh Reddy, flagged off the first Varunastra, the heavy weight torpedo, which was delivered to the Indian Navy, at a ceremony held at BDL, Visakhapatnam unit, here on Saturday. Varunastra has been designed and developed by NSTL, Visakhapatnam. BDL, being the production agency, is manufacturing Varunastra at its Visakhapatnam unit for the Indian Navy. This product is also being offered for export. BDL is associated with the DRDO for its various missile programmes. BDL is also the production agency for Quick Reaction Surface to Air Missile (QRSAM), for which, trials were conducted successfully recently. BDL is also the production agency for Astra Air- to- Air Missile System and has commenced manufacturing of these missiles. The missile system will be fully indigenous and has been developed by the DRDO for the Indian Air Force. Dr. Satheesh Reddy appreciated the synergy between all stakeholders, especially the design agency NSTL and the production agency BDL, in completion of the manufacture of the first Varunastra. He said that BDL should gear up for new programmes of ALWT and EHWT. Commodore Siddharth Mishra, CMD, BDL, said that BDL is poised to take on the manufacture of futuristic weapon systems. Towards this the BDL team is committed to hone new skills and create the necessary infrastructure. Dr. Sateesh also laid the foundation stone for setting up of state-of-the-art Central Stores at BDL, Visakhapatnam Unit. Vice Admiral K. Srinivas, Project Director, Ship Building Centre, Samir V. Kamat, Director General, Naval Systems & Materials (NS&M), DRDO, O.R. Nandagopan, Director, Naval Science and Technological Laboratory, and other dignitaries from DRDO were present.
22 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP trying to grab land: ex-Minister||Former minister and TDP leader Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy has alleged that the YSR Congress Party government declared Visakhapatnam as Executive Capital with the sole motive of grabbing valuable land in the city and in the district. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, he said declaring Visakhapatnam as Executive Capital was only a pretext and the main agenda was to allow outsiders to grab land. Displaying documents at a press conference, he accused Rajya Sabha Member Vijaya Sai Reddy, of influencing the government machinery to allow one Peddi Reddy Surya Prakash Reddy to grab about 4.75 acres of land in Pendurthi area. “The land belongs to farmers, who have been farming since 1940s and there is a water body in the land. The documents have been mutated and registration was done with the help of general power of attorney, which is illegal,” he said. He claimed that he had the voice recording of Pendurthi MLA, who had admitted that the mutation was done under the instruction of Mr. Vijaya Sai. ‘Have evidence’ Mr. Murthy pointed out that the MP had recently said at a press conference that if any one came with proof of land grabbing, he would immediately take action. “I have the proof with all evidences. Will he suspend the sub-registrar, the MRO and the local YSRCp MLA of Pendurthi,” he questioned. He criticised Mr. Vijaya Sai for singling out a few senior journalists and publishers of reputed Telugu dailies and bad-mouthing them. He lashed out at the MP for criticising TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu. “Mr. Naidu has vast political experience of over 40 years and he is recognised as a national leader. What right has Mr. Vijaya Sai got to talk ill about Mr. Naidu, when he has not faced an election so far and won a seat on his own strength,” he said.
22 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Laadli award for The Hindu scribe||Sumit Bhattacharjee, Chief of Bureau of The Hindu , Visakhapatnam, won the 10th edition of the Laadli Media and Advertising Awards for 2018-19. Mr. Bhattacharjee won the award under the Investigative Story category in English Print for his article titled ‘Araku Valley’s dark secrets’ which was published in the Ground Zero column of The Hindu , from the southern region. As many as 75 mediapersons received the award this year from over 1,100 entries from across the country. The award was given away online in the presence of Rekha Sharma, Chairperson of the National Commission for Women (NCW), A.L. Sharada, Director, Population First, and Argentina Matavel Piccin, representative for the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) in India and Country director Bhutan. The Laadli Media and Advertising Awards for Gender Sensitivity was instituted in March 2007 by Population First to acknowledge, highlight and celebrate the commendable efforts of the print and electronic media (Television, Radio and Web) and advertising agencies to promote gender sensitivity as an integral part of their work. It started off as a Mumbai centric event, and was subsequently taken to the national level with the support of the UNFPA.
22 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Air Launch’ facility inaugurated at NSTL||DRDO Chairman G. Sateesh Reddy inaugurated the newly- commissioned ‘Air Launch’ facility at the Naval Science and Technological Laboratory (NSTL) here on Saturday. The facility is loaded with system that would aid the development of various aircraft and helicopters of the Indian Navy. Samir V. Kamat, Director General of Naval Systems and Materials, O.R. Nandagopan, Director NSTL, and other senior officers from NSTL, DRDO and Navy were present.
22 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reports 67 new COVID cases, no deaths||The district has reported fewer than 100 COVID-19 cases for the 13th day in a row. In the last 24 hours as on Saturday, the district reported 67 fresh infections taking the cumulative tally to 58,141. No deaths were occurred in the same period, according to the bulletin released by the district administration. As many as 92 persons have recovered from the virus by undergoing treatment. The number of active cases falls to 1,257 and recoveries increased to 56,384. Very active clusters still stand at zero, while there are 11 active and 318 dormant clusters in the district.
22 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One held on charge of stealing gold ornaments||The city police on Saturday arrested a man for allegedly committing theft of about 18 tola gold ornaments and a few other valuables from a house at Official Colony, Gajuwaka, in the city. The arrested was identified as M. Venkatesh (28), a resident of Sundarayya Colony, Gajuwaka. Addressing a press conference here on Saturday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that on November 19, the accused had stolen a handbag from the through window. The accused cut window mesh with scissors and used a steel pipe to steal the bag, which was hanged near the wardrobe, the DCP said. The bag contained gold ornaments, a watch and a few others. A special team nabbed the accused at Y-Junction, Gajuwaka. Mr. Suresh Babu said that Venkatesh was earlier involved in nearly 25 cases .
22 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held on charge of attempting to rape minor||The city police arrested D. Satish (27) on the charge of attempting to rape a 10-year-old girl under Gajuwaka police station limits on Friday night. Satish, who works as a mechanic, took the girl to the terrace and allegedly attempted to sexually assault her. When the girl raised an alarm, locals rushed to the spot. Based on a complaint from the victim’s family, the Disha police took the accused into custody. A case was registered and investigation is on
22 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fish kiosk and e-kart inaugurated||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy inaugurated fish kiosk and fish e-kart through video conference near RTC Complex in Visakhapatnam on Saturday. The programme was organised as part of events scheduled on the occasion of World Fisheries Day. District in-charge Minister K. Kannababu, Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao, District Collector V. Vinay Chand and a few others were present in the programme. According to the officials, in order to provide fresh fish, under PMMYS Yojana, the Fisheries Department has set up a fish kiosk at the RTC Complex.
22 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||School takes part in Global Climate Action Project||Bethany School joined hands with the Global Climate Action Project to give children an opportunity to learn about climate change and the protection of environment. The six-week activities culminated in a free, online event for Climate Action Day.
22 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Subrahmanyam takes charge as State IMA president||N. Subrahmanyam, retired professor of Neuro Surgery and Chief Neuro Surgeon – King George Hospital, was sworn in as the new president of Indian Medical Association (IMA) – Andhra Pradesh branch, at the sixth annual conference of the IMA, that was held on virtual platform, here on Saturday. Minister for Medical Health and Family Welfare Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas attended as the chief guest.
22 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sathya Sai devotees organise service activities||At a programme held at the GVMC office area in Desapatrunipalem, Sathya Sai devotees distributed saris with blouse pieces and blankets to women sanitary workers and blankets and towels to the men workers. Sanitisers, masks and food packets were also distributed.
22 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Training programme begins||As part of the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed between Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL) and Indo-German Institute of Advanced Technology (IGIAT), a job-oriented training programme for SC/ST/OBC/PWD and BPL, was inaugurated here on Saturday. About 60 candidates will be imparted job-oriented skill development training as part of the programme.
22 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cybercrime investigation very expensive, says SP||Vizianagaram Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari on Saturday said that prevention of cybercrime is always better compared to solving them, as the investigation into such crimes is an expensive and time-consuming process with fraudsters operating from not just across the country but also across the world. Ms. Rajakumari urged all non-governmental organisations to raise awareness among people on cybercrime and safe online banking practices as an increasingly large number of people are making online transactions through various digital platforms. Twenty-six organisations jointly felicitated Ms. Rajakumari for her commendable job in controlling COVID-19 with the optimum utilisation of police personnel across the district. Speaking on the occasion, the SP said that people’s support was essential for the government to achieve any goal. She said that the department was now concentrating on cybercrimes as many commoners were complaining about unauthorised withdrawals and transfer of money from their bank accounts. Member of A.P. Legislative Council Pakalapati Raghuvarma, Lok Satta Party State executive president Bhisetti Babji lauded her services in the last eighteen months. Vizianagaram Backward Classes Association leader Gorle Suribabu said that many common people managed to reach their destinations safely during the lockdown thanks to the proactive role played by Ms. Rajakumari. Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association’s State general secretary K.C.S. Bose said that the association was always keen on working with the police department to serve people during occasions like the annual Pyditalli Ammavari festival. Venkatapadma Hospital chairman M. Venkateswara Rao, senior advocate P. Chittibabu, ‘Naa Vooru Vizianagaram’ founder Gummuluri Vishala and United Teachers’ Federation leader P. Chittibabu were present at the felicitation.
22 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hand over houses to beneficiaries: former MLA||Former Vizianagaram MLA Meesala Geeta on Saturday urged Vizianagaram Municipal Commissioner S.S. Varma to hand over houses to beneficiaries immediately as their names were finalised long ago to get the dwellings constructed by Andhra Pradesh Township And Infrastructure Development Corporation during TDP regime. She submitted a memorandum to him, explaining the process which was followed to select genuine persons to get houses constructed by APTIDCO. Ms. Geeta expressed concern over the alleged changes to the list of beneficiaries.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Juvenile fish, shrimp released into water bodies||Ten lakh juvenile fish will be released into various reservoirs in the district to increase yield for the fishermen dependent on fishing. District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz and Mylavaram MLA Vasantha Krishna Prasad together released juvenile fish into the Krishna river at Pavitra Sangamam in Ibrahimpatnam on Saturday on the occasion of World Fisheries Day. Mr. Imtiaz said that the naturally available fish in the reservoirs of the district do not meet the requirements, and the programme was aimed at increasing the yield for the fishermen. He said over 3,000 fishermen would benefit from the programme. The juvenile fish were hatched in the government-run fish hatchery in Motoru, Gudivada mandal, of the district, he said. On the other hand, Fisheries Department officials released 2.5 lakh juvenile shrimp into the sea at Manginapudi beach in the district.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nowhere to go!||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sharp catch||
22 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||First motor of Yellur pump house resumes lifting||As planned by the project engineers, the first pump of the first-stage pump house of Mahatma Gandhi Lift Irrigation Scheme, which got submerged after flood water from the surge pool entered into it on October 16 evening, was revived and re-started on Saturday. According to the project engineers, the dry run of the pump, that was restored in a fortnight’s time after completion of dewatering of the pump house, was completed on Friday and the wet run was done successfully in the afternoon on Saturday. The 30 MW capacity pump was being run continuously from 12.30 p.m. to lift 800 cusecs of Krishna water from the foreshores of Srisailam reservoir. Hopes revived Resumption of water lifting from the first stage pump house of the project also revives the hopes of farmers in the 4.25 lakh acres of ayacut spread across 24 mandals in Nagarkurnool, Wanaparthy, Mahabubnagar and Rangareddy district as well as assuring drinking water supply to 336 villages in Kollapur, Nagarkurnool, Achampet, Wanaparthy, Kalwakurthy and Jadcherla constituencies. Engineers of the Irrigation Department stated that they have plans to revive three more pumps in the five-motor pump house with a gap of 10 days each from the restoration of the first pump. However, the revival of the third pump, technical snag in which has led to submergence of the pump house, is expected to take a few more months. After the first pump, the engineers have shifted focus on revival of the fifth pump.
22 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TREDA lauds Dharani, TS-bPass||While appreciating the reforms by the Telangana government like Dharani portal and the Telangana State Building Permission Approval and Self Certification System (TS-bPASS), the Telangana Real Estate Developers’ Association (TREDA) has requested the State government to check the prices of cement and steel that have gone up quite drastically. At a virtual press conference, TREDA president R. Chalapathi Rao, secretary general B. Sunil Chandra Reddy, executive vice-president Vijaya Sai and treasurer K. Sreedhar Reddy said that steel prices have increased by nearly Rs. 5,000 per tonne. The government has intervened earlier but that didn’t help much and if the real estate sector has to continue its growth, cement and steel prices have to be checked. And this will be in the interests of the State’s growth as well. Mr. Chalapathi Rao said that Telangana has not benefited much from the Special Window for Affordable and Mid Income Housing (SWAMIH) scheme announced by the Central government. That scheme suited only New Delhi and Mumbai and the government should ensure all the cities in the country take benefit of such schemes. He also wanted concessions in GST for housing sector. Mr. Sunil Chandra Reddy said that TS-bPASS will indirectly check the rising costs of construction as the clearances are done expeditiously now and the capital is not blocked for over a year. The new scheme ensures that building permissions are cleared within 21 days and builders no longer have to wait for over a year leading to rising interest on their capital. “If the investment comes down obviously that is passed onto customers,” he said. He stated that rising adoption of ‘Work from Home’ concept will only increase the desire for quality residential accommodation and may reflect in people seeking homes better suited for working from home. The TREDA team expects the Hyderabad real estate sector to bounce back and the new initiatives of the government will spur the growth. “They will not only streamline the system but also set a progressive track,” they argued.  TS-bPASS will indirectly check the rising costs of construction as the clearances are done expeditiously now and capital is not blocked for over a year.  Sunil Chandra Reddy TREDA secretary general
22 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Warangal police seize 200 kg ganja, four arrested||Warangal police on Saturday seized 200 kilograms of ganja worth Rs. 20 lakh and arrested four members of a gang. A lorry, in which they were transporting the ganja, and a car the gang used as pilot vehicle were also seized. Among the arrested was the gang’s key operative P. Ganapati. The 46-year-old accused was arrested earlier by the police of Telangana, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka, said Warangal Police Commissioner P. Pramod Kumar. The vehicles were intercepted in the early hours of Saturday during routine checks at Bheemaram ORR. “Ganja concealed in packets was found in the lorry and car,” the Commissioner said. Ganapati and three of his associates procured the ganja from Dharakonda of AP and were transporting it to Maharashtra via Rajahmandry, Bhadrachalam, Eturunagaram and Warangal when they were caught.
22 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP denies seeking suspension of flood relief grant||BJP State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Saturday denied writing to the State Election Commission (SEC) seeking suspension of distribution of flood relief to public in view of GHMC polls. Talking to mediapersons, he alleged that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had shot off a fake letter in that regard to the commission and that it was attributed to the BJP. The commission had also acknowledged that the letter was not written by him and Mr. Rao did it out of fear of losing to the BJP in polls, Mr Sanjay Kumar added. The BJP leader questioned the failure of Mr. Rao to turn up at Bhagyalaxmi temple within Charminar in acceptance of his challenge to prove that he had indeed written the letter: “Why did he hesitate to prove his charge on oath?” Mr. Sanjay Kumar offered to go to any other temple identified by TRS to resolve the challenge thrown by him at Mr. Rao. The TRS made false allegations to malign the BJP ahead of polls. The party had resorted to a similar trick in the recent by-election to Dubbak Assembly constituency. With a fake screen shot of a TV channel, the TRS spread false rumour in the election that the Congress candidate had defected to the party, he alleged. He dared Mr. Rao to order a probe into the letter to the SEC on flood relief and said the CM had yielded to pressure from the MIM to win GHMC polls. A Minister of TRS had confessed that the party will wrest the Mayorship by winning just 25 of 150 divisions in the city. It effectively meant that the winning margin will be secured in tie-up with MIM, he said. The BJP will distribute money to flood victims on its own if it won the polls. It will be other than Rs. 10,000 offered by the government, the leader added.
22 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress seeks SEC orders for removal of TRS ads from metro rail pillars||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy demanded that the State Election Commission order the removal of advertisements of TRS party from the pillars of Hyderabad Metro Rail and other public spaces. He met State Election Commissioner C. Parthasarthi and submitted a memorandum demanding immediate removal of TRS party advertisements on all pillars of L&T metro rail, which is a public-private partnership firm with State and Central governments funding. TRS party has put up advertisements on RTC bus shelters and public toilets too, he said. The TPCC president also alleged that BJP and MIM were working together to polarise voters on religious lines. Citing an example, he said MIM has helped BJP come to power in Bihar Assembly elections. “Everyone knows that if there was no MIM, RJD-led Mahagatbandhan would have come to power in Bihar. Despite making claims that it protects the interest of Muslims, MIM is strengthening the BJP at all levels,” he alleged. Party slogan He said the Congress party was contesting the GHMC elections with the slogan ‘Reject communal BJP-MIM, Reject corrupt TRS and vote for Congress for development’. Mr Uttam Reddy was accompanied by senior leaders including MLC Jeevan Reddy, Hyderabad City President M. Anjan Kumar Yadav and TPCC general secretary G. Niranjan among other party members.
22 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘KTR report on Hyderabad development a bundle of lies’||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy on Saturday disputed claims made by TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao that the ruling party has spent Rs. 67,000 crore on the development of Hyderabad in the past 6.5 years, terming them as ‘utter lies’. In a statement here, he said the Hyderabad Development Report released by Mr Rama Rao on Friday twisted and misrepresented facts to paint a rosy picture of the city’s development. “He selectively mentioned the amount which was spent on various projects after the formation of Telangana while completely skipping the amount spent by the previous Congress government,” Mr Reddy claimed. He stated that it was the previous Congress regime that constructed the new international airport, Outer Ring Road, PVNR Expressway, Metro Rail and took up several projects for beautification of Hyderabad. “KTR skipped the dates of their inauguration and just mentioned the amount which was spent for their maintenance or expansion. He had no courtesy to even mention that the projects, which brought global recognition to Hyderabad, were actually initiated during the previous Congress regime,” he said. No credit to Cong. Mr. Reddy said that the previous Congress government had spent over Rs. 1 lakh crore for the development of Hyderabad and its peripheral areas. The Municipal Corporation of Hyderabad (MCH) was transformed into Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) in 2007 with a clear vision to create infrastructure that could match the requirement of a global metro city. The Congress leader reminded that drinking water to Hyderabad from Krishna and Godavari rivers were made possible by the Congress government. “KTR just inaugurated projects that were originally conceptualised, grounded and almost executed by previous Congress government,” he said. Stating it was difficult to mislead the people in this modern age of information technology, he appealed to the voters to just do an online search of the history of each project which TRS claims to have completed.
22 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||ACB arrests Kamareddy Inspector, searches SDPO’s office, house||A day after arresting Kamareddy Town Inspector I. Jagadish on charges of demanding Rs. 5 lakh from a person, Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths searched the office and house of Kamareddy Sub-Divisional Police Officer (SDPO) Laxminarayana on Saturday. The searches at the SDPO’s office in Kamareddy were conducted in connection with the arrest of Inspector Jagadish who was accused of implicating a person B. Sudhakar in a false case of cricket betting. Another team of ACB sleuths searched Mr. Laxminarayana’s house in Trimulgherry of Secunderabad. ACB officials are yet to announce findings of their searches at the SDPO’s office and residence. The arrested Inspector was shifted from Kamareddy to Karimnagar late on Saturday night to present him before the judge of ACB special court, when reports last came in. Mr. Jagadish joined the police department as SI in 2007. He earlier worked as Inspector of police Task Force in Kamareddy. Along with the Inspector, the ACB officials arrested a civilian M. Sujay who allegedly abetted Jagadish in demanding Rs. five lakh from Sudhakar. The Inspector, through Mr. Sujay, allegedly demanded bribe from Sudhakar accusing the latter of indulging in IPL cricket match betting. Two days later, he registered a criminal case against Sudhakar under sections three and four of TS Gaming Act. The same day, he was released from police station on bail. In a separate case, Hyderabad range IGP Stephen Raveendra suspended Circle Inspector of Dharur in Vikarabad district Murali Kumar on charge of perfunctory investigation. Recently, Vikarabad SP Narayana sent a report on the Inspector stating that the latter failed to properly investigate the murder of a woman, whose decomposed body was found in Kotipalli area. While the SP was reviewing progress of the investigation into the homicide case, the Inspector allegedly behaved in an objectionable manner and refused to answer queries raised by the SP. SI suspended Meanwhile, Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar suspended Chowderguda SI S. Krishna on charge of changing details of a vehicle involved in a road accident case. Mr. Krishna was working at Shadnagar police station then.
22 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ponnam challenges BJP to take action against CM||TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar has been challenged by the BJP to take action against Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and prove that he was anti-national as alleged by their own party members. At a press conference here, Mr Prabhakar said if the BJP was sincere in its allegations, the Union Minister of state for Home G. Kishan Reddy should initiate action. Even BJP national president J.P. Nadda charged the Chief Minister with corruption but still they were not willing to take action. “This only shows they are working together,” he said. Mr. Prabhakar charged the BJP with poaching Congress leaders and said it only showed how weak that party was. BJP leaders are visiting the residences of Congress leaders and some of them like former Union Minister Sarve Satyanarayana and former mayor Banda Karthika Reddy were suspended from the party long ago, he added. Appealing to voters, he said only Congress was sincere about development. It was Congress that gave Telangana and developed Hyderabad into what it is today. “I challenge the TRS and the BJP to come for a debate on the city development. But they are interested only in divide and rule policy,” he said.
22 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ban gatherings for poll campaign: CPI||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has requested the State Election Commission (SEC) to ban public meetings, including the street-corner meetings, road shows and community meetings, as part of the campaigning for GHMC elections due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A delegation of CPI led by party’s district secretary of Hyderabad E.T. Narasimha met Secretary of SEC M. Ashok Kumar on Saturday and submitted a memorandum urging the latter to ban such gatherings as part of campaigning.
22 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Health Department tells politicians to ensure COVID-19 precautions||A common question from people who watch politicians, party workers, and others campaign for Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections is why are they congregating in large numbers when coronavirus is still Fears about further spread of the virus have raised because of the large gatherings and the campaigning. Leaders of political parties who are campaigning in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) elections were urged to ensure that all their party members are wearing masks during the programme. Telangana Health Department officials have requested the politicians to distribute the masks if possible. At a press meet held at the State Health campus on Saturday, Director of Public Health Dr G Srinivasa Rao asked the politicians of all parties to maintain COVID-19 precautions while organising the programmes. The importance of mask was stressed multiple times during the press conference by Dr Srinivasa and Director of Medical Education Dr K Ramesh Reddy. The officials have equated the use of mask to a vaccine. Besides this, they tried to impress upon people the importance of washing hands regularly, physical distancing, avoiding large gatherings. The officials spoke about the arrangements made anticipating second wave of COVID-19 in the State, number of tests performed in a day, positivity rate, and other aspects.
22 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Water infrastructure remains out of focus||The residents of Kabgir Nagar have begun to cook food at home about 10 days back. One of the worst affected areas near the Falaknuma Palace, water from a nearby nala flooded their homes in the middle of October. A few kilometres away, residents of Shaheen Nagar visit their homes sitting in water and talking to neighbours similarly affected by the flood waters that have not receded and go back home. “They should open up the Firangi Nala channel to drain the water. The water in the lake does not belong to the lake. We are being punished to save someone else,” says Munnawar, whose house is under water right up to the ceiling. While the Shaheen Nagar area is under Jalpally Municipality, the downstream area of the Shukoorsagar Lake are some of the densely populated areas like Baba Nagar. While Hyderabad’s arterial roads have shown a dramatic improvement with the Comprehensive Road Maintenance Programme and Strategic Road Development Programme, a similar infusion of funding and focus is missing from water infrastructure which girdles the city and which brought the city to a halt for a fortnight. A Right to Information application has revealed that between 2014 and 2018, the budgeted amount on 32 major nalas in South Zone consisting of 57.78 km totalled Rs. 210.24 crore. In comparison, just for four road project components in the South Zone Rs. 670.47 crore has been budgeted. The RTI was filed by an organisation called Society for Safety of Public and Good Governance. “The north and south basin of the Musi River is the canvas for water infrastructure in the city. Unless we take care of it citizens will be punished time and again. We need the will and sincerity to make the city safe,” says Lubna Sarwath of Save our Urban Lakes who has been campaigning against lake encroachments.
22 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Non-agricultural property registration postponed||The registration of non-agricultural properties on Dharani portal is likely to be delayed by three to four days from the scheduled November 23 in view of a stay ordered by the High Court. There was no way the registrations could begin until the court gave the go-ahead. The High Court, which is looking into the procedures adopted for registration of non-agricultural properties by the portal, will once again take up the case on November 23, a release from the Chief Minister’s Office said.
22 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||HITAM inks MoU with Smartron Eds||Hyderabad Institute of Technology and Management (HITAM) has signed a MoU with Smartron Eds for an initiative on a critical mission of “aggregation” and “acceleration” of innovation on the back of the IoT wave to groom and sharpen the skills of students. The MoU will ensure building of a scientific temper and critical analytical prowess among budding graduates from HITAM, who can take on leadership roles, and the Smartron Eds will facilitate effective utilisation of the intellectual capabilities of the faculty, according to Arvind S, dean-academics. “Our endeavour through this partnership is to make the students industry ready and are productive from day one,” said Vinod Ahuja, Head of Center of Excellence, IoT.
22 November 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Police set up team to focus on missing persons||In line with the directions of the Telangana High Court on missing persons in the State earlier this month and the subsequent instructions of Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy, the Nalgonda police has set up a special team to track pending missing person cases, Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath informed on Saturday. The district, as on date, has 75 missing persons, including 17 petitions registered in the current year. All the petitions since 2019 were for missing male persons, he noted. Reviewing with officials, police station-wise, Mr. Ranganth directed them to pay special attention to long-pending cases, and to treat with high priority cases involving children and women. He advised officials to segregate and focus on incidents, victim by victim, such as by age, sex and mental health condition.
22 November 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Tukkapur villagers protest Kaleshwaram canal works||Tension prevailed for some time at Tukkapur in Toguta mandal on Saturday when villagers protested against the construction of a canal, as part of the Kaleshwaram 3rd tmcft, adjacent to the village. The Congress led by Ch. Srinivas Reddy called for the protest, which saw a large gathering of people, mostly women. Some of the women even had a heated argument with the police. Since Saturday morning, a large police contingent was posted in the village to thwart any untoward incident. Villagers alleged that they had already lost their land and were even unable to get daily labour work. “We are unable to get daily wages. And the police are sending us away when we are demanding justice,” said a few furious women. “A large number of people took part in the agitation irrespective of party affiliations to protect the interests of the village. Police arrested everybody on the road. Even women were not spared and thrown into police vehicles,” the sarpanch said. He added that a scribe who went there to cover the agitation was also taken into custody, though he was released later. Villagers charged that the authorities have failed to provide Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) to those who approached the judiciary despite directions from the High Court. On Friday, bhoomi puja and movement of heavy machinery near the village created tension among people. Villagers alleged that the puja was done for works sans permission.
22 November 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||BRF||Police conducted a special drive to collect pending challans on Saturday also. This is being done for the last three days. Siddipet Traffic Circle Inspector Srinivas, Gajwel Traffic Circle Inspector Madhusudhan Reddy, Sub-Inspectors Anjaneyulu, Srinivas Reddy, Sridhar, Ravi, Srisailam and others participated in the drive. A total of Rs. 1.33 lakh was collected from violators.
22 November 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||BRF||District Collector Anita Ramachandran on Saturday set November 30 to be the new deadline for completion of Rythu Vedikas (platforms to unify farmers). She said that construction of 300 Vaikunta Dhamams (crematoria at villages) should be ready by December-end, she said. The Collector took stock of the progress of work from Panchayat Raj Engineering (PRE) officials and later inspected various sites at Rajapet and Bhuvanagiri mandals.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Ready for the market||
22 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU admissions under special list from Nov. 24||Delhi University (DU) on Saturday announced that admissions to merit-based undergraduate courses under the special cut-off list will begin from November 24. The administration further said tha the sixth and seventh cut-off lists will be declared on November 30 and December 7, respectively. The online admission process was postponed recently after several DU officials were affected by COVID-19. In a notification, the university said applicants who were not able to take admission under the first five cut-off lists will be permitted to apply under the special list.  Eligibility criteria Aspirants who have cancelled their admission under the fifth cut-off list and those who have already been admitted in any course in a DU-affiliated college will not be eligible to participate in the special list admissions. “Applicants have to apply to a single college and course. Applicants must ensure that they have carefully checked the number of seats vacant in the course and college that they are applying to under this category,” read the notification. The cut-offs for the various courses available under each category for colleges under the special cut-off list will be available from November 23. “In case the number of applicants applying for a particular course in a college is more than the number of seats available, the college will make a merit list as per best of four or best of three [marks] required for the course. The college will then approve applicants as per the merit list and according to the number of seats available,” the university said. In case of a tie It further said that in case of a tie, the applicant with higher percentage of marks — aggregate of best five subjects, including one language — in the qualifying examination will be considered first for admission. The second option will be that the applicant with earlier date of birth will be considered for admission. “Merely applying under the special cut-off list does not guarantee an admission to the applicant,” the university specified.
22 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi-NCR air quality ‘poor’, may deteriorate tomorrow||The air quality of Delhi, Gurugram, and Noida was in the ‘poor’ category on Saturday, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The Capital’s air quality is expected to be in the ‘poor’ category on Sunday too, and then deteriorate on Monday, said government-run monitoring agency SAFAR. “The AQI (air quality index) is likely to improve and be in the lower end of the ‘poor’ to ‘moderate’ category on Sunday. Calm surface winds and low night-time boundary layer height is likely to cause adverse dispersion condition for a few days from November 23,” read a statement by SAFAR. Moderate speed of surface winds helped air quality of Delhi to be in the ‘poor’ category on Saturday. But boundary layer wind direction was north-westerly, which is favourable for the effect of stubble burning to be felt in Delhi. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5 level in Delhi was estimated to be only 13% on Saturday. Central Vista project Meanwhile, experts have raised questions about trees being uprooted (for transplantation) near Parliament as part of the Central Vista redevelopment project. “The government is proceeding with tree felling despite issues of land use, environment and lived heritage pending final judgment of the Supreme Court. The failures of transplantation, validity of number of trees [affected by the project] as a tree census of Delhi is pending, and non-transparency of permissions are big questions that have been repeatedly raised before the government in public and in the court. However, none of this has prevented the government to fell and transport trees during the night,” said Kanchi Kohli, senior researcher at the Centre for Policy Research. C.R. Babu, professor emeritus at Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystems of Delhi University, said that it will be difficult for trees to survive when they are transplanted during winter and survival rate will be less.
22 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: court grants bail to Gulfisha Fatima||A Delhi court on Saturday granted bail to student activist Gulfisha Fatima in a case related to the north-east Delhi communal violence. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat granted relief to Ms. Fatima on furnishing a bail bond of Rs. 30,000 with one surety of like amount in the case related to rioting in Jafrabad in which one Aaman died due to gunshot injuries. The court granted her bail on the ground of parity as co-accused Jawaharlal Nehru University students and Pinjra Tod members Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal have already been granted the relief in the case. Compensation panel Earlier in the day, Supreme Court Judge Justice Surya Kant inaugurated the North East Delhi Riots Claims Commission for providing compensation to victims of the communal violence. He said in a statement that justice to victims of the riot was the need of the hour. There are about 750 cases registered in north-east Delhi and around 1,200 persons have been arrested in matters related to the riot.
22 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT directs States, UTs to set up nodal agencies to protect, restore waterbodies||Following a plea seeking identification, protection and restoration of waterbodies in Gurugram, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has expanded the scope of the petition and directed all States and Union Territories to designate a nodal agency under respective chief secretaries within a month. A Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel directed the nodal agencies to convene a meeting by January 31 to “take stock of the situation” and plan further steps, including directions to district authorities for further course of action. It also directed the nodal agencies to evolve a monitoring and grievance redressal mechanism. Taking note of a report furnished by the Central Pollution Control Board on rainwater harvesting, the Bench observed, “It appears that the CPCB has not appreciated the direction of this Tribunal on the subject.” Stating that there was a need for “continuous planning and monitoring” at the national, State and district levels, the panel observed that observations of the CPCB and an oversight committee needed to be acted upon.
22 November 2020||New Delhi,||Woman robbed at gunpoint||A woman was allegedly robbed at gunpoint by two unidentified men in east Delhi’s Vinod Nagar, the police said on Saturday. The incident took place on Friday afternoon when the woman was walking in the market area. Two men came on a scooty and allegedly snatched her gold chain. When she raised an alarm, they threatened her with a pistol before fleeing from the spot. A case has been registered and a probe is under way, the police said.
22 November 2020||Agartala,||1 killed as jawans fire at protesters in Tripura||One person was killed and two others sustained bullet injuries on Saturday when security men opened fire on a massive mob protesting against an official plan to settle 5,000 Mizoram Bru refugees in Kanchanpur subdivision of north Tripura. The deceased has been identified as Srikanta Das (45) of Kanchanpur. Altogether 23 people, including 15 police and fire service personnel, were injured in subsequent clashes between the police and the protesters. The police said a fire department staff member was critically wounded in mob fury. He later succumbed to his injuries. The police claimed protesters damaged five security vehicles. Meanwhile, the State government announced compensation of Rs. 5 lakh to each of the bereaved families. The incident occurred when 15,000 protesters marched to Chamtilla in Panisagar to block the Assam-Tripura National Highway. The Joint Movement Committee spearheaded the strike that started in Kanchanpur on November 16 against the rehabilitation plan.
22 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Opposition corners Odisha govt. over custodial deaths||The Odisha Assembly on Saturday witnessed uproarious scenes over custodial deaths with the Opposition parties seeking sterner action. The Bharatiya Janata Party took out a rally against alleged police high-handedness leading to death of K. Ramesh in Baselisahi police station in Puri town. The party also demanded suspension of proceedings for discussion on cases of custodial deaths. “The Puri Superintendent of Police should be booked under murder charges. His transfer from district is not punishment. He should be suspended. A judicial probe should be ordered,” demanded Leader of the Opposition Pradipta Kumar Naik. Veteran Congress leader Narasingha Mishra said, “The law and order situation has collapsed completely... jungle raj is prevailing... I have been reiterating at different fora. I have again repeated in the Assembly. Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik should have taken sterner action in two custodial cases.” Compensation sought BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra led a party delegation to meet the family members of the deceased and demanded compensation of Rs. 1 crore. “It is not a custodial death, but custodial murder. The culprits should be booked under Section 302 of IPC,” he said. The State government on Friday transferred Akhileswar Singh, Puri SP, to police headquarters. Three police personnel of Baselisahi police station have been placed under suspension. Probe ordered The Odisha Police ordered a Deputy Inspector General-level inquiry into the alleged custodial torture of six persons. “Allegations have been published in some print and electronic media about assault of some persons forwarded to jail by Pipili police station. An inquiry by DIG of Police, Central Range, Cuttack, has been ordered,” a statement issued by the State Police Headquarters said.  (With PTI inputs)
22 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Naveen writes to Soren on dam project||Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik has urged his Jharkhand counterpart Hemant Soren to complete the Ichha Dam project over Kharkhai River so that flood threat could be tackled effectively. “I seek your cooperation in early completion of Ichha Dam and storage of water in Chandil Dam for mitigation of floods in Odisha,” wrote Mr. Patnaik to Mr. Soren.
22 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Night curfew in Rajasthan||The Rajasthan government on Saturday imposed night curfew, between 8 p.m. and 6 a.m., in eight cities with the highest COVID-19 infection and raised the penalty for not wearing face mask at public places from Rs. 200 to Rs. 500, after a record 3,007 positive cases were detected on a single day across the State. The district headquarters where the night curfew was clamped were Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar and Bhilwara. Markets, restaurants, shopping malls and other commercial establishments in the urban areas of these districts will be allowed to remain open till 7 p.m. The decisions were taken at an urgent meeting of the Council of Ministers convened here late in the night in view of the virus infection spreading fast during the festive season and the cold weather conditions. Over 550 positive cases were reported on Saturday in Jaipur, followed by 444 in Jodhpur, 215 in Bikaner and 210 in Ajmer. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot presided over the meeting, while some Ministers attended it through videoconferencing. Mr. Gehlot said the preventive steps were the need of the hour and several States were taking stringent measures and had withdrawn the decisions to open schools and allow public gatherings. Senior officers of the Medical & Health Department informed the meeting that the gatherings during Deepavali, recent municipal elections and wedding ceremonies had contributed to the increase in positive cases.
22 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. CM asks officials to act tough in illicit liquor case||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath instructed officials on Saturday to seize the properties of those involved in the sale of spurious liquor. Four persons died and five were hospitalised in Phulpur area of Prayagraj on Saturday, allegedly after consuming illicit liquor. The properties would be auctioned and the amount generated from it should be be used to provide support to the families of the victims, the Chief Minister said. A government spokesperson said Mr. Adityanath had instructed officials to book those involved in the sale of spurious liquor under the Gangsters Act. District Magistrate Prayagraj Bhanu Chandra Goswami said the deaths took place in Amiliya village. The exact cause would be known after post mortem on the bodies and laboratory testing of the liquor samples collected from the shop.  Salesman held The salesman at the shop was arrested, police said. Mr. Goswami said police were probing all angles, including reports that the shop had faced action for selling illicit liquor in the past too. “All the facts will be brought out,” he said. Mr. Adityanath also directed officials to fix accountability in the case and initiate tough action against them.
22 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Australian national gets bail in drugs case||A special court has granted bail to Australian national Paul Bartels in an alleged drugs case. “In the absence of any substantial material, taking into account no contraband material was found, except statements of co-accused and WhatsApp messages, refusing to extend the concession of bail may not be justified,” the special holiday Narcotics Drugs Psychotropic Substances Act court said on Thursday. There were only the statements of co-accused Nikhil Saldanha and Agisilaos Demetriades and WhatsApp messages exchanged between him and Mr. Demetriades to show the involvement of Mr. Bartels. From the said messages, it could be contended that Mr. Bartels was dealing in drugs as a peddler/supplier. “At this stage, those WhatsApp messages are not substantial and sufficient to hold the role of the accused as a peddler/supplier of drugs,” it said. He was arrested on November 11 during a house search by officers of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. However, no incriminating material or contraband was found. Special judge H.S. Satbhai said, “The fact that NCB, after the arrest of the accused and on his production before the metropolitan magistrate, did not ask for his custody goes to show that there was no material available to interrogate him and to make further investigation.” The court took into consideration that co-accused Mr. Saldanha, at whose instance Mr. Bartels was arrested, had been released on bail, along with Mr. Demetriades, whose role was similar to that of Mr. Bartels. On the ground of parity, he too required to be released on bail, the court held. The court directed Mr. Bartels to furnish a bond of Rs. 1 lakh or one or two sureties.
22 November 2020||Mumbai,||Government duty-bound to ensure land owners get compensated: HC||The Bombay High Court has said when the government exercises its power of acquiring land for public purposes, it has the obligation of ensuring that the owners are paid compensation. A single judge Bench of Justice Milind Jadhav on November 17 dismissed a petition filed by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI), challenging an arbitral award to pay compensation. The court directed the NHAI to deposit the compensation awarded to two women, whose land was acquired for public purposes. The NHAI in its plea sought for quashing of the January 5, 2017, order passed by the Deputy Collector (Land Acquisition), Nashik. By the order, the NHAI was directed to pay compensation to Maltibai Pawar and Ujwala Thorat, owners of two lands admeasuring 3,000 sq. mt and 1,900 sq. mt at Rahud village in Nashik, which the NHAI proposed to acquire for the purpose of widening of National Highway No. 3. The order directed the NHAI to pay the compensation at Rs. 2,700 per sq. mt, which was later reduced to Rs. 2,200 per sq. mt.
22 November 2020||Mumbai,||YouTuber opposes notice by Akshay Kumar||YouTuber Rashid Siddiquee has opposed the defamation notice issued against him by actor Akshay Kumar in connection withthe Sushant Singh Rajput death caseand refused to pay Rs. 500 crore in damages saying there was nothing defamatory in his videos. Mr. Siddiquee has urged the actor to withdraw the notice, failing which he would initiate “appropriate legal proceedings”. Mr. Kumar had on November 17issued a defamation noticeagainst Mr. Siddiquee seeking Rs. 500 crore in damages for making “false and baseless allegations” against him in Rajput’s death case. Mr. Kumar, in the notice sent through law firm IC Legal, said Mr. Siddiquee in his YouTube channel, FF News, had published several “defamatory, libelous and derogatory” videos. Mr. Siddiquee, in his reply sent through his advocate J.P. Jayswal on Friday, said the allegations were “false, vexatious and oppressive and raised with an intent to harass him”. It questioned the delay in the defamation notice as the videos were uploaded in August 2020. The YouTuber from Bihar claimed that the actor was selectively targeting him.
22 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Police bust five-member gang, solve 20 cases of chain snatching||The Navi Mumbai Crime Branch’s Unit II has solved at least 20 cases of chain snatching with the arrest of five people. Valuables worth Rs. 20 lakh have been recovered. Of the 45 cases of chain snatching registered in the last 10 months at Kamothe, Nerul, Sanpada, Rabale, NRI Coastal, Khandeshwar, Kalamboli, Vashi and Kharghar police stations, 33 have now been detected. The accused have been identified as Shabnam Shabbir Shaikh (25), a hawker; Akhil Shareef Khan (25), a taxi driver; Haroon Lala Sayyed (23), an autorickshaw driver from Panvel; Tabbeer Mohammad Ibraheem Shaikh alias Deepak (22), and Tashroof Baidoor Rahman Shaikh alias Raja (22) from Mankhurd. According to the police, the four men rode two bikes and targeted elderly women in secluded spots soon after the lockdown was imposed. The accused riding pillion would snatch the chain and the men on the other bike would give them cover. The men would hand over the loot to Ms. Shaikh, who would sell it and give each one their share. Senior police inspector Giridhar Gore said the Crime Branch started a parallel investigation into these cases. “We started tracing the bikes and learnt that one of the accused was going to Kolkata by train along with a friend. We got the friend’s number and tracked his location to Bilaspur. Using the M-Indicator app, we found a train in the same location. With the help of the Railways, we found the coach in which the accused was travelling.” Additional Commissioner of Police of Navi Mumbai B.G. Shekhar Patil, who served as an observer in the last election in Odisha, sought the help of the Odisha Police. The accused was detained at Rourkela railway station on November 11 and brought to Navi Mumbai. “He was arrested on November 13 and his accomplices were nabbed from Mankhurd the same day,” Mr. Gore said. The accused have been remanded in custody till November 23.
22 November 2020||New Delhi,||57 Mussoorie trainees test COVID-19 positive||As many as 57 civil services officer trainees have tested positive for coronavirus at Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration at Mussoorie, prompting authorities to close “all non-essential departments” there. The academy is taking every measure to break the chain of COVID-19 spread, a statement issued by the Personnel Ministry on Saturday said. All officer trainees, who have tested positive, have been quarantined in a dedicated COVID care centre, it said.
22 November 2020||Washington DC,||Georgia Governor certifies Biden’s win||Inanother setbackfor U.S. President Donald Trump who is fighting to have his loss in thepresidential electionsoverturned, Governor Brian Kemp of Georgia certified the results ofa hand-count of votes in his State, giving Joe Biden, the President-elect and Democratic candidate, the State’s 16 Electoral College votes. The certification happened following the conclusion on Thursday of the hand-count of the 5 million votes requested by the Trump campaign,resulting in a 12,670 vote lead for Mr. Biden. The State had also had announced an audit of the first count, required by law. Georgia Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger, who described himself as a “passionate conservative” and a “proud Trump supporter”, said he was disappointed, like other Republicans, that their candidate did not win the State. “People feel their side was cheated. We saw this from the Democrats in 2018 and we see this from Republicans today,” Mr. Raffensperger said. “Working as an engineer throughout my life, I live by the motto that numbers don’t lie,” he said, adding that the numbers presented today were correct. Mr. Raffensperger had told the Washington Post earlier this week that he and his wife had received death threats in the run up to the announcement and that he was under pressure from Republicans, including Senator Lindsay Graham to not count legally cast ballots (hypothetically, on the basis of non-matching signatures in mailed-in ballots). On Friday evening, Mr. Kemp said thousands of uncounted votes (5,262 resulting in a net gain of 496 for Mr. Trumpas per the website ofGeorgia’s Secretary of State) were found after the audit, something he called “unacceptable”. Mr. Kemp said the audit did not get into the signature matching issue. “It is important for Georgians to know that the vast number of local election workers did their job well under unprecedented circumstances.” The Governor did not explicitly say that Mr. Biden had won but said since he had to, by law, formalise the certified results that had been presented by Mr. Raffensperger, “which paves the way for the Trump campaign to pursue other legal options and a separate recount if they choose.” Georgia will hold run-off elections for two Senate seats on January 5, the results of which will determine whether Democrats or Republicans control the Senate in the next Congress.
22 November 2020||LAHORE,||In Pakistan, tens of thousands mourn radical cleric’s death||Massive crowds of maskless mourners gathered in Lahore on Saturday for the funeral of hardline Pakistani cleric Khadim Hussain Rizvi, who for years terrorised the country's religious minorities, incited riots and advocated the destruction of European nations in the name of fighting blasphemy. Rizvi’s party, Tehreek-e-Labiak, holds only two seats in Parliament, but his movement has repeatedly pressed its cause by staging large-scale demonstrations. Rizvi led last Sunday thousands of his followers at a sit-in in Islamabad, protesting the republishing in France of caricatures of the Prophet Muhammed, which he deemed blasphemous. Demonstrators briefly clashed with security forces at the rally, which was one in a wave of protests across the country expressing outrage over the caricatures. Defender of blasphemy laws The government promised on Tuesday that the protesters’ demands for cutting diplomatic ties with France and expelling the French Ambassador would be discussed in Parliament. In just a few short years, the cleric, known for his profanity-laced speeches, gained mass support and rose to become one of the country’s most feared figures. “In some ways, he was even more dangerous than the Taliban, with his supporters not limited to remote tribal areas, but present in large numbers in the country’s heartlands,” said Omar Waraich from Amnesty International. In 2018, the TLP brought the country to a standstill with riots following the acquittal of Christian woman Asia Bibi, who had been falsely accused of disrespecting the Prophet Mohammed. The party has also called for the assassination of Supreme Court judges, pleaded for a mutiny in the armed forces and vowed to wipe out European nationssuch as France and the Netherlands.
22 November 2020||WASHINGTON,||Trump tries to leverage power of office to subvert Biden win||President Donald Trump sought to leverage the power of the Oval Office on Friday in an extraordinary attempt to block President-elect Joe Biden’s victory, but his pleas to Michigan lawmakers to overturn the will of their constituents appeared to have left them unswayed. Mr. Trump summoned a delegation of the battleground state’s Republican leadership, including the Senate majority leader and House speaker, in an apparent extension of his efforts to persuade judges and election officials to set aside Mr. Biden’s 1,54,000-vote margin of victory and grant Mr. Trump the State’s electors. It came amid mounting criticism that Mr. Trump’s futile efforts to subvert the results of the 2020 election could do long-lasting damage to democratic traditions. Maintaining grasp Mr. Trump’s efforts extended to other States that Mr. Biden carried as well, amounting to an unprecedented attempt by a sitting President to maintain his grasp on power, or in failure, to delegitimise his opponent’s victory in the eyes of his army of supporters. Rick Hasen, an election law expert and professor who has been meticulously chronicling the 2020 race, wrote that there would be “rioting” in the streets if an effort was made to set aside the vote in Michigan, calling it tantamount to an attempted coup. “We should worry because this is profoundly antidemocratic and is delegitimising the victory of Joe Biden in a free and fair election,” Mr. Hasen wrote on his blog. “It is profoundly depressing we still have to discuss this. But it is extremely unlikely to lead to any different result for president.” In a joint statement after the White House meeting, Michigan Senate Majority Leader Mike Shirkey and House Speaker Lee Chatfield said allegations of fraud should be investigated but indicated they were unmoved by Mr. Trump’s claims thus far. “We have not yet been made aware of any information that would change the outcome of the election in Michigan and as legislative leaders, we will follow the law and follow the normal process regarding Michigan’s electors, just as we have said throughout this election,” they said. “The candidates who win the most votes win elections and Michigan’s electoral votes,” they added, saying they used the meeting with Mr. Trump to press him for more pandemic aid money for their State. The President on Friday again falsely claimed victory, declaring as an aside during a White House announcement on drug pricing, “I won, by the way, but you know, we’ll find that out.” Mr. Trump’s roughly hourlong meeting with the Michigan legislators came days after he personally called two local canvassing board officials who had refused to certify the results in Wayne County, Michigan’s most populous county and one that overwhelmingly favored Biden. The two GOP officials eventually agreed to certify the results. But following Mr. Trump’s call, they said they had second thoughts. Meeting on Monday The Board of State Canvassers is to meet on Monday to certify the Statewide outcome and it was unclear whether Republican members of that panel would similarly balk. Some Trump allies have expressed hope that State lawmakers could intervene in selecting Republican electors, as the President and his attorneys have pushed baseless allegations of fraud that have been repeatedly rejected in courtrooms across the country. It was with that in mind that Mr. Trump invited the Michigan legislators. He was also said to be considering extending a similar invitation to lawmakers from Pennsylvania. “The President could be calling Republican legislators and others to the White House to try and squeeze them,” tweeted former national security adviser John Bolton. “Republicans at all levels — state, county, election boards, legislatures — must resist this political pressure.” White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany told reporters that the meeting with Michigan officials was “not an advocacy meeting”.
22 November 2020||Washington,||On inauguration day, Twitter to give Biden control of @POTUS||Twitter will hand control of the presidential @POTUS account to Joe Biden when he is sworn in on inauguration day, even if President Donald Trump has not conceded his election loss, U.S. media reported on Friday. The social media giant is “actively preparing to support the transition of White House institutional Twitter accounts on January 20th, 2021,” Twitter spokesperson Nick Pacilio told Politico in an email. The process is being done in consultation with the National Archives, as it was in 2017, he said. The handover will see all existing tweets on @POTUS, as well as @FLOTUS, @VP and other official accounts, archived. The accounts will then be reset to zero tweets and transferred to the incoming Mr. Biden White House that day. Mr. Trump, who still has not conceded his November 3 loss, used Twitter to help build his political brand and, later, wield the power of the presidency — though he mainly uses his personal account, @realDonaldTrump, whose 88 million followers dwarf @POTUS’s 32 million. The @POTUS account is largely used to retweet Mr. Trump’s personal account as well as the White House and other accounts.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Pompeo meets Taliban, Afghan govt. negotiators||U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo met negotiators from the Afghan government and the Taliban in Doha on Saturday, amid signs of progress in their talks as Washington speeds up its withdrawal. Mr. Pompeo’s visit comes in the wake of a rocket attack which struck densely populated areas of Kabul, killing at least eight people in the latest outbreak of violence in the Afghan capital. The Taliban denied responsibility and the Islamic State group claimed the deadly strike. Mr. Pompeo met separately with the Afghan government and Taliban negotiation teams in a luxury hotel in the Qatari capital. “I would be most interested in getting your thoughts on how we can increase the probability of a successful outcome”, Mr. Pompeo said as he met the Afghan government side, noting the shared interest in such a scenario. He also met Qatar’s ruler, Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani, and Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al-Thani, the foreign minister, on his stop in Doha, which is the Taliban’s base for diplomacy. The outgoing top U.S. diplomat is on a seven-nation tour of Europe and the Middle East, as President Donald Trump shores up late-term priorities. Earlier this week, the Pentagon said it would soon pull some 2,000 troops out of Afghanistan, speeding up the timeline established in a February deal between the U.S. and the Taliban.
22 November 2020||MADISON,||Trump objects to vote counting in Wisconsin||The recount of the presidential election in Wisconsin’s two most heavily Democratic counties began on Friday with President Donald Trump’s campaign seeking to discard tens of thousands of absentee ballots that it alleged should not have been counted. Mr. Trump’s three objections attempting to discard the ballots were denied by the three-member Dane County Board of Canvassers, twice on bipartisan votes. Dane County Clerk Scott McDonell said he expected the campaign was building a record before filing a lawsuit. Joe Biden won Wisconsin by 20,600 votes and carried Dane and Milwaukee counties by a 2-to-1 margin. Mr. Trump only paid for recounts in those two counties, not in the 70 others, 58 of which he won.  Trump attorney Christ Troupis argued that certification envelopes filled out by people who voted absentee in-person do not count under the law as a written application, even though the envelope is identified as such.
22 November 2020||TAIPEI,||U.S., Taiwan step up economic partnership||The U.S. and Taiwan are stepping up cooperation in a newly created economic dialogue, in another move from the outgoing Trump administration to increase official exchanges with the self-ruled island. The two sides signed a five-year agreement establishing the U.S.-Taiwan Economic Prosperity Partnership Dialogue, which is meant to be held annually. The deal falls short of a long-desired bilateral trade agreement, but is a significant step that increases ties between Washington and Taipei. China, which views Taiwan as its own territory to be reunited by force if necessary, has criticized such steps as provocation. “The U.S.-Taiwan economic dialogue signifies that not only is the United States-Taiwan economic relationship strong, but it continues to deepen and grow,” said Brent Christensen, director of the American Institute in Taipei, the de-facto embassy. Taiwan and the U.S. do not have a free trade agreement. However, Taiwan in August announced the easing of restrictions on imports of American beef and pork, lowering a trade barrier for U.S. businesses that is expected to pave the way for further trade negotiations. U.S. trade with Taiwan totalled an estimated $103.9 billion in 2019, according to the latest figures from the U.S. Trade Representative’s office. The dialogue addressed areas of further cooperation, such as the State Department’s new Clean Network project and 5G security, semiconductors, as well as investment screening and science and technology. Taiwan’s Foreign Minister Joseph Wu called the dialogue an “important milestone” and “the highest level regular economic dialogue between the U.S. and Taiwan.”
22 November 2020||New York,||United Nations, United States, Nov 20, 2020 (AFP) -||UN chief Antonio Guterres called on Friday for the opening of humanitarian corridors to assist civilians caught in fighting in Ethiopia's Tigray region. “We are very worried about the situation in Ethiopia,” he said, warning of a “humanitarian impact” including in neighbouring Sudan.AFP
22 November 2020||Moscow,||Moscow, Nov 21, 2020 (AFP) -||Russia on Saturday imposed sanctions on 25 British officials, responding to penalties Britain imposed in July against the same number of Russians over human rights violations. Britain sanctioned the Russian officials for their alleged role in the death of lawyer Sergei Magnitsky.AFP
22 November 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Disruptive solutions needed in renewables to tackle future’||India needs to press ahead with developing disruptive solutions in renewables to enable the country to become a green energy superpower, Mukesh Ambani, chairman of Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL), stressed on Saturday. “By the middle of this century, the world will use twice as much energy as we use today,” Mr. Ambani said, addressing a convocation ceremony at the Pandit Deendayal Petroleum University (PDPU). “India’s own per capita energy needs will be more than twice as much as today,” he added. “Therefore, India is required to simultaneously pursue two goals: To become an economic superpower. To become a green and clean energy superpower,” he asserted. ‘Carbon recycle tech’ “To achieve these twin goals, we need disruptive solutions... low carbon and carbon recycle technologies. We need breakthroughs in new energy sources such as green and blue hydrogen,” the RIL CMD said. PDPU was founded by RIL and Mr. Ambani is its president. “We also need great innovations in energy storage, saving and utilisation,” he emphasised. “What makes it even more exciting is the synergy between the energy revolution and the fourth industrial revolution. If we master this synergy, we will surely be able to make India one of the most prosperous nations in the world. An India that guarantees prosperity and well being for all 1.3 billion Indians,” Mr. Ambani asserted.
22 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Travel sector may take years to return to pre-COVID-19 level’||Even though some demand has started coming back, the travel industry may take years to get back to pre-pandemic business level, said Ritu Mehrotra, country manager — India, Sri Lanka, Maldives at Booking.com. “Travel industry was one of the first industries to be hit and I think one of the last industries to maybe make a comeback,” she said in an interview. “There are pockets where we are seeing demand coming up. We also feel that recovery will happen. It may take time,” she added. She added that it may not just take quarters but years for the industry to reach pre-COVID-19 levels. Pointing out that globally over a dozen airlines have had to shut shop, she said that impact across sectors had been severe and she expected to see consolidation in the travel industry. “I think that the fittest will win the battle and it is very important for companies to have a razor-sharp focus on their operating costs and besides, consolidation is inevitable, in my mind,” she said. Ms. Mehrotra added there was a need for greater collaboration between the industry and government. “No one company or no one player in the market can beat this kind of a pandemic. To support recovery, the government will have to consider subsidising consumer holidays. This is something that we have seen in a lot of other countries like Thailand, Japan and Italy.”
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Elevator sector facing challenges’||The pandemic has impacted the elevator and escalator industry as demand from one of its key clients, the real estate sector, is taking time to recover, says Amit Gossain, MD,  Kone India, a wholly owned subsidiary of France’s Kone Corporation. Edited excerpts:  What is the impact of COVID-19 on the industry? Our industry is facing a significant challenge as a result of the global pandemic that has disrupted the way we live and work. During these unprecedented times, Kone’s top priority is safeguarding the health and safety of our employees and outside community. We swiftly implemented comprehensive safety protocol and procedures, in compliance with local regulations, for our manufacturing plants and technical centres. Has your business come back to the pre-COVID-19 level? We haven’t come back to our pre-COVID-19 levels. We are at about 65-70%. Real estate is taking its own time and going slow. What is the expected growth sfor the current year? 2020 will be one of de-growth because the real estate industry is taking a lot of time to recover. Are you planning to reduce capital expenditure for the current and next years? Yes, definitely we will have a cut in capex for this year and next year as the real estate industry and therefore, the elevator and escalator industry, will take a lot of time to recover. The quantum of capex cut will be decided later as we do think that the real estate industry will have a faster recovery than most people expect. India is also emerging as a hub for research and development. What is Kone India’s progress in this area? As you have rightly said, India is strong in manufacturing and we sensed it more than three decades ago. We have been manufacturing high-quality escalators and elevators in India since then. India Technology and Engineering Center (ITEC) was started in Chennai in 2010. An extension of ITEC Chennai is the technology and innovation function in Pune set up last year, which focuses on enterprise monitoring, service management for IT solutions and digital development competencies for smart, people-flow solutions. ITEC has been a key location for competencies in technology and engineering serving various global units in Kone, and the Pune centre further strengthens its capabilities in this direction. Our ITEC takes global designs and indigenises them for local needs. The Pune centre saw the launch of Kone 24/7 IoT-connected elevators and escalators’ service technology in India. This is yet an another breakthrough innovation that results in fewer faults, faster repairs and real peace of mind for the customer. Can you shed more light on ITEC? ITEC can be as smart and interesting as it wants to be. We have confidence in the talent on hand and I am happy that our team continues to be committed to our mission of making vertical transportation safe, reliable and comfortable. Our growth is spurred by the ideas, innovation and commitment of our 250-plus strong workforces across Chennai and Pune. What is the level of collaboration between the R&D centres in India and the global centres? ITEC is one of the nine global R&D centres which supports the latest technology and development of future Kone solutions and has been a key for competencies in technology and engineering services. Our teams have the software and product-engineering capabilities to support the needs of global projects and contribute to the global development of advanced technologies. We have consistent, world class global designs, many of which are customised for Indian markets and cultural needs of Indian customers. We use global designs and redesign them with local solutions. Our Vaastu and Navaratna-themed designs are testaments of this. We designed elevator base around this style with striking visuals inspired by Navaratna.  2020 will be a year of de-growth because the real estate industry is taking a lot of time to recover
22 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Capgemini to hire rural women graduates||French technology major Capgemini has introduced Sakhi Drishtikon , an initiative to train and hire rural women graduates, post-graduates or diploma holders in technical subjects from economically-weaker families and bring them into the mainstream workforce. Under this initiative, Capgemini would have 500 rural women from rural India joining its workforce by December end while, during calendar 2021, the firm expected 15% of its fresh hiring to come from rural talent. “ Sakhi Drishtikon takes advantage of new ways of living and working,” said Radhika Ramesh, executive vice-president, global delivery centre head, cloud infrastructure services, Capgemini India. The chosen candidates are currently on a 4-5 month training programme during which they are paid a salary of Rs. 3.8 lakh or more per annum similar to fresh hires.
22 November 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Thailand targets youth for silver jewellery sales’||Thailand is making a strong bid to export its silver jewellery to India to woo millennials, taking advantage of gold prices that had shot up recently, making the yellow metal unaffordable for many people. According to trade members, Indian youth tended to prefer affordable fashion jewellery made of sterling silver, whose properties include brightness, unlike pure silver. Towards this, Thailand’s Ministry of Commerce, Department of International Trade Promotion (DITP) on Saturday conducted the “Silverline Trade from Bangkok to Bombay Roadshow”. The show targeted members of the Indian gem and jewellery sector, to urge them to visit a forthcoming trade show in Bangkok and place orders to help meet demand in India. Thai officials said the 66th Bangkok Gems & Jewelry Fair would be held in the period February 23-27 in Bangkok.
22 November 2020||New Delhi,||Bharti to buy 5.2% in solar firm Avaada||Bharti Airtel on Friday said it will acquire 5.2% stake in solar power firm Avaada MHBuldhana for Rs. 4.55 crore in an all-cash deal. Avaada MHBuldhana Pvt. Ltd., a subsidiary of Avaada Energy Private Limited (AEPL)., is developing a captive generating solar power plant in Maharashtra which will become operational by March 2021. AEPL has developed a portfolio of over 1 gigawatt solar and wind projects across the country and the first independent power producer to cross 1 GW installed capacity milestone in India, according to a filing by Bharti Airtel.  The deal is expected to close by March 31, 2021.
22 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Harley to work with Hero to ensure smooth India transition||American cult-bike maker Harley-Davidson said it is working with its new partner Hero MotoCorp to ‘ensure a smooth transition’ for its customers in India, including after-sales service and warranty. Last month, Harley-Davidson and Hero MotoCorp announced their partnership for the Indian market. They have inked a distribution agreement, under which Hero MotoCorp will sell and service Harley-Davidson motorcycles. It will also sell parts and accessories and general merchandise riding gear and apparel through a network of brand-exclusive Harley-Davidson dealers and Hero’s existing dealership network in India. Harley-Davidson MD (Asia emerging markets and India) Sajeev Rajasekharan said in a statement, “We are working closely with Hero to ensure a smooth transition for our riders.”  The firm has assured them that Harley-Davidson motorcycle, parts and accessories and general merchandise sales, as well as after-sale services, warranty and H.O.G. (Harley Owners Group) activities will continue from January 2021, he added. After the company announced its exit from India in September, dealers said they are looking at taking legal action against the U.S. bike manufacturer over measly compensation. The Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations said the exit of bike maker would lead to a loss of up to Rs. 130 crore for the brand’s dealer-partners in the country along with job loss of up to 2,000 workers across the bike-maker’s dealerships.
22 November 2020||New delhi,||Punjab & Sind Bank to raise up to Rs. 5,500 cr.||State-owned Punjab & Sind Bank on Saturday said its board has approved a proposal to raise up to Rs. 5,500 crore by issuing shares on a preferential basis. The board approval is in line with the government sanction to infuse Rs. 5,500 crore in the bank towards contribution of the Centre in the preferential allotment of equity shares during FY2020-21. The board has cleared agenda to “offer, issue, create and allot equity shares up to Rs. 5,500 crore, including share premium, to the Government of India by way of preferential issue of equity shares,” the bank said in a regulatory filing.
22 November 2020||LONDON,||Thiem fells Djokovic||Dominic Thiem recovered from squandering four match points in a dramatic second-set tie-break to beat Novak Djokovic 7-5, 6-7(10), 7-6(5) in the semifinals at the ATP Finals on Saturday. Thiem forced the only break to take a tight first set 7-5 but neither player could make the breakthrough in the second set, which went to a tie-break. Thiem had four match points but agonisingly watched them all slip away as 17-time Grand Slam champion Djokovic levelled. It was a similar story in the third set, with both players rock-solid on serve and the match came down to a deciding tie-break. Roaring back The Serbian World No. 1 raced into a 4-0 lead and looked certain to win but Thiem stormed back, winning six points in a row to earn two more match points. He was unable to capitalise on the first of those but won the second to take the match and enter his second straight finalhere. “It was for sure a mental battle,” said Thiem. “I got so tight in the second-set tie-break, first of all because to play these legends is always going to be something special.”  The results: Singles: Semifinal: 3-Dominic Thiem (Aut) bt 1-Novak Djokovic (Srb) 7-5, 6-7(12), 7-6(5).   Group Tokyo 1970: 4-Daniil Medvedev (Rus) bt 8-Diego Schwartzman (Arg) 6-3, 6-3.   Doubles: Semifinal: 5-Wesley Koolhof (Ned) & Nikola Mektic (Cro) bt 4-Marcel Granollers (Esp) & Horacio Zeballos (Arg) 6-3, 6-4.   Group Bob Bryan: 7-Jurgen Melzer (Aut) & Edouard Roger-Vasselin (Fra) bt Granollers & Zeballos 6-6 (1-0), retd .   Dominic Thiem is only the second man after Andy Murray to beat the trio of Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal and Djokovic five or more times The Austrian is 5-2 vs. Federer; 6-9 vs. Nadal, including 4-3 in the last seven; 5-7 vs. Djokovic (5-2 in the last seven)
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||NorthEast stuns MCFC||NorthEast United FC, which hasn’t won its opening game in the Indian Super League since 2016, finally broke the curse as it defeated 10-man Mumbai City FC 1-0, thanks to Kwesi Appiah’s spot-kick, at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Saturday. While NEUFC manager Gerard Nus began his ISL sojourn with a victory, MCFC earned the dubious record of becoming the first side managed by Sergio Lobera to not register a single shot on target in an ISL outing. Lobera surprisingly decided to leave out Mourtada Fall, the defender with most goals in ISL history, and employed Hernan Santana and Sarthak Golui as centre-backs. The duo was hardly troubled as Mumbai maintained more than 70% possession in the first half. However, Ahmed Jahouh’s red card in the 43rd changed the complexion of the game. The Moroccan midfielder lunged in from behind on NorthEast’s Khassa Camara, making contact just above the ankle. Referee R. Venkatesh, who had a clear view of the incident, didn’t hesitate to send off Jahouh. In the 47th minute, off a NEUFC corner, centre-back Dylan Fox headed the ball towards MCFC midfielder Rowllin Borges, who handled it. Ghanian striker Appiah sent goalkeeper Amrinder Singh the wrong way to give his side the lead. Later, despite multiple attacking substitutions, both teams struggled to create clear-cut chances. Mumbai won eight corners, but was unable to test NEUFC custodian Subhasish Roy Chowdhury. The Highlanders held on to the slender lead to bag three points. MCFC’s Raynier Fernandes was the second player to be substituted due to injury after ATKMB’s Michael Soosairaj on the opening night.  The result:   NorthEast United FC 1 (Appiah 47) bt Mumbai City FC 0.
22 November 2020||Kolkata,||‘Blasters win will help us in Kolkata derby’||ATK Mohun Bagan’s Fijian striker Roy Krishna was a relieved man that his goal helped the team break the jinx against Kerala Blasters. The ATK side could not win a single match against Blasters in the past three seasons, where it lost three and drew the other three in a total of six meetings since 2017. “We won the Kerala match after a long time. This win will help us in the derby.” Krishna felt the win against Blasters will inspire ATKMB ahead of the match against its traditional rival SC East Bengal. Message to fans “I have heard a lot about the Kolkata derby. I am waiting to play that match as I have never seen that match or even had a chance to play. We have to win this match at any cost,” Krishna said putting out a message for the fans. “You can't come on the field this time because of the Corona pandemic. I will miss that insanity in the gallery. But request everyone to pray for our team in many ways from outside. Support us. Stay tuned. You are the 12th person in our team.” Assessing his own performance in the opener, Krishna regrets not scoring a hat-trick. “I regret not being able to score a hat-trick. I wonder why I wasted the opportunities. “This proves that I need to work harder be more accurate. I played after practising for just two weeks. I hope I can improve myself as the days go by,” he said. Soosairaj doubtful ATKMB is likely to miss its left-back Michael Soosairaj in the upcoming derby. The injury he suffered on his left knee in the match against the Blasters seems to be serious enough to keep him off the field for a month, according to team sources.
22 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Security measures announced for ADHM||World women’s marathon record holder Brigid Kosgei of Kenya was confirmed for the 16th Airtel Delhi half Marathon here on Saturday even as the organisers mapped out the security measures amidst rising COVID-19 cases for the race. The 26-year old Kosgei, who set the world record at Chicago last year, won the rescheduled London marathon last month in 2:18:58 and would be the biggest challenge for defending champion Tsehay Gemechu of Ethiopia. The ADHM, scheduled to be run on November 29, would be the first big-ticket sporting event in the country since the outbreak of the pandemic. “The ADHM is going to be the launch of Indian athletics towards the Olympic Games. “It marks the resurgence of the competitions’ calendar for India and an opportunity for our athletes to get into competitive mode, which will put them in good stead for the Olympic Games,” AFI president Adille Sumariwalla said. Highest standards Given safety and health concerns amidst rising pollution and COVID-19 cases, the organisers insisted they would follow the highest standards with bio-secure zones and government-mandated protocols. Bio-secure zones Bio-secure zones with COVID-negative certificates mandatory would be created at the hotel for elite athletes and at the JLN Stadium for media, crew and guests respectively with restricted entry. All participants will need a COVID-19 negative test and will be tested twice before race day. The venue team will also be tested the day before besides daily temperature checks, oximeter checks, isolation areas and sanitizers at specific entry points to the stadium. Washing the course and using eco-safe technology to clear pollution would also continue from previous years. Funds Sports secretary Ravi Mital assured of sufficient funds for more such runs on the occasion that also saw the launch of the ADHM mobile app for amateur runners to register.  The ADHM is going to be the launch of Indian athletics towards the Olympic Games — Adille Sumariwalla
22 November 2020||KARNAL,||Lovekush wins senior boys’ 100m crown; Kajal clinches senior girls’ 800m title||Lovekush won the senior boys’ 100m title in a time of 11.18 seconds, beating Atul and Avinash, in the Sports is Education athletic meet organised by Women Sports Foundation at the Karan Stadium. The senior girls’ 800m crown was won by Kajal in 2 minutes, 55 seconds as she beat Gunjan and Jyoti with a lot to spare. “This unit test series is to assess and teach the students. It provides them the much required platform to practice their skills and enhance the confidence level,” said the president of the foundation, Piyush Sachdeva, who awarded medals, certificates and gift hampers to the top three in each event. More such events are planned to be hosted across the country to drive home the point that sports in itself is education for the youth.  The champions: Boys, senior: 100m: Lovekush 11.18; 1500m: Ujjwal 4:30. U-20: 100m: Akshay 12.58; 400m: 52.74; 1500m: Amit 4:38.   U-18: 1500m: Sourabh 4:42.   U-16: 100m: Rajat 13.01; 1500m: Sourabh 4:45.   U-14: 100m: Aryan 13.35; 600m: Aryan 1:38.   Girls, senior: 800m: Kajal 2:55.   U-20: 100m: Prabhjot 14.89; 400m: Simran 1:10; 800m: Jiya 2:40. U-18: 100m: Jansi 14.40; 800m: Simran 2:40.   U-16: 100m: Vanshika 14.80.   U-14: 100m: Kripa 16.28; 600m: Anjali 2:05 .
22 November 2020||KOLKATA,||Players excited to get back||After being out of action for more than eight months due to the COVID-19 pandemic, elite cricketers of the State are eagerly looking forward to the inaugural Bengal T20 Challenge. With the tournament set to begin on November 24, Anustup Majumdar, one of the top run-getters for the Ranji Trophy finalist last season, sounded upbeat. “We are excited to get back to cricket after such a long time. “ Hats off to the Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) for organising this tournament in this difficult situation,” said Majumdar, the Mohun Bagan captain. East Bengal skipper and all-rounder Arnab Nandi said: “Cricket is resuming after a long time and I am thankful to the CAB. We wanted an exclusive T20 tournament for our State so that the players could be ready for major tournaments. We are eager to play again. It’s a great opportunity,” said Nandi. All-rounder Shahbaz Ahmed, who will lead Tapan Memorial Club, said, “This is a great platform for the players ahead of the domestic season. It will boost their confidence.” Six teams will compete in the tournament to be held at the Eden Gardens from November 24 to December 9. Three more test positive Meanwhile, three more players — Abhishek Raman (East Bengal), Writtick Chatterjee (Mohun Bagan) and Dip Chatterjee (Customs) — have tested positive for COVID-19 prior to the event.
22 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vidit faces Firouzja in campaign-opener||Armed with white, Vidit Gujrathi will take on Iranian teenager Alireza Firouzja in his campaign-opener of the star-studded Skilling Open online chess tournament on Sunday. On a day when five rounds are scheduled, Vidit’s other rivals are Armenia’s Levon Aronian (white), Poland’s Jan-Krzysztof Duda (black), China’s Ding Liren (white) and the Netherlands’ Anish Giri (black). The first round begins at 10.30 p.m. IST and the official broadcaster is chess24.com . World champion Magnus Carlsen begins with black against Russia’s Ian Nepomniachtchi while second seed Ding Liren, with black, takes on another Russian Sergey Karjakin. 15 rounds Fifteen rounds, spread over the first three days, will be played in this 16-player all-play-all league phase. Thereafter, the top eight will advance to the knockouts. The quarterfinals, semifinals and final will be over two days each. Each knockout round comprises two four-game rapid matches. In case of a 1-1 deadlock, two blitz games will follow. If the tie persists, an Armageddon game will decide the winner.
22 November 2020||Sydney,||There is no burden on me, says Shami||India’s craftiest pacer Mohammed Shami is in the “right zone” after his impressive performance in the IPL, allowing him to prepare for the big Test series against Australia “without any pressure“. Shami had his best IPL season as his 20 wickets for Kings XI Punjab, including a spectacular defence of five runs in double Super Over game against Mumbai Indians, was one of the highlights of the tournament. In the right zone “My performances for KXIP in IPL has given me a lot of confidence and put me in the right zone,” Shami told BCCI.TV on Saturday. An artist with the red ball, Shami feels that a good IPL has taken the burden off him. “The biggest advantage is that I can now prepare for the upcoming series without any pressure. There is no burden on me. I am very comfortable at the moment. “I had worked hard on my bowling and my fitness in the lockdown. I knew that IPL would take place sooner or later and I was preparing myself for it.” Shami made no bones that Test matches are a priority for him on this tour as he is trying to get into the groove during the training session over last one week. “We are going to have a long tour starting with the white ball followed by pink and red ball Tests. My focus area has been the red ball and I am working on my lengths and seam movement.”  He said that the diverse skill sets makes for a very potent attack like the one India has with him, Umesh Yadav, Ishant Sharma and the menacing Jasprit Bumrah.
22 November 2020||Hyderabad:,||Smashing Blue tipped for Youngsters Plate||Trainer R.H. Sequeria’s ward Smashing Blue, unbeaten in her last four starts, should not find it difficult to win the Youngsters Plate (Div. I), the main event of the races here on Sunday (Nov. 22).  RECOMMENDER PLATE (Div. II) (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 12.55 p.m.: 1. Nova Scotia (4) P. Trevor 60, 2. Shivalik Valley (10) Akshay Kumar 59, 3. Spicy Star (12) Abhay Singh 59, 4. Kate (9) S. Zervan 58.5, 5. Barbosella (5) Ajeeth Kumar 58, 6. Team Player (3) B.R. Kumar 56, 7. Lightning Power (17) Kuldeep Singh 55, 8. Chuckit (2) Afroz Khan 54.5, 9. Glendale (8) G. Naresh 54.5, 10. Bravo (1) Irvan Singh 53.5, 11. Darshish (14) Ashad Asbar 53.5, 12. Proud Legacy (16) Darshan R.N. 53.5, 13. Silver Set (13) Surya Prakash 53.5, 14. Sugar An Spice (6) 52.5, 15. Tough And Go (15) R.S. Jodha 52.5, 16. Flying Queen (7) Gaddam 51.5 and 17. Ice Berry (11) Nakhat Singh 51.5.  1. NOVA SCOTIA, 2. KATE, 3. SHIVALIK VALLEY   YOUNGSTERS PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II), 1.30: 1. Air Strike (6) Irvan Singh 62.5, 2. Prince Valiant (3) Ajeeth Kumar 60, 3. Tootsie Roll (7) Afroz Khan 57.5, 4. Classic Remark (2) Gaurav Singh 57, 5. Happy Together (1) Jitendra Singh 56.5, 6. Starlight (5) Kiran Naidu 56.5, 7. My Journey (10) Kuldeep Singh 55.5, 8. N R I Super King (Late Super Dart) (8) Darshan R.N. 55.5, 9. Warrior Supreme (9) Md. Ismail 53.5 and 10. Smashing Blue (4) Akshay Kumar 50.  1. SMASHING BLUE, 2. PRINCE VALIANT, 3. TOOTSIE ROLL   DEMOCRACY PLATE (Div. I) (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 2.05: 1. N R I Heights (8) Darshan R.N. 60, 2. Golden Hope (15) Md. Ismail 59, 3. Tiger Of The Sea (12) Surya Prakash 59, 4. Hurricane (10) Abhay Singh 58.5, 5. Platinum Claasz (2) A.A. Vikrant 58.5, 6. Shiloh (11) Deepak Singh 57, 7. Solo Winner (14) C.P. Bopanna 57, 8. Curcumin (1) Jitendra Singh 56.5, 9. Joy Of Giving (13) Gaurav Singh 56, 10. Brush The Sky (16) Ajeeth Kumar 53.5, 11. Stormy (4) Irvan Singh 53.5, 12. Royal Style (6) Ajit Singh 52.5, 13. Smarty (5) Ashad Asbar 52.5, 14. Story Teller (7) Nakhat Singh 52.5, 15. Air Salute (3) Afroz Khan 51 and 16. Vallee Ikon (9) Gaddam 51.  1. N R I HEIGHTS, 2. SMARTY, 3. SHILOH   ADOLFITO PLATE (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II), 2.40: 1. King Maker (10) Gaurav Singh 60, 2. Palace On Wheels (11) Kuldeep Singh 59.5, 3. Prince Caspian (9) Jitendra Singh 58.5, 4. Sovet Pride (6) Akshay Kumar 58, 5. Evon Von Brando (1) Ajeeth Kumar 54.5, 6. Flamingo Fame (3) Santosh Raj N R 54, 7. Amazing Script (12) Surya Prakash 53.5, 8. Apollo (7) Ashad Asbar 53.5, 9. Once More (5) C.P. Bopanna 53.5, 10. Flamboyant Lady (4) Nakhat Singh 53, 11. Celeritas (8) Afroz Khan 52.5 and 12. Cincia Azzurra (2) S. Zervan 52.  1. SOVIET PRIDE, 2. CINCIA AZZURRA, 3. PALACE ON WHEELS   RECOMMENDER PLATE (Div. I) (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, (Cat. III), 3.15: 1. Explosive (15) Gaurav Singh 60, 2. Francis Bacon (8) Surya Prakash 60, 3. Star Racer (16) Darshan R.N. 58, 4. Coastal Cruise (11) A.A. Vikrant 57, 5. Southern Princess (2) P. Trevor 57, 6. Appenzelle (14) Kiran Naidu 56.5, 7. House Of Diamonds (12) Akshay Kumar 565, 8. Mirana (7) Ashad Asbar 56.5, 9. Crazy Horse (17) Md. Ismail 55, 10. Advance Guard (1) Irvan Singh 54.5, 11. Sea Wolf (Late Royal Tiger) (18) Ajit Singh 54, 12. Shanu Shanu (9) Afroz Khan 54, 13. Sweet Melody (10) B.R. Kumar 54, 14. Art In Motion (6) G. Naresh 53, 15. Brisbane (4) Ajeeth Kumar 53, 16. Castlerock (5) S. Zervan 52.5, 17. Southern Saffron (13) Gopal Singh 52.5 and 18. Sun Dancer (3) Jitendra Singh 52.  1. SOUTHERN PRINCESS, 2. HOUSE OF DIAMONDS, 3. MIRANA   DEMOCRACY PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III), 3.50: 1. The Special One (4) Abhay Singh 60, 2. New State (1) Irvan Singh 59, 3. Best Friend (12) Jitendra Singh 58.5, 4. Man Apart (5) Gaurav Singh 58.5, 5. Promiseofhappiness (7) A.A. Vikrant 57.5, 6. Wood Bridge (11) Md. Ismail 56.5, 7. Royal Green (3) Darshan R N 56, 8. Marvel Princess (10) Kiran Naidu 55.5, 9. Starboy (8) Ashad Asbar 55, 10. Super Act (2) Kuldeep Singh 54.5, 11. Ajmal Birju (14) Gopal Singh 535, 12. Country’s Gift (6) Santosh Raj N R 52.5, 13. Diesis Dream (15) Akshay Kumar 52, 14. N R I Flame (9) Gaddam 52 and 15. Farmville (13) Ajeeth Kumar 51.5.  1. STARBOY, 2. NEW STATE, 3. MARVEL PRINCESS   YOUNGSTERS PLATE (Div. II) (1,200m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II), 4.25: 1. That’s My Class (3) Md. Ismail 60, 2. Mark My Word (7) Jitendra Singh 59, 3. Trump Girl (10) Abhay Singh 59, 4. Mon General (4) Ashad Asbar 58.5, 5. Long Range (1) Irvan Singh 58, 6. Southern Legacy (9) Gopal Singh 56.5, 7. Yours Forever (2) Surya Prakash 56.5, 8. Destined Dynamite (5) Gaddam 55, 9. N R I Symbol (6) Darshan R.N. 54.5 and 10. Shaquille (8) Akshay Kumar 53.5.  1. MON GENERAL, 2. TRUMP GIRL, 3. YOURS FOREVER   SOVIET STAR PLATE (1,200m), 4-y-o & over, rated upto 25 (Cat. III), 5.00: 1. Alexanderthegreat (18) A.A. Vikrant 62, 2. Halo’s Princess (12) S. Zervan 62, 3. Rhine (17) B.R. Kumar 62, 4. Tough Lady (3) Surya Prakash 62, 5. Bob Campbell (15) Jitendra Singh 61.5, 6. Hashtag (2) Gaurav Singh 61.5, 7. Royal Avenger (9) G. Naresh 61.5, 8. Augenstern (5) Afroz Khan 60.5, 9. Dazzling King (10) P. Trevor 60.5, 10. Satin Symphony (11) Gopal Singh 60.5, 11. Gold Label (6) Nakhat Singh 60, 12. Moka (16) Ajit Singh 60, 13. Sweet Brandy (4) Gaddam 59.5, 14. Rasika (14) Abhay Singh 59, 15. Secretary (8) Ajeeth Kumar 59, 16. Hopscotch (1) Ashad Asbar 53.5, 17. Country’s Pet (13) Md. Ismail 52 and 18. Golden Faraska (7) Santosh Raj N.R. 52.  1. HALO’S PRINCESS, 2. HOPSCOTCH, 3. DAZZLING KING  Day’s best: SMASHING BLUE  Double: NOVA SCOTIA — SOUTHERN PRINCESS  Jackpot: 4, 5, 6, 7 & 8; Mini Jackpot: (i) 2, 3, 4 & 5; (ii) 5, 6, 7 & 8. Treble: (i) 1, 2 & 3; (ii) 3, 4 & 5; (iii) 6, 7 & 8; Tanala: All races.
22 November 2020||BENGALURU:,||Augustus Caesar rules in main event||Augustus Caesar (Neeraj up) won the Bangalore Turf Club Trophy, the feature event of the races held here on Saturday (Nov 21). The winner is owned by Mr. S.M. Ruia, Mr. Abhimanyu J. Thackersey, Mr. Gaurav Gopalkrishan Sethi & Mr. Berjis Minoo Desai and trained by Altamash Ahmed. Jockey Trevor won three races on the day.  1. MANIPAL PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only (Terms): BLOOM BUDDY (Anjar Alam) 1, Morganite (Ashhad Asbar) 2, Jokshan (Neeraj) 3 and First Impression (B. Harish) 4. Hd, Lnk and 4. 1m, 13.88s. Rs. 197 (w), 32, 16 and 38 (p), SHP: 36, THP: 87, FP: 1,037, Q: 771, Trinella: 10,213, Exacta: 3,840 and 8,959 (carried over). Favourite: Morganite. Owner: Mr. S. Pathy. Trainer: Irfan Ghatala.  2. NOVEMBER PLATE (Div. II), (1,400m), rated 15 to 35: SADAQAT (Ashhad Asbar) 1, Amalfi Sunrise (P.P. Dhebe) 2, Dream Chaser (R. Manish) and Star Hopper (Zervan) (Dead heat) 3. 4, Dead heat and Snk. 1m, 27.15s. Rs. 295 (w), 50, 13, 49 (Dream Chaser) and 10 (Star Hopper) (p), SHP: 33, THP: 102 (Dream Chaser) and 33 (Star Hopper), FP: 3,710, Q: 611, Trinella: 2,293 and 2,293, Exacta: 7,462 (carried over). Favourite: Amalfi Sunrise. Owner: Mr. B.E. Vasanth Kumar. Trainer: Azhar Ali.  3. WORLD TELEVISION DAY PLATE (1,400m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): REALIA (M. Naveen) 1, In A Breeze (Vaibhav) 2, Arabian Phoenix (Trevor) 3 and Dynamical (Darshan) 4. Not run: Garamond. 1, 3/4 and 1-1/2. 1m, 27.09s. Rs. 119 (w), 14, 21 and 23 (p), SHP: 48, THP: 43, FP: 2,253, Q: 991, Trinella: 8,860 (carried over), Exacta: 6,742 and 2,889. Favourite: Secret Source. Owners: Mr. Divya Chawcharia & Mr. Sanjay Ramniklal Goyani. Trainer: Prasanna Kumar.  4. CHIKKABALLAPUR PLATE (1,200m), rated 45 to 65: GOLDEN OAKS (Trevor) 1, Abira (S. John) 2, Cuban Pete (Zervan) 3 and Regal Music (Kiran Rai) 4. 4-3/4, 3-1/2 and 3/4. 1m, 12.27s. Rs. 18 (w), 12, 10 and 25 (p), SHP: 39, THP: 55, FP: 99, Q: 41, Trinella: 187 and 74, Exacta: 1,878 and 1,073. Favourite: Golden Oaks. Owners: Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt Ltd rep by. Mr. Yohan Z. Poonawalla, Mrs. Michelle Y Poonawalla, Mr. Zavary S. Poonawalla & Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Mukul A. Sonawala & M/s. DT Racing & Breeding LLP rep by. Mr. D.R. Thacker. Trainer: S. Padmanabhan.  5. HOYSALA SALVER (1,600m), rated 60 & above: WELL CONNECTED (Trevor) 1, Tenno Sho (A. Imran) 2, Electra (P.P. Dhebe) 3 and Commodus (Jagadeesh) 4. 1/2, 1 and 1-3/4. 1m, 38.25s. Rs. 19 (w), 11, 15 and 20 (p), SHP: 33, THP: 74, FP: 56, Q: 37, Trinella: 219 and 166, Exacta: 1,146 and 737. Favourite: Well Connected. Owners: Mr. M. Rishad, Mr. P.J. Vazifdar & Poonawalla Racing & Breeding Pvt Ltd rep by. Mrs. Behroze Z. Poonawalla, Mr. Yohan Z. Poonawalla & Mrs. Michelle Y Poonawalla. Trainer: S. Padmanabhan.  6. BANGALORE TURF CLUB TROPHY (1,200m), 3-y-o & over, (Terms): AUGUSTUS CAESAR (Neeraj) 1, Dream Catcher (P.P. Dhebe) 2, Knotty Ash (Antony) 3 and Psychic Warrior (Kiran Rai) 4. 1-3/4, 1-3/4 and Nose. 1m, 12.51s. Rs. 129 (w), 34 and 66 (p), SHP: 124, THP: 25, FP: 655, Q: 253, Trinella: 2,615 and 6,101 (carried over), Exacta: 9,958 (carried over). Favourite: Multifaceted. Owners: Mr. S.M. Ruia, Mr. Abhimanyu J. Thackersey, Mr. Gaurav Gopalkrishan Sethi & Mr. Berjis Minoo Desai. Trainer: Altamash Ahmed.  7. LAL BAGH PLATE (1,600m), rated 30 to 50, 4-y-o & over: ASTRAL FORCE (Antony) 1, High Priestess (Trevor) 2, Whizzo (Srinath) 3 and Mighty Red (Sandesh) 4. 3, 1/2 and 3/4. 1m, 38.55s. Rs. 81 (w), 25, 14 and 20 (p), SHP: 43, THP: 59, FP: 243, Q: 155, Trinella: 5,240 and 2,245, Exacta: 6,321 and 2,709. Favourite: High Priestess. Owners: Mr. K. Manoj Kumar & Mr. K. Kamesh. Trainer: Prasanna Kumar.  8. NOVEMBER PLATE (Div. I), (1,400m), rated 15 to 35: BELLATOR (Trevor) 1, Sun Splash (S. Shareef) 2, Happy Dancing (B. Harish) 3 and Girl With Pearl (R. Manish) 4. 7-1/4, Nose and 3-1/2. 1m, 26.47s. Rs. 19 (w), 10, 19 and 104 (p), SHP: 25, THP: 114, FP: 98, Q: 54, Trinella: 1,129 and 967, Exacta: 8,192 (carried over). Favourite: Bellator. Owners: Mr. Marthand Singh Mahindra, Mr. James Mathews, Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy & Mr. Rama Seshu Eyunni. Trainer: S. Attaollahi. Jackpot: Rs. 27,839 (one tkt.); Runner up: 11,931 (one tkt.); Treble (i): 562 (eight tkts.); (ii): 4,245 (carried over).
22 November 2020||NEWCASTLE,||Chelsea chugs along||Chelsea scored a convincing 2-0 win at Newcastle, for its third straight Premier League match success, on Saturday. Frank Lampard’s side, which hasn’t lost in its last six league matches, got full points through Federico Fernandez’s first half own goal and Tammy Abraham’s strike after the interval.  The results:   Premier League: Newcastle 0 lost to Chelsea 2 (Fernandez 10-og, Abraham 65).   Aston Villa 1 (Konsa 47) lost to Brighton 2 (Welbeck 12, March 56).   LaLiga: Levante 1 (Melero Manzanares 12) drew with Elche 1 (Morente 64).   Osasuna 1 (Garcia 69) Huesca 1 (Sandro 5).   Serie A: Crotone 0 Lazio 2 (Immobile 21, Correa 58).   Bundesliga: Bayern Munich 1 (Coman 62) drew with Werder Bremen 1 (Eggestein 45).   Borussia Monchengladbach 1 (Neuhaus 5) drew with Augsburg 1 (Caligiuri 88).   Hoffenheim 3 (Baumgartner 16, Sessegnon 48, Kramaric 71-pen) drew with Stuttgart 3 (Gonzalez 18, Wamangituka 27, Kempf 90+4).   Schalke 04 0 lost to Wolfsburg 2 (Weghorst 3, Schlager 24).   Arminia Bielefeld 1 (Hradecky 47-og) lost to Bayer Leverkusen 2 (Bailey 27, Dragovic 88).
22 November 2020||CHENNAI:,||Manoj edges Palani||Manoj Dasarathan (Towers Club) edged past Palani (QBG) 4-3 in the second round of the Ajay Rastogi memorial snooker tournament on Saturday.  Important results (second round): Saturday: Manoj Dasarathan (TC) bt Palani (QBG) 4-3; S. Magesh (TNBSA) bt K .Rajan (TNBSA) 4-1; Kamaraj (TNBSA) bt Vishal (QBC) 4-1.   Friday: Abhishek (TNBSA) bt Shriram (TBSA) 4-1; Pratish (TNBSA) bt Dilip Nani (MIRS) 4-1; Hariharan Rajamani (TNBSA) bt Vijay Ram (Mylapore Club) 4-1; (Rd 1): Uday Kumar (TNBSA) bt V.R. Sathish Kumar (TNCA) 4-2.
22 November 2020||Chennai,||Suresh is CAC chairman||The Tamil Nadu Cricket Association (TNCA) during its apex body meeting made sweeping changes to its Cricket Advisory Committee (CAC). S. Suresh, former Tamil Nadu all-rounder and captain, will be the new chairman of the CAC. Also coming into CAC is former Tamil Nadu and Railways’ opener U.R. Radhakrishnan. Completing the three-member CAC is Sudha Shah, former Indian women’s team captain. Going out of the panel are T. Karunamurthy, who suffered a stroke and underwent two major surgeries and has still not recovered fully. Accomplished former Tamil Nadu paceman B. Kalyanasundaram is now based in Puducherry and had expressed his inability to continue in the panel. And Sudha comes in for Sumathi Iyer, marking a total overhaul of the State CAC. The CAC is expected to meet on Monday to pick the new panel of senior selectors. It was also decided to play the remaining four matches of the first division league in the second week of December and finish the tournament by the end of the month. Then, from December end, the TNCA will hold the unfinished league matches in the lower divisions. Only then will a call on the new season be taken.
22 November 2020||LONDON,||Thiem gets past Djokovic||Dominic Thiem recovered from squandering five match points to beat Novak Djokovic 7-5, 6-7(10), 7-6(5) and reach the second straight summit clash at the ATP Finals in London on Saturday. Thiem, who ended the top seed’s hopes of equalling Roger Federer’s record of six titles at the event, is the only player after Andy Murray to beat the trio of Federer, Rafael Nadal and Djokovic five or more times. Meanwhile on Friday, Russian fourth seed Daniil Medvedev beat debutant Diego Schwartzman 6-3, 6-3, to top Group Tokyo 1970. His victory gave him three wins out of three in the group stage — a far cry from his debut last year, when he lost all three matches.  The results: Singles: Semifinal: 3-Dominic Thiem (Aut) bt 1-Novak Djokovic (Srb) 7-5, 6-7(12), 7-6(5).   Group Tokyo 1970: 4-Daniil Medvedev (Rus) bt 8-Diego Schwartzman (Arg) 6-3, 6-3.   Doubles: Semifinal: 5-Wesley Koolhof (Ned) & Nikola Mektic (Cro) bt 4-Marcel Granollers (Esp) & Horacio Zeballos (Arg) 6-3, 6-4.   Group Bob Bryan: 7-Jurgen Melzer (Aut) & Edouard Roger-Vasselin (Fra) bt Granollers & Zeballos 6-6 (1-0), retd .
22 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||HFC looks for winning start||Hyderabad FC head coach Manuel Marquez stressed on the need to start a campaign on a winning note and is optimistic of doing so when the team takes on Odisha FC in its first ISL match in this season on November 23 in Goa. Speaking at a virtual media conference on Saturday, Marquez said it would not be easy for coaches and players to come out of the bio-bubble and give of their best in a match. “These are testing times for all of us, including the support staff and officials, especially to be away from families during a pandemic,” Marquez said. With ISL being played only at three venues and without spectators, the HFC head coach is a little disappointed. “Fans are the most important aspect of any football contest. Everyone loves to play in front of them. It will be the same for all teams as there will be no home advantage.” Marquez also said teams that have continuity in their squads stand a better chance, especially in the first-half of the season.
22 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Ladder Cup in December||The third Ladder Cup football tournament will be held in the second week of December. The tournament, organised by Little Flower Football Academy (LIFFA), will be a feeder tournament for selecting trainees to the academy. The 10-day tournament will be held at the SMRC football stadium and Marian College ground. The tournament will be conducted on a league-cum-knockout basis. The tournament is open to schools and clubs in the coastal region of Thiruvananthapuram and Kanyakumari districts. Players born on or after 01-01-2008 are eligible to represent their teams. The last date for online registration of the players and officials is November 30.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Deadly spell by Bhagwan; Divakar slams century||Bhagwan Singh came up with a dream spell (5/0) as Engrades CC defeated Bangalore Dynamos by seven wickets in the KSCA YS Ramaswamy tournament on Saturday. In another match, Divakar top-scored with 135 to set up Canara Union CC's whopping 257-run win over Jeevanbhimanagar CC.  The scores:   Viveknagar Cricketers 122 in 27.5 overs (Mukesh 43, Mansoor 3/31, Bharath Jain 4/36) lost to Crescent CC (1) 123/6 in 28.3 overs (Harshat Ram 43).   Sapphire CC 248 in 44.3 overs (N. Sumanth 70, M. Arun 51) bt Duleep Cricketers 123 in 38.2 overs (R. Vishal 29).   Kengeri Cricketers 220 in 45 overs (Venkatesh 71, Aditya Gupta 28, Gangaram 42 n.o.) lost to Century Cricketers 224/3 in 39 overs (Vijay Kumar 45, Syon 28, Pratap 84 n.o., Virender Singh 50 n.o.).   Swastic Union CC (2) 436/6 in 50 overs (Joel Jasper 102, Naga Bharath 64, Amit Verma 90, Aman Khan 69, C.A. Karthik 54, V. Divyesh 3/107) bt Canrese CC 106 in 40.1 overs (Vikram 32, S. Prashanth 4/21, Aman Khan 5/15).   Bangalore Dynamos 99 in 38.2 overs (M.J. Abhay 29, Muzameel Pasha 26, Bhagwan Singh 5/0) lost to Engrades CC 100/3 in 15.4 overs (Gaurav Upadhyay 25, Aziz 31 n.o., Aditya Pavalur 3/31).   Victory CC 274/8 in 50 overs (Rahul Prasanna 113, Raghuveer 74, Chandrakanth 3/38, S.G. Kunal 3/46) bt Neptune CC 261 in 48.5 overs (Koushik 31, Rayan Ahmed 73, Vishnu Prasad 25, S.G. Kunal 36, Hemanth 4/46, C. Raghu 3/49).   Canara Union CC 375/7 in 50 overs (Divakar 135, Sharath Kumar 30, Dheeraj Kumar 54, Md. Azahruddin 46) bt Jeevanbhimanagar CC 118 in 37 overs (G. Shripad 38).    Top-seed Suhitha Maruri entered the girls’ final of the KSLTA-AITA Junior Circuit Talent Series tennis tournament with a 4-6, 6-2, [10-2] win over T. Sai Janvi on Saturday.  The results (semifinals):   Boys: Mandeep Reddy Kudumala bt S. Rishi Vandhan 3-6,6-3, [11-9]; Tarun Vetreivelan bt Jason Michel David 3-6, 7-5, [10-6].   Girls: Suhitha Maruri bt T. Sai Janvi 4-6, 6-2, [10-2]; Vanya Srivastav bt Presha Shanthamoorthy 6-2, 6-1 .
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Bharat, Yash and Shiva shine for Telefunken||Half-centuries by Bharat Sindhwani and Yash Dabas, who added 106 for the fourth wicket, and three wickets by left-arm spinner Shiva Singh saw Telefunken Club beat Bal Bhawan School by five wickets to enter the pre-quarterfinals of the 30th all-India Om Nath Sood memorial tournament.  The scores: BBS 200/9 in 40 overs (Dinesh Mor 70, Shiva Singh 3/41) lost to Telefunken Club 202/5 in 38.3 overs (Bharat Zindgani 63, Yash Dabas 54, Yogesh Nagar 30).   India Under-19 bowler Zeeshan Ansari took three wickets as Uttar Pradesh Cricket Association beat Life Care, Lucknow, by 41 runs to enter the quarterfinals of the Ganaur Premier League. In another game, Chandigarh all-rounder Gurinder Singh scored an unbeaten 50 and picked up four wickets as Minerwa Academy edged Uday Gupte Academy.  The scores: UPCA 110/8 in 20 overs (Priyanshu Srivastav 37, Shivam Sharma 2/13, Rohit Dangwal 2/25) bt Life Care 69 in 15.2 overs (Yash Garg 27 n.o., Zeeshan Ansari 3/16, Jamshed Alam 2/12, Saurav Dubey 2/15).   Minerwa Academy 123/7 in 20 overs (Gurinder Singh 50 n.o., Jagmeet Singh 38, Divij Mehra 3/16, Raghav Singh Chahar 2/24) bt UGA 115/6 in 20 overs (Abhishek Gosain 37, Gurinder Singh 4/15).    Vishal Chaudhary (4/14) and Ayush Chauhan (3/4) were the architects of Sehgal & Chaudhary’s eight-wicket win over Hari Singh Academy in the Unique T20 tournament.  The scores: HSA 65 in 14 overs (Vishal Chaudhary 4/14, Ayush Chauhan 3/4) lost to SCA 66/2 in 9 overs .    Ziya-ul-Haq (4/26), Jonty Sidhu (72) and Aman Gurnani (72) helped LB Shastri Club score a four-wicket win against Haryana Academy in the BR Sharma memorial tournament.  The scores: Haryana Academy 269 in 36.5 overs (Kuldeep Devatwal 82, Rajat Paliwal 65, Mayank Kumar 61, Zia-ul-Haq 4/26, Ansh Chaudhary 3/58) lost to LB Shastri Club 273/6 in 39.3 overs (Aman Gurnani 72, Jonty Sidhu 72, Priyansh Arya 34) .    Neeraj Yadav took four wickets as Rohtak Road Gymkhana beat Delhi Colts by five wickets in the Swastik Cup.  The scores: Delhi Colts 138 in 29.3 overs (Sahil Rana 44, Aviroop 37, Neeraj Yadav 4/27, Shekhar Sehrawat 3/20) lost to RRG 141/5 in 30.2 overs (Shekhar Sehrawat 35) .      Gagan Vats’s 136 and an all-round show by Ekansh Gulati (82 and 3/19) were the highlights of Uday Gupte Cricket Academy’s 151-run win over Sai Develop Zone in the first Tripathi Premier League.  The scores: UGA 297/6 in 40 overs (Gagan Vats 136, Ekansh Gulati 82, Wasim Ahmed 3/49) bt SDZ 146 in 27.4 overs (Sandeep Saini 52, Ekansh Gulati 3/19, Vishesh Kapoor 3/14) .    Shubham Deswal (4/17) set up Cap Pathan Wing Academy’s seven-wicket win over Positive Roads Academy in the first P.T. Wing Sports tournament.  The scores: PRA 154 in 37.1 overs (Ryansh Kapoor 40, Shubham Deswal 4/17) lost to CPW Academy 158/3 in 36 overs (Mohsin Khan 60 n.o., Vinay Kumar 45) .
22 November 2020||BENGALURU,||Bhriguvanshi to lead||Vishesh Bhriguvanshi will lead India in the FIBA Asia Cup 2021 basketball qualifiers (window 2) at Bahrain. The side will face Lebanon on Nov. 27 and Bahrain on Nov. 29.  The squad: Vishesh Bhriguvanshi (Capt.), Muin Bek Hafeez, Prasanna Venkatesh, Princepal Singh, Jagdeep Singh, Amjyot Singh, Prashant Rawat, Sahajkumar Patel, Sahaij Pratap, Anil Kumar, Sejin Mathew, and Sharad Dadich .
22 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Hamstring getting better, says Rohit||Rohit Sharma revealed that he always knew his hamstring injury was not serious and would be ready for the tour of Australia. “Hamstring is feeling absolutely fine. Just started the process of getting it nice and strong. That’s the reason I’m at the NCA,” said Rohit.PTI
22 November 2020||ORLANDO,||Prajnesh enters semifinals||Prajnesh Gunneswaran beat Chris Eubanks 6-4, 7-6(2) to enter the final of the Orlando Open Challenger tournament on Saturday. Fourth seed Prajnesh had outplayed sixth seed Dmitry Popko of Kazakhstan 6-0, 6-3 in the quarterfinals of the $52,080 tournament. American Eubanks had knocked out second-seeded countryman Denis Kudla in three sets in the last-eight phase. In the ITF men’s event in Egypt, Siddhant Banthia and Aidan Mchugh of Britain lost in the doubles final to Aldin Setkic and Yaraslav Shyla.  The results: $52,080 Challenger, Orlando, US: Semifinal: Prajnesh Gunneswaran bt Chris Eubanks 6-4, 7-6(2); Quarterfinal: Prajnesh bt Dmitry Popko (Kaz) 6-0, 6-3.   $15,000 ITF, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt: Doubles (final): Aldin Setkic (BIH) & Yaraslav Shyla (Blr) bt Aidan Mchugh (GBR) & Siddhant Banthia 7-6(2), 6-3 .
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 09:28 IST,||Sudoku - November 22, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Cow hugging||Holland takes credit for a simple self-care practice called cow hugging. Koe Knuffelen is Dutch for cow hugging, a wellness trend that was started more than a decade ago. During the pandemic-induced lockdown, it has apparently grown into a global health movement with the appeal of soothing frayed nerves and calming the body. A BBC report says visitors to cow farms across Rotterdam, Switzerland and the U.S. are significantly up. The huggers lean against a cow to rest, stroke, embrace, snuggle, or talk to the animal for hours in a clean, smell-free green surrounding. Cow hugging regulates body metabolism, and immune and stress response, says Bengaluru-based psychiatrist Dr. B. Girish Chandra. The feeling is akin to cuddling a toddler or pets at home. “A hug triggers happy hormones and reduces stress hormones and huggers benefit from the calm and gentle animal’s warm body temperature, slower heartbeat, and large size.” Outside a gated community in Madurai, a water pit and stacks of grass have been attracting a herd of cows for the past 21 years. Resident Jitendra Golcha says he daily gives them a quick neck and back rub without knowing about cow hugging! When lockdown started, Varun Chirumamilla drove 350 kilometres from Hyderabad to his ancestral home, which he describes as a feel-good animal farm. His three-year-old daughter has taken to the cowshed and plays around one named Gowri for hours, feeding and caressing her. The farm gets visitors who come to buy cow milk and Varun allows them to pet the animals if they wish. Hopefully, the cow will not become what yoga is in the West: a commodity to be marketed and sold. Therapy animals can lend real comfort in unusual ways. In this column, we demystify the buzzwords in wellness
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The pandemic guide to parenting a preteen||When S. Prashanti shifted base from Hyderabad to Visakhapatnam following a career move last month, the main challenge she faced were the insecurities of her two daughters, 12 and 14 years old. They missed their friends and the familiar set-up of their home, became increasingly withdrawn and would often be too overwhelmed with emotions. “My 12-year-old was more affected. The pandemic had made her more emotionally dependent on me since she couldn’t meet her friends. She has been confused and prefers to be silent,” says Prashanti, an HR professional. The situation was further complicated as the kids had to live with their grandparents. “The generation gap is obvious and there is an increased friction between my daughters and their grandparents. The girls often break down when I return after my day’s work,” she says. While teens battle their own set of problems, children in the pre-teens are experiencing more extreme and varied struggles than they did before the pandemic. “It’s typically between the ages of nine and 12 that children become more withdrawn, trying to find their own voice even as they deal with physical, cognitive, and emotional changes,” says Anita Rao, a psychologist in Visakhapatnam. “The prolonged isolation from peers, extended family and school has changed the chemistry between many parents and their pre-teens. Unlike teenagers who are more plugged into friends via devices, pre-teens are still dependent on their parents and usually have more controlled use of gadgets.” “Outdoor activity and social interaction are critical for their psychosocial well-being. But parents often find it tough to help them understand why the world around them has changed,” says Deepa Mohan, Head of Department of Psychology at GITAM University in Visakhapatnam. Added to that is the realisation that they or their loved ones can get sick. While this is the first sign of them breaking out of childhood, with an awareness of the world, it can also be the cause of worry. Here’s what you can do to help, especially if you see signs of distress. Calm is contagious “Listen, comfort and reassure. It is important to dispel anxieties by being honest and open about the situation. Parents must provide reassurance to children as many of them may feel anxious about seeing their parents or grandparents hospitalised,” she says. Children thrive on routine Without schools and schedules they are experiencing a complex mix of emotions they struggle to describe. “The prolonged situation has led to late sleeping hours with binge watching and late night snacking. Rapid weight gain is another issue many parents are talking about due to lack of outdoor games classes,” says nutritionist and dietician Anjali, founder of Starlite Nutrition and Wellness Centre. Praise and flexibility work “Set limits that are possible. For instance, if your child demands an extra half an hour of watching TV, allow that. Ensure that any changes are discussed, negotiated and fine-tuned to your loved one’s needs. But make sure to engage them in other different activities throughout the day,” suggests Deepa. Instead of constant correction, notice and praise the desirable behaviour that your child is exhibiting. Frequent criticism can affect a child’s developing self-esteem. Togetherness helps This is an ideal time to involve preteens in a fundraising activity for a local NGO, to give them a sense of purpose. Cook together and chat while you prep. The lack of direct eye contact may help. Art calms “Online classes put a lot of pressure on pre-adolescent children. The academic pressures are high, and the mind is not evolved enough to process the information overload,” says Anita, who is also an artist. She says engaging them through art like Mandala can help improve their concentration as well as keep them creatively engaged. “Mandala helps children to express themselves non-verbally,” she adds.  Signs of distress Changing patterns of sleeping and eating Being withdrawn or aggressive Fears of being afraid to be left alone Clingy or being overly dependent Decreased interest in playing and engaging in playful activities Extreme emotions like crying more than usual
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||We’ve been dieting all wrong?||I have been on some kind of food restrictive diet for as long as I can remember (except in college, when hostel kindly did that for me): a gut-friendly diet, an asthma diet, even an auto-immune diet. Some years ago, when I read The Grain Brain, I put myself on a gluten-free diet swearing that wheat was killing me, while often binge-eating bread and butter — that comfort food when the emotional brain overpowers the logical one. Sometime later, I approached a naturopath for constipation (yes, yes, I am your mother’s age) who asked me to skip grain at dinner. Then I went dairy free, night-shade veggie free, red-meat free, sugar free (wait, that’s a brand name) in turn. Ironically, I never felt free. Instead, I felt bound by choices my mind had made for my body. Looking back, there were only two foods I’d eliminated that helped: gluten and sugar. Of late, I have realised that the real diet must be on screens and the screen time we’re fed on. How many times have we been on our laptops, while also checking our phones? How many times do we eat in front of a screen? How many times have we used an OTT platform to dull us into sleep? A diet of online chatter, which ironically involves the eyes and mind rather than the ears and mouth, is what keeps me distracted from life through the day. I read something online and think (overthink) about it, rather than listening or speaking and feeling for the friend I’m chatting with. My emotions then, are bent through the lens of what someone has posted on social media rather than what someone says to me. It’s like Chinese Whisper at a deeper level. Say someone on Instagram posts a video of an early morning run, extolling her followers to also get up and get some exercise in the park (hashtag Vitamin N, hashtag Vitamin D). I may perceive it (often do) as a post directed at me (because I’ve been in bed sleeping until 8 a.m.). I now feel guilt. Now imagine if a friend had called me at 7 a.m., asking me to join her while she stepped out for a walk in the park, I’m much more likely to do that. I hear her voice, I respond to her friendship and the fact that she’s reaching out to me. Since the festive season will soon be upon us, and the pandemic has changed the way we shop mindlessly, my endeavour for the rest of this year is to have more conversations (sans judgement) with people I know, love, or like, and fewer interactions with my phone that introduces me to people I don’t know and really couldn’t care less about. I will be going on a digital diet. Would you like to join me?
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Understanding asthma||Asthma is a lung condition in which the tubes that carry air to and from the lungs swell up or become narrow and cause breathlessness. Allopathic doctors say there is no cure, but treatment (medication) can help control the symptoms that worsen due to allergies to dust, pollution, pollen, tobacco smoke, chemical irritants and cold air. Emotional stress, obesity and anxiety also trigger asthma in some people. People are now waking up to improving the quality of their lives. By trial and error, and by a process of elimination in the diet or otherwise, people are following what suits them the best, says Manjari Chandra, a functional nutritionist and author of the book Eat Up, Clean Up: Your Personal Journey to a Healthy Life . If you have asthma, you know cold, dry weather can be troublesome, especially as you may be susceptible to secondary infections. So you up the intake of your immunity boosters with antioxidant rich foods.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||When road safety hits the home stretch||Aroad in a humongous gated community can be the equivalent of a Green Anaconda, coiled and largely hidden in water and therefore its size and potential threat not alarmingly obvious. These gated communities have their job cut out, as the roads can turn sharply in places; have ramps from car basements leading up to them; and at certain hours, have residents cycling on them, dangerously rubbing bumpers with motorists. “If all the roads within our community are put together to make up one road, we will have a road that is around 2.5 km long,” declares Raghavan Murti, president, Union of Tower Association at House of Hiranandani Upscale in Egattur. “To manage such roads, gated communities should have a full-fledged road safety and regulatory system in place. Besides, residents’ welfare association members will have to walk a thin line between education and regulation.” Raghavan illustrates this with two examples — children skating and cycling down the roads; and trying out the ramps in the car basement areas. “Whenever children skate and cycle on the roads, our hearts are in our mouths. We advise them and the parents on how to be safe. As parents want this outdoor activity for their children we cannot ban it,” elaborates Raghavan. “However, we step into the role of a strict enforcer, when a child tries to cycle down a ramp leading to the basement car parking, because of the high degree of risk attached to it. We have posted security personnel just to watch these ramps for such violation.” At DLF Garden City, a massive 1750-unit community in Semmancheri with huge open spaces and a wide matrix of roads, the safety and security team did not countenance requests from parents that school buses come right to their towers. “It was a case where the request had to be rejected straightaway and it was. If this request was acceded to, there could be 20 school buses coming into the community, and the safety of other children from the community who head to their schools riding bicycles would be compromised. So, this obviously could not be allowed. The community however did whatever it could to help parents and their school-going children: It built bus shelters outside for parents and the children to wait for school buses,” explains P.V.S. Janarthanam, a resident and a member of the Sub-Committee for Safety and Security. John Praveen, secretary of Vaikund Sundaram Apartment Association, points out that his community is spread out horizontally, having a mix of villas, duplex-apartments and regular apartments, and has roads that together add up to a kilometre. So, by default, traffic management is one of the big components of safety. This means there are going to be complaints about speeding and rash driving, and as Praveen explains, the Association seeks to have them addressed promptly, fairly and sometimes with an iron hand. “People will get called out for exceeding speed limits, and rash driving. We also fine people,” says Praveen, adding that this requires an evidence-based system to be fostered. “When parents complain about rash driving, we monitor the footage, and we go to those in question with the evidence. We can be firm but not aggressive about it.” The point, Raghavan says, is that residents should be continually reminded that their road behaviours are being watched. “We get the security personnel to instruct and correct those found violating traffic rules. When residents send in video evidence of a traffic violation, we act on it and that ensures their continued trust in the system.” Raghavan underscores the effectiveness of humour is disarmingly conveying the importance of inviolable rules, citing the example of how the community teamed up with a group of students from Padma Adarsh, a school on Old Mahabalipuram Road run by the Punjab Association, to hold a helmet campaign on the premises, and also outside on the arterial road, including the Navallur checkpost. “With the sartorial features and bearing of Yamaraj, one of the students would stop anyone riding a motorcycle within the community without a helmet on, and say, ‘Come! Come! Come! You are just the one I was looking for!’ These campaigns may not show immediate results, but when they are run on a sustained basis, results will surely follow,” he believes. Both Praveen and Raghavan understand that the basic handicap faced by residents’ association cannot be surmounted. For, they cannot do so, without losing their essential character, which is that of an enabler of rules, and not an iron-fisted enforcer of them. Therefore, infrastructural intervention — such as installing an adequate numbers of speed breakers and reflectors; having convex mirrors around turns, and signages — should be of the highest order, making it near-impossible for residents to engage in risky road behaviour. Besides, communities should also have clear road-safety guidelines handed to security personnel, and they would take things forward from there. With these, gated communities can breathe easy in times when they just cannot leave things to residents’ good sense. “At House of Hiranandani it is 7:45 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. to 7 p.m.,” says Raghavan. That is obviously not the time to stand by with folded arms to watch if the safety campaigns have had an impact on residents. It is a time of heavy traffic, consisting of people in a hurry — and haste and horsepower can be an unsettling combo. Says Raghavan, “During these hours, we deploy our security personnel who regulate traffic with whistles and firmness.” Janarthanam points out that at DLF Garden City, the safety and security team does not take kindly to people driving into and around the community, without driving licences. He elaborates: “The security personnel are instructed to carry out regular and random checks, and so, they would ask vendors to present their driving licences. They are also asked to report to the sub-committee if any young resident who is driving a motorised vehicle though they are not old enough to drive one. Having clear instructions from the sub-committee, security personnel are capable of taking the right decisions on their own.”
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Mani Ratnam’s Anjali and its continuing connection with a gated community in Chennai||The 1990 Mani Ratnam blockbuster Anjali , which provided a glimpse of gated-community living, had a sub-plot involving an uncontrollably exuberant gang of children. As a collective, these children were portrayed as quick-witted and nimble-footed, and this meant that their pranks found their targets — the grown-ups — as uncannily as a cruise missile. The storytelling device did wonders for the film, adding to its humour component, and it operated on the underlying idea that these children were on an equal footing with the older population at the gated community. Fast forward to 2020, this idea is asserting itself, on a hugely different platform and with a lot more reverence for the grown-ups involved, but on the same spot where much of the film, particularly the scenes involving the children’s gang, was shot. Aashiana Apartments on Second Cross Street in Venus Colony stands on the land where Venus Studios was earlier situated and Mani Ratnam’s iconic film was largely shot (more on it later). During the pandemic, Aashiana Apartments shifted many of its regular social activities online, especially those pertaining to culture and entertainment, and the children at the community found an equal footing with the grown-ups. With their digital skills, they were in fact often in the driver’s seat, steering these online initiatives. Usha Manoj, committee member of the residents’ association and a key member of the entertainment committee, points out that a tech support team consisting entirely of children played a central role in this online social engagement. “This year’s Navarathri celebrations were conducted online. Videos of kolus in the households would be compiled together, and every day, a compilation would be sent out to the residents. The children’s tech support team — Manasa (13), Shambhavi (11), Sukriti (15), Ayush (14), Aarush (13), Rohith (13), Avikshit (12), Rakshit (11) and Rishi (12) — would work on these videos, editing them, and adding titles and captions, and also background music to them,” says Usha. She continues, “Wherever residents were diffident about shooting videos of their kolus, members of the children tech support team would land up at their doorsteps, shoot the videos and have them edited — all in short order. On each of the nine days of Navarathri, one lady from community was on MC duty, introducing the kolus. The children shot the MC speeches too. Besides this, seven children came up with a skit based on the Navarathri theme, wrote the script for it, directed it, shot a video of it, added background music to it. They executed each stage of the work without any help.” Not only Navarathri, even other festivities have had a digital touch of the Generation Z, and in some cases even Generation Alpha. “The children helped in editing dance videos,” says Usha. “At our community, Halloween provides an occasion for social interaction and entertainment. Normally, people would dress up, come down and do trick or treat. This year, I voted against it. So, we just had a virtual celebration, which was made engaging, thanks to the children’s tech support team. They did all the Halloween collage videos and photos, complete with spooky background music.” Usha points out that the children did not wake up to this role, but have been growing into it steadily over the years. “They have been integral to many of the activities conducted at the community,” she explains. “During last year’s Navarathri celebrations, the paper bags made by the children at the community were used to give away thamboolams . We have an Aashiana Green Club for children that introduces them to sustainability. When we launched source segregation at the community level, at each of the 11 blocks, children went from door to door, with the charts they had prepared, to tell every household how waste should be segregated, and the purpose served by each bin.” Usha also draws attention to how the community supports young upcycling wizards and sustainability champions by showcasing their efforts, circulating them around in the community’s online groups and displaying them on the noticeboards at the blocks. One of them is 13-year-old Aarush, who has an ability to turn waste into works of art. “In his hands, twigs turn into wands. He upcycles waste into gift items, which he presents to children at the community celebrating their birthday,” says Usha. The Anjali connection The parents of Shruti Vijaykumar — widely known as Baby Shruti to a generation of Tamil-film aficionados — who played one of the three children to Raghuvaran and Revathi in the film, are residents of Aashiana Apartments. Is there any particular reason for buying a flat in this community, which was handed over to the buyers in 1997? “It just happened, you know. My mother-in-law, my husband and I came to see this place. My mother-in-law liked the house a lot,” recalls Mano Vijaykumar, Shruti’s mother. Did the fact that Venus Studios had been located there, and Shruti had acted in a film that was shot there do anything with the choice? “Not really. My mother-in-law is not so emotional. She is very practical. She liked the house. It is close to where we were living,” laughs Mano. Aashiana Apartments was handed over to the owners in 1997. Anjali released in 1990, and the film gave viewers a sense of life in a fully-functional gated community, which was refreshingly new as life back then was largely lived horizontally in individual plots. How much of the film was shot in this property where Venus Studios was located, and how? “The house you see was all sets. The inside of the house was all part of the sets. If it looked so real, it was because of art director Thota Tharani. To create the illusion of a gated community, scenes were shot in other places. The stairwell scene was shot at Gee Gee complex in Nungambakkam,” explains Mano.  Anjali is the only film Shruti Vijaykumar has ever acted in, and that won her a National Award. Says Mano, “She lives in Boston, United States, is married, and has two daughters; she works as a business analyst.”
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Two brothers and two rarely seen buntings in Chennai||Twitchers in Chennai would most likely miss a bunting when they see one in the field. With photography equipment at their disposal, the chance of identification increases. The sighting frozen in pixels, there is now something to peer at, mull over, research on, share and ask around, and finally realise a bunting has crossed their paths. In the last week of October, and the first one in November, two birders separately spotted and clicked two winter-visiting bunting species — a Black-headed Bunting in Chembarambakkam, and a Grey-necked Bunting in Nanmangalam — and identification took this course. Sivakumar Shanmugasundaram and Sathyakumar Shanmugasundaram, who are brothers, did not know they had clapped eyes on a bunting till they had posted the photos in “Ask IDS of Indian Birds”, a Facebook group for bird identification. They subsequently documented the sightings in eBird. Buntings, which are winter migrants to these parts, remain a rara avis in Chennai. “They are perhaps the first documented sighting of these birds in Chennai. As far as I know, there are no records of these buntings in the city before. Probably, there are some old records that we may need to look up, but certainly there is none in recent times,” says ornithologist V. Shantaram who is director of the Institute of Bird Studies at Rishi Valley. In Thiruvanamalai At Adaiyur lake in Thiruvanamalai district, two Grey-necked Buntings were sighted on 17 November, 2019, and recorded by Sivakumar Ramasamy on eBird. Earlier that year — on January 14, 2019 — Gnanaskandan Kesavabharathi reported the sighting of a Black-headed Bunting at Adaiyur Quarry & Scrub in Thiruvanamalai district, on eBird. During the winter months, Sivakumar Shanmugasundaram, a resident of Valasaravakkam, does patch-birding at Chembarambakkam lake. It is a lake he frequents much more than the two others that he regularly ranges around in winter — Nayapakkam and Nemam. On October 25, while visiting the Chembarambakkam lake, Sivakumar hoped to see a pair of Asian Pied Starlings he had seen the previous year. Scanning a patch of greenery for these birds in vain, he circled around a turnabout to head back home, when a flock of Baya Weavers on the wire caught his eye. While viewing the Baya Weavers through a telephoto lens paired to a Pentax camera, he noticed a bird that he could not put a name to. As it turned out, it was a female Black-headed Bunting. Sexually dimorphic, the male of the species is more colourful and arresting. “I have seen the Red-headed Bunting at the Rishi Valley,” says Shantaram. The Red-headed Bunting is closely related to the Black-headed Bunting. “Last year, in Madurai, a Black-headed Bunting and Red-headed Bunting were sighted on the same tree.” Though much of India marks the wintering range of these two migratory buntings, they are seldom seen in impressive numbers — usually in ones and twos. “We hardly see these birds in these parts, certainly not in impressive numbers” admits Shantaram, adding that there is a resident bunting in India — the Crested Bunting — that is restricted to the northern parts of the country, and not seen in the southern parts. The male Crested Bunting is a handsome bird, its two-tone colour pattern actually reminding one of festive buntings. On the morning of November 2, Sathyakumar Shanmugasundaram, a resident of Mugalivakkam, was at Nanmangalam, having “obtained the necessary official permission to visit the reserve forest”, when he saw “this bird on the tip of a bush”. “I had managed to take only two hasty pictures of the bird when it flew away. On seeing the bird IN the camera screen, it struck me as different from anything I have ever seen before. I posted it in in the ‘Ask IDS of Indian Birds’ on FB, and members confirmed it as a male Grey-necked Bunting,” says Sathyakumar. “As it was very early in the morning and foggy, the photos were not great.” Sivakumar is an IT professional and Sathyakumar a dentist, and sons of late S. Shanmugasundaram, who retired as Chief Conservator of Forests in 1997, they have taken up the hobby of studying wildlife, especially birds. Sivakumar points out that birders are getting accustomed to seeing a stray bunting or two around where Baya Weavers, which are resident birds, congregate. Sundaravel Palanivelu, another birder, has a record of the sighting of a Red-headed Bunting in Virudhunagar two years ago, and he draws attention to how many birders instinctively start scanning places teeming with Baya Weavers for signs of buntings.  I had managed to take only two hasty pictures of the Grey-necked Bunting when it flew away
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping the memories of an accident and its victim alive||This May marked Pavit Singh Nayar’s tenth anniversary; and June, Meher Rohinton Sanjana’s third. Two youngsters struck down in the prime of their lives, under tragic circumstances, their families would not let their untimely deaths go unremembered. They use these unfortunate incidents to promote road-safety, each in their own way. During this year, they had to put their regular campaigns on hold, but the desire to educate, and even gently nudge people into safety consciousness, is seared into their souls. As a symbol of this resolve, Meher’s father Freddy Rohinton Sanjana has tattooed his son’s image on his arm. The accidents In 2010, Pavit Singh Nayar, a 20-year-old met with a fatal road accident at Besant Nagar. If he had buckled up, the youngster would have survived the crash. The same year, his family started the Pavit Singh Road Safety Trust, with awareness campaigns about wearing seat belt and helmet as the main focus area. On June 1 2017, Meher, a 21-year-old, lost his life, in an accident that involved a pedestrian climbing over a low median and crossing the road. Freddy says that due to the CA classes he was attending, Meher’s day had begun early. At Perungudi on Old Mahabalipuram Road, a pedestrian scuttled across the road, having climbed over the low median, and Meher swerved his motorcycle sharply to save the man, and in the process he himself fell and was critically injured, having “sustained head injuries despite wearing an expensive helmet”. The campaigns For Manjit Singh Nayar, Pavit’s father, there was no doubt about what course he should take. He straightaway plunged into a seat-belt campaign, which Nayar points out, was ahead of its times. As general secretary of the Guru Nanak Educational Society, Nayar has ensured the faculty and students riding motorcycles are not allowed to enter the campus, if they are not wearing helmets. Through its NSS and NCC cadets, the Trust promotes road safety awareness on busy roads. Since 2012-13, the family has been offering langar (free community lunch) to students coming to the campus without food. Nayar says that around 700 people are fed during working days. The Pavit Singh Nayar Memorial Trophy, an annual inter-collegiate T20 cricket tournament, is another effort to keep the son’s memory alive. Twelve teams took part in the inaugural edition held in 2015. “Now, the event has gone national with colleges from other states also taking part in it. Since the last two years we have expanded the scope of the event to include women cricketers,” says Nayar. Freddy conducts road safety campaigns, undertaking them individually or in association with the voluntary organisation Thozhan. His personal campaigns are focussed on the danger of crossing roads at undesignated points; highlighting why low medians should be raised; and creating awareness about what ought to be done to help a road accident victim meaningfully, which includes ensuring immediate golden-hour treatment at a well-equipped hospital nearby, even in cases where the accident victim would not be able to continue with the treatment there. His efforts are centred around OMR where his son lost his life. Candlelight vigil Since 2015, a voluntary organisation ‘R-SAFE’ has been organising a candlelight vigil in select parts of Chennai on World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims (which falls on the third Sunday of November) to help families honour the loved ones they lost to road accidents and achieve some healing. It is also aimed at sending an unspoken message about road safety to the larger world. In the early years, the candlelight vigil was organised opposite the West Tambaram Bus Stand; the Semmancherry Police Outpost and CMBT Bus Terminus. “Now, due to lack of permission, the vigil is conducted only at CMBT,” says J. Krishnamoorty, former joint director, The Institute of Road Transport, and founder of R-SAFE. “I established R-SAFE after my retirement to promote road user safety through presentation of awareness modules, complete with slides and videos, to students, corporates and drivers,” says Krishnamoorty. “Nobody can fix a price on human life — whatever the compensation, you cannot make up for the loss of a life.”  “Nobody can fix a price on human life — whatever the compensation, you cannot make up for the loss of a life.”
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Resume restoration of Madipakkam lake’||Madipakkam Lake Walkers Club has requested the Water Resources Department (WRD) to start the third phase of the restoration of the Madipakkam lake. V. Subramani, founder of the Club, says, “Once the lake is restored it will help recharge the groundwater table in Moovarasampet, Madipakkam, and Keezhkattalai. The restoration work, which began a couple of years ago, was suspended due to the pandemic. Now, we request the WRD to resume the work. Under the third phase, a regulator for inlets to monitor and control the quality of water needs to be installed.” In addition to being a rain-fed waterbody, it receives excess water from Moovarasampet lake through stormwater drains. At present, there are around eight inlets. The inlets drain rainwater from Ayyappa Nagar, Madipakkam. As part of the first phase, the bunds were strengthened. In the second phase, the lake was desilted, deepened and islands were formed. Further, a walkway around the lake has been laid and benches constructed. The club points out that measures need to be taken to arrest discharge of sewage into the lake. “There is no regulator to let in the rainwater and arrest discharge of sewage. Sewage is discharged into the lake through the inlets constructed in the second phase. Besides, a sewage treatment plant has to be established,” says Subramani. “We have learnt that the Urban Forestry Department has adopted this waterbody as part of its greening exercise. Hence, we suggest the Department plant carry out a tree-planting exercise similar to the one carried out on the premises of Urban Forest Research Station, located behind Arignar Anna Zoological Park, Vandalur.” The Club has plans to set up a wall with permission from authorities concerned. According to Subramani, the wall would be a symbol of concern for the underprivileged, as people can come there are donate donate clothes, food and toys for the needy. “Lake View Road around Madipakkam Lake is drawing a good number of walkers in the mornings and evenings. Installation of benches surrounding the lake is quite convenient,” says Subramani.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Rain does not mean waterlogging anymore||These two pictures would best all the other before-and-after images AGS Colony Residents Welfare Association would have seen over the years, battling civic issues in its neighbourhood. For the past five years, residents of this neighbourhood in Velachery have had to deal with inundated roads after a heavy downpour — sometimes, even after a ridiculously light shower. “Our roads would be under sheets of water and we would have to call GCC’s local office to have the water pumped out,” says Geetha Ganesh, secretary, AGS Colony Residents Welfare Association. Going by how the roads responded to an extremely heavy spell of rain a few weeks ago this year and to subsequent downpours, this problem seems to be a thing of the past. “It was a particularly heavy downpour, and we woke up to a pleasant surprise that morning as our streets bore no signs of water-logging,” says Geetha. “The stormwater drains constructed last year is the reason for this turnaround. However, we could not see their effectiveness tested then, because the last northeast monsoon resulted in a deficit rainfall.” Residents of Golden Avenue, a neighbouring colony of AGS Colony, similarly report inundation-free roads following heavy downpours this year. Stormwater drains were also laid at Golden Avenue last year. Says Geetha, “We thank the Ward 178 – Assistant Engineer U Alamelu, Assistant Executive Engineer N. Ezhilarasan and other senior officials of Zone 13.”
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||How much of a passage migrant is the Chestnut-winged Cuckoo?||Jithesh Babu, a resident of Thirumalai Nagar, found on a section of Sembakkam from where the Nanmangalam lake is only as distant as the boundary is from cricket pitch, has not got over the excitement of sighting a Chestnut-winged Cuckoo this month. This year, he is part of an informal birdwatching-residents’ project that lists the migrants in their neck of the woods. “While we do a lot of our birding around the lake, sharing boundaries with Nanmangalam Reserve Forest, our neighbourhoods give us the advantage of watching many birds found on the peripherals, while standing right outside the forest,” says Jithesh. The sighting of the Chestnut-winged Cuckoo — also known as the Red-winged Crested Cuckoo — is the high point of this migrant-documenting exercise. The bird being a passage migrant, Jithesh counts himself fortunate. “Red-winged Crested Cuckoos are mostly passage migrants, headed further south, but some of them may be staying back,” says ornithologist V. Shantaram, who is the director of the Institute of Bird Studies, Rishi Valley “There are many records of Red-winged Crested Cuckoos being sighted in March and April on the return migration. They are also seen in November-December. Nobody sees them in large numbers — one or two at a time. Sometimes four, usually during March,” says Shantaram. Shantaram recalls a period when he has had a closer association with the Red-Winged Crested Cuckoo: “In the 1980s, in Santhome, I have had the experience of holding Red-winged Crested Cuckoos in my hand, having had to rescue and later release them in safe conditions. These birds would have flown into houses, chased and pecked by crows. I had to rescue a Red-winged Crested Cuckoo so attacked and driven into my neighbour’s house. On another occasion, I attended to a call from a resident of the locality to rescue a Red-winged Crested Cuckoo in similar distress.”
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Protruding manhole covers raise the risk quotient in Adyar||On sections of Adyar, the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) recently carried out maintenance work involving sewage pipes. As part of the work, it had old and damaged projection cover of manholes replaced. Similarly, Greater Chennai Corporation got the projection covers of manholes of stormwater drains replaced. Residents however find that in some cases, on account of the the work, road users’ safety has been compromised. The manhole covers have to be in alignment with the road surface, but they are protruding, these residents explain. Hence, residents want both the departments to take up the necessary corrective measures. “This can be highly dangerous in streets that are poorly-lit and prone to water stagnation. In some places, the construction debris can be found dumped along the footpath or in the middle of the road. The roads were relaid only a few months ago and they are being dug up again. Besides, such works should have been carried out before the onset of monsoon,” says Meera Ravikumar, a resident of Gandhi Nagar in Adyar.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Parents of play school help attendants celebrate Deepavali||Parents of Playcoop, a play school cum daycare activity centre in Adyar came forward to help the attendants at the school celebrate Deepavali by offering each of them cash and gifts of groceries. Grocery packets included rice, dhals, spices, oil, jaggery and other essential items required for cooking and even cashewnuts and raisins.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Mandaveli residents give sweet boxes to conservancy workers||As part of Deepavali celebration, residents of RK Nagar in Mandaveli distributed sweet boxes and packets of biriyani to conservancy workers of Urbaser Sumeet, the agency appointed by the Greater Chennai Corporation for carrying out conservancy operations in Zone 13 - Adyar since this October.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Use your head, wear a helmet||The National Crime Records Bureau statistics for 2019 shows that motorcyclists account for 38 per cent of the victims of road accidents. They are followed by drivers/users of trucks or lorries, cars and buses, which accounted for 14.6, 13.7 and 5.9 per cent of road accident deaths, respectively. Every road-safety expert worth their salt agree that the most effective approach to reducing motorcyclists-related accidents is to enforce the helmet rule. Sandeep Gaikwad, coordinator, Road Safety Network, a national coalition of NGOs, activists and citizens, shares how the Pune experience illustrates this. He points out that through data they were able to bring about a change in people’s mindset, getting them to appreciate the fact that wearing a helmet while riding a motorcycle can reduce serious head injuries. The one-year-long study was carried out by Parisar, a Pune-based NGO working on road safety. Helmet compliance rate was 28% when the survey was first carried out in 2018. After a period of six months, the percentage rose by another four percent. Later, in 2019 when the traffic police started enforcing the rule, the usage rate went up by 67%. Traffic awareness campaigns and strict violation control also helped achieve this rate. “Enforcement followed by compliance does make a difference. Vietnam, for instance, took its road safety very seriously and a case study shows that only after enforcement did the compliance rate go up from 6% to 90%,” says Gaikwad, senior programme associate, Parisar. He says consistent on-road enforcement works as a deterrent and the traffic police has seen a dip in the number of fatalities in Pune. Helmets can reduce the risk of a fatality by 40%, he says referring to a WHO report. Gaikwad says these studies have shown that using CCTV cameras to nab offenders who are speeding, jumping traffic signals and not wearing helmet is not of much help. “We filed an RTI covering Pune, Aurangabad and Nasik to find out how many offenders were paying the fine and it revealed that 94% did not pay,” says Gaikwad. Road Safety Network has been working with various stakeholders to safeguard other vulnerable road users like pedestrians through advocacy and research.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Six school students from OMR region raise funds for the underprivileged||With their tech-savviness, abilities in performance arts and a natural knack for organising events, six high-schoolers from the areas in and around Old Mahabalipuram Road have been raising funds for the underprivileged during the lockdown. Samyuktha Raja, Vaibhavashri J.K., Aditi B. Narayan, Arindum Roy, Himakshi Jammar and Nidhi Srinivasan share one of these two things — they either hail from the same school/ tuition centre or belong to the same gated community — or both. They are core members of a social initiative that organises fund-raiser events to benefit the underprivileged. Their first event, held during the first week of September, was a two-day online open mic where teenagers could showcase their talent in singing, dancing and beatboxing. Though ticket sales and registrations for this online event, they raised Rs. 20,000 which they gave away to two NGOs working for the underprivileged — Thozhamai (Semmenchery) and New Hope and New Life (Perumbakkam). Their next project was about getting their friends and family to write letters thanking frontline workers. Over 30 letters were sent to Dr. Mehta’s Hospital at Chetpet in Chennai. How they collaborated to make both the events a success makes for an interesting study. First, they created a website — theindiandream.net. “It took me two to three weeks to design the website using Wix, which was an important step as we had to build credibility about our work and also drum up support from friends and elders,” says Nidhi Srinivasan, a class XII student of PSBB-Millennium. Nidhi, a singer and songwriter, got her network of young artistes to sign up for the event. “I have previously worked for fundraising events conducted by Period Chennai and Blue Cross, so I was confident that we could pull it off if there was a good team to back us,” says Nidhi. The lockdown made getting friends on board easier than it would have been otherwise. Each of them connected with like-minded friends and today more than 30 students are part of the WhatsApp group where the think-tank discusses and plans events. For the fundraisers, they grouped themselves into different specialist teams, one meant for social media, another for content creation, another for promotions and so on. “I was heading events and my role involved getting students to sign up for the online mic. It was a tough task as the participants had to pay to register for the event. I got three participants from Olympia Panache, the community I live in. Altogether, the open mic had 20 participants,” says Samyuktha Raja, a Class XII student of Velammal Vidyashram. “Besides, I got many elders to buy tickets to view the event.” Bringing in audience was only marginally less difficult that signing participants on. “Most of us approached our apartment associations to promote the event,” says Samyuktha. With workload from school now steadily increasing, the group has slowed down, but plans to keep the initiative going whenever time permits. The events next in line are article-writing and photography.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Toastmasters meet every Saturday at Perumbakkam||Hillview Toastmasters Club at Perumbakkam meets every Saturday from 5 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. Those keen on improving their public speaking skills, leadership skills and to network can attend. Due to COVID-19, the meet-ups are currently being held through a virtual platform. The meetings are free for guests. For more details contact TM Varun at 87545 56144; TM Muthu at 91766 98766.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Workshop on organic farming in Guindy||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre, Guindy, is conducting a workshop on organic farming on November 24. Another workshop on care and maintenance of indoor plants will be held on November 25. For details, call 044 - 2225 0511/ 22501960.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Honouring Good Samaritans||ALERT, a non-profit organisation that empowers people to act effectively during a crisis and save lives, is organising the fourth edition of the “Alert Being Awards”. The initiative honours Good Samaritans, who have made a difference by saving lives. Individuals and organisations who have created an impact through life-saving acts or initiatives can send their nominations to www.alert.ngo/aba This year, the organisers have instituted the ‘COVID Warrior Award’. Individuals and organisations will be selected by an eminent jury panel and the award function is scheduled for January 2021, says a release. The last date for submitting nominations is December 15. For more information, contact Gowthem at +91 99440 11115 or write to alertbeingawards@alert.ngo
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Club seeks resumption of restoration work||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Two brothers and two rarely seen buntings in Chennai||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||When road safety hits the home stretch||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||When road safety hits the home stretch||Aroad in a humongous gated community can be the equivalent of a Green Anaconda, coiled and largely hidden in water and therefore its size and potential threat not alarmingly obvious. These gated communities have their job cut out, as the roads can turn sharply in places; have ramps from car basements leading up to them; and at certain hours, have residents cycling on them, dangerously rubbing bumpers with motorists. “If all the roads within our community are put together to make up one road, we will have a road that is around 2.5 km long,” declares Raghavan Murti, president, Union of Tower Association at House of Hiranandani Upscale in Egattur. “To manage such roads, gated communities should have a full-fledged road safety and regulatory system in place. Besides, residents’ welfare association members will have to walk a thin line between education and regulation.” Raghavan illustrates this with two examples — children skating and cycling down the roads; and trying out the ramps in the car basement areas. “Whenever children skate and cycle on the roads, our hearts are in our mouths. We advise them and the parents on how to be safe. As parents want this outdoor activity for their children we cannot ban it,” elaborates Raghavan. “However, we step into the role of a strict enforcer, when a child tries to cycle down a ramp leading to the basement car parking, because of the high degree of risk attached to it. We have posted security personnel just to watch these ramps for such violation.” At DLF Garden City, a massive 1750-unit community in Semmancheri with huge open spaces and a wide matrix of roads, the safety and security team did not countenance requests from parents that school buses come right to their towers. “It was a case where the request had to be rejected straightaway and it was. If this request was acceded to, there could be 20 school buses coming into the community, and the safety of other children from the community who head to their schools riding bicycles would be compromised. So, this obviously could not be allowed. The community however did whatever it could to help parents and their school-going children: It built bus shelters outside for parents and the children to wait for school buses,” explains P.V.S. Janarthanam, a resident and a member of the Sub-Committee for Safety and Security. John Praveen, secretary of Vaikund Sundaram Apartment Association, points out that his community is spread out horizontally, having a mix of villas, duplex-apartments and regular apartments, and has roads that together add up to a kilometre. So, by default, traffic management is one of the big components of safety. This means there are going to be complaints about speeding and rash driving, and as Praveen explains, the Association seeks to have them addressed promptly, fairly and sometimes with an iron hand. “People will get called out for exceeding speed limits, and rash driving. We also fine people,” says Praveen, adding that this requires an evidence-based system to be fostered. “When parents complain about rash driving, we monitor the footage, and we go to those in question with the evidence. We can be firm but not aggressive about it.” The point, Raghavan says, is that residents should be continually reminded that their road behaviours are being watched. “We get the security personnel to instruct and correct those found violating traffic rules. When residents send in video evidence of a traffic violation, we act on it and that ensures their continued trust in the system.” Raghavan underscores the effectiveness of humour is disarmingly conveying the importance of inviolable rules, citing the example of how the community teamed up with a group of students from Padma Adarsh, a school on Old Mahabalipuram Road run by the Punjab Association, to hold a helmet campaign on the premises, and also outside on the arterial road, including the Navallur checkpost. “With the sartorial features and bearing of Yamaraj, one of the students would stop anyone riding a motorcycle within the community without a helmet on, and say, ‘Come! Come! Come! You are just the one I was looking for!’ These campaigns may not show immediate results, but when they are run on a sustained basis, results will surely follow,” he believes. Both Praveen and Raghavan understand that the basic handicap faced by residents’ association cannot be surmounted. For, they cannot do so, without losing their essential character, which is that of an enabler of rules, and not an iron-fisted enforcer of them. Therefore, infrastructural intervention — such as installing an adequate numbers of speed breakers and reflectors; having convex mirrors around turns, and signages — should be of the highest order, making it near-impossible for residents to engage in risky road behaviour. Besides, communities should also have clear road-safety guidelines handed to security personnel, and they would take things forward from there. With these, gated communities can breathe easy in times when they just cannot leave things to residents’ good sense. “At House of Hiranandani it is 7:45 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. to 7 p.m.,” says Raghavan. That is obviously not the time to stand by with folded arms to watch if the safety campaigns have had an impact on residents. It is a time of heavy traffic, consisting of people in a hurry — and haste and horsepower can be an unsettling combo. Says Raghavan, “During these hours, we deploy our security personnel who regulate traffic with whistles and firmness.” Janarthanam points out that at DLF Garden City, the safety and security team does not take kindly to people driving into and around the community, without driving licences. He elaborates: “The security personnel are instructed to carry out regular and random checks, and so, they would ask vendors to present their driving licences. They are also asked to report to the sub-committee if any young resident who is driving a motorised vehicle though they are not old enough to drive one. Having clear instructions from the sub-committee, security personnel are capable of taking the right decisions on their own.”
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Mani Ratnam’s Anjali and its continuing connection with a gated community in Chennai||The 1990 Mani Ratnam blockbuster Anjali , which provided a glimpse of gated-community living, had a sub-plot involving an uncontrollably exuberant gang of children. As a collective, these children were portrayed as quick-witted and nimble-footed, and this meant that their pranks found their targets — the grown-ups — as uncannily as a cruise missile. The storytelling device did wonders for the film, adding to its humour component, and it operated on the underlying idea that these children were on an equal footing with the older population at the gated community. Fast forward to 2020, this idea is asserting itself, on a hugely different platform and with a lot more reverence for the grown-ups involved, but on the same spot where much of the film, particularly the scenes involving the children’s gang, was shot. Aashiana Apartments on Second Cross Street in Venus Colony stands on the land where Venus Studios was earlier situated and Mani Ratnam’s iconic film was largely shot (more on it later). During the pandemic, Aashiana Apartments shifted many of its regular social activities online, especially those pertaining to culture and entertainment, and the children at the community found an equal footing with the grown-ups. With their digital skills, they were in fact often in the driver’s seat, steering these online initiatives. Usha Manoj, committee member of the residents’ association and a key member of the entertainment committee, points out that a tech support team consisting entirely of children played a central role in this online social engagement. “This year’s Navarathri celebrations were conducted online. Videos of kolus in the households would be compiled together, and every day, a compilation would be sent out to the residents. The children’s tech support team — Manasa (13), Shambhavi (11), Sukriti (15), Ayush (14), Aarush (13), Rohith (13), Avikshit (12), Rakshit (11) and Rishi (12) — would work on these videos, editing them, and adding titles and captions, and also background music to them,” says Usha. She continues, “Wherever residents were diffident about shooting videos of their kolus, members of the children tech support team would land up at their doorsteps, shoot the videos and have them edited — all in short order. On each of the nine days of Navarathri, one lady from community was on MC duty, introducing the kolus. The children shot the MC speeches too. Besides this, seven children came up with a skit based on the Navarathri theme, wrote the script for it, directed it, shot a video of it, added background music to it. They executed each stage of the work without any help.” Not only Navarathri, even other festivities have had a digital touch of the Generation Z, and in some cases even Generation Alpha. “The children helped in editing dance videos,” says Usha. “At our community, Halloween provides an occasion for social interaction and entertainment. Normally, people would dress up, come down and do trick or treat. This year, I voted against it. So, we just had a virtual celebration, which was made engaging, thanks to the children’s tech support team. They did all the Halloween collage videos and photos, complete with spooky background music.” Usha points out that the children did not wake up to this role, but have been growing into it steadily over the years. “They have been integral to many of the activities conducted at the community,” she explains. “During last year’s Navarathri celebrations, the paper bags made by the children at the community were used to give away thamboolams . We have an Aashiana Green Club for children that introduces them to sustainability. When we launched source segregation at the community level, at each of the 11 blocks, children went from door to door, with the charts they had prepared, to tell every household how waste should be segregated, and the purpose served by each bin.” Usha also draws attention to how the community supports young upcycling wizards and sustainability champions by showcasing their efforts, circulating them around in the community’s online groups and displaying them on the noticeboards at the blocks. One of them is 13-year-old Aarush, who has an ability to turn waste into works of art. “In his hands, twigs turn into wands. He upcycles waste into gift items, which he presents to children at the community celebrating their birthday,” says Usha. The Anjali connection The parents of Shruti Vijaykumar — widely known as Baby Shruti to a generation of Tamil-film aficionados — who played one of the three children to Raghuvaran and Revathi in the film, are residents of Aashiana Apartments. Is there any particular reason for buying a flat in this community, which was handed over to the buyers in 1997? “It just happened, you know. My mother-in-law, my husband and I came to see this place. My mother-in-law liked the house a lot,” recalls Mano Vijaykumar, Shruti’s mother. Did the fact that Venus Studios had been located there, and Shruti had acted in a film that was shot there do anything with the choice? “Not really. My mother-in-law is not so emotional. She is very practical. She liked the house. It is close to where we were living,” laughs Mano. Aashiana Apartments was handed over to the owners in 1997. Anjali released in 1990, and the film gave viewers a sense of life in a fully-functional gated community, which was refreshingly new as life back then was largely lived horizontally in individual plots. How much of the film was shot in this property where Venus Studios was located, and how? “The house you see was all sets. The inside of the house was all part of the sets. If it looked so real, it was because of art director Thota Tharani. To create the illusion of a gated community, scenes were shot in other places. The stairwell scene was shot at Gee Gee complex in Nungambakkam,” explains Mano.  Anjali is the only film Shruti Vijaykumar has ever acted in, and that won her a National Award. Says Mano, “She lives in Boston, United States, is married, and has two daughters; she works as a business analyst.”
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Road users complain of inadequate safety measures||Pedestrians are miffed that “adequate alternative arrangements to ensure their safety and easy mobility” have not been wheeled in around the Anna Arch on Poonamallee High Road where stormwater drain-widening work is under way. Pedestrians complain that they have no choice but to walk on the carriageway as the entire footpath and a small portion of the carriageway have been dug for the execution of the stormwater drain work by the State Highways. “As it is monsoon time, mangled junction boxes near such trenches puts walkers and traders nearby at high risk for electrocution. Safety measures should have been put in place before starting the work,” says S. Varadhan, a motorist from Anna Nagar. A bus stop is found on this section, but many commuters give them a wide berth (as wait faraway) as waiting right at the bus shelters would mean having to negotiate a trench before boarding their bus. Patients and their relatives visiting the Government Siddha Hospital near Anna Arch also board buses from the bus stop. Some commuters choose to wait near the shops. Measures such as the removal of mangled junction boxes and installation of reflectors around the trenches to alert motorists at night should have been taken already, say road users. A few barricades are kept at the start and end point of the trench.  “Steps will be taken to provide more safety measures around the section where the work is going on,” says a State Highways official.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Service road still stays unusable||Though a month has elapsed since the water pipeline-laying work was carried out along the service lane on Jawarharlal Nehru (J.N) Main Road below the flyover in Thirumangalam, the stretch still waits for the redemptive touch of road-relaying machinery. This delay is having a ripple effect, causing inconvenience to residents of nearby roads — notably Second Avenue Main Road, Fourth Avenue Main Road and 15th Main Road, and 13th Main Road. Traffic is being diverted to these roads. Motorists complain that they have to wait for at least 20 minutes before crossing the intersection of Thirumangalam junction and Second Avenue Main Road. On an average, more than 8,000 vehicles use Second Avenue Main Road during rush hour. “During rush hour, the alternative route at Thirumangalam junction is chaotic with motorists having to wait for a long time,” says S. Vishwanath, a motorist from Mogappair. MTC buses from Mogappair and Ambattur that are headed for CMBT in Koyambedu travel via 15th Main Road and 13th Main Road, which are narrow streets with mostly independent houses, to avoid the traffic congestion at Thirumangalam junction. Despite having such a traffic arrangement, which entails a detour of at least one kilometre for MTC buses, the traffic chaos at Thirumangalam junction has not reduced. Incomplete work The Chennai Metrowater’s work meant to replace decades-old pipelines started on August 31. The new pipelines were laid along the footpath on the service lane towards Koyambedu from Thirumangalam, for a distance of around 350 metres. “Steps will be taken to relay the damaged service lane and allow traffic movement on the stretch soon,” says a State Highways official.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Hunger for knowledge fed at ‘The Nest’||Pasta tracing an algebraical expression, accompanied by this text “Pasta and Polynomials. The New Education Recipe” It was a cryptic teaser for an upcoming webinar. Two more teasers later, the target audience inched closer to cracking the mystery of what the webinar was all about. However, until the day of the webinar, the organisers maintained the suspense. Here is what makes it really interesting: The Nest, a gated community in Teynampet, had organised this webinar, and it was about the National Education Policy. One of residents of the 120-unit community was holding centre stage in it: It was Ramkumar Ramamoorthy, former CMD of Cognizant. The webinar is one of 21 organised so far by the community as part of a series it calls ‘Thought Streaming’. Though aimed at engaging its residents during the lockdown, the series seems to have a long life still ahead of it. Residents can volunteer to talk on a topic. A team curates the talks based on popular suggestions. Bird-watching, brand-building, the science behind germs, the generation gap (which featured residents between 20 and 80) and the evolution of Bharathanatyam are among engaging topics the initiative has thrown up so far. “Initially, getting residents to be on the panel of a webinar was challenge. With some of the topics resonating with many residents and videos of these getting shared around the community, the process got easier,” says H. Sriram, a resident of the apartment who curates the sessions. The weekly series has a fixed time slot: every Sunday, 3.30 p.m. Diverse topics The team keeps the topics broad-based so residents in all age brackets warm up to the series. “We even got those accomplished in performance arts to give a performance before the event: This way we had mrindagam and violin recitals,” says Sriram. Slowly, the initiative’s scope widened to include speakers from outside the community. That is how Madhavi Latha of the Wheelchair Basketball Federation of India got to talk to residents of The Nest. The five-member organising team functions like a corporate unit, with responsibilities clearly etched and assigned to each of them. A few examples: Venugopal Nair has been handling promotions and R. Shantha Ram takes care of technology. R. Kailas and S. Vasan were the others helping with logistics and tech support. “Every Monday, we would get on a call to review the whole session,” says Sriram. The primary purpose of Though Streaming is to involve youngsters. “We wanted more youngsters in the picture,” says Venugopal Nair, advertisement professional and a resident of the community for the last 13 years. Sriram says one of the key objectives met by this initiative was tapping the potential of residents and showcasing it before an audience. As an extension of the series, youngsters were asked to make a short film of the Independence Day celebrations. During the IPL season; and now, due to festivals, Thought Streaming has taken a temporary break. “Around 40 people attended some of the last webinars, which provides us with the motivation to keep it going. We plan to host at least one event every month and want other gated communities to be part of this to learn about varied subjects in an easy manner,” says Sriram, former committee member of the Nest Apartment Owners’ Association.  One of the key objectives met by this initiative was tapping the potential of residents and showcasing it before an audience
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Two brothers and two rarely seen buntings in Chennai||Twitchers in Chennai would most likely miss a bunting when they see one in the field. With photography equipment at their disposal, the chance of identification increases. The sighting frozen in pixels, there is now something to peer at, mull over, research on, share and ask around, and finally realise a bunting has crossed their paths. In the last week of October, and the first one in November, two birders separately spotted and clicked two winter-visiting bunting species — a Black-headed Bunting in Chembarambakkam, and a Grey-necked Bunting in Nanmangalam — and identification took this course. Sivakumar Shanmugasundaram and Sathyakumar Shanmugasundaram, who are brothers, did not know they had clapped eyes on a bunting till they had posted the photos in “Ask IDS of Indian Birds”, a Facebook group for bird identification. They subsequently documented the sightings in eBird. Buntings, which are winter migrants to these parts, remain a rara avis in Chennai. “They are perhaps the first documented sighting of these birds in Chennai. As far as I know, there are no records of these buntings in the city before. Probably, there are some old records that we may need to look up, but certainly there is none in recent times,” says ornithologist V. Shantaram who is director of the Institute of Bird Studies at Rishi Valley. In Thiruvanamalai At Adaiyur lake in Thiruvanamalai district, two Grey-necked Buntings were sighted on 17 November, 2019, and recorded by Sivakumar Ramasamy on eBird. Earlier that year — on January 14, 2019 — Gnanaskandan Kesavabharathi reported the sighting of a Black-headed Bunting at Adaiyur Quarry & Scrub in Thiruvanamalai district, on eBird. During the winter months, Sivakumar Shanmugasundaram, a resident of Valasaravakkam, does patch-birding at Chembarambakkam lake. It is a lake he frequents much more than the two others that he regularly ranges around in winter — Nayapakkam and Nemam. On October 25, while visiting the Chembarambakkam lake, Sivakumar hoped to see a pair of Asian Pied Starlings he had seen the previous year. Scanning a patch of greenery for these birds in vain, he circled around a turnabout to head back home, when a flock of Baya Weavers on the wire caught his eye. While viewing the Baya Weavers through a telephoto lens paired to a Pentax camera, he noticed a bird that he could not put a name to. As it turned out, it was a female Black-headed Bunting. Sexually dimorphic, the male of the species is more colourful and arresting. “I have seen the Red-headed Bunting at the Rishi Valley,” says Shantaram. The Red-headed Bunting is closely related to the Black-headed Bunting. “Last year, in Madurai, a Black-headed Bunting and Red-headed Bunting were sighted on the same tree.” Though much of India marks the wintering range of these two migratory buntings, they are seldom seen in impressive numbers — usually in ones and twos. “We hardly see these birds in these parts, certainly not in impressive numbers” admits Shantaram, adding that there is a resident bunting in India — the Crested Bunting — that is restricted to the northern parts of the country, and not seen in the southern parts. The male Crested Bunting is a handsome bird, its two-tone colour pattern actually reminding one of festive buntings. On the morning of November 2, Sathyakumar Shanmugasundaram, a resident of Mugalivakkam, was at Nanmangalam, having “obtained the necessary official permission to visit the reserve forest”, when he saw “this bird on the tip of a bush”. “I had managed to take only two hasty pictures of the bird when it flew away. On seeing the bird IN the camera screen, it struck me as different from anything I have ever seen before. I posted it in in the ‘Ask IDS of Indian Birds’ on FB, and members confirmed it as a male Grey-necked Bunting,” says Sathyakumar. “As it was very early in the morning and foggy, the photos were not great.” Sivakumar is an IT professional and Sathyakumar a dentist, and sons of late S. Shanmugasundaram, who retired as Chief Conservator of Forests in 1997, they have taken up the hobby of studying wildlife, especially birds. Sivakumar points out that birders are getting accustomed to seeing a stray bunting or two around where Baya Weavers, which are resident birds, congregate. Sundaravel Palanivelu, another birder, has a record of the sighting of a Red-headed Bunting in Virudhunagar two years ago, and he draws attention to how many birders instinctively start scanning places teeming with Baya Weavers for signs of buntings.  I had managed to take only two hasty pictures of the Grey-necked Bunting when it flew away
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping the memories of an accident and its victim alive||This May marked Pavit Singh Nayar’s tenth anniversary; and June, Meher Rohinton Sanjana’s third. Two youngsters struck down in the prime of their lives, under tragic circumstances, their families would not let their untimely deaths go unremembered. They use these unfortunate incidents to promote road-safety, each in their own way. During this year, they had to put their regular campaigns on hold, but the desire to educate, and even gently nudge people into safety consciousness, is seared into their souls. As a symbol of this resolve, Meher’s father Freddy Rohinton Sanjana has tattooed his son’s image on his arm. The accidents In 2010, Pavit Singh Nayar, a 20-year-old met with a fatal road accident at Besant Nagar. If he had buckled up, the youngster would have survived the crash. The same year, his family started the Pavit Singh Road Safety Trust, with awareness campaigns about wearing seat belt and helmet as the main focus area. On June 1 2017, Meher, a 21-year-old, lost his life, in an accident that involved a pedestrian climbing over a low median and crossing the road. Freddy says that due to the CA classes he was attending, Meher’s day had begun early. At Perungudi on Old Mahabalipuram Road, a pedestrian scuttled across the road, having climbed over the low median, and Meher swerved his motorcycle sharply to save the man, and in the process he himself fell and was critically injured, having “sustained head injuries despite wearing an expensive helmet”. The campaigns For Manjit Singh Nayar, Pavit’s father, there was no doubt about what course he should take. He straightaway plunged into a seat-belt campaign, which Nayar points out, was ahead of its times. As general secretary of the Guru Nanak Educational Society, Nayar has ensured the faculty and students riding motorcycles are not allowed to enter the campus, if they are not wearing helmets. Through its NSS and NCC cadets, the Trust promotes road safety awareness on busy roads. Since 2012-13, the family has been offering langar (free community lunch) to students coming to the campus without food. Nayar says that around 700 people are fed during working days. The Pavit Singh Nayar Memorial Trophy, an annual inter-collegiate T20 cricket tournament, is another effort to keep the son’s memory alive. Twelve teams took part in the inaugural edition held in 2015. “Now, the event has gone national with colleges from other states also taking part in it. Since the last two years we have expanded the scope of the event to include women cricketers,” says Nayar. Freddy conducts road safety campaigns, undertaking them individually or in association with the voluntary organisation Thozhan. His personal campaigns are focussed on the danger of crossing roads at undesignated points; highlighting why low medians should be raised; and creating awareness about what ought to be done to help a road accident victim meaningfully, which includes ensuring immediate golden-hour treatment at a well-equipped hospital nearby, even in cases where the accident victim would not be able to continue with the treatment there. His efforts are centred around OMR where his son lost his life. Candlelight vigil Since 2015, a voluntary organisation ‘R-SAFE’ has been organising a candlelight vigil in select parts of Chennai on World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims (which falls on the third Sunday of November) to help families honour the loved ones they lost to road accidents and achieve some healing. It is also aimed at sending an unspoken message about road safety to the larger world. In the early years, the candlelight vigil was organised opposite the West Tambaram Bus Stand; the Semmancherry Police Outpost and CMBT Bus Terminus. “Now, due to lack of permission, the vigil is conducted only at CMBT,” says J. Krishnamoorty, former joint director, The Institute of Road Transport, and founder of R-SAFE. “I established R-SAFE after my retirement to promote road user safety through presentation of awareness modules, complete with slides and videos, to students, corporates and drivers,” says Krishnamoorty. “Nobody can fix a price on human life — whatever the compensation, you cannot make up for the loss of a life.”  “Nobody can fix a price on human life — whatever the compensation, you cannot make up for the loss of a life.”
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||How much of a passage migrant is the Chestnut-winged Cuckoo?||Jithesh Babu, a resident of Thirumalai Nagar, found on a section of Sembakkam from where the Nanmangalam lake is only as distant as the boundary is from cricket pitch, has not got over the excitement of sighting a Chestnut-winged Cuckoo this month. This year, he is part of an informal birdwatching-residents’ project that lists the migrants in their neck of the woods. “While we do a lot of our birding around the lake, sharing boundaries with Nanmangalam Reserve Forest, our neighbourhoods give us the advantage of watching many birds found on the peripherals, while standing right outside the forest,” says Jithesh. The sighting of the Chestnut-winged Cuckoo — also known as the Red-winged Crested Cuckoo — is the high point of this migrant-documenting exercise. The bird being a passage migrant, Jithesh counts himself fortunate. “Red-winged Crested Cuckoos are mostly passage migrants, headed further south, but some of them may be staying back,” says ornithologist V. Shantaram, who is the director of the Institute of Bird Studies, Rishi Valley “There are many records of Red-winged Crested Cuckoos being sighted in March and April on the return migration. They are also seen in November-December. Nobody sees them in large numbers — one or two at a time. Sometimes four, usually during March,” says Shantaram. Shantaram recalls a period when he has had a closer association with the Red-Winged Crested Cuckoo: “In the 1980s, in Santhome, I have had the experience of holding Red-winged Crested Cuckoos in my hand, having had to rescue and later release them in safe conditions. These birds would have flown into houses, chased and pecked by crows. I had to rescue a Red-winged Crested Cuckoo so attacked and driven into my neighbour’s house. On another occasion, I attended to a call from a resident of the locality to rescue a Red-winged Crested Cuckoo in similar distress.”
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Highways raises median on Basin Bridge flyover and connecting roads||Basin Bridge flyover is being given a facelift after many years, and the exercise is part of a larger project — the reconstruction of Elephant Gate bridge. For the last few weeks, the damaged concrete median on all four arms of the flyover, including those designed for traffic towards Mint and Perambur and its connecting roads, which include Wall Tax Road and Basin Bridge Main Road, is being rebuilt by the State Highways Department. The median will be three feet high and space will be provided for installation of new street light poles. Reflectors, warning signboards and steel railings especially along the railway line will also be installed. “Raising the median is expected to keep pedestrians from climbing over it and crossing the bridge suddenly,” says K. Gokul, a motorist from Broadway. With traffic changes introduced at Wall Tax Road and Basin Bridge junction in 2019 to facilitate renovation of Elephant Gate Bridge by the Southern Railway, many motorists are using an alternative route that includes Basin Bridge flyover. That has had a dramatic effect on the traffic on the flyover. “Vehicular traffic on Basin Bridge flyover moves sluggishly, especially during rush hour,” says Gokul. Basin Bridge is also a key MTC bus route for buses coming from Broadway and Egmore bus terminus. As part of the facelift, Basin Bridge flyover was relaid, especially its carriageway towards the railway station with neatly laid footpath, before the complete lockdown in March. In the Mint direction, the damaged low-level concrete median on the flyover was demolished, and in its place, a new three-feet high median was raised. At present, a long high-mast lamp in the centre of the bridge — where the ramps of the flyover are spread out in four directions — is the only lighting available on the facility. Another significant measure taken by the traffic police to ease traffic on the Basin Bridge flyover is preventing vehicles including MTC buses from Park Town and Elephant Gate from proceeding straight towards Mint. Instead, these vehicles have to take a ‘U’ turn, around one km way, below the new flyover in Vyasarpadi. This helps reduce the waiting time of other motorists at the narrow intersection on the Basin Bridge flyover. This new traffic arrangement has been in place since August when more lockdown restrictions were eased in the city.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Smile Store to come up at Avadi soon||To celebrate Deepavali, Rajasthan Cosmo Club Foundation distributed more than 10,000 clothes under the ‘New Clothes Scheme’. These clothes were provided to 80 needy institutions including orphanages and old age homes. Apart from the ‘Cloth Bank’ which witnesses new and used clothes being distributed to the needy, the Foundation has undertaken other social initiatives, the Smile Store being one of them. In a press release, Dilip Gadhiya, chairman of the New Cloth Scheme, said that the Foundation would continue to help the needy. Foundation secretary Arvind Baheti said RCC would be opening its second Smile Store in Avadi.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Clear encroachments on this busy road’||From Thirumangalam to the Mogappair arch, on Ambattur Industrial Road, pedestrians are forced to walk on the carriageway as commerce has taken over the pavements. Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) is taking great efforts to beautify the section of the road by laying new pavements on both sides, but this only seems to encourage fruit and flower vendors, food and tea joints, tender coconut sellers and fish sellers to set up shops. Even four-wheelers are parked on the pavements. It is ironical that though GCC spends so much money on these works, there are no follow-ups to clear encroachments. Most important of all, the pedestrians are subjected to great risk every day as they end up walking on the roads. Will the authorities get together and take concerted efforts to address this issue. S.B. Chakraborthy Panneer Nagar, Mogappair
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Use your head, wear a helmet||The National Crime Records Bureau statistics for 2019 shows that motorcyclists account for 38 per cent of the victims of road accidents. They are followed by drivers/users of trucks or lorries, cars and buses, which accounted for 14.6, 13.7 and 5.9 per cent of road accident deaths, respectively. Every road-safety expert worth their salt agree that the most effective approach to reducing motorcyclists-related accidents is to enforce the helmet rule. Sandeep Gaikwad, coordinator, Road Safety Network, a national coalition of NGOs, activists and citizens, shares how the Pune experience illustrates this. He points out that through data they were able to bring about a change in people’s mindset, getting them to appreciate the fact that wearing a helmet while riding a motorcycle can reduce serious head injuries. The one-year-long study was carried out by Parisar, a Pune-based NGO working on road safety. Helmet compliance rate was 28% when the survey was first carried out in 2018. After a period of six months, the percentage rose by another four percent. Later, in 2019 when the traffic police started enforcing the rule, the usage rate went up by 67%. Traffic awareness campaigns and strict violation control also helped achieve this rate. “Enforcement followed by compliance does make a difference. Vietnam, for instance, took its road safety very seriously and a case study shows that only after enforcement did the compliance rate go up from 6% to 90%,” says Gaikwad, senior programme associate, Parisar. He says consistent on-road enforcement works as a deterrent and the traffic police has seen a dip in the number of fatalities in Pune. Helmets can reduce the risk of a fatality by 40%, he says referring to a WHO report. Gaikwad says these studies have shown that using CCTV cameras to nab offenders who are speeding, jumping traffic signals and not wearing helmet is not of much help. “We filed an RTI covering Pune, Aurangabad and Nasik to find out how many offenders were paying the fine and it revealed that 94% did not pay,” says Gaikwad. Road Safety Network has been working with various stakeholders to safeguard other vulnerable road users like pedestrians through advocacy and research.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Spreading cheer||Rotary Club of Chennai Mugappair distributed Deepavali kits from RI District 3232 to the children of an orphanage in Red Hills. This is the fourth year that this annual charity work is being done, says a press release. Similarly, Lions Club of Madras Fort St. George donated Rs. 25,000 to a cancer affected child at Children’s Hospital, Egmore. Lion J. Badrinath, district chairperson, participated and announced that the Club would be donating Rs. 6.25 lakh from Lions Club of Skyline towards chemoport kits for painless chemotherapy treatment, says a release.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Workshop on farming||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre, Guindy, is conducting a workshop on organic farming on November 24. Another workshop on care and maintenance of indoor plants will be held on November 25. For details, call 044 - 2225 0511 / 22501960.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Honouring Good Samaritans||ALERT, a non-profit organisation that empowers people to act effectively during a crisis and save lives, is organising the fourth edition of the “Alert Being Awards”. The initiative honours Good Samaritans, who have made a difference by saving lives. Individuals and organisations who have created an impact through life-saving acts or initiatives can send their nominations to www.alert.ngo/aba This year, the organisers have instituted the ‘COVID Warrior Award’. Individuals and organisations will be selected by an eminent jury panel and the award function is scheduled for January 2021, says a release. The last date for submitting nominations is December 15. For more information, contact Gowthem at +91 99440 11115 or write to alertbeingawards@alert.ngo
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Two brothers record sightings of two rarely seen buntings||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping the memories of an accident and its victim alive||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||rain leaves road pockmarked with potholes||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||stopping the spread of mosquito-borne diseases||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||When road safety hits the home stretch||Aroad in a humongous gated community can be the equivalent of a Green Anaconda, coiled and largely hidden in water and therefore its size and potential threat not alarmingly obvious. These gated communities have their job cut out, as the roads can turn sharply in places; have ramps from car basements leading up to them; and at certain hours, have residents cycling on them, dangerously rubbing bumpers with motorists. “If all the roads within our community are put together to make up one road, we will have a road that is around 2.5 km long,” declares Raghavan Murti, president, Union of Tower Association at House of Hiranandani Upscale in Egattur. “To manage such roads, gated communities should have a full-fledged road safety and regulatory system in place. Besides, residents’ welfare association members will have to walk a thin line between education and regulation.” Raghavan illustrates this with two examples — children skating and cycling down the roads; and trying out the ramps in the car basement areas. “Whenever children skate and cycle on the roads, our hearts are in our mouths. We advise them and the parents on how to be safe. As parents want this outdoor activity for their children we cannot ban it,” elaborates Raghavan. “However, we step into the role of a strict enforcer, when a child tries to cycle down a ramp leading to the basement car parking, because of the high degree of risk attached to it. We have posted security personnel just to watch these ramps for such violation.” At DLF Garden City, a massive 1750-unit community in Semmancheri with huge open spaces and a wide matrix of roads, the safety and security team did not countenance requests from parents that school buses come right to their towers. “It was a case where the request had to be rejected straightaway and it was. If this request was acceded to, there could be 20 school buses coming into the community, and the safety of other children from the community who head to their schools riding bicycles would be compromised. So, this obviously could not be allowed. The community however did whatever it could to help parents and their school-going children: It built bus shelters outside for parents and the children to wait for school buses,” explains P.V.S. Janarthanam, a resident and a member of the Sub-Committee for Safety and Security. John Praveen, secretary of Vaikund Sundaram Apartment Association, points out that his community is spread out horizontally, having a mix of villas, duplex-apartments and regular apartments, and has roads that together add up to a kilometre. So, by default, traffic management is one of the big components of safety. This means there are going to be complaints about speeding and rash driving, and as Praveen explains, the Association seeks to have them addressed promptly, fairly and sometimes with an iron hand. “People will get called out for exceeding speed limits, and rash driving. We also fine people,” says Praveen, adding that this requires an evidence-based system to be fostered. “When parents complain about rash driving, we monitor the footage, and we go to those in question with the evidence. We can be firm but not aggressive about it.” The point, Raghavan says, is that residents should be continually reminded that their road behaviours are being watched. “We get the security personnel to instruct and correct those found violating traffic rules. When residents send in video evidence of a traffic violation, we act on it and that ensures their continued trust in the system.” Raghavan underscores the effectiveness of humour is disarmingly conveying the importance of inviolable rules, citing the example of how the community teamed up with a group of students from Padma Adarsh, a school on Old Mahabalipuram Road run by the Punjab Association, to hold a helmet campaign on the premises, and also outside on the arterial road, including the Navallur checkpost. “With the sartorial features and bearing of Yamaraj, one of the students would stop anyone riding a motorcycle within the community without a helmet on, and say, ‘Come! Come! Come! You are just the one I was looking for!’ These campaigns may not show immediate results, but when they are run on a sustained basis, results will surely follow,” he believes. Both Praveen and Raghavan understand that the basic handicap faced by residents’ association cannot be surmounted. For, they cannot do so, without losing their essential character, which is that of an enabler of rules, and not an iron-fisted enforcer of them. Therefore, infrastructural intervention — such as installing an adequate numbers of speed breakers and reflectors; having convex mirrors around turns, and signages — should be of the highest order, making it near-impossible for residents to engage in risky road behaviour. Besides, communities should also have clear road-safety guidelines handed to security personnel, and they would take things forward from there. With these, gated communities can breathe easy in times when they just cannot leave things to residents’ good sense. “At House of Hiranandani it is 7:45 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. to 7 p.m.,” says Raghavan. That is obviously not the time to stand by with folded arms to watch if the safety campaigns have had an impact on residents. It is a time of heavy traffic, consisting of people in a hurry — and haste and horsepower can be an unsettling combo. Says Raghavan, “During these hours, we deploy our security personnel who regulate traffic with whistles and firmness.” Janarthanam points out that at DLF Garden City, the safety and security team does not take kindly to people driving into and around the community, without driving licences. He elaborates: “The security personnel are instructed to carry out regular and random checks, and so, they would ask vendors to present their driving licences. They are also asked to report to the sub-committee if any young resident who is driving a motorised vehicle though they are not old enough to drive one. Having clear instructions from the sub-committee, security personnel are capable of taking the right decisions on their own.”
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Mani Ratnam’s Anjali and its continuing connection with a gated community in Chennai||The 1990 Mani Ratnam blockbuster Anjali , which provided a glimpse of gated-community living, had a sub-plot involving an uncontrollably exuberant gang of children. As a collective, these children were portrayed as quick-witted and nimble-footed, and this meant that their pranks found their targets — the grown-ups — as uncannily as a cruise missile. The storytelling device did wonders for the film, adding to its humour component, and it operated on the underlying idea that these children were on an equal footing with the older population at the gated community. Fast forward to 2020, this idea is asserting itself, on a hugely different platform and with a lot more reverence for the grown-ups involved, but on the same spot where much of the film, particularly the scenes involving the children’s gang, was shot. Aashiana Apartments on Second Cross Street in Venus Colony stands on the land where Venus Studios was earlier situated and Mani Ratnam’s iconic film was largely shot (more on it later). During the pandemic, Aashiana Apartments shifted many of its regular social activities online, especially those pertaining to culture and entertainment, and the children at the community found an equal footing with the grown-ups. With their digital skills, they were in fact often in the driver’s seat, steering these online initiatives. Usha Manoj, committee member of the residents’ association and a key member of the entertainment committee, points out that a tech support team consisting entirely of children played a central role in this online social engagement. “This year’s Navarathri celebrations were conducted online. Videos of kolus in the households would be compiled together, and every day, a compilation would be sent out to the residents. The children’s tech support team — Manasa (13), Shambhavi (11), Sukriti (15), Ayush (14), Aarush (13), Rohith (13), Avikshit (12), Rakshit (11) and Rishi (12) — would work on these videos, editing them, and adding titles and captions, and also background music to them,” says Usha. She continues, “Wherever residents were diffident about shooting videos of their kolus, members of the children tech support team would land up at their doorsteps, shoot the videos and have them edited — all in short order. On each of the nine days of Navarathri, one lady from community was on MC duty, introducing the kolus. The children shot the MC speeches too. Besides this, seven children came up with a skit based on the Navarathri theme, wrote the script for it, directed it, shot a video of it, added background music to it. They executed each stage of the work without any help.” Not only Navarathri, even other festivities have had a digital touch of the Generation Z, and in some cases even Generation Alpha. “The children helped in editing dance videos,” says Usha. “At our community, Halloween provides an occasion for social interaction and entertainment. Normally, people would dress up, come down and do trick or treat. This year, I voted against it. So, we just had a virtual celebration, which was made engaging, thanks to the children’s tech support team. They did all the Halloween collage videos and photos, complete with spooky background music.” Usha points out that the children did not wake up to this role, but have been growing into it steadily over the years. “They have been integral to many of the activities conducted at the community,” she explains. “During last year’s Navarathri celebrations, the paper bags made by the children at the community were used to give away thamboolams . We have an Aashiana Green Club for children that introduces them to sustainability. When we launched source segregation at the community level, at each of the 11 blocks, children went from door to door, with the charts they had prepared, to tell every household how waste should be segregated, and the purpose served by each bin.” Usha also draws attention to how the community supports young upcycling wizards and sustainability champions by showcasing their efforts, circulating them around in the community’s online groups and displaying them on the noticeboards at the blocks. One of them is 13-year-old Aarush, who has an ability to turn waste into works of art. “In his hands, twigs turn into wands. He upcycles waste into gift items, which he presents to children at the community celebrating their birthday,” says Usha. The Anjali connection The parents of Shruti Vijaykumar — widely known as Baby Shruti to a generation of Tamil-film aficionados — who played one of the three children to Raghuvaran and Revathi in the film, are residents of Aashiana Apartments. Is there any particular reason for buying a flat in this community, which was handed over to the buyers in 1997? “It just happened, you know. My mother-in-law, my husband and I came to see this place. My mother-in-law liked the house a lot,” recalls Mano Vijaykumar, Shruti’s mother. Did the fact that Venus Studios had been located there, and Shruti had acted in a film that was shot there do anything with the choice? “Not really. My mother-in-law is not so emotional. She is very practical. She liked the house. It is close to where we were living,” laughs Mano. Aashiana Apartments was handed over to the owners in 1997. Anjali released in 1990, and the film gave viewers a sense of life in a fully-functional gated community, which was refreshingly new as life back then was largely lived horizontally in individual plots. How much of the film was shot in this property where Venus Studios was located, and how? “The house you see was all sets. The inside of the house was all part of the sets. If it looked so real, it was because of art director Thota Tharani. To create the illusion of a gated community, scenes were shot in other places. The stairwell scene was shot at Gee Gee complex in Nungambakkam,” explains Mano.  Anjali is the only film Shruti Vijaykumar has ever acted in, and that won her a National Award. Says Mano, “She lives in Boston, United States, is married, and has two daughters; she works as a business analyst.”
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||A garbage trail on a busy road in Kundrathur||A trail of garbage can be seen along a stretch of Porur–Kundrathur Main Road. As part of this trail, which runs for more than 100 metres, garbage is found alongside the pavement abutting the compound wall of the Government Adi Dravidar Higher Secondary School near Kundrathur. Due to the garbage pile-up, pedestrians avoid using the pavement, choosing to walk on the narrow but busy carriageway. “Once the school reopens, the garbage pile-up will pose a health hazard to the schoolchildren. Further, it attracts stray animals and on a busy road, movement of these animals can easily put motorists in a spot of trouble,” says S. Veeran, a resident of Kundrathur. Porur–Kundrathur Main Road is maintained by the State Highways Department, and officials from the Department attribute the such garbage pile-ups to decision by local bodies to remove garbage bins as part of efforts to promote responsible waste management among residents. A meeting will be organised with local body officials in this regard, says a State Highways official. At present, the State Highways Department is widening certain sections of the two-lane road into a four-lane. As part of the widening work, undertaken in 2019, encroachments such as extensions of existing shops and makeshift outlets have been cleared. The widened sections have received a concrete median, tiled footpath, LED street lights, speed-breakers with zebra-markings, reflectors and pedestrian-crossings. Stormwater drains are also being widened along the stretch. Further, the State Highways Department is building culverts between Kundrathur and Gerugambakkam. Sections chosen for this work include areas near the Kovur bus terminus and Moulivakkam junction. The culverts are aimed at preventing flooding in Kundrathur, Porur, Valasaravakkam and Ramapuram. Considered a lifeline for residents in the region, the Porur – Kundrathur Main Road enables residents of Kovur, Gerugambakkam, Mugalivakkam, Mangadu, Poonamallee, Kattupakkam, Iyyapanthangal, Somangalam, Kundrathur, Chembarambakkam and Porur reach various other parts of the Chennai. It also connects many villages including Kollachery, Arambedu, Erumaiyur, Gerugambakkam, Kavanoor, Kolambakkam, Poonthandalam and Vaipoor with the Koyambedu Wholesale market via Porur. Farmers from these villages travel on this stretch to transport their produce to the markets in Kundrathur, Poonamallee and Koyambedu. Besides, the road is part of a shorter route to reach the Bangalore Highway (NH:04) via Kundrathur.  State Highways officials cite removal of garbage bins
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Two brothers and two rarely seen buntings in Chennai||Twitchers in Chennai would most likely miss a bunting when they see one in the field. With photography equipment at their disposal, the chance of identification increases. The sighting frozen in pixels, there is now something to peer at, mull over, research on, share and ask around, and finally realise a bunting has crossed their paths. In the last week of October, and the first one in November, two birders separately spotted and clicked two winter-visiting bunting species — a Black-headed Bunting in Chembarambakkam, and a Grey-necked Bunting in Nanmangalam — and identification took this course. Sivakumar Shanmugasundaram and Sathyakumar Shanmugasundaram, who are brothers, did not know they had clapped eyes on a bunting till they had posted the photos in “Ask IDS of Indian Birds”, a Facebook group for bird identification. They subsequently documented the sightings in eBird. Buntings, which are winter migrants to these parts, remain a rara avis in Chennai. “They are perhaps the first documented sighting of these birds in Chennai. As far as I know, there are no records of these buntings in the city before. Probably, there are some old records that we may need to look up, but certainly there is none in recent times,” says ornithologist V. Shantaram who is director of the Institute of Bird Studies at Rishi Valley. In Thiruvanamalai At Adaiyur lake in Thiruvanamalai district, two Grey-necked Buntings were sighted on 17 November, 2019, and recorded by Sivakumar Ramasamy on eBird. Earlier that year — on January 14, 2019 — Gnanaskandan Kesavabharathi reported the sighting of a Black-headed Bunting at Adaiyur Quarry & Scrub in Thiruvanamalai district, on eBird. During the winter months, Sivakumar Shanmugasundaram, a resident of Valasaravakkam, does patch-birding at Chembarambakkam lake. It is a lake he frequents much more than the two others that he regularly ranges around in winter — Nayapakkam and Nemam. On October 25, while visiting the Chembarambakkam lake, Sivakumar hoped to see a pair of Asian Pied Starlings he had seen the previous year. Scanning a patch of greenery for these birds in vain, he circled around a turnabout to head back home, when a flock of Baya Weavers on the wire caught his eye. While viewing the Baya Weavers through a telephoto lens paired to a Pentax camera, he noticed a bird that he could not put a name to. As it turned out, it was a female Black-headed Bunting. Sexually dimorphic, the male of the species is more colourful and arresting. “I have seen the Red-headed Bunting at the Rishi Valley,” says Shantaram. The Red-headed Bunting is closely related to the Black-headed Bunting. “Last year, in Madurai, a Black-headed Bunting and Red-headed Bunting were sighted on the same tree.” Though much of India marks the wintering range of these two migratory buntings, they are seldom seen in impressive numbers — usually in ones and twos. “We hardly see these birds in these parts, certainly not in impressive numbers” admits Shantaram, adding that there is a resident bunting in India — the Crested Bunting — that is restricted to the northern parts of the country, and not seen in the southern parts. The male Crested Bunting is a handsome bird, its two-tone colour pattern actually reminding one of festive buntings. On the morning of November 2, Sathyakumar Shanmugasundaram, a resident of Mugalivakkam, was at Nanmangalam, having “obtained the necessary official permission to visit the reserve forest”, when he saw “this bird on the tip of a bush”. “I had managed to take only two hasty pictures of the bird when it flew away. On seeing the bird IN the camera screen, it struck me as different from anything I have ever seen before. I posted it in in the ‘Ask IDS of Indian Birds’ on FB, and members confirmed it as a male Grey-necked Bunting,” says Sathyakumar. “As it was very early in the morning and foggy, the photos were not great.” Sivakumar is an IT professional and Sathyakumar a dentist, and sons of late S. Shanmugasundaram, who retired as Chief Conservator of Forests in 1997, they have taken up the hobby of studying wildlife, especially birds. Sivakumar points out that birders are getting accustomed to seeing a stray bunting or two around where Baya Weavers, which are resident birds, congregate. Sundaravel Palanivelu, another birder, has a record of the sighting of a Red-headed Bunting in Virudhunagar two years ago, and he draws attention to how many birders instinctively start scanning places teeming with Baya Weavers for signs of buntings.  I had managed to take only two hasty pictures of the Grey-necked Bunting when it flew away
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Hunger for knowledge fed at ‘The Nest’||Pasta tracing an algebraical expression, accompanied by this text “Pasta and Polynomials. The New Education Recipe” It was a cryptic teaser for an upcoming webinar. Two more teasers later, the target audience inched closer to cracking the mystery of what the webinar was all about. However, until the day of the webinar, the organisers maintained the suspense. Here is what makes it really interesting: The Nest, a gated community in Teynampet, had organised this webinar, and it was about the National Education Policy. One of residents of the 120-unit community was holding centre stage in it: It was Ramkumar Ramamoorthy, former CMD of Cognizant. The webinar is one of 21 organised so far by the community as part of a series it calls ‘Thought Streaming’. Though aimed at engaging its residents during the lockdown, the series seems to have a long life still ahead of it. Residents can volunteer to talk on a topic. A team curates the talks based on popular suggestions. Bird-watching, brand-building, the science behind germs, the generation gap (which featured residents between 20 and 80) and the evolution of Bharathanatyam are among engaging topics the initiative has thrown up so far. “Initially, getting residents to be on the panel of a webinar was challenge. With some of the topics resonating with many residents and videos of these getting shared around the community, the process got easier,” says H. Sriram, a resident of the apartment who curates the sessions. The weekly series has a fixed time slot: every Sunday, 3.30 p.m. Diverse topics The team keeps the topics broad-based so residents in all age brackets warm up to the series. “We even got those accomplished in performance arts to give a performance before the event: This way we had mrindagam and violin recitals,” says Sriram. Slowly, the initiative’s scope widened to include speakers from outside the community. That is how Madhavi Latha of the Wheelchair Basketball Federation of India got to talk to residents of The Nest. The five-member organising team functions like a corporate unit, with responsibilities clearly etched and assigned to each of them. A few examples: Venugopal Nair has been handling promotions and R. Shantha Ram takes care of technology. R. Kailas and S. Vasan were the others helping with logistics and tech support. “Every Monday, we would get on a call to review the whole session,” says Sriram. The primary purpose of Though Streaming is to involve youngsters. “We wanted more youngsters in the picture,” says Venugopal Nair, advertisement professional and a resident of the community for the last 13 years. Sriram says one of the key objectives met by this initiative was tapping the potential of residents and showcasing it before an audience. As an extension of the series, youngsters were asked to make a short film of the Independence Day celebrations. During the IPL season; and now, due to festivals, Thought Streaming has taken a temporary break. “Around 40 people attended some of the last webinars, which provides us with the motivation to keep it going. We plan to host at least one event every month and want other gated communities to be part of this to learn about varied subjects in an easy manner,” says Sriram, former committee member of the Nest Apartment Owners’ Association.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping the memories of an accident and its victim alive||This May marked Pavit Singh Nayar’s tenth anniversary; and June, Meher Rohinton Sanjana’s third. Two youngsters struck down in the prime of their lives, under tragic circumstances, their families would not let their untimely deaths go unremembered. They use these unfortunate incidents to promote road-safety, each in their own way. During this year, they had to put their regular campaigns on hold, but the desire to educate, and even gently nudge people into safety consciousness, is seared into their souls. As a symbol of this resolve, Meher’s father Freddy Rohinton Sanjana has tattooed his son’s image on his arm. The accidents In 2010, Pavit Singh Nayar, a 20-year-old met with a fatal road accident at Besant Nagar. If he had buckled up, the youngster would have survived the crash. The same year, his family started the Pavit Singh Road Safety Trust, with awareness campaigns about wearing seat belt and helmet as the main focus area. On June 1 2017, Meher, a 21-year-old, lost his life, in an accident that involved a pedestrian climbing over a low median and crossing the road. Freddy says that due to the CA classes he was attending, Meher’s day had begun early. At Perungudi on Old Mahabalipuram Road, a pedestrian scuttled across the road, having climbed over the low median, and Meher swerved his motorcycle sharply to save the man, and in the process he himself fell and was critically injured, having “sustained head injuries despite wearing an expensive helmet”. The campaigns For Manjit Singh Nayar, Pavit’s father, there was no doubt about what course he should take. He straightaway plunged into a seat-belt campaign, which Nayar points out, was ahead of its times. As general secretary of the Guru Nanak Educational Society, Nayar has ensured the faculty and students riding motorcycles are not allowed to enter the campus, if they are not wearing helmets. Through its NSS and NCC cadets, the Trust promotes road safety awareness on busy roads. Since 2012-13, the family has been offering langar (free community lunch) to students coming to the campus without food. Nayar says that around 700 people are fed during working days. The Pavit Singh Nayar Memorial Trophy, an annual inter-collegiate T20 cricket tournament, is another effort to keep the son’s memory alive. Twelve teams took part in the inaugural edition held in 2015. “Now, the event has gone national with colleges from other states also taking part in it. Since the last two years we have expanded the scope of the event to include women cricketers,” says Nayar. Freddy conducts road safety campaigns, undertaking them individually or in association with the voluntary organisation Thozhan. His personal campaigns are focussed on the danger of crossing roads at undesignated points; highlighting why low medians should be raised; and creating awareness about what ought to be done to help a road accident victim meaningfully, which includes ensuring immediate golden-hour treatment at a well-equipped hospital nearby, even in cases where the accident victim would not be able to continue with the treatment there. His efforts are centred around OMR where his son lost his life. Candlelight vigil Since 2015, a voluntary organisation ‘R-SAFE’ has been organising a candlelight vigil in select parts of Chennai on World Day of Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims (which falls on the third Sunday of November) to help families honour the loved ones they lost to road accidents and achieve some healing. It is also aimed at sending an unspoken message about road safety to the larger world. In the early years, the candlelight vigil was organised opposite the West Tambaram Bus Stand; the Semmancherry Police Outpost and CMBT Bus Terminus. “Now, due to lack of permission, the vigil is conducted only at CMBT,” says J. Krishnamoorty, former joint director, The Institute of Road Transport, and founder of R-SAFE. “I established R-SAFE after my retirement to promote road user safety through presentation of awareness modules, complete with slides and videos, to students, corporates and drivers,” says Krishnamoorty. “Nobody can fix a price on human life — whatever the compensation, you cannot make up for the loss of a life.”  “Nobody can fix a price on human life — whatever the compensation, you cannot make up for the loss of a life.”
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 safety: Two contrasting experiences in Virugambakkam||A few days ago, I went to the Regional Transport Office (RTO) on Kaliamman Road in Virugambakkam for renewing my driving license. When I entered the office located on the first floor, I was shocked to see a long queue of people standing close to each other amd most of them were not wearing masks. It was obvious that no efforts had been taken to ensure that the visitors maintained social distancing. Besides, the office was not well-lit, and one felt a sense of suffocation. In contrast, at the local passport office in Saligramam, which I visited to renew my passport, staggered timings were followed while granting appointemnt to applicants to ensure there was no crowd inside the office. After applying online, I had been there with my credentials at the allotted date and time in the afternoon. Only persons wearing masks are permitted into its office. And visitors have to sanitise their hands, following which they are directed to any of the three counters in the hall for verification of the credentials already submitted online. Follwing this, the applicants are directed to the first floor where separate counters are maintained for senior citizens, fresh applicants, and for those who want to renew their passport. Then, one by one, the verification is done. My experience has been that the whole process is completed within 10 minutes. Virugai Sankaran is a resident of Virugambkm,
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||A section of Arcot Road in Kodambakkam needs mending||On the section of Arcot Road, near Meenakshi College in Kodambakkam, a row of concrete slabs was removed two weeks ago. These concrete slabs had been serving as a median, but they had to go because they also caused accidents at night. There have been cases of motorists ploughing into these stones, as they were not clearly visible at night time. However, the section from which the slabs were removed need to be relaid, to prevent another type of accidents. There are instances of motorcyclists skidding on this section, which is damaged due to the digging. “Chunks of bitumen from the dug-up portion can be found strewn across the stretch near the ramp of the Kodambakkam flyover. Motorcyclists skid on them and get hurt,” says S. Pavan Kumar, a resident of Vadapalani. The Greater Chennai Corporation has also decided to widen the service lane to ease the traffic flow on this section of Arcot Road. As per the rules, motorists coming from streets in the neighbourhood are not supposed to take the flyover via the service lane. To check such violations, the traffic police extended the steel barricades from the ramp of the flyover towards the main road, thereby preventing motorists on the flyover from taking a left turn to reach the streets in the neighbourhood. However, motorists travel a little further beyond the steel barricades and take a left turn to go to the streets on both sides of the flyover. CCTV cameras are in place at the ramp of the flyover. A GCC official says, “The damaged portion of Arcot Road near the college will be relaid soon.”    “Chunks of bitumen from the dug up portion could be found strewn across the road near the ramp of the Kodambakkam flyover”
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Key link road is battered’||A.N. Elumalai Road, formerly known as Oil Mill Road in Iyappanthangal, is an important road as it connects Mount Poonamallee Road with Kumananchavadi, Velappanchavadi and Vanagaram. A section of this road — accounting for around 700 metres — is in a bad shape. Potholes-ridden, this section becomes extremely difficult to use when it rains. Motorcyclists drive along the road margins to avoid the potholes and thereby put pedestrians at risk for accidents. There are many commercial establishments, hospitals, banks, and schools in the vicinity. Hence, it witnesses a good traffic. Further, tanker lorries carrying water and sewage frequent this stretch. We request the authorities concerned to look into this issue at the earliest. J Giridharan is a resident of Iyappanthangal
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Prompt response from GCC’s helpline’||This is in reference to the article “Monsoon notes on tree care” published on November 1, 2020, in The Hindu Downtown . As suggested in the article, I called 1913, Greater Chennai Corporation’s helpline, on November 4 to have the trees in our neighbourhood — Kumaran Nagar in Virugambakkam Post — pruned, as tree branches were hanging precariously over live electricity wires. My complaint was promptly registered and four men were at my doorstep on the very next morning (November 5) and they trimmed the branches. As they did not come with a moving crane fitted with an electric saw, they were not able to do a thorough job. Hence, I have once again registered a complaint with 1913 and also made a specific mention that the workers come with the necessary tree-purning machinery. Anyway, I am happy that this much has been done, which had not been done for years. N. Subramanian is a resident of Kumaran Nagar Virugambakkam Post
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Rainwater stagnation||Even with a short spell of rain, water draining from the junction of Chetpet overbridge at Periyar EVR Salai stagnates at the junction of Ispahani Lane and Periyar EVR Salai. It takes more than 24 hours for the rainwater to drain out as there is no outlet. I request the Greater Chennai Corporation to do needful at the earliest.   C P Sundareswaran,  Chetpet
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||How much of a passage migrant is the Chestnut-winged Cuckoo?||Jithesh Babu, a resident of Thirumalai Nagar, found on a section of Sembakkam from where the Nanmangalam lake is only as distant as the boundary is from cricket pitch, has not got over the excitement of sighting a Chestnut-winged Cuckoo this month. This year, he is part of an informal birdwatching-residents’ project that lists the migrants in their neck of the woods. “While we do a lot of our birding around the lake, sharing boundaries with Nanmangalam Reserve Forest, our neighbourhoods give us the advantage of watching many birds found on the peripherals, while standing right outside the forest,” says Jithesh. The sighting of the Chestnut-winged Cuckoo — also known as the Red-winged Crested Cuckoo — is the high point of this migrant-documenting exercise. The bird being a passage migrant, Jithesh counts himself fortunate. “Red-winged Crested Cuckoos are mostly passage migrants, headed further south, but some of them may be staying back,” says ornithologist V. Shantaram, who is the director of the Institute of Bird Studies, Rishi Valley “There are many records of Red-winged Crested Cuckoos being sighted in March and April on the return migration. They are also seen in November-December. Nobody sees them in large numbers — one or two at a time. Sometimes four, usually during March,” says Shantaram. Shantaram recalls a period when he has had a closer association with the Red-Winged Crested Cuckoo: “In the 1980s, in Santhome, I have had the experience of holding Red-winged Crested Cuckoos in my hand, having had to rescue and later release them in safe conditions. These birds would have flown into houses, chased and pecked by crows. I had to rescue a Red-winged Crested Cuckoo so attacked and driven into my neighbour’s house. On another occasion, I attended to a call from a resident of the locality to rescue a Red-winged Crested Cuckoo in similar distress.”
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Water supply issue continues’||Since August, Bharathidasan Street and First Street in Bhaskar Colony did not receive water supply through the pipes of Chennai Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB). However, following repeated representations to CMWSSB, the problem was fixed in last week of October and we now receive water. However, there are a few more houses and apartments where water supply has not been resumed yet. We request CMWSSB to do the needful at the earliest. V.K. Murali is the secretary of Baskar Colony Residents Welfare Association, Virugambakkam
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Use your head, wear a helmet||The National Crime Records Bureau statistics for 2019 shows that motorcyclists account for 38 per cent of the victims of road accidents. They are followed by drivers/users of trucks or lorries, cars and buses, which accounted for 14.6, 13.7 and 5.9 per cent of road accident deaths, respectively. Every road-safety expert worth their salt agree that the most effective approach to reducing motorcyclists-related accidents is to enforce the helmet rule. Sandeep Gaikwad, coordinator, Road Safety Network, a national coalition of NGOs, activists and citizens, shares how the Pune experience illustrates this. He points out that through data they were able to bring about a change in people’s mindset, getting them to appreciate the fact that wearing a helmet while riding a motorcycle can reduce serious head injuries. The one-year-long study was carried out by Parisar, a Pune-based NGO working on road safety. Helmet compliance rate was 28% when the survey was first carried out in 2018. After a period of six months, the percentage rose by another four percent. Later, in 2019 when the traffic police started enforcing the rule, the usage rate went up by 67%. Traffic awareness campaigns and strict violation control also helped achieve this rate. “Enforcement followed by compliance does make a difference. Vietnam, for instance, took its road safety very seriously and a case study shows that only after enforcement did the compliance rate go up from 6% to 90%,” says Gaikwad, senior programme associate, Parisar. He says consistent on-road enforcement works as a deterrent and the traffic police has seen a dip in the number of fatalities in Pune. Helmets can reduce the risk of a fatality by 40%, he says referring to a WHO report. Gaikwad says these studies have shown that using CCTV cameras to nab offenders who are speeding, jumping traffic signals and not wearing helmet is not of much help. “We filed an RTI covering Pune, Aurangabad and Nasik to find out how many offenders were paying the fine and it revealed that 94% did not pay,” says Gaikwad. Road Safety Network has been working with various stakeholders to safeguard other vulnerable road users like pedestrians through advocacy and research.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writers by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtown feedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||School students raise funds for the underprivileged||With their tech-savviness, abilities in performance arts and a natural knack for organising events, six high-schoolers from the areas in and around Old Mahabalipuram Road have been raising funds for the underprivileged during the lockdown. Samyuktha Raja, Vaibhavashri J.K., Aditi B. Narayan, Arindum Roy, Himakshi Jammar and Nidhi Srinivasan share one of these two things — they either hail from the same school/ tuition centre or belong to the same gated community — or both. Their first event was a two-day online open mic where teenagers could showcase their talent in singing, dancing and beatboxing. Though ticket sales and registrations for this online event, they raised Rs. 20,000 which they gave away to two NGOs working for the underprivileged. Their next project was about getting their friends and family to write letters thanking frontline workers. Over 30 letters were sent to Dr. Mehta’s Hospital at Chetpet in Chennai. They conduct the programmes on theindiandream.net.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Honouring Good Samaritans||ALERT, a non-profit organisation that empowers people to act effectively during a crisis and save lives, is organising the fourth edition of the “Alert Being Awards”. The initiative honours Good Samaritans, who have made a difference by saving lives. Individuals and organisations who have created an impact through life-saving acts or initiatives can send their nominations to www.alert.ngo/aba This year, the organisers have instituted the ‘COVID Warrior Award’. Individuals and organisations will be selected by an eminent jury panel and the award function is scheduled for January 2021, says a release. The last date for submitting nominations is December 15. For more information, contact Gowthem at +91 99440 11115 or write to alertbeingawards@alert.ngo
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Workshop on organic farming||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre, Guindy, is conducting a workshop on organic farming on November 24. Another workshop on care and maintenance of indoor plants will be held on November 25. For details, call 044 - 2225 0511 / 22501960.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Mani Ratnam’s Anjali and its continuing connection with a gated community in Chennai||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Two brothers and two rarely seen buntings in Chennai||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||When road safety hits the home stretch||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||When only narrow strips of a road manage to stay dry||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||That rare raconteur||That’s all I have,” the newspaper agent in our neighbourhood in Kolkata said, gesturing at his table. It was mid-morning and all that was left were some Hindi newspapers and business dailies. Every single Bengali and English daily was gone. “Soumitra Chatterjee,” the vendor said by way of explanation. Chatterjee had died the day before. The emptiness of the newspaper agent’s table represented in its own way the void he had left but was also a marker of his enduring relevance till the end. Never old Soumitra Chatterjee has been eulogised as the last of the Renaissance Bengalis, an actor and a gentleman, both gentle and genteel, a legend in his own time. He accomplished much in his rich career of six decades but now I realise one of his incredible achievements was that he did not turn into the boring old uncle repeating yet another “When I was with Manik-da aka Satyajit Ray” anecdote. Although he lately acted in his share of forgettable films as the upright senior citizen suffering the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune, he did not become a bewigged caricature of himself. In a city always prone to nostalgia he escaped being pickled in it. His last gift to us was a masterclass in how to age gracefully. The writer Mahasweta Devi once wrote, “ Soumitra buro hoyni, boyesh hoyechhe (Soumitra has not grown old, he has just grown in years)”. The actress Sabitri Chatterjee, someone Soumitra admired, said, “It gives me great courage to just know that he is there, that at his age he is still acting, reading poetry, writing, doing theatre, still working on his own terms.” At a time when he should have been picking up lifetime achievement awards and resting on his laurels, he apparently left behind 10 films ready for release. It could not have been easy for a man whose looks made admirers swoon to accept ageing. Even now I cannot look at a picture of Shashi Kapoor, Felicity Kendal, Madhur Jaffrey and Soumitra Chatterjee strolling together at the 1965 Berlinale without a pang. It seems like a paean to something ineffable, a syzygy of serendipitous beauty that would just waft away like the smoke from Chatterjee’s once ever-present cigarette. But Chatterjee allowed himself to age onscreen, even joking in an interview, “This industry has no other old actor who can replace me. You need old men.” Just himself Chatterjee with his Ray pedigree and love for Rabindranath Tagore, could have easily become fossilised in Bengal’s reverence for its hallowed past. He had been interviewed so many times he could have sleepwalked through his answers about how he met Ray, the rivalry with Uttam Kumar, the comparisons between early Ray and late Ray. Some of the more woke criticise him for being the opium of the Bengali middle class who, they feel, worshipped him not just because he was classy but because he embodied their class superiority fantasies, with refined diction to boot. But Soumitra Chatterjee was not Apu or even Felu-da. Those were just parts he played. If he had to bear the burden of being Exhibit A of the vanishing species, Bhadralokus Bengalus, that was more our doing than his. He was just himself. As his great friend, the late actor Rabi Ghosh, wrote, “Soumitra is a poet/ writer, he speaks beautifully, he can shoot the breeze beautifully, he even drinks beautifully, in measured moderation.” He was very aware of his own worth but also of its limits. He remembered producers baulked at his idea of a film adaptation of Tiktiki (adapted from Anthony Shaffer’s play, Sleuth ) starring him and Uttam Kumar because they thought a film without a heroine would flop in the mofussil areas. “These were producers for whom Uttam-da and I had given multiple hits,” he said with a shrug. But somehow he retained a sense of playfulness, rather than rancour. Once he was asked if he had to go away forever what two works of literature he would carry with him. He chose Tagore’s Gitabitan and the Mahabharata . But later he said he had changed his mind. The Gitabitan remained because he could not imagine being without Tagore but instead of the Mahabharata he picked Sukumar Ray’s nonsense verse classic, Abol Tabol . That was Soumitra Chatterjee, always evolving, always curious, that rare raconteur more interested in the story than in the sound of his own voice. Infinite variety It’s a measure of how indelible his roles were that their impact has crossed generations. In a tribute to Chatterjee, the Bengali poet Srijato said he was surprised at how the fervent social media pleas during Chatterjee’s illness referred to his characters, not to the man himself. Apu, stay unvanquished. Fight, Khit-da, fight. Felu-da, solve this case. At first he was nonplussed but then he realised that these characters were as iconic as Chatterjee himself, they had given solace and strength to many people at many times. “And the threads that hold these kites aloft all end in Soumitra Chatterjee’s hand,” wrote Srijato. At least those roles will remain. Just the other day I chanced upon a clip of Charulata and sighed as his Amal sank into that reclining chair with insouciant ease while Charu embroidered away on the bed. We can watch that clip whenever we miss the actor Soumitra Chatterjee. But not everything can be preserved like that. A couple of days after his death I walked into the living room where yet another Chatterjee interview was playing on the television. As I was about to leave the room, something he said stopped me. I stood there listening to him. Before I knew it, 10 minutes had passed and I was still waiting to hear what else he had to stay. After 60 years in the limelight, age had not withered him, nor custom staled his infinite variety. That’s what made him truly special, not classic or classist, simply a class apart. The writer is the author ofDon’t Let Him Know.  At a time when he should have been picking up lifetime achievement awards and resting on his laurels, he apparently left behind 10 films ready for release
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Stranger by far||Stubbly chin. Blood red mouth. Vermilion squint-eyed stone deity. A blue butterfly tattooed on a woman’s breast. Men, women, children, seemingly in a trance, bathe in the frothing and foaming inky sea: they wash off the identities they had assumed for the festive rituals in the dark night. A woman in a garish red nightie stands grinning outside a cabin. A man’s head emerges from behind her torso. A bawdy house? A hand is about to unhook a blouse. A cross-dressed young man lies on his back gazing straight at the camera. His top is orange. The wall is blue. A boy is about to strike another with a stone. A tear rolls down the cheek of a woman. A man wields a blood-stained machete. A boy turns incandescent. A blood-stained head — sure it’s not tomato purée? A man polishes a curved, wall-to-wall mirror. His reflection is warped on its shiny surface. An illusion The lurid colours, the glaring flash and mise en scène are a far cry from photographer and filmmaker Sohrab Hura’s earlier relentless investigations of mental illness and abject poverty at Pati, the dust bowl of Madhya Pradesh, in searing black and white. These violently contrasting images mark Sohrab Hura’s ongoing exhibition, ‘Spill’, at Kolkata’s Experimenter gallery. Like the waves of the sea, Hura’s images spill over the confines of fact till they mingle with fiction. The meaning of images can change radically when the context shifts even slightly. And this is what Hura explores in this exhibition. He explains this in his video, The Lost Head & The Bird, a long-term project, where myriad found footage is stirred and shaken with his garish colour photographs. Hura takes this conceit to its logical conclusion as he creates the illusion (on a mobile phone screen) of water decanting into a container going in the reverse direction in the concluding section of the exhibition. ‘Spill’ covers Hura’s 15-year practice as a photographer; he is the first Indian to become a member of Magnum Photos,  the international cooperative owned by its photographer members. “I started with colour and then moved to black-and-white to focus on the compositional part,” says the masked Hura, as he mounts the exhibition. “I learn at my own pace. I experiment. Try. Fail. And make a vocabulary in the process. In the colour pictures I am playing with context. I don’t know what is real and what is not. It’s a grey area. There exists a larger system of creating narratives. Stories mean power. During elections, the government is tweaking narratives according to the narrative we want. Riots break out. But it’s too late when discovered.”  Vertical frames Hura explains that he used vertical frames for these images so that they look claustrophobic; a horizontal frame gives more breathing space. “I am making a vocabulary that makes you want to trust it more. A horizontal frame looks well composed. Here I am striking a fine balance of doubt. One can’t be sure that it is real.” Between 2013 and 2014, Hura’s parents, still new to WhatsApp, would forward messages, including fake news, which they took at face value. Back then, people were not used to the idea of fake news. There is a sea of images out there that is being circulated ceaselessly. These are very different from the images one encounters in the art world. “My work,” says Hura, “is a bait for viewers to move to this sea of images.” So he juxtaposes his work with the vortex of found footage; the “vocabulary is hyper-realistic, saturated in energy”. As he explains, there is no space for iconic images here, only viral images exist for one moment and then they die out. Idiot photographer Hura plays the part of the “idiot photographer” because, as he explains, “I’m also part of the violence in image-making as the larger system that I am looking at. Hence the self-reference. But the idiot photographer is also the audience. Because all of those who are spectators to the goings-on of the world are as culpable.” There is a striking contrast between Hura’s earlier and new works. The documentary style of ‘Land of a Thousand Struggles’ that began in 2005 followed by ‘Pati’ were records of the 50-day bus journey Hura undertook in North India’s rural belt after completing university along with economist and social scientist Jean Drèze and others who were part of the ‘Right to Food’ movement. The objectivity and photojournalistic style of these underwent a transformation when he shifted to his personal world. Hura’s camera examined with unflinching honesty and tenderness his mother’s schizophrenia and the mortal illness of her pet dog in Bittersweet (2019). In The Coast (2020), where masquerading devotees take a dip in the ocean at night, they are washing off their masks, so to speak. It’s a throwback to the Modi wave masks of the 2019 elections. “The coastline is a metaphor for something that will burst. The night stands for evil... unsocial behaviour.”  Hura had said in an earlier Magnum interview: “There is a sort of new language of photography coming into existence. Because of the looseness of social media. It’s weird, it’s surprising, it’s ugly, it’s beautiful, it’s voyeuristic, it’s narcissistic, it’s ordinary, it’s precise, it’s misleading, it’s a lot of contradictions put together. Yet it somehow makes sense to me.” The viewer will take time to unravel this. ON SHOW: Spill by Sohrab Hura; Experimenter, Kolkata; till January 2, 2021. The writer focuses on Kolkata’s vanishing heritage and culture.  ‘I learn at my own pace. I experiment. Try. Fail. And make a vocabulary in the process. In the colour pictures I am playing with context,’ says Hura.   The meaning of images can change radically when the context shifts even slightly. And this is what Hura explores in this exhibition.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Show a nd tell a||In 1980, the poet Audre Lorde wrote Cancer Journals about the silence around breast cancer and its increasing fatality. At the time, cancer was encumbered by metaphoric associations to depressed or melancholic personalities, joining the ranks of discredited women’s illness experiences. Lorde had no precedents to look up to as a lesbian woman of colour after her mastectomy, and her refusal to wear a prosthesis was an act that made visible a secretive, almost forbidden disease. For Lorde, to tell was to give a voice to the illness and reclaim agency from medical decisions that gave little autonomy to the patient. With every entry in the journal echoing rebellion, Lorde asks: “I am myself, a black woman warrior poet doing my work, come to ask you, are you doing yours? And, of course I am afraid — you can hear it in my voice — because the transformation of silence into language and actions is an act of self-revelation and that always seems fraught with danger.”  Cancer Journals became the prototype for the feminist breast cancer memoir. In earlier narratives of the disease, such as the The Diary of Alice James , the relief of diagnosis overshadows the tediousness of having to live with a terminal illness, ringing close to patient experiences of chronic illnesses that are hard to diagnose such as chronic fatigue syndrome. Having suffered from mysterious and undiagnosable illnesses for 40 years, Alice, sister of the American author Henry James, experiences relief on being diagnosed with breast cancer, finding at last a name to the illness to which she would succumb. Forty years after Lorde’s trailblazing memoir, much has evolved about the diagnosis and treatment of breast cancer — and also its representation. Breast cancer memoirs are a genre of their own, and using transgressive textual strategies, the writers offer to those looking for anecdotal help an honest account of the extreme event of cancer that disrupts their everyday. One such genre is the graphic illness narrative — a memoir in comics format. While graphic refers to that which is drawn and easily imagined, it could also mean unpleasant. The format has been effectively used by patients, caregivers and physicians to show and tell illness, with integrity and acute awareness of the bodily self. Popular breast cancer graphic narratives such as Marissa Marchetto’s Cancer Vixen , Miriam Engelberg’s Cancer Made Me A Shallower Person or Jennifer Hayden’s The Story of my Tits re-vision cancer in their own terms, and with self-deprecating humour and relatable art add experiential value to the cancer imagery. An important element of these books is their engagement with the materiality of cancer. For instance, in Cancer Vixen , a graphic memoir about the fashionable writer’s tryst with breast cancer in fast-paced New York, Marissa Marchetto draws life-sized needles, with images of actual X-rays, bills and scans, drawing and writing over them, taking ownership of her categorised body through her unique storytelling technique. Different experience This year, a new graphic memoir called Kimiko Does Cancer registered a queer, mixed-race woman’s experience of breast cancer at 25. Kimiko Tobimatsu and her collaborator, Asian artist Keet Geniza, have been posting comics about the process of writing the book on Instagram for a couple of years now, a behind-the-scenes rendition that represents a unique voice among breast cancer culture’s tendency to over-represent one particular demographic — that of the heterosexual white woman — and hence dangerously perpetuate a single story, where cancer survivors like Kimiko, just like Audre Lorde four decades ago, are left with no models to associate with. Even as the COVID-19 pandemic has led to viral discussions, the language of the immune system is no foreign parlance for cancer survivors. Through the pandemic, cancer patients like the American academic Susan Gubar are patiently blogging about making sense of the quarantine as they made sense of their cancer, asserting their voices as bodies-at-risk. Susan Sontag famously spoke of the “kingdom of the ill” as being another world that everyone at some point must travel to. For Lorde, the journey of self-scrutiny was painful, but the most rewarding journey of all. For the new breed of memoir writers recording their illnesses, the best way to understand this journey is to be able to tell or show it in their own unique ways. meenavid79@gmail.com  To tell was to give a voice to the illness and reclaim agency from medical decisions that gave little autonomy to the patient
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Alt-right, centre stage||During a town-hall interaction last month, in the run-up to the recent U.S. presidential election, Donald Trump was asked if he would denounce QAnon, a ‘dark-web’ conspiracy-theorist movement that channels and amplifies extreme right-wing propagandist messages and videos. Ever the Artful Dodger, Trump, who has cynically gathered the fruits of QAnon’s harvest of hatred, tap-danced around the question. Worse, he appeared to halfway endorse the alt-right movement, claiming that its “fight” against paedophilia — itself an expression of a deranged fake narrative that Satan-worshipping Democrats run a child sex ring — was worthy of commendation. Like many other surreal moments that have defined the Trump presidency, this one too starkly symbolised the mainstreaming of madness, hitherto confined to the cuckoo country of fringe outfits. Trump’s resounding defeat has done nothing to silence that ‘voice in the head’: to this day, millions of his voters endorse his Twitter rants that the election was rigged by a ‘deep state’, with the complicity of Big Tech. Other manifestations of a similar normalisation of noxiousness abound, in the U.S. and globally. A Republican candidate who supported QAnon has now been elected to the U.S. Congress. Politics in other geographies, and nearer home, have proved to be similarly susceptible to the sway of active disinformation of giga-Goebbelsian proportions. Sabbatical in hell It is against such a dystopian backdrop that Hari Kunzru’s disquieting novel, about the descent of a liberal writer’s mind down the rabbit hole of a manner of madness, is framed. The listless — and unnamed — protagonist, confronting an inspiration-sapping midlife crisis and realisations of his mortality (reinforced by media images of a world in turmoil and of refugees washing up on alien shores), seizes upon a sabbatical retreat in Germany in the hope of sorting himself out. But the journey only drags him further into a hell-world, partly of his own mental making. His excessive preoccupation with privacy, bordering on paranoia, runs afoul of the spirit of openness that characterises the writers’ retreat, but in fact is a façade for whitewashed history. Finding his sense of self slowly altered, he retreats further into the cocoon of his fevered mind, and surrenders to the deadening distraction of an uber-violent cop show with a cold and merciless vision of the world. A chance encounter with Anton, the show’s producer, leads him to believe he is to be offered the “red pill” — the revelatory, clarifying dose of reality that will get him through the matrix and out of the swamp of moral darkness. Instead, he is compelled to question the very foundation of the liberal values he lives by, without securing any satisfactory answers. Over a tension-laced dinner with Anton and his friends at a doner kebab outlet in Berlin, where, as the only non-Turkish patrons, they provide the ethnic “diversity” to the grouping, the writer comes face to face with the sharp edge of in-your-face racism. Anton’s friends claim their right to their preference “to live a life without kebab”. “Racism”, they reason, is just another word for exercising “the choice” to “be with my own kind.” And the writer finds himself mocked for his foolish sentimentalism in wanting to “help other people far away, nice abstract refugees who save you from having to commit to anything or anybody or anything real”. Searing realisation That up-close encounter accelerates his downward spiral, and sets him on a manic-obsessive pursuit of Anton, who by now has begun to colonise his mind, rent-free. As much as it is a spatial journey — one that Kunzru narrates in gripping prose — it is an exploration of a mind that, even in its delirious state, struggles for clarity. Why do humans have special rights, the protagonist wonders. Why are we more special than, say, an eagle or a coral reef? As he sinks further into the slough of despond, a searing realisation dawns on him: “the most pressing problem was not my mental state but the state of the world.” It is a realisation born of a clinically forensic exercise in connecting the dots and decoding embedded alt-right messages, which shows just how much of the narrative that shapes our worldview is implanted. As he watches the 2016 presidential election results stream on television, and as Trump is borne aloft to victory on alt-right wings, he muses wryly: “My madness... is about to become everyone’s madness.” In a sane world, Trump’s electoral defeat four years later would perhaps have served as a reassuring postscript, a satisfying bookend. The fever, we would have been told, has subsided; all is well, and regular programming will begin soon. But as the past few weeks have demonstrated, the alt-right genie — in the U.S. and around the world — isn’t about to crawl back into the bottle from which it was unleashed. Yet more delirium may be in store. In incandescent prose, which is chilling as much as it is thrilling, Kunzru gives us a red pill to awaken us to the post-apocalyptic netherworld that awaits. The writer is a Chennai-based journalist.  Red Pill Hari Kunzru Scribner UK  Rs. 599    Why do humans have special rights, the protagonist wonders. Why are we more special than, say, an eagle or a coral reef?
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||A deep-fried present||It is a truth universally acknowledged that I am birthday mad. By that I mean going all out to make someone’s birthday special — a treasure hunt across the city, creating a mock radio show, making several books from scratch, reimagining the remembrall from Harry Potter , using the nine-times tables for presents for the milestone ninth birthday (last single digit!), writing (by hand) and drawing the The Little Prince — you get the drift? So now, when I watch my children do the same, I feel relieved. Here is one legacy I have definitely passed on. But this extravagance in gift-making and gift-giving overcompensates for another legacy, one that waits quietly by my door. I am, of course, talking about that thing on a paper plate, always precariously balanced — birthday food. While there are several pressure cookers full of food memories I carry in my belly, each whistling urgently and representative of constantly evolving life — the Diwali Mysore pak that can become a fitting returning-dabba filler, the jeera rasam made for fevers can become a mid-week meal, Sunday morning aloo paratha can become packed train food — there is one that has resolutely stuck to its birthday roots. The noodles roll. Good Lord My mother calls it Noodle’s Roll, and I think I might like that version better, because it almost feels like Noodle is an overlord at the Birthday Court, magnanimously giving out the rolls on paper plates. The ingredients are so few that they would very well fit in Lord Noodle’s pockets — some flour, butter and milk for the white sauce, green chillies and coriander for the garnish, and salt to taste. But the magic of spaghetti — the only time ‘noodles’ separates itself from Maggi to find its Italian identity — rolled in white sauce and shaped into rolls and deep-fried is the magic of birthdays. I can’t quite remember when the first noodles roll made its appearance on our birthday menu. We lived in Dubai then, in an apartment complex, surrounded by Sindhi neighbours. My mother, who enjoys exploring new cuisines, said it was one of her Sindhi friends who taught her the recipe. I don’t think I paid any particular attention to the wonders of Lord Noodle in the first few years of my childhood. That is, till we moved to Madras during the first Gulf War, four months before I turned nine. Favourite artefact My family had put together a “let’s-make-friends” birthday party. There was an assortment of neighbours’ children and some of my classmates from school, all whispering in groups; the awkwardness of new friendships was mirrored even in the balloons and streamers that looked bare and uncomfortable. But once the cake was cut and the paper plates handed out, and the famed noodles roll had made its august appearance, things changed. Here was something golden brown and crispy that was not made of potato, that was different from chips and sandwiches, and yet the delicious-melt-in-the-mouth flavour was so familiar that it was almost as if the noodles roll had caught a plane (from the Gulf, no less) and arrived in our midst. As the deep-fried goodness of Lord Noodle snaked its way into our stomachs, the untangling of words began, tentative fingers of acceptance reached out, and the whispers gave way to full-throated laughter. The divide had been bridged, and the noodles roll became a staple at every birthday party, now firmly lodged in my consciousness. It continued right up to college, that other hard ground of awkwardness, where yet another group bonded over this dish. Somehow, through the years, the noodles roll became more the thing we talked about than the thing we made; for every birthday that it missed, another year was added, till it became that forgotten but favourite artefact adorning our memory shelf. Till recently it made its first appearance at my daughter’s birthday party, and I am glad I opened that door. Not every legacy needs to be gift-wrapped, some are always better deep-fried. The independent writer is based in Chennai.    As the deep-fried goodness of Lord Noodle snaked its way into our stomachs, the untangling of words began, tentative fingers of acceptance reached out
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Always at the high table||In 2000, N.K. Singh, along with Professor Anne Krueger, founding Director of Stanford’s Center for Research on Economic Development and Policy Reform, were the curators of the Annual Stanford Conference on Indian Economic Reform, a mix of policy, political, and academic takes on India’s economic trajectory. It was invariably a lively gathering, zig-zagging from discussions of regression techniques and soundness of assumptions (thanks to the watchful and exacting eye of the late T.N. Srinivasan), to what could almost be called gossip on current events and contretemps. His new book, Portraits of Power, is in many ways the extension of the same personality traits that helped orchestrate and animate the Stanford gathering. NK, as we call him, has been a ringside observer and player in public policy, in the domestic sphere at both the Central and State levels, in the international sphere representing India at a host of bilateral and multilateral settings, in being an interlocutor between academia and public policy, and also between business and government. He is equally comfortable in communicating with the best academic minds in the world, as he is with domestic leaders, politicians, international statesman, heads of domestic and international businesses, musicians and artists. Moreover, along with these substantive interactions he cultivates warm personal relationships with almost all the people that he interacts with. Personal reflections The book is well-curated — and comprehensive. The introduction alone, for example, starts with personal reflections on the influences that the long shadow of colonialism and the immediate heritage of NK’s parents had on his youth — then moves rapidly through stints in Bihar, the Ministry of Commerce, Japan, Ministry of Finance, the Vajpayee PMO, the Planning Commission, the Rajya Sabha, and the Fifteenth Finance Commission. “In writing my autobiography, I have sought to organise my thoughts in symmetry with my career path,” NK notes. The symmetry with this path generates a narrative arc that rivals any account of India’s modern history. NK’s warmth and personal style is apparent in the way he brings individuals he describes — from family members to Prime Ministers — to life with personal details that give the reader a view of historic events, with a human touch. Those interested in post-war global economic history will find rare perspectives on India’s engagement with UNCTAD (United Nations Conference on Trade and Development), GATT (General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade), and a chapter on some of the formative years of India’s relationship with Japan. Those interested in the interplay of economics, politics, and personalities in the lead-up to India’s 1991 economic turning point will find a chapter on that too, with details on disputes, decisions, and even some of the day-by-day developments in critical periods. For those interested in how India’s federalism operates in practice, there are anecdotes elaborating a history of party politics, federal complexity, and the challenges of managing change across these scales. Pushing for rational reforms At a policy level, NK has engaged very closely with most economic policy reforms over the last 30 years. He has been diligent, committed and passionate in attempting to foster well-founded rational reforms based on best academic knowledge and practice, and suited for the needs of the place and time. He is consistently positive: we never hear a word of despair or disappointment through all the vicissitudes of economic policymaking that India has gone through since 1991. That is what explains why all governments during this period have sought his advice and participation at the highest policy levels. He probably stands unique in this respect. What is remarkable about this book is the level of detail that he invariably provides on each and every activity that he recounts: the tortuous discussions that took place with the multilaterals in the early 1990s; his active role in the fashioning of major infrastructure reforms and programmes covering telecommunications and roads in Vajpayee’s PMO; the intricacies involved in developing the Accelerated Power Development and Reforms Programme in The Planning Commission; his active involvement as a member of Parliament in the framing of many bills ranging from children’s education to money-laundering, reform of tax administration, human resource development. Similar details are recounted with verve of his innumerable interactions with foreign interlocutors ranging from Michel Camdessus (former Managing Director of the International Monetary Fund), Larry Summers (former U.S. Treasury Secretary), Nick Stern (British economist), Tharman Shanmugaratnam (Singapore minister), Klaus Schwab (World Economic Forum), among others. NK’s memory is clearly phenomenal. In penning this book, NK has performed a real public service by providing a personal narrative on what is involved in policymaking at its best: the importance of attention to detail married with overall high level focus on key policy objectives, lubricated by the generation of mutual trust through cultivation of warm personal relationships. The book offers pragmatic attention to possibilities, grounded in the wisdom of decades. It is excellent reading for this unique time. Rakesh Mohan is President and Distinguished Fellow, Centre for Social and Economic Progress (formerly Brookings India), and Jessica Seddon is Visiting Fellow, Princeton University.  Portraits of Power: Half a Century of Being at Ringside N.K. Singh Rupa  Rs. 595
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Jack of hurts||Sometimes it is difficult to love the people we should, as great stories of the past like The Brothers Karamazov have shown us. And yet, in Dostoevsky’s sweeping family saga, which investigates faith, society, religion, crime and punishment, when the eldest, Dmitri, is wrongly accused of killing his father, he wants to accept responsibility as “everyone is guilty for everyone else”. In the Gilead quartet, Marilynne Robinson probes the American past, with its inherent difficulties of race, religion and justice, through the lives of two families that include a father who has some “fine children” but has set his heart on one: “the lost sheep, the lost coin”. The story is set in a town in Iowa, the eponymous Gilead, where Reverend John Ames, a Congregationalist minister whose heart is failing, begins to write a letter to his young son. It is 1956, the civil rights movement has begun, and it inevitably enters Ames’s world. As he narrates family history — his grandfather was an Abolitionist and his father a pacifist, both preachers — he brings up his namesake, John Ames Boughton, or Jack, son of his best friend and neighbour. Return of the prodigal The prodigal son has returned home after 20 years, burdened with secrets, and Ames is uneasy about it. Jack is perhaps one of the loneliest characters in literature: after making appearances in three novels of the quartet, he now gets a book of his own. Jack is always on the mind of his family, who love him, though not all of them unconditionally. Jack calls himself the Prince of Darkness; he reminds his sister of Raskolnikov ( Crime and Punishment ). Brought up in a family of preachers, Jack is unable to believe and feels he is on the road to perdition. He is “smart as the devil”, says Ames, though he also finds him “elegant and brave”. Jack wants to know Ames’s views on predestination — “Are there people who are simply born evil, live evil lives, and then go to hell?” Ames can’t give a clear answer but his wife Lila, who led an impoverished life before marriage, does: “A person can change. Everything can change.” In Jack , we see how hard he has tried to change, but why he still feels he is a “ne’er-do-well” person: “I am ruining things. I do that. I try to keep to myself, and it happens, anyway.” His past — he abandoned the girl he impregnated, lost his child, and went into exile for 20 years — and the circumstances of the present weigh on him. After leaving home following the scandal, Jack ends up in St. Louis where he accidentally meets Della, a black teacher and the daughter of a bishop. He helps her in the rain with an umbrella, and she invites him home for tea. The harsh world around is forgotten and soon Della is telling Jack: “Once in a lifetime, maybe, you look at a stranger and you see a soul, a glorious presence out of place in the world... And if you love God, every choice is made for you. There is no turning away.” They spend a beautiful night walking in the forbidden white cemetery discussing Hamlet and life. Period of grace Jack experiences a period of grace, for Della falls in love with him, against all odds: “this was his grandest larceny by far, this sly theft of happiness from the very clutches of prohibition.” But Jack cannot open up to his father about this relationship because he knows the Presbyterian priest’s views — “I think we had all better just keep to ourselves”. Della’s father too makes it clear that Jack will never be welcome in his family: “The situation of black people must change. They must have the opportunity to decide what form the change will take and how it will be achieved.” This is the 1940s and people are jailed for interracial relationships. Reading Jack in the year of Black Lives Matter is a reminder that the human upheaval over race continues, and that the cracks are yet to be healed. What Jack and Della face is still a reality for many. Jack seeks help from Ames to settle down in Gilead with Della and son Robert, but his godfather won’t be able to help him, as Gilead readers know. Though in Jack, the possibility that love can conquer all is just about there, hovering overhead. Robinson, who never thought there would be a second Gilead book, has written four. Next we must hear from Della.  Jack  Marilynne Robinson  Virago  Rs. 799    ReadingJack in the year of Black Lives Matter is a reminder that the human upheaval over race continues, and the cracks are yet to be healed
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The bird in the balcony||The art and science of avian behaviour is lost on me. Hence, one summer afternoon this year, when we found a pigeon hatching an egg in a cosy corner of our balcony, we were knocked down with a feather. Her partner was flitting around nearby. The bird had chosen a comfortable maternity seat — a flattish bag of loose soil behind the external air-conditioner unit, away from the April sun and predators. The way the parents dedicatedly took turns to incubate the egg set major parenting goals even for humans. Our eager anticipation kept mounting until we caught the first glimpse of the chick —a scraggly mess of dark purple and black feathers coiled into a tiny fluff ball. Our joy knew no bounds, and we named him Popo. Popo gradually blossomed into a fine young bird, taking his first clumsy, cautious, curious steps on our balcony floor with trepidation and daring. He picked up the art of flapping his small wings, preening himself, and letting out sweet chirrups. After a few days of relentless practice, Popo took his first short flight as my heart skipped a beat and I muttered a silent prayer. His parents would hover around but would not accompany him anymore. Birds had their own way of weaning, we surmised. Gathering storm One evening, it started raining very heavily. We looked out for Popo — he was not there. As we craned our necks out of the balcony, we spotted him precariously perched on the terrace wall of a vacant house next door. The blinding rain made it impossible for him to spot us or fly back to safety. After a disturbed and seemingly endless night, I got up at the crack of dawn and ran out to look for Popo. He had disappeared. But after about an hour, a feeble, familiar twitter suddenly broke my grief. Sitting on the grille was Popo — wet, sheepish, shaken but certainly not stirred. Popo has graduated to solo flying and comes with a flock of birds. They hop, skip and jump all over the balcony, playing around my feet, scooping up grain. Whoever coined the idioms “eat like a bird” or “have a bird-brain” had not met Popo and company. For us, each day with Popo brings new joys as we watch in wondrous delight how a tiny egg metamorphosed itself into a living, breathing creature and taught us life lessons in aiming high. urmichakravorty@gmail.com
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||In the name of lockdown||What were you doing in lockdown? My friends often ask me, “What extra thing did you do during the pandemic lockdown? Did you make yourself useful to yourself or to society? Did you raise money for a progressive cause? As in, did you retweet a tweet seeking money for a progressive cause? If not, did you at least learn a new skill and post selfies of your achievements with this new skill?” My answer to them is always the same: “No comment”. Not because I’ve been idle but because I’m a modest person who doesn’t want to make anyone feel small by exposing them to the sheer scale of my ambitions. In fact, I end up doing two rounds of ROFL every time I contemplate the trifling nature of my friends’ undertakings — how little it takes for them to feel happy, vain and self-satisfied! Gooey images For many, the first port of call for facile ego-inflation is cooking. Men whose outer limit of culinary expertise used to be boiled water have overnight blossomed into master chefs, flooding my timeline with gooey images of some exotic dish like sushi, khao soi or phoeey de grass. Others have taken up gardening. A former colleague got so involved in pots and plants that she’s become a full-time bonsai. Another friend, a celebrated architect, has taken up emojis. Nowadays when I talk to him, he doesn’t use adjectives. He responds in emojis. Yesterday, for instance, I asked him, “What do you think of the government’s Central Vista project?” He said, “The emoji with the green puke coming out of mouth like waterfall.” I couldn’t talk to him after that. Anyway, the point of all this is to demonstrate, by contrast, the loftiness of my own lockdown endeavours. Indeed, apart from single-handedly resurrecting the besmirched credibility of Indian media, I’ve been working hard on the only thing that matters right now: vaccines. Every day I wake up and while other people are busy moving arms and legs in the name of exercise, I do vaccine research. I was naturally thrilled when I heard our finance minister announce that she has allocated Rs. 900 crore for corona vaccine research in her 27th Atmanirbhar stimulus packet. While investment in corona vaccine research is important, 135 different corona vaccines are already in various stages of development, with several on the verge of being rolled out. It is, therefore, my humble submission that this entire Rs. 900 crore be disbursed to any one individual who is working on other vaccines that are equally urgently needed in India. Take me, for instance. I’ve spent the past eight months researching and testing the following vaccines:  Contempt of Court Vaccine (CoC): Two sets of 20 judges each volunteered to take part in the clinical trials. The first twenty were given the actual vaccine, and the second set was given placebos. Then they were both, in turn, locked up for two hours in a room containing a deadly strain of Kunal Kamra. When the doors were unlocked, the judges who got the placebos immediately issued a contempt notice against Kamra. But the judges who received the CoC vaccine were laughing their robes off.  RTI Vaccine: Developed specifically for bureaucrats, I am really excited about this vaccine. While those who received dummy shots continued to deny RTI requests, 95% of the bureaucrats who received the vaccine disclosed 100% of the information sought, including information that could “prejudicially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security, strategic, scientific or economic interests of the state, relation with foreign state or lead to incitement of an offence” such as copy of PM’s MA mark sheet.  Liberal Hypocrisy Vaccine: My most ambitious project, but little success so far. When subjects injected with the vaccine were asked, “Why did your marriage break up?” 69% of them blamed the Opposition. Of the remaining 31%, about 17% blamed Pakistan, while 13% insisted that “post-marital achhe din is a jhumla”. The vaccine worked on only 1% of the subjects, who readily conceded that the deep polarisation induced by Asterix and Obelix led to irreconcilable differences, causing the break-up of their marriage.  Anti-Corruption Vaccine: This is one of my success stories. As the name indicates, subjects develop 100% immunity to corruption charges. Even before completion of Phase 1 trials, I have pre-orders for 90,000 doses. Clients include the Who’s Who of India’s political, financial, social and anti-social elite.  Islamophobia Vaccine: Little progress due to scarcity of volunteers for clinical trials. But top research labs from EU and Canada have shown interest in acquiring my vaccine candidate and carrying out clinical trials in their own countries. In view of the above, and to enable me to further enhance India’s glory by producing all these and more new vaccines for the benefit of humanity, I request that the Rs. 900 crore allocated for vaccine research be transferred to me by today evening. My bank account number, IFSC code, and internet banking password are already in government database.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The heart wants more||U.S.-settled Bengali Indian Shubhalaxmi Sen-Gupta has just turned 40 when she receives an unexpected mail (the kind delivered by the post office) from her grandmother — ‘Didan’ — all the way from Kolkata. But her grandmother passed away years ago: the communication is clearly a case of mistaken identity. Shubha wants to return the growing pile of letters — one for each month of the Bengali calendar — but cannot bring herself to do so immediately. Didan and her loving words strike a chord with the middle-aged homemaker juggling children, husband and work as she tries to find purpose in a faraway land. The letters also pry open a forgotten door to memories, both precious and painful, and may just hold the answer to what’s missing in her life. Didan seems to relive her own youth and life through the letters, and the glimpses they offer of pre-Independence society are fascinating. Egged on by Didan’s words and quiet courage, Shubha begins her journey of acceptance and self-discovery. Food and memories of Kolkata become the foundation on which she builds her new identity. The book is peppered with detailed recipes, from that of niramish mangsho to kheer’r sondesh : to the author’s credit, she manages to do equal justice to food, fact and fiction in the novel. But the heart wants more: the eager reader wishes there was more to hold on to in Shubha’s story. In quite a few places, the story picks up pace with a new challenge or conundrum only to fizzle out in the subsequent pages. A lot of the tension seems to originate and resolve itself in the space of a thought in the protagonist’s head. Maybe that’s life, but it deprives the reader of a good finish. The other characters too remain on the margins — mostly inconsequential. At least a couple of those could have been developed to add further layers to the story.  Those Delicious Letters Sandeepa Mukherjee Datta  HarperCollins   Rs. 299
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Pretty as porcelain||Anukrti Upadhyay’s Kintsugi is meant to be a comment on being a woman in a world hell-bent on breaking you, or perhaps on brittle and tawdry affairs of the heart and the attempts we make to yet bind this brokenness in gold. That much one can surmise from the title, which refers to the Japanese art of repairing damaged pottery with gold lacquer. The novella fails to add much else to any sort of coherent end. In the story, there are women who fight to take over jewellery-making, a traditionally male-dominated craft; women struggle with desire and rebellion; women grapple with apathy and sexuality — themes that promise much literary adventure. Yet, in their treatment, so much is sanitised that the result is disappointingly bland. The book tells the stories of six individuals whose sprawling lives intertwine, unified by the pervading cyclicity of grief. Upadhyay achieves this fairly seamlessly, with small moments that do speak to the reader. Most of the time, however, these moments end right as you begin to take them in. Before you can be properly invested in the lives of the characters, the narrative snatches your attention away to another section, a different character. The conversations, feelings and inner lives are left unexplored, with city, beach and colour probed at their cost. For instance, I am left with a richer impression of a sheeshphool, a flower-ornament for hair, than of any of the relationships portrayed. The narration is breezy — perhaps too much so for its heavy theme. The rich visual imagery could have been used to cast an emotional core but Upadhyay is unable to do this. In the end, the fleeting moments fail to cohere and too little is said on what is truly crucial.  Kintsugi might have worked better as a film: as a novel, it is pretty as porcelain and as lifeless.  Kintsugi Anukrti Upadhyay Fourth Estate India  Rs. 499
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Resetting the clock post-COVID and trying to live with less||Epidemics have happened in the past but the speed and scope of the present contagion have left the world reeling under its brutal impact. The interconnectivity of accelerated global economies with encroached habitats, exhaustive agriculture and commoditised wildlife has helped the virus to move without any inhibition to expose the weak fundamentals of the existing economic systems. The billion dollar question is whether existing systems will be capable of scaling back production at levels and in ways that do not cause further loss of livelihood and life? And, will the growth of society slowed down by an unprecedented disaster emerge more resilient later, with the goal of mitigating the economic and ecological crises which has led it to the present situation? Exclusionist architecture The core problem with the capitalist model of growth is that it leads to mounting debt, increasing inequality, rising unemployment, and shrinking finances, and sacrifices made in pursuit of growth lead to externalising costs that are forced on both poor people and mute nature. What it does though is to keep billions under the illusion that trickle-down effect will get them leftovers of accumulated wealth year-on-year, but the broad architecture of the economic construct remains exclusionist at the core. Confronting the idiom of economism head-on may seem preposterous, but slowing down under the current pandemic with ideas on frugality having caught on seems an apt time to press home the case for degrowth. After defining the term in their first book, Degrowth, A Vocabulary for A New Era , the authors take the idea forward in their second outing half a decade later by suggesting a way of living with less, but promoting wellbeing, equity and sustainability. Degrowth, according to the quartet, should help people embark on life journeys with patience, compassion and care for self and others, rather than investing time and resources for material acquisitions. Ecological communes While the political system is obsessed with a growth-driven model based on private property, paid labour, and a consumptive market, The Case for Degrowth provides numerous cross-country examples of eco-communes, transition towns, and co-living communities that need support and scaling up. Spread over five sections, with an add-on section elucidating frequently asked questions, this pithy book offers a well-argued critique of growth systems while presenting policy packages for promoting degrowth that will help people produce only as much, consume less, share more, enjoy time, and live with dignity and joy. There are clear directions being proposed in the book to make degrowth a reality, however, it by no means should be read as a euphemism for ‘green deal’ as it is a low resource use transformative process that ensures universal basic services for all, with an assured universal basic income. Offering deep analysis, the book argues for a transformative politics that is not back-to-the-roots journey but one that provides multiple options and strategies about recreating frameworks for engaging communities in playing an active role in designing their own life support systems. Ever since it was launched at a global conference in Paris in 2008, degrowth has caught on as an idea for researchers and movements to pursue as an alternative to growth-obsessed politics. With GDP driven global economy taking a serious beating during the pandemic, the book could not have come at a more appropriate time.  The reviewer is an independent writer, researcher and academic.  The Case for Degrowth  Giorgos Kallis, Susan Paulson, Giacomo D’Alisa, Federico Demaria  Polity, Cambridge  Rs. 1,264
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Blistering barnacles, blooming bigginis||Remember Yashraj Mukhate? He first arrived on the scene with ‘Rasode Mein Kaun Tha,’ a musical meme that spliced catchy music with a dialogue from Hindi soap opera Saath Nibhana Saathiya and became viral in hours with its takedown of primetime soaps. Now, another one of his ‘compositions’ is on everyone’s lips, thanks to Taapsee Pannu and her family, who shared a video of themselves dancing to its soundtrack while on holiday in the Maldives. In Mukhate’s original video, ‘Biggini Shoot’, he takes an exchange from a 2011 conversation on a show called Emotional Atyachaar , adds a set of rap lyrics, and creates a catchy number that has caught the attention of the Indian interweb. The hilarity of this one seems to rest on the protagonist, Poonam’s, mispronunciation of a word very little heard or seen in the Indian public space, the bikini. The Oxford English Dictionary will tell you that the word bikini refers to an atoll in the Marshall Islands where an atomic detonation was carried out in 1946, as well as ‘a scanty two-piece beach garment worn by women’. As the academic Neville Hoad speculates in an article on the Miss World pageant, there must be some similarity in the effects evoked in male beholders by both the atomic bomb and the bikini. Hark back to the iconic Ursula Andress scene in Dr. No and the skyrocketing sales of white bikinis after this emergence. This was recreated by Halle Berry in another Bond film, Die Another Day , and has been a reference for countless other scenes. If such are the explosive capacities of the bikini, why has Poonam’s reference to “two pieces only” brought on mocking laughter as opposed to lustful desire? I may be stating the obvious in saying that, well, she calls it a biggini and not a bikini, even as the straight-faced anchor goads her into repeating the word. He asks, in seeming innocence, “Which shoot?”, to which she replies, “Biggini.” While Amitabh Bachchan once iconically stated in Namak Halaal that English is a funny language, our notion of laughter seems to rest even more on people who speak it funnily. I remember how, when I was a student in Pune, people who asked the disguised question, “Will you make friendship with me,” were mocked. Friendship was the euphemism for flirting, dating, and maybe a relationship. The subtext to this mockery was that the addressees always considered the badly phrased and ungrammatical question to be a class marker. We may have come a long way from Macaulay and his exhortation to create a class of English-speaking Indians, but Dr. Higginses still abound, seeking Elizas to reform. Mocking glee To add to this postcolonial morass, perhaps it doesn’t help that Poonam is seen to be trying so hard in her interview to appear urbane. Her confidence, her declaration of herself as bold, her detailing of her career as a brand ambassador in Indore, and as a model for Maharani Beer all seem fodder for a certain kind of glee. This glee is not found when, say, Akshay Kumar declares that he did “an undies dance” in “blue color” on a Koffee with Karan episode. The trope of the small-town girl seeking fame by performing her sexuality and attractiveness can go multiple ways. Sometimes it produces a Kangana, at other times a Poonam. At all times, it is a risk, for you may well become the subject of mockery before you become rich, famous, and powerful enough to turn on your detractors. All we are then left with are binary tropes of insiders and outsiders with no capacity to overturn the structural violence of language, gender, caste and class hierarchies. Instead, let me suggest another way out. Given the controversial history of the bikini in the Indian beauty and swimming pool space, perhaps the more appropriate word is indeed ‘biggini’. For it includes all and sundry — those on Instagram parading in their “two pieces only” as also those women clad in salwars, kurtas, saris, dresses, and burkinis, united in their need to be attractive or swim or both or neither. Mukhate’s music is itself what ethnomusicologist David Novak terms remediation, a process of sampling that allows for new meanings as much as new cosmopolitan subjects to emerge. Taking a leaf from this practice, how about we let a thousand bigginis bloom?  We may have come a long way from Macaulay and his exhortation to create a class of English-speaking Indians, but Dr. Higginses still abound, seeking Elizas to reform
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1 On November 22, 1995, this movie was released as the first feature-length film created completely using computer-generated imagery. The movie features two lead characters, one named after the second man to walk on the moon and a sheriff voiced by Tom Hanks. What movie was this that launched the Pixar revolution and was a box office hit? 2 This 1937 animated movie became the first ever to release a soundtrack of all the songs featured in it. It became one of the highest-grossing movies of all time and was re-released multiple times. When the producer of the movie won an Oscar in 1938 he was given eight awards in total, one being a normal award and the rest miniature statuettes. What movie was this? 3 This 2004 animated movie was the first Pixar movie to feature an all computer-generated human cast and no main animals. The animators were all given copies of the medical textbook Gray’s Anatomy to help them figure out how the human body moves. They ended up creating a new technology to animate detailed human anatomy and clothing. What movie is this that follows a family who hide their true selves in accordance with a government mandate and attempt to live normal lives? 4 This 2016 animated movie features a total of 64 different species of animals. To get the minor details right, the animators had to study individual strands of fur and how they moved for different animals. Among other things, they learned that polar bear fur is transparent and appears white because of reflection, and that a strand of fox fur is dark at the root and lighter towards the tip. What movie is this in which pop star Shakira played the role of a gazelle? 5 To ensure that they got the feel of the characters in this movie, all the animators were required to take courses in ichthyology and have scuba diving lessons. The movie went on to become a blockbuster hit but had some interesting ecological consequences. Due to demand for the lead character as a pet, the species’ numbers in the ocean dropped dramatically. On the other hand, many viewers decided to release their pets into the wild, which led to the introduction of alien species in certain locales. What movie is this? 6 This 2015 animated movie’s five central characters had intentional shapes. The main character is shaped like a glowing star and the others like a red brick, blue teardrop, grey thin nerve, and a green broccoli. The animators consulted psychologists and studied neuropsychological papers to ensure that they got their characterisation correct. What movie is this which is entirely set in the mind of a young girl who moves from Minnesota to San Francisco? 7 This 2001 movie was based on a 1990 book by William Steig. Steven Spielberg bought the rights to the book, and making this movie saved his studio, Dreamworks SKG, from going bankrupt. This movie won the first ever Oscar for best animated feature. What movie is this whose title character gets his name from the Yiddish word for ‘terrible’? 8 This 1994 movie is an animated re-telling of William Shakespeare’s Hamlet . Initially it was planned as a documentary, but was later made into a musical. It went on to become the highest-grossing hand-drawn animated feature of all time. The movie’s soundtrack is responsible for Hans Zimmer’s only Academy Award till date. This film also introduced a Swahili phrase into common usage after two central characters sang it to the main character. What movie is this which had a live-action remake released in 2019? 9 This 2017 movie is entirely based around the holiday of Dia de los Muertos and was the first big-budget animated movie to have an all-Latino principal cast. To make some scenes truly authentic, animators studied videos of musicians who had cameras attached to their guitars. The producers and animators spent a lot of time in Mexico doing their research in order to make the movie as accurate as possible. What beautiful tear-jerker of a movie is this? 10 This 2005 Dreamworks animated movie follows the adventures of a group of four friends after they are marooned on an island in the Indian Ocean. The movie was responsible for the sudden increase in popularity of a certain species of mammal that is native only to that island in reality. These animals are known for their pointed snout, large eyes and long tails. Their name comes from the Latin word for ‘ghost’. Which movie is this and what animal is this whose most famous specimen is called Julien? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||A warrior-king and his legacy||Writing books on history is a demanding academic exercise and it becomes even more challenging when the subject matter is a Pandya king who ruled the southern part of Tamil Nadu more than 1,300 years ago. The handicaps become manifold when you are dealing with a single monarch and the resources available ware limited to a few inscriptions, copper plate charters and literary references about him. However, V. Vedachalam, veteran epigraphist, and A. Kalavathi, have been bold enough to choose the Pandya king Nedumaran as the sole subject of their book in Tamil, Pandyan Nindraseer Nedumaran.  Temple murals Nedumaran was a Pandya monarch who ruled the entire southern part of Tamil Nadu from Madurai to Kanyakumari for 50 years from CE 640 to CE 690. He was a key architect of the Early Pandya empire that lasted from CE 570 to CE 966. It is a scholarly book written in a racy manner. The book is the outcome of 40 years of legwork in Pandya country and the authors’ research into lithic inscriptions, copper plate charters, murals and the sculptures in temples that provide information on Nedumaran. The king is popularly known as Koon Pandyan in Tamil Nadu because he was reportedly a hunchback and there is a popular belief that he was a Jaina before the Saivite boy-saint poet Thirugnana Sambandar converted him to Saivism. Nedumaran came to power at a crucial period in Tamil history. The Kalabrahas had been driven out of Pandya territory a few decades earlier, the Pallava power was rising in the northern part of Tamil Nadu, and the Bhakti movement led by the Saivite saints Nayanmars and the Vaishnavite Alwars was burgeoning to counter Jainism. Besides, kings were creating exclusive settlements for the Brahmins and the land-owning Vellalas, and agriculture and irrigation works were expanding. Most importantly, big changes were occurring in Tamil society after the Sangam age had ended. Society was divided not on the basis of the professions that people practised but on the basis of their birth. Nedumaran came to power in CE 640 and proved to be a great warrior-king, a visionary and an excellent administrator, who excavated a series of big irrigation tanks and laid a network of canals connecting them to boost agriculture. He reportedly took a balanced approach towards Jainism and the Vedic religion, which were on a collision course. Vedachalam and Kalavathi settle several controversies related to Nedumaran. Using two important lithic inscriptions, they assert that the king ruled for 50 years from CE 640 to CE 690. Both the inscriptions are in Tamil but in Vatelluttu script. They also provide a lot of information about his victories in battles and acts of generosity. The most gripping parts in the book are on the rise of the Bhakti movement led by Thirugnana Sambandar. The writers say it cannot be deduced from Sambandar's poems whether Nedumaran was a hunchback, and that there are no grounds to believe that the king was a Jaina first and that hundreds of Jainas were driven up the palisades. Nedumaran was a Saivite, they write, but he was even-handed in his attitude towards both Jainism and Saivism.  The reviewer is an independent journalist.  Pandyan Nindraseer Nedumaran  V. Vedachalam, A. Kalavathi  Dhanalakshmi Pathippagam  Rs. 200
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||First things first||A side advantage of opening one no trump with a five-card major is that an innocent opponent will sometimes lead your suit. The primary advantage, of course, is that it is the best way to describe your hand. After transferring into a major, the bid of a new suit is natural and forcing. South correctly bid three no trump with the other suits well stopped. It would have been an error to bid three spades, as his partner would have been worried about diamonds. The opening spade lead went to East’s king and South’s ace. Assuming West started with just four spades from his lead of the three, it seems right to set up your long spade right away. That gets you up to eight tricks with several chances for a ninth — a 3-3 club split or a well-placed ace of hearts or king of diamonds. That, however, is not the right play at all. It is much better to play on clubs first. Regardless of how the clubs divide, the idea is to exhaust all of West’s clubs. Should the clubs split evenly, you are home. If not, then play the queen, jack, and another spade to put West on lead. Should he have another club, he can cash it without hurting you. West will have to exit with a red suit and present you with your ninth trick. Thanks for this deal goes to Larry Cohen  .
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Papaya go we come||Respected Madam/Sir,  Some bad news is there.Whether you are ready? Some self-control is there? Ok. I am saying today itself because I don’t want to give heart attack next week. Ok? Ok. Please sit down. Don’t get emotional. Madam/ Sir, this is second last letter from Mr. Mathrubootham ok? Don’t get emotional. Please. This is second last letter. Next week is last letter. And then week after that? Total zero letter. I said don’t get emotional. If you get emotional then I will get emotional and then everybody will get emotional and then it will become same as award-winning Satyajit Ray film where everybody is crying including audience because of waste of ticket money. What is the reason for this? Madam/ Sir, next few months total life change like anything. First of all flat in Anna Nagar sale is complete. This week itself we are moving to one another flat. It is one rental flat near Mugappair. Small flat only. Single bedroom. It is behind the big water tank. Whether you have been to Mugappair West? Compare to Anna Nagar, it is like Jungle Book. Nothing is there. Water tank is there. But all that is ok. Because after one month or two months we are leaving Mugappair. Where are we going? Madam/ Sir, myself and Mrs. Mathrubootham is doing wholesale shift to United States of America. All paperworks and all ready since Jambuvan period. But whether anybody will go to the U.S. when country is being ruled by Papaya President? No, no, thousand times no. But now Papaya is gone. And last week after family meeting we took decision with heavy heart. After decades and decades in Chennai time to say good bye to Anna Nagar and say hello to New Jersey. Elder son and family are living in New Jersey in big house. He said, Appa you come and stay with us forever. I said forever and all we will decide afterwards. First we will come and stay for six months. And then if everything is ok then Amma and I will go for permanent transfer. No stupidity Madam/ Sir, all the people in housing complex are saying, Mathrubootham, you go immediately to U/S. Don’t even waste five minutes. Take flight tomorrow itself. What if some new Corona problem is coming and US is stopping flight and all? You want to get stuck in this stupid Chennai or what? Don’t talk stupidity. Go immediately. But Madam/ Sir, how you can leave Chennai just like that? Never. So we are slowly saying bye to 10,000 people every day. Already cancelled Tata Sky connection. One thousand million things we have to do next one-two months. Where is time to write letter and all? Mrs. Mathrubootham said, old man you please tell them two letters and then finished. Maybe once every three months you can send letter from U.S. But now please go and take care of bank account and electricity bill and all? Ok. So ok it means time has come to say bye to you also. But even for Mrs. Mathrubootham heart is melting like anything. And her heart is cold like Arun ice-cream factory. So you please tell all the colleagues in the office that one more letter is coming. And then after that full tata bye-bye from Mr. Mathrubootham. Sad feelings are coming.  Yours in exasperation,      J. Mathrubootham
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The best is yet to be||I did not ask for it. It came like a vague yet stimulating dream. And, like a dream, it was lost — not for ever, I hope. A cousin of mine, three or four years junior to me at school in the 1940s, called the other day and said one of my classmates was in town and wanted to get in touch with me. He mentioned the name but that did not ring a bell. He then mentioned the boy was among those chosen at random each morning by our Namboori-Maash (Namboodiri master) to sing the morning prayer. The noisy hall loomed in my memory, the girls to one side and the boys to the other separated by a narrow aisle. As usual, the short and paunchy master emerged and stood facing the gathering with his winning smile. “Who shall it be today?” he would intone. He would then pass a quick eye over the boys and girls. “Ah, yes, we haven’t heard him in a while,” he would say. “Let us hear that sweet mellow voice. You there, Karunakaran!” A lean, shy boy would walk up to him and, as the master withdrew, start his prayer in a Carnatic raga. I got the boy right but still could not put a face to him. He was not in my gang, but we knew each other well. He was the retiring kind. I was not. I was very much into games and sports, he was not. I had not seen him since our SSLC examination in March 1945, over 75 years ago. I knew we were about the same age. Two nonagenarians meeting after seven-and-a-half decades! I had come from the U.K. for Ayurvedic treatment and was stranded in Thrissur because of COVID-19. Was this classmate in Thrissur all the time? The prospect of revisiting a long lost world with him, however briefly, was alluring. Come to think of it, I hadn’t seen anyone from my SSLC batch in all these years! All in quick time I got his phone number from my cousin. In the next few days, we must have called each other at least half a dozen times. He had pursued his passion for music, switching from vocal to violin. He was a widower like me and lived with his younger son in Kochi. He had come to Thrissur to visit his older son and been stuck there because of the pandemic. We were now less than a mile apart. COVID-19 had brought us together and yet was also keeping us apart. One day, he said his younger son was coming to pick him up. He would then briefly drop in and see me. I was thrilled. I told my children in the U.K. about it and they wanted the meeting to be captured in a video if possible. After all, two nonagenarians meeting after 75 years is a rare event. The visit was not to be. Thrissur saw a sudden spurt in COVID-19 cases. Before leaving Thrissur, my classmate called me and said he had, justifiably, been prevailed upon to drop the thought of visiting me. I always believed in Robert Browning’s “Grow old along with me/The best is yet to be!” The aborted meeting may yet happen! Who knows! pmwarrier9@gmail.com
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Old CM, new rules||Nitish Kumar was sworn in as Chief Minister of Bihar for his fourth consecutive term, although his party, the JD(U), took a drubbing in the Assembly elections, going from 71 seats to 43, while his BJP allies shot up to 74 seats. A controversy erupted over the appointment of Mewalal Chaudhury, a corruption-accused JD(U) legislator, as education minister. Facing attacks from the opposition, Chaudhury resigned after three days in office.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Apu’s new sansar||The legendary actor, playwright and poet, Soumitra Chatterjee, died in Kolkata from COVID-19 complications. He was 85. Best known for his work with Satyajit Ray, Chatterjee starred in over 300 movies, and was conferred the Dadasaheb Phalke award, India’s highest award in cinema. Chatterjee debuted with Ray’sApur Sansarand went on to work in 14 films with him.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Finally, hospital||The Bombay High Court ordered that the Telugu poet-activist P. Varavara Rao be shifted from Taloja prison to Nanavati Hospital for 15 days for treatment. The 80-year-old, who has been in prison for two years for his alleged role in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon riots, has been seriously ill. “This is a man who cannot even stand,” said senior lawyer Indira Jaising, appearing for Rao.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Dresden’s 11||A year after a massive jewellery heist in Germany, where burglars broke into the Dresden Green Vault, disabled the alarm system, smashed open display cases and took off with diamond-encrusted items worth €1bn, three people were arrested. The prosecutors said the three suspects — believed to belong to a notorious criminal family clan — were booked for “serious gang robbery and two counts of arson.”
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Yesterday’s Ghosts||Nikhil Pradhan  Harper Black Rs. 299 Three decades after the Black Team is disbanded following a disastrous war in Sri Lanka, four of the members, now in their 50s and 60s, receive a mysterious message, written in a once-familiar code. Thus they realise that the past cannot be left behind and their secrets have come home to roost.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Uttara Kaanda||S.L. Bhyrappa, trs Rashmi Terdal  Eka Rs. 599 In this retelling of the final chapter of theRamayana, Rama, Lakshmana and Sita are all too human. Lakshmana’s subservience to his brother is not absolute; power has changed Rama; Sita never recovers from her humiliation. Sita looks back on her life, searching for a sense of belonging.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sentinel||Lee Child and Andrew Child  Penguin Random House Rs. 699 In his 25th adventure, Jack Reacher gets off the bus in a sleepy town outside Nashville, Tennessee. Without him knowing it, the town is in the middle of a cyber-attack, with IT guy Rusty Rutherford at its centre. As the bad guys move in on Rusty, only Reacher can protect him.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Mantram Beach||Arun Kumar  Aleph Book Company Rs. 199 The poems here speak of hope at a time of political upheaval and environmental degradation. In ‘Mantram Beach’, the rhythm of the ocean calms the tormented mind; in ‘Gudalur, Nilgiris’, as the sun rises, the dew dries out, but the bougainvilleas light up in lilac and red.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Meghnad Desai: Rebellious Lord, an Autobiography||Meghnad Desai  Westland  Rs. 799 An economist and scholar, Desai founded the Centre for the Study of Global Governance at the London School of Economics and its Development Studies programme. Desai’s story provides insights on academic agendas and politics.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The Book of Indian Essays||Edited by Arvind Krishna Mehrotra  Black Kite/Hachette  Rs. 699 This literary anthology of the Indian essay in English starts with Derozio (1820s) and ends with writers of the 21st century. Mehrotra includes Tagore’s view on the nation, Nehru on tribal folk, Ruskin Bond on Delhi, Salim Ali on the house crow and other essays.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The Commonwealth of Cricket||Ramachandra Guha  Fourth Estate/HarperCollins  Rs. 699 When Guha began following the game in the 1960s, India hadn’t won a Test match overseas; by the time he joined the BCCI, 50 years later, India had become world cricket’s sole superpower. He writes a first-person account of this transformation.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||A Promised Land||Barack Obama  Penguin Random House  Rs. 1,999 In the first volume of his presidential memoirs, Barack Obama tells the story of his journey to the White House. He describes in detail both his political education and the landmark moments of the first term of his presidency — the reach and limits of presidential power.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Third time lucky?||Peru saw three Presidents hold office in just over a week, as part of a protracted power struggle between the presidency and the legislature. Congress first impeached President Martín Vizcarra over allegations of corruption. His replacement, then-head of Congress Manuel Merino, had to resign in five days following mass protests. Congress then appointed legislator Francisco Sagasti (above) to hold office until the April 2021 election.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||World’s 1%||Half the world’s aviation carbon emissions are caused by just 1% of the population, researchers found. Frequent fliers or ‘super emitters’ contribute vastly to the billion tonnes of CO2 that airlines produce. The biggest carbon footprint came from passengers from the U.S. Researchers said the drop in passenger numbers in 2020 should be used to make the sector more sustainable.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||You’re fired||U.S. President Donald Trump fired Christopher Krebs (above), the director of the Cyber-security and Infrastructure Agency that affirmed the reliability of the 2020 election results and refuted Trump’s claims of voter fraud. In a tweet, Trump said Krebs had been “terminated” and that his defence of election security was “highly inaccurate”.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Why so silent?||Patricia Mukhim, editor ofThe Shillong Times, resigned from the Editors Guild of India citing its “complete silence” when the Meghalaya High Court declined to quash an FIR against her for allegedly creating communal disharmony via a Facebook post. She contrasted the Guild’s silence with its instant condemnation of Arnab Goswami’s arrest.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Terror mirror||After Pakistan released a ‘dossier’ claiming India was sponsoring terrorism on its soil to destabilise the country and threaten its partnership with China, India dismissed the allegations. The Ministry of External Affairs called it an attempt to divert attention from Pakistan’s internal problems. Officials also argued that Pakistan was trying to ‘mirror’ onto India the terror charges that had led to its own grey-listing by the Financial Action Task Force.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Sunday Recipe||
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Ethics of denying COVID-19 vaccine to placebo group||On November 20, Pfizer tweeted saying that it would, along with BioNTech, be submitting a request the same day to the U.S. FDA for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) of the mRNA COVID-19 vaccine candidate. The FDA is likely to grant the authorisation by the end of the month, based on which the company says the vaccine will “potentially” be enabled for use in high-risk populations in the U.S. by middle-to-end of December. The announcement comes two days after Pfizer said in a press release that in the primary efficacy analysis, the vaccine was 95% effective against COVID-19 disease beginning 28 days after the first dose. The analysis was carried out on 170 confirmed cases of COVID-19 disease, of which 162 were in the placebo group and just eight were in the vaccine arm. Now that the vaccine has been found to be highly efficacious, including in older adults, and can prevent severe disease, a tricky question is whether it would be ethical to deny the vaccine to those participants who have received the placebo when FDA grants an EUA and vaccination of high-risk groups begins in December. But offering the vaccine right away to those in the placebo group will first require unblinding the study. Unblinding the study and offering the vaccine to the placebo group will make it almost impossible to gather further information on vaccine efficacy, thus making full licensure challenging. Giving a choice “My understanding is that participants are offered the vaccine at the end of the designated follow up period, but participants are also given updated information on what is happening with vaccine development as soon as it is available (treating informed consent as a process instead of just at the entry into the study). Which means that when an EUA is granted, the information should be conveyed to all participants and they should be asked what they would like to do,” Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Professor of Microbiology at CMC Vellore says in an email to The Hindu.  Standard of care “We are dealing with a novel virus and a new vaccine platform. We need longer term data on safety, efficacy and durable immunity. An interim short-term analysis does not provide us with this information. So, the trials should go on and complete their full pre-established planned duration,” Dr. Anant Bhan, a researcher in global health and bioethics, says in an email to The Hindu. “Those in the placebo group cannot be ‘denied’ the vaccine if they want to get it based on an EUA, but since an EUA does not equate to a changed standard of care in my opinion, it would not be ethically required to offer the vaccine candidate to them.” Virologist Dr. Jacob John too agrees that those in the placebo group cannot be given the vaccine before the completion of the Phase-3 trial. “I don’t think that vaccine will be or should be offered to placebo recipients right away, but only after regulatory agency approves the product’s safety and efficacy,” he says in an email. Though vaccination of high-risk groups may begin in December, majority of trial participants, including those in the placebo group, will not belong to a priority group that would get the vaccine for at least one year. Hence, delay until vaccine registration may be justified, says Dr. John. Unblinding the trial Under these circumstances, should the trial be unblinded and participants in the placebo group be vaccinated? “This could mean that we might delay getting data for a full licensure,” Dr. Kang says. The independent Data Safety and Monitoring Boards (DSMB) makes sure that trial participants are protected and the integrity of the study is maintained. “So, deliberation is important with all of the stakeholders. This is a complex discussion and cannot have a simple answer for every participant in a trial,” she says. But it is important that all trial participants are informed of the interim efficacy results and about the EUA for the vaccine, if the FDA grants one. The vaccine should be offered to participants in the placebo group under two scenarios. In the first case, any trial participants belonging to the high-risk group who would otherwise have got the vaccine on priority should be informed of their eligibility and offered the vaccine. This will decrease the power of the study to define accurately how well the vaccine works in them. But we will have find ways of designing effectiveness studies to address how we get this information, Dr. Kang says. Since participants should get only two and nots four doses of the vaccine, it will require unblinding of the status of the participants. Second scenario The second scenario would be when the trial is stopped on DSMB’s recommendation based on an interim analysis of vaccine efficacy or when the trial reaches term and the vaccine candidate is found to be efficacious and the vaccine achieves full licensure from a regulatory agency.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||A successful solution to the ‘slash and burn’ problem||Year after year, farmers in Punjab, Haryana and Delhi have been burning agricultural waste, particularly the stubble left after harvesting wheat, leading to environmental hazards, such as smoke and particle-rich air, making the air we breathe extremely poisonous. As the spring season starts, like now, people in the area are hit with ‘smog’, or smoke and fog, making the air unbreathable. The Air Quality Index or AQI rises to severe levels (400 or more in Delhi and its neighbourhood). Incidentally, AQI is estimated based on the amount of particle pollution in the air and the associated generation of ozone, NO2 , SO2 , CO. Breathing all of these is bad for health. AQI is good when it is lower than 50 units (as in Mysuru, Kochi, Kozhikode and Shillong), moderate when it is 51–100, unhealthy between 151–200, (as in Hyderabad these days), very unhealthy between 201–300, hazardous between 301–400 and severe above 400 (as in today’s Delhi region, where stubble burning continues). Viable solution The Government of Delhi has recently come up with a viable solution to handle this problem of stubble burning, thanks to its collaboration with the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) at Pusa, in the city. Called ‘Pusa Decomposer’, they have come up with a set of capsules, which are dissolved in water containing jaggery, chickpea flour and a set of about eight types of microorganisms (fungi), essential to quicken the decomposition of the stubble. This is then fermented for three-to-four days, and the liquid so obtained is ready to be sprayed in the farmers’ field in order to decompose the left over biomass. They state that four such capsules are enough to make 25 litres, which can be used to decompose the crop residue per hectare of the field. Thereby, the stubble gets converted into manure in the field. The Pusa decomposer has been successful in solving the problem, and appears to pave the way for large scale applications across the country. In his article in the blog: <the wire.in/agriculture/pusa-decomposer-iari-stubble-burning>, Shri Gaurav Vivek Bhatnagar gives a detailed analysis of the issue. Decomposing stubble Note here that Pusa Decomposer uses eight or so fungi in order to quicken the decomposition of the stubble. An earlier report by da Costa and others in the journal Applied and Environmental Microbiology, March 2018, 84(5) (DOI:10.1128/AEM.01815-17) titled ‘Enzyme activities at different stages of biomass decomposition in three species of fungus-growing termites’, points out that termites are used in order to generate the necessary fungi to decompose the stubble. Termites themselves attack crop produce in India, causing havoc in an indiscriminate manner. (See, for example the paper by Mahapatro and Chatterji in Proceedings of National Academy of Sciences, India, Section B Biological Sciences 88, 977–994 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/s40011-016-0837-5.). Then, why buy extra trouble, but simply isolate the microorganisms which produce the necessary enzymes for decomposing the stubble? It was with this logic that IARI seems to have come up with its Pusa Decomposer formula. As we note, this has worked well. Incidentally, it is interesting to note that food grains produced using the Pusa Decomposer qualify as organic farming, since it involves no growth hormones, antibiotics, no genetically modified organisms, and no leaching of surface water or ground water. Jongue’s method Indeed, if we look at the origin and development of farming itself of plants and foodgrains over millennia, it was organic in nature, until almost the industrial revolution in the eighteenth century, and the developments in chemistry which led to the discovery of fertilizers and related chemicals which were added to increase food farming. In this connection, it is interesting to read what Stephanie Hanes points out in her article in Christian Science Monitor, in 2008 (https:csmonitor.com/Environment/2008/0430/p13s01-sten.html). The traditional method has been ‘slash and burn’ (as we too have been doing in our wheat farming). But a farmer called Jongue in Mozambique in East Africa did not burn his corn farm, but let the corn stalks rot. In one part of his farm, rather than slash and burn, he mixed tomatoes and peanuts in the field to rot. Then he let the mice in the field eat up this stuff – a natural way of removing the rotting material. (If the mouse population became too large, he brought in cats to restrict the mice!) He also tried planting sorghum with success. This was what one may call organic farming. The yield and the quality were good enough to sell the corn or sorghum in the market. His organic farming was based on the use of mice as the source of the necessary molecular ingredients such as fungi, and no other additives. In a way, the Pusa Decomposer, with its jaggery, chickpea flour and naturally occurring fungi is the modern day Jongue approach! As field trials in the Delhi, Haryana region have been found successful, Pusa Decomposer should be tried in areas of Northeast India where ‘slash and burn’ (locally called ‘jhum’) is still followed (in Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya, for instance), IARI might try and introduce it there as well. It will also improve the AQI in the region (Agartala in Tripura is ‘moderate’ to ‘unhealthy’, currently). dbala@lvpei.org
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||How kala-azar was eliminated from a highly endemic district in Bihar||Kala-azar or visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a tropical disease characterised by irregular fever, weight loss, anaemia and swelling of the spleen and liver. It is caused by a protozoan Leishmania parasite and is transmitted to humans by the bite of infected female sandflies. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), globally, about 7 to 10 lakh new cases occur annually. WHO initiative India accounts for about two-thirds of the total global cases, and the disease is endemic to Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. An initiative was launched by WHO to eliminate VL as a public health problem from the South East Asia region by 2020. The deadline has now been extended to 2023.  In a recent paper published in PLOS Neglected Tropical Diseases a team from Rajendra Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences (ICMR), tells the success story of how they eliminated the disease from Vaishali, a district in Bihar where the disease is highly endemic. With an area of 2,036 square kilometres, Vaishali has a population of over 35 lakh and about 22% in the district get affected by VL each year. Their integrated control strategy helped reduce the number of cases from 664 in 2014 to 163 in 2016. “We call a disease eliminated when the annual incidence is reduced to less than 1 case per 10,000 people at the sub-district or block level. Eradication would mean there are zero cases. We were able to achieve the target in all 16 blocks of the District,” explains Pradeep Das, Director of the Institute and corresponding author of the paper. “We then implemented this strategy in other districts where the disease is highly endemic, namely Saran and Siwan, and we found about 48% reduction in cases within a year.” Campaigns, measures Their programme included mapping of the case distribution, early case detection and chemical-based vector control. “We also carried out community awareness campaigns. Hospital staff and medical doctors in these regions were trained,” adds Dr. Das. “Once a person is diagnosed with VL, indoor residual spraying was done at his house and at the neighbouring houses within 500 metres. Though the disease is not contagious, the infected sand fly may be present in the area and the chemical spray will help kill them.” Nearly 2,500 ASHA workers and 1,000 field workers were also trained. Monitoring disease Rakesh Mandal, one of the authors of the work in an email to The Hindu adds: “A strong supervision and monitoring system is required. GIS-based mapping, and case data management and spatial visualisation system are required for the proper implementation of control strategies.” He writes that routine monitoring is needed to identify if the Kala-azar vector has developed resistance to insecticides. “Also frequent monitoring of active cases – track, test, and treat strategy – in the hotspot region is very important at the current stage.” writes Dr. Mandal, who completed his PhD from the institute under the guidance of Dr. Das.  We say a disease is eliminated when the annual incidence is reduced to less than 1 case per 10,000 people at the sub-district or block level. Pradeep Das RMRIMS, Patna
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Twice hit by climate change||Most people know that land-dwelling dinosaurs were wiped out some 66 million years ago when a huge asteroid crashed into Earth. If not this, the plunge in global temperature on a planet with little or no ice, caused by a blanket of heat-shielding debris in the atmosphere, would have killed them. New research says, more than 100 million years earlier, another climate change cataclysm – a global warming – devastated a different set of dinosaur species, with many going extinct. Scientists have found evidence of this traumatic event some 179 million years ago in plant fossils in Argentine Patagonia. Dinosaur discovered They also discovered a previously unknown dinosaur, named Bagualia alba. This is in the family of massive, long-necked sauropods, the largest animals to walk the Earth. Before the global warming event, sauropods were only one branch of the Sauropodomorpha lineage. Other dinosaurs in the same group were smaller and lightly built, with some no bigger than a goat, according to a study published in the Proceedings of the Royal Society B . But a series of volcanic eruptions over several million years released huge amounts of CO2 and methane in the atmosphere, warming the planet and transforming the vegetation dinosaurs fed on. The climate went from a temperate, warm and humid with a diverse lush vegetation to a strongly seasonal, hot-and-dry regime. Smaller Sauropodomorpha dinosaurs were unable to cope with the change, but larger sauropods – like Bagualia alba – thrived. “Sauropods are massive, four-legged animals with long necks,” which meant they could reach the tops of trees, palaeontologist and lead author Diego Pol told Agence France-Presse. “Their very robust mandibles and spoon-shaped teeth were adapted to feed on all kinds of plants such as conifer trees.” Distinct diet Conifers in the early Jurassic had tough and leathery leaves that would be a challenge for any herbivore. But that gave B. alba an advantage over other Sauropodomorpha dinosaurs, said Pol, head of the science department at the Egidio Feruglio palaeontology museum in Patagonia. Sauropods’ new diet saw them expanded in size from 10 metres to 40 metres in length, as large digestion chambers were needed to cope. They became the dominant group of herbivores and eventually the largest animals to ever walk the Earth.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Bright spider||Why do some tarantulas have vivid blue and green colours? Tarantulas are large, hairy spiders which are mostly nocturnal. Scientists were not sure why they need such bright blue and green colours. Tarantulas were also thought to be colour blind. Now, researchers from Yale-NUS College and Carnegie Mellon University have found that tarantulas can indeed see in colour, and vibrant blue colours may be used to attract mates. The green colour might help them hide among the leaves ( Proceedings of the Royal Society B).  The team reconstructed the colours of tarantula ancestors across 110 million years and found that they could have been mostly blue in colour. They noted that the blue colour did not correlate with any common defence mechanisms, showing the colour did not evolve to deter predators but to woo a potential mate. “Our finding that blueness was lost multiple times in the New World, while regained in the Old, is intriguing. This leaves fascinating avenues for future research when considering how the ecological pressures in the New and the Old Worlds vary,” said one of the authors Vinod Kumar Saranathan in a press release. “For instance, one hypothesis would be differences in the light environments of the habitats between the New and the Old World, which can affect how these colours might be perceived if indeed they can be, as our results suggest.”
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Why did India stay out of the RCEP deal?||The story so far: On November 15, the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership (RCEP) was signed by 15 countries led by China, Japan, South Korea, Australia, New Zealand, and the 10-country ASEAN group. It is billed as one of the world’s largest Free Trade Agreement (FTA), accounting for nearly 30% of the global GDP covering 30% of the world’s population. After long negotiations, India exited the grouping last November, saying it wanted to protect its economy from rising trade deficits with a number of RCEP members. India’s decision is still the subject of much debate, and the RCEP has left a special window open for India to rejoin at a future date. Are FTAs bad for India? What are the other objections to RCEP? Of the 15 countries in RCEP, India had previously signed an FTA with the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN), and also with Japan and South Korea, all three of which are now under review. “If you look at India’s experience with the already signed free trade agreements with the ASEAN group, South Korea and Japan, you will see that India's trade deficit with these countries or groups rose very sharply during this period,” says R. Ramakumar, NABARD Chair Professor at the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, who backs India’s decision to quit RCEP, saying that between 2011 and 2019. “India's trade deficit with ASEAN rose from about $5 billion to about $22 billion, [now pegged at $24 billion, according to government reports in August],” he says. In the last decade, our trade deficit with Japan rose from $4 billion to about $8 billion, he points out, and with South Korea from about $8 billion to $12 billion. The trade deficit with China has burgeoned from about $4 billion in 2005-06 to nearly $50 billion today, even without a trade agreement.  In fiscal year 2019-20, India’s trade deficit with China was $48.64 billion, which was lower than the trade deficit of $53.56 billion in 2018-19. Why are trade deficits growing? Other experts contest the FTA argument on two accounts. In a 2019 paper entitled ‘India’s Trade Agreements and the Future of Indian Trade Policy’, Johns Hopkins University professor, Pravin Krishna, explained that while deficits have increased for India in all foreign trade, India’s FTAs or PTAs (Preferential Trade Agreements) do not account for a bigger chunk of the trade deficit than they did before. “Trade deficits with India’s bilateral partners accounted for 12.6% of the overall trade deficit in the year 2007. In 2017, they accounted for a considerably smaller 7.5%,” said the paper. Another explanation for the growing trade deficits comes from the downturn in India’s GDP since 2016, and the decline in manufacturing. In addition, says Amitendu Palit, senior research fellow at the National University of Singapore’s Institute of South Asian Studies, FTAs are not the only reason imports from RCEP countries, especially China, are rising. “If one looks at China, 75% of the inputs from China on machinery, bulk drugs, chemicals, and other equipment are [goods] that are not available in India in sufficient amounts or at competitive prices. There is this view that imports from China would have flooded had India entered RCEP, but haven’t they already flooded the country?” Mr. Palit asks. How has the COVID-19 pandemic changed the debate? The COVID-19 pandemic has left the global economy in a state of disarray. For the first time in 60 years, nearly every country in the RCEP grouping is facing a recession. The fears over individual losses, combined with the trend worldwide against globalisation, are driving countries to formulate smaller trading coalitions outside of the World Trade Organization. In addition, travel between countries is being restricted by the spread of the virus, further promoting local or regional trade and travel bubbles. As the world’s second largest economy and one of the only ones to show GDP growth this year, China offers potential investment to RCEP countries, and that was another incentive for them to conclude the agreement on schedule, without delaying it to a time after the pandemic. On the other hand, India’s tensions with China over the PLA’s (People’s Liberation Army) aggressions at the Line of Actual Control this year, and the continued standoff between their armies have hardened its position on RCEP, and officials say events during the pandemic have only “vindicated” India’s stand on staying out of the grouping. Who wants India in? Several RCEP countries still hope India will reconsider its decision of staying out. For Japan and Australia, the large size of the Indian economy and its negotiating heft would pose a valuable counterpoint to China within the grouping. It is for this reason that Japan led the drafting of the special statement on India, which would waive the 18-month mandatory waiting period if India applied formally to rejoin the group. For ASEAN countries that led the RCEP negotiations, India’s presence would provide weight to the centrality of the ASEAN grouping in the region. The importance of drawing India into the agreement was underlined when leaders of all ten ASEAN countries travelled to India as the Republic Day chief guests in 2018. For China, too, having India within the RCEP tent would not just open up India’s market access for Beijing, but would also provide one more forum on which to cooperate that does not include the United States (U.S.), its biggest rival. Finally, there is the question of how the Quad (Quadrilateral Security Dialogue) would operate on economic issues, particularly in terms of securing supply chains, with the U.S. walking out of the Comprehensive and Progressive agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), and India exiting the RCEP. Did RCEP address India’s concerns? India’s concerns over Chinese goods flooding the Indian market through other markets under the RCEP, without clear guidelines on rules of origin, find clear mention and an entire chapter devoted to it in the final RCEP text of 20 chapters, despite the fact that India is no longer in the grouping. There is also a chapter on allowing trade in services (Chapter 8), particularly financial, telecommunications and professional services, which was another key demand by India during the seven years that it continued to negotiate the RCEP. In addition, there is a summary of objections by various RCEP members to different parts of the agreement, which are expected to be resolved in the next few years as the treaty goes through ratification processes across the region. Even so, the Indian government says there is no rethinking the decision to stay out of the RCEP. India has skipped every meeting of the grouping in the past year. The next big question is whether India will accept the invitation from RCEP countries to be an “observer” at their meetings. When asked this week, Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava declined a direct reply. “Our position regarding joining RCEP is very well-known. We conveyed our position not to join RCEP as some of the significant issues of core interest remain unresolved,” he said. On November 16, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar had said the “mantra of an open and globalised economy” was used to justify unfair trade and production practices against India. “The effect of past trade agreements has been to de-industrialise some sectors. The consequences of future ones would lock us into global commitments, many of them not to our advantage,” he had said. Without mentioning RCEP directly, the Minister was saying that India does not plan to use the special window at present, and rather than suffer trade deficits that had been the outcome of various FTAs India had signed, India would prefer to go it alone, or as he put it, have “the courage to think through the problem for ourselves”. (With inputs from Ananth Krishnan)    Several countries of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership hope that India will reconsider its decision. For China, having India in the RCEP opens up India’s market and also provides a forum which does not include the U.S., its biggest rival
22 November 2020||New Delhi,||Over 300 containment zones set up in Delhi since Deepavali||The Delhi government created 376 COVID-19 containment zones between November 13 (Deepavali eve) and November 20, according to Revenue Department records. There are now a total of 4,560 containment zones in the city. As cases surged during the week, the maximum single-day increase in such zones (104) was recorded on Deepavali day. As per government records, there were 4,184 zones on November 13, which increased to 4,288 on November 14. Such zones were delineated at a daily rate of around 47 during the week as the city struggled with what the government has acknowledged as the “third wave of the coronavirus”. Government records state that till November 20, 9,875 containment zones have been created in the city since the pandemic struck earlier this year, out of which 9,541 were delineated after June 21. Records posit that the South-West district has the most containment zones at 1,563 followed by 1,507 in the West district and 9,69 in the North-West district. The North-East district has the least number of containment zones at 401, followed by 514 and 620 in the East and New Delhi districts. On Saturday, officials said that over 400 ICU beds have been added in hospitals run by the Centre and the Delhi government over the last five days amid a surge in cases. “As many as 411 ICU beds have been added,” an official said, adding: “Several private hospitals have also added more ICU beds after they were told to reserve 80% of them for COVID-19 patients.” Home isolation The Delhi government has also directed district officials to visit COVID-19 patients under home isolation and ensure that they follow isolation rules, a move that comes amid instances of such people flouting norms in the national capital. In an order, the health department said contact tracing should be paid proper attention and it should be ensured that the contacts traced be subjected to immediate testing and be kept under effective isolation until test results come. Meanwhile, Nigambodh Ghat, the biggest cremation facility in Delhi, is likely to get three more CNG-based furnaces from next week, officials said on Saturday. In the last ten days, there were instances when the maximum daily cremation count of COVID-19 victims reached 22, they added. A total of 210 COVID-19 victims were cremated at the ghat from November 10 to November 21, said officials of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation. Twenty COVID-19 victims were cremated till 5.30 p.m. on Saturday
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||A host of vaccines and the fight against COVID-19||The story so far: Herculean and nearly unparalleled efforts in science over the past few months have yielded at least two COVID-19 vaccines with promise, in a historically short span of time. Global efforts to find a vaccine to stem the march of the SARS-CoV-2 virus seem to be bearing fruit. By November, certain candidates emerged that claimed to offer safe and efficacious action against the virus. Pfizer and Moderna are among the leaders, while progress continues on the Oxford vaccine after a hiatus; China and Russia have claimed successes too. Who are the top contenders at this stage? The past two weeks have been brimming with hope after announcements from major pharma companies, Pfizer and Moderna, about over 90% efficacy in their mRNA vaccine trials. On Saturday, Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech applied to the U.S. drug regulatory authority (Food and Drug Administration, or FDA) seeking emergency use authorisation (EUA) for its COVID-19 vaccine, labelled ‘BNT162b2’. On November 8, Pfizer released preliminary results from 94 people — it had found just over 90% efficacy with its vaccine. In a subsequent announcement later, the company claimed that the vaccine had over 95% efficacy. In all, of over 43,000 volunteers, 170 contracted COVID-19 in Pfizer's trial, and 162 of them had only received the placebo. Two doses of the vaccine were administered. Moderna followed Pfizer’s initial announcement with one of its own. It claimed that its vaccine was 94.5% effective in a 30,000-participant study in the U.S. The results were based on an initial analysis of 95 cases, of which 90 cases of COVID-19 were recorded in the placebo group, and five cases in the vaccine arm. Moderna also plans to apply for an EUA soon. While reviewing safety aspects, both firms recorded that the majority of adverse events were mild or moderate in severity. The U.S. FDA had determined a minimum efficacy of 50% for a vaccine candidate. The results revealed so far are higher than what was originally thought possible. Seeking to reassure those with apprehensions about the “incredible speed in vaccine development”, Anthony Fauci, Director, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, U.S., said during a White House briefing: “[It] is unprecedented. But it did not compromise the safety of the vaccine or the scientific integrity of the process … we need to put to rest any concept that this was rushed in an inappropriate way. This is really solid.” It is expected that the two companies could produce doses for about 20 million people in the U.S. by December. The first doses will go to people in the high-risk category, including healthcare workers. Which are the other vaccines in the pipeline? Oxford University and its partner AstraZeneca are expecting the results of their phase-3 trials by Christmas, and have reportedly seen a good immune response in earlier trials among senior citizens. Adar Poonawalla, CEO of Serum Institute of India, Oxford University’s partner in India, said last week that “the OxfordCOVID-19vaccine should be available for healthcare workers and elderly people by around February 2021 and by April for the general public”. He added that it will be available in the market at Rs. 1,000 for two necessary doses, depending on the final trial results and regulatory approvals. China’s CanSino Biologics said it had developed a vaccine based on an adenovirus, in partnership with the Institute of Biology of the Academy of Military Medical Sciences. Claiming that evidence from the phase-2 trial had demonstrated that the vaccine produced a strong immune response, the Chinese military authorised the use of the vaccine as a specially needed drug in June-end, according to media reports. It has since continued with phase-3 trials in other partner countries. In August, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced the arrival of an indigenous vaccine, reportedly before phase-3 trials. Later, the country clarified that the final approval would depend on the results of the phase-3 trials, to be conducted on about 40,000 volunteers. Russia also reached out to other nations to sign agreements to test its most promising vaccine candidate, Sputnik V, based on two adenoviruses. India joined the trials in October. Johnson and Johnson reported that it had started phase-3 vaccine trials to assess the safety and effectiveness in up to 60,000 participants. Some media reports peg the release of this data at the end of this year, or early next. What are the challenges? While the biggest challenge is making the vaccine available and affordable to all, there are other hurdles too. Investments to establish massive infrastructure to produce several hundred billion doses will be required. Once that hurdle is crossed, there is the complex logistics of rolling out the vaccine for use. Additionally, with the mRNA vaccine requiring deep cooling, with temperatures several degrees below zero, and two of the top contenders being built on the mRNA platform, elaborate systems of drug delivery and the investment for that should be guaranteed. Otherwise, the vaccines will self-destruct at high temperatures. In countries that do not have a robust cold-chain system, this will be a challenge. While several governments are pre-booking large consignments of doses, the question that remains is how poor and middle-income countries will cope, even as they are offered assistance from agencies such as UNICEF and Gavi, The Vaccine Alliance. Meanwhile, efforts to reduce transmission by wearing masks, maintaining physical distance, and frequent hand washing must not suffer, epidemiologists warn.  Two of the top vaccine contenders are being built on the mRNA platform, which requires deep cooling, with temperatures several degrees below zero. Governments will have to make elaborate arrangements for drug delivery, guaranteeing investments
22 November 2020||New Delhi,||Will expose ‘rampant corruption’ in BJP-led municipalities: AAP||Aam Aadmi Party chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj on Saturday said to expose the “rampant corruption” in the BJP-ruled municipal corporations, AAP will hold a series of press conferences to inform people about “181 corruption schemes of the BJP”. He said the party will hold 181 such press conferences. “When the civic body elections were held in 2017, the BJP leadership was aware that their councillors have a bad image due to involvement in corruption. So, the BJP decided to replace the old councillors with new faces and a campaign — Naye Chehre, Nayi Udaan—, which was launched in the elections,” Mr. Bharadwaj said. He said elections were fought in the name of the central BJP leadership and 181 councillors from the party were elected. “The BJP has been ruling all three civic bodies for the last 15 years. But the new councillors have broken the records of even the old councillors in terms of corruption. We will run a series of press conferences in which we will be informing you about every scheme of the civic bodies,” Mr. Bharadwaj said. He added that as per the audit report of the civic bodies,a company was paid Rs. 13.77 crore for creating Unique Property Identification Card (UPIC), but nothing was done to implement it and money was diverted into the pockets of the leaders and officials. ‘Main source of revenue’ “What is the main issue of the BJP in the civic bodies? They say they do not have money and revenue. The main source of revenue of the municipal corporations across India is property tax. The surprising fact is that in Delhi, the property tax is one of the highest in the country, but the civic bodies said they do not have revenue. The civic bodies here are poor but the councilors are rich,” the AAP said.
22 November 2020||New Delhi,||Akbar, Ramani nudged about possibility of out-of-court settlement||A Delhi court on Saturday asked former Union minister M.J. Akbar and journalist Priya Ramani whether there was a chance of settlement between them in a criminal defamation complaint filed by him against her. Mr. Akbar had filed the complaint against Ms. Ramani for allegedly defaming him by accusing him of sexual misconduct around 20 years ago when he was a journalist. Ms. Ramani had said the allegations against Mr. Akbar, made in the wake of #MeToo movement in 2018, were her truth and were made in public good. Judge transferred Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (ACMM) Ravindra Kumar Pandey posed the query on Saturday as he started hearing afresh the final arguments in the case since the previous judge hearing the matter was transferred to another court on Wednesday. Senior advocate Geeta Luthra, appearing for Mr. Akbar, said she needed time to talk to her client before making a decision on the issue. The counsel for Ms. Ramani, advocate Bhavook Chauhan, said there was less chance of any settlement since the facts of the case were peculiar. The court asked both the parties to respond on the point of settlement and get back on November 24.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Moratorium on banks||The story so far: On November 17, the Centre, acting on the recommendation of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), imposed a moratorium on Lakshmi Vilas Bank (LVB) for a period of 30 days. The 94-year-old bank, based in Karur, Tamil Nadu, has been struggling with losses for three years. As its financial position deteriorated, the regulator placed it under the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) framework, which restricts certain operations depending on the severity of financial stress. After allowing time for the bank to find investors to shore up its capital, the RBI has appointed an administrator for the bank and mooted a merger with the Indian subsidiary of the Singapore-based DBS Bank. Similar moratoria were placed in the recent past on other lenders too, including Yes Bank and Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative Bank. What is a moratorium? The RBI, the regulatory body overseeing the country’s financial system, has the power to ask the government to have a moratorium placed on a bank’s operations for a specified period of time. Under such a moratorium, depositors will not be able to withdraw funds at will. Usually, there is a ceiling that limits the amount of money that can be withdrawn by the bank’s customers. In the case of LVB, depositors cannot withdraw more than Rs. 25,000 during the one-month moratorium period. In most cases, the regulator allows for funds of a larger quantum to be withdrawn in case of an urgent requirement, such as medical emergencies, but only after the depositor provides the required proof. Often, the moratorium is lifted even before the originally stipulated deadline is reached. For instance, Yes Bank, which went into a spiral while unsuccessfully trying to find an investor, was placed on a one-month moratorium starting March 5, with a cap of Rs. 50,000 on withdrawals. With investors led by State Bank of India (SBI) infusing Rs. 10,000 crore into Yes Bank, the moratorium was lifted on March 18. When does it come into play? Usually, the RBI steps in if it judges that a bank’s net worth is fast eroding and it may reach a state where it may not be able to repay its depositors. When a bank’s assets (mainly the value of loans given to borrowers) decline below the level of liabilities (deposits), it is in danger of failing to meet its obligations to depositors. After banks were nationalised in 1969, the RBI sought to always intervene to protect depositors’ interests and prevent commercial banks from failing. In 2004, it nudged State-owned Oriental Bank of Commerce(OBC) to take over the troubled private lender Global Trust Bank (GTB). As in the case of LVB, GTB was given time to find a suitor for a merger. When it failed to come up with any names, but proposed infusion of foreign capital, the RBI refused permission and instead insisted on the merger with OBC. How does a moratoriumprevent a ‘run’ on the bank? A moratorium primarily helps prevent what is known as a ‘run’ on a bank, by clamping down on rapid outflow of funds by wary depositors, who seek to take their money out in fear of the bank’s imminent collapse. Temporarily, it does affect depositors who may have placed, for example, their retirement with the bank, or creditors who are owed funds by the bank but are struggling with the collection. A moratorium gives both the regulator and the acquirer time to first take stock of the actual financial situation at the troubled bank. It allows for a realistic estimation of assets and liabilities, and for the regulator to facilitate capital infusion, should it find that necessary. Singapore’s DBS bank has promised to infuse Rs. 2,500 crore into the merged entity, once it takes over LVB. A key objective of a moratorium is to protect the interests of depositors. Even if they are temporarily handicapped by facing restricted access to their funds, there is a high probability that the bank would soon return to normal functioning once a bailout is arranged. Is the safety of funds assured? It depends on whether the struggling bank or the regulator is able to find acquirers or investors to save the day. In the case of Yes Bank, the RBI was able to bring in investors who infused adequate funds. With Lakshmi Vilas Bank, the regulator had a ready acquirer with a sound capital base in DBS Bank India. In the case of Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative Bank, which is headquartered in Mumbai, the moratorium — despite being gradually relaxed for depositors — is still in force, over a year after it was imposed, and there is still no sign of a buyer.  Even if depositors face restricted access to funds, there is a high probability that a struggling bank, placed under a moratorium, will soon return to normal functioning once a bailout is arranged
22 November 2020||New Delhi,||Tiwari warns of action against AAP leaders||Bharatiya Janata Party MP Manoj Tiwari on Saturday warned of legal action against Aam Aadmi Party leaders, a day after the ruling party in Delhi levelled allegations of corruption against him in the purchase of e-carts for the East Delhi Municipal Corporation. At a press conference on Friday, senior AAP leader and MLA Saurabh Bhardwaj had alleged that Mr. Tiwari and former East Delhi MP Mahesh Girri bought 200 e-carts at three times higher price through their MPLAD funds two years ago for the municipal corporation. Mr. Tiwari, who represents North East Delhi Lok Sabha constituency, blamed AAP Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal for dishing out “lies” through his MLA. “Mr. Kejriwal was anguished that I exposed him over the ban on Chhath. So, he is using his MLA to spread lies. They should either prove the charge or be prepared to face legal action,” Mr. Tiwari said.
22 November 2020||New Delhi,||37-year-old man nabbed for extorting taxi drivers||A 37-year-old man has been arrested for allegedly extorting money from taxi drivers on the pretext of recovering instalments against their car loan, the police said on Saturday. The accused — Bijender alias Lala — has been found to be involved in two previous robbery incidents, they said. The matter came to fore on Friday when a taxi driver from New Usmanpur registered a complaint with the police. He had purchased a second-hand commercial car one-and-a-half years ago for Rs. 1,30,000. On Thursday, when he was taking a passenger to RML Hospital and was passing by the ISBT at Kashmere Gate, his car was intercepted by another car. One of the passengers from the other car approached the complainant and said he had defaulted on his car loan. On the pretext of sorting out the matter, the accused asked the complainant to sit in their vehicle. They took the victim to Uttar Pradesh while another accomplice took his car and followed them. The accused told the cab driver that he had not paid the instalments and his vehicle would be confiscated. They even threatened to beat him up with a baseball bat and asked for money, a senior officer said. The complainant transferred Rs. 15,000 to a Paytm account after which the accused dropped him along with his vehicle in Noida. However, the complainant later found out that the loan amount was already cleared by the car’s previous owner. DCP (North) Anto Alphonse said: “We got details of the Paytm account in which the extorted money was transferred. We also identified the suspect and the vehicle used in the crime. Subsequently, Bijender was arrested and his car was seized.” The police recovered Rs. 10,000 from the accused and efforts are being taken to nab his accomplices, he added. During interrogation, the accused disclosed that he used to work for recovery agencies, police said.
22 November 2020||November 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping watch||
22 November 2020||New Delhi,||Rs. 2,000 fine for violations will encourage bribery: BJP||The government’s decision to charge Rs. 2,000 fine for not wearing masks will not solve the problem but encourage bribery, said Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta on Saturday. Mr. Gupta said that on the one hand, the government had given exemption to run public transport with full capacity and on the other, it is collecting challans of Rs. 2,000 for several offences, including non-adherence to social distancing norms. “This decision would have made a difference if Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had asked the market associations, traders associations, social organisations, civil defense, RWA and others to help spread awareness regarding COVID-19,” he alleged. “How will the poor, who find it difficult to earn bread and butter, pay a fine of Rs. 2,000 for not wearing a mask,” Mr. Gupta asked.
22 November 2020||New Delhi,||12 hurt after bus collides with tree on Mathura Road||Twelve people were injured after an Uttar Pradesh roadways bus collided with a tree on Mathura Road here early on Saturday, the police said. The driver fled the spot after the accident, they said. The police were informed about the accidentat 3.22 a.m.. The crash took place in front of the Central Road Research Institute near a CNG pump, a senior officer said. The bus was coming from Bah in Agra and was headed for Inter State Bus Terminal Sarai Kale Khan, he added. Twelve passengers suffered minor injuries and were shifted to the AIIMS Trauma Centre while 10 more were given first-aid at the spot by CATS ambulance staff, said DCP (South-East) R.P. Meena. A case of accident has been registered and an investigation is under way, he added.
22 November 2020||New Delhi,||BJP holds blood donation camp||Donating blood is a great virtue and it has health benefits too, said Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday as he inaugurated a blood donation camp organised by the Delhi BJP Yuva Morcha here. Mr. Vardhan thanked the Delhi BJP for the camp, which was held at the Indian Red Cross Society headquarters.
22 November 2020||Noida,||Three held after gunfight||Three criminals were arrested in U.P.’s Greater Noida after a gunfight in which two of them were injured, the police said on Saturday. The accused were held near Maicha underpass on Friday night, a senior officer said.
