22 December 2020||New Delhi,||House panel moots law to keep a check on private hospitals||There should be a comprehensive public health Act with suitable legal provisions to keep checks and controls over private hospitals in times of a pandemic and to curb black marketing of medicines, the parliamentary standing committee on Home Affairs, headed by Congress leader Anand Sharma, has said in a report that was submitted to Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu on Monday. There had been several reported instances of beds reserved for COVID-19 patients in private hospitals being sold at exorbitant rates, the report noted. “The committee strongly recommends a comprehensive public health Act, preferably at the national level with suitable legal provisions to support the government in keeping checks and controls over private hospitals as there have been reports about the selling of hospital beds by them,” the report said. The Act, it stated, should keep a check on black marketing of medicines and product standardisation. It flagged the initial confusion over medicines that helped in containing the COVID-19 infection and how they were sold at higher rates. It suggested that the government should be proactive by holding awareness campaigns on cheaper and effective re-purposed medicines to prevent people from panicking and spending huge amounts of money on expensive drugs. COVID-19 insurance The committee observed that in the initial phase of the pandemic, medical insurance was not extended to patients with COVID-19 infection. With exorbitant charges levelled by private hospitals, many had to suffer. “There is need to have regulatory oversight on all hospitals working in the country to prevent refusal to accept insurance claims. The committee strongly recommends that the target should be to make COVID-19 treatment cashless for all people who have insurance coverage,” the report notes. While appreciating the work done by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) by coming out with standard operating procedures (SOPs), guidelines and awareness generation, and most importantly, acting as a nodal centre for funding manpower deployment to meet exigencies, the committee said the ongoing pandemic was unlike any natural disaster that the NDMA had handled. “The committee recommends that a separate wing may be formed in the NDMA that will specialise in handling /managing pandemics like COVID-19 in future. This wing may take a leading role in building a partnership of government with the public sector, corporates, NGOs and other stakeholders,” the report observed. Social concerns At the times of a pandemic, measures should be taken to avoid social stigma and fear of isolation and quarantine, by making people aware and treating them with respect and empathy, it urged. On the economic front, the parliamentary standing committee said that while the government had taken a host of measures to ameliorate the impact of the pandemic on the economy, several schemes have not been implemented properly. “The committee observes that few of these schemes need effective implementation at the ground level. The problems being faced by farmers, non-corporate and non-farm small/micro enterprises in getting loans need to be addressed,” the report pointed out.
22 December 2020||GUNTUR,||Record blood donation marks Jagan’s birthday fete||The birthday celebrations of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy were marked by blood donations across the State. The day saw a record of 34,723 people donating blood in eight hours. Representatives of the Wonder Book of Records International, who certified the record, had presented the citation and a medal to Government Adviser (Public Affairs) Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy at the party central office. Blood donation camps were set up in 175 constituencies in the State and also in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu totalling 278. As many as 34,723 people donated 12,153 litres of blood. The YSRCP has decided to organise blood donation camps as part of Mr. Jagan’s birthday celebrations in view of its severe shortage in blood banks due to COVID-19. The programme helped blood banks in the State receive adequate quantities. Health officials are coordinating with other State functionaries to store the blood units safely. Wonder Book of Records The representatives of the Wonder Book of Records International said that they had expected around 17,000 units of blood to be collected but it turned out to be more than expected. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said the YSRCP had organised the mega blood donation camp to support the health sector during the times of pandemic. Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana, Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivas, MLA Usha Sri Charan, YSRCP leader Lella Appireddy, Skill Development Corporation Chairman Challa Madhusudan Reddy and Special representative for North America Pandugayala Rathnakar were among those present.
22 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Resurvey of lands in State begins||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy launched the State-wide comprehensive land resurvey under YSR Saswatha Bhu Hakku - Bhu Raksha scheme by fixing a marking stone at Takkellapadu village in Jaggaiahpet mandal of Krishna district on Monday. Addressing a public meeting at Jaggaiahpet later, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said no other State dared to undertake such a massive land survey project but the Andhra Pradesh government took the bold step of re-surveying lands which were last mapped almost a century ago. The government had deployed 16,000 surveyors to implement the project with the help of drones and other advanced equipment. The Survey of India (SoI), with which an MoU was signed recently, was providing the technological support. Fresh database Mr. Jagan said that the resurvey would facilitate speedy resolution of land-related disputes which consumed people’s time and money and caused mental agony. Land records would henceforth be tamper-proof as the survey numbers and boundaries would be clearly demarcated. A fresh database of residential plots and agricultural and other lands would be available upon the completion of the detailed mapping. Litigation in courts could be avoided to the maximum extent possible. Mr. Jagan said people would hereafter have clear and permanent titles of lands owned by them as per the Land Titling Bill 2020 that was passed in the winter session of Legislative Assembly. The resurvey would leave little scope for mafia to occupy lands and change boundaries to their advantage. It would bring about the coordination between Revenue, Registration, Survey and Municipal Administration Departments, he said. Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishnadas, Ministers P. Ramachandra Reddy, Botcha Satyanarayana, Perni Venkatramaiah and Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao and Surveyor General of India Lt. Gen. Girish Kumar were among those present.
22 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Woman injured as dacoits strike||A gang of nine dacoits struck at a house near Southadkka Mahaganapati Temple, tied up the house owner and stabbed his wife before making away with cash and gold ornaments in the early hours of Monday. According to Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmi Prasad, the dacoits took away Rs. 1.5 lakh in cash and 240 grams of gold ornaments at about 2.15 a.m. Geetha, wife of the house owner Tukrappa Shetty, an agriculturist, has been admitted to a hospital for treatment. When the dog in the house began to bark, Shetty came out to the balcony to inspect. Soon, the dacoits, who were outside the front door, climbed up the balcony and pounced on Shetty and tied him up to a chair. They began searching for valuable items. When Geetha too came to the balcony, one of the gang members threatened her before stabbing her in the abdomen and on her hand. He then forced her and her two children to show where the valuables were kept. The gang members also searched the rooms on the ground floor before fleeing with the loot. Geetha, who was taken to a nearby hospital for treatment, was later shifted to a hospital in Mangaluru. The family is yet to recover from shock, the police said and added that they will collect details of the crime from the family members later.. The dacoits had masked their face. While some of them spoke in Kannada used in Hassan, the others spoke Tulu. A special police team has been formed to arrest the accused, Mr. Prasad said.
22 December 2020||KURNOOL,||IIITDM students watch a rare sight||Students and faculty members of the Indian Institute of Information Technology, Design and Manufacturing, Kurnool, had a tryst with the Jupiter and Saturn when they came closest after 400 years on Monday. A telescope of the Astronomy Club set up on its terrace turned out to be the centre of attraction with everyone waiting for the sun to set and technical assistant Jitender adjusted the telescope in the right angle for institute director D.V.L.N. Somayajulu to watch the Saturn rings and the bright Jupiter’s four moons. Physics Department Head Devaraj Murali explained that the right side top -- the orange smaller celestial body was Saturn with its rings, while the one on the left side bottom was Jupiter visible with four of its moons.
22 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Markets plunge on news of mutant virus||Fears of a rapidly spreading new strain of the COVID-19 virus in the U.K. caused a bloodbath in Indian equity markets, with key benchmark indices slumping 3%. The rupee declined to a two-week low at 73.79 against the U.S. dollar. Global equities, too, tumbled, the dollar strengthened and volatility surged across asset classes as news of the new strain threatened to torpedo markets’ optimism over a vaccine-fuelled rebound in economic growth. U.K. equities were down just over 2%, while European equities fell around 2.5%. Futures for the S&P 500 fell 1.8%, recouping some earlier falls, while Nasdaq futures were down 1.2%. Gold, which usually rises during times of turmoil, fell as much as 1.3% in the global markets before clawing back some of that loss. Back in Indian equities, all sectoral indices closed with losses. The markets witnessed the worst single-day loss in more than seven months, analysts said. Declines were seen across sectors such as banking, auto, metal, oil and gas, real estate and public sector stocks. Amid widespread sale of the BSE Sensex pack, intraday trade saw the index plunging 2,038 points or 4.34%. It recovered to a 3%, or 1,407-point decline, to 45,554 points. ONGC led the bloodbath, plummeting 9.15%, while SBI slumped 6.2%.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Class X and II PU exams won’t be held in March-April: Minister||Students of Class X and II PU who will be returning to campuses on January 1 will get more time to prepare for their board examinations. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Monday announced that SSLC and second PU examinations would not be held in March-April, like every year. “There will be a considerable delay in the exam schedule for the academic year 2020-21. We are yet to decide on the timetable,” he told presspersons on Monday. Tentative dates would be announced in 10 days. “In some places we are holding classes on alternate days and in some daily. So, we are still working on how many school days we would get. Once that is clear, we will prune the syllabus and schedule exams,” he said. “We will ensure a stress-free academic year,” he added. The Minister also said a notification on the revised syllabus for both Class X and II PU would be issued in a week. “We have pruned the syllabus for II PU as per the NCERT guidelines and work is on in finalising the syllabus for Class X,” he said. The State Technical Advisory Committee on COVID-19 had recently recommended that the exams be postponed and summer vacations be cut short in 2021. It may be recalled that with the pandemic throwing the academic calendar into disarray, Class X exam was delayed and held from June 25 - July 5, in 2020 too.  There will be a considerable delay in the exam schedule for the academic year 2020-21.S. Suresh KumarPrimary and Secondary Education Minister
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,||HC halts move to demolish Devaraja Market||The Karnataka High Court on Monday restrained the State government and the Mysuru City Corporation from acting on the resolution passed in December 2019 by the Special Heritage Committee for demolishing the Devaraja Market and Lansdowne buildings in the city. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty, passed the interim order on a PIL petition filed by D. Shrijay Devaraj Urs, former Registrar (Evaluation), University of Mysore and three others. While seeking stay on implementation of the December 10, 2019 resolution of the Special Heritage Committee, the petitioners sought a direction from the court to protect and preserve these two heritage structures. The petitioners have claimed that these structures had been classified as heritage buildings in the Plan–2031 for Mysore –Nanjangud Local Planning Area. The petitioners contended that the Devaraja Market building was never examined by professionals having necessary technology or expertise in the field and hence the resolution, to demolish for the reason that walls had become weak, was flawed. The Special Heritage Committee had failed to consider various expert opinions stating that the Devaraja Market could be restored and there were precedents of buildings older than Devaraja Market like the Victoria Terminus, that had been successfully restored, the petitioners contended.
22 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. considering 1-year extension of protection for illegal colonies||The Centre is considering a one-year extension of protection from demolitions and sealing granted to certain kinds of illegal constructions in Delhi that is set to end on December 31, according to multiple sources. The protection from punitive action was given to slum clusters, illegal buildings and constructions in unauthorised colonies that existed as of March 31, 2002 till June 1, 2014 by the National Capital Territory of Delhi Laws (Special Provisions) Second (Amendment) Act, 2017. The Act was first passed in 2014, giving three-year immunity from action, and then amended to give another three years in 2017.  Ordinance planned With no winter session of Parliament scheduled this year, the government would bring in an ordinance to extend the protections for a year, the sources said. A Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry official said the process of extending the provisions of the Act has been started. BJP sources said the issue came up for discussion between HUA Minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri and State BJP president Adesh Gupta during a meeting on December 14. According to a source, Mr. Puri assured the leaders that an ordinance would be introduced. The source added that it has been decided to extend the validity of the existing provisions so that tho-se affected would not have to deal with the possibility of demolition of their properties at a time when COVID-19 had hit businesses. Another source said a one-year extension was considered as opposed to three years since the Master Plan 2041 is being drafted and was expected to be completed in 2021.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. political parties seek single-phase polls||Political parties in Tamil Nadu on Monday submitted a representation to a visiting high-level delegation of the Election Commission of India, seeking single-phase polling for the Assembly election in 2021. The ruling AIADMK sought the completion of the polling process by the fourth week of April. The parties also urged the delegation, which is on a two-day visit to Chennai to oversee poll preparedness, to ensure the safety of electronic voting machines (EVMs) and accuracy of electoral rolls, curtail the cash-for-votes practice and provide precautions to be taken against COVID-19. The AIADMK suggested holding the polls in the third or fourth week of April, considering the weather conditions in May. ‘Hot weather conditions’ “People will struggle to vote under the hot weather conditions in May,” Deputy Speaker of the Assembly Pollachi Jayaraman said. The DMK submitted a list of 11 demands. “To avoid malpractice and misuse of official machinery, we request the ECI to conduct the election in a single phase,” DMK organisation secretary R.S. Bharathi said. The party also requested the ECI to ensure that EVMs are secure from tampering or manipulation of data. “Ensure that there shall not be any such illegality affecting fair elections,” the party said. The DMK also sought the installation of high-force jammers at strong rooms, polling centres and counting centres to prevent illegal access to EVMs. The Tamil Nadu Congress Committee also raised the issue of EVM safety. The party requested the setting up of more polling booths on account of COVID-19. CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan also sought a single-phase poll.
22 December 2020||Ghaziabad,||A year on, kin of anti-CAA stir victims await justice||“We are waiting for the wheels of justice to turn,” said Mohd. Salahuddin, the brother of Aleem who died during the anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests in Meerut on December 20, 2019. The 24-year-old was one of the six persons who were killed when the protests turned violent. While the police claim they died in firing by rioters, the kin of the victims allege that they were killed by bullets fired by the police. “All that we have got in the last one year are dates. We have not been heard,” said Salahuddin, who suffers from polio in one leg. “We have been told that the Delhi riots that happened after the protests have become the priority of courts and lawyers,” he said. Salahuddin, a resident of Ahmed Nagar area in Meerut, works in the catering business which has been badly hit because of the COVID-19 pandemic. “The monetary support that came from social activists and political parties went to the wife of Aleem. She left home after the iddat period and now I am struggling to make ends meet. My father also got paralysed in the last one year,” he said. ‘Ready with evidence’ Ali Zaidi, a Delhi-based Supreme Court lawyer, said from the highest to the local court they were in queue for dates. “We have complete evidence rejecting the bogus investigation that claims the victims died of gunshots of rioters,” claimed Mr. Zaidi, referring to the chargesheet filed by the police in the Allahabad High Court. “They have arrested four to five people who have criminal record to weave a fictitious story that they fired at different places during the protest. The victims were pelting stones and sustained bullet injuries in the melee that ensued,” alleged Mr. Zaidi. Subhash Chandra Prajapati, Additional District Magistrate (Finance), who heads the inquiry into the death of Aleem, said he would file the report in a week. “We have received evidence from police and the Chief Medical Officer but nobody from the victim’s family turned up,” he said, adding the inquiry was delayed because of COVID-19 and workload. In Bijnor, Afzal Ansari was mourning the death of his nephew, Suleman, who was one of the two persons killed in the protest in Nehtaur town on December 20 last year. “We remembered him by distributing woollens to the poor. He wanted to serve society as a District Magistrate. This is the least we could do,” said Mr. Ansari, a lawyer. “It was a targeted killing but nobody is listening. Can’t we even protest? The then Superintendent of Police had admitted that the police fired in self-defence but now they say the two died in firing by rioters. They have many ways to silence us. When I actively pursued the case, I was named in an FIR in Nagina for rioting,” he alleged. The case, he rued, was pending in the court but “it seems the system wants us to forget our loss”.
22 December 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra imposes night curfew till Jan. 5||The Maharashtra government on Monday announced night curfew till January 5 against the backdrop of a new highly infectious coronavirus strain hitting the United Kingdom. This was decided at an emergency meeting convened earlier in the day by Mr. Thackeray at his official residence, Varsha. “The State will be on high alert from today. A 14-day institutional quarantine has been made mandatory for passengers arriving from European and Middle Eastern countries. They will also be subjected to RT-PCR test on the fifth or seventh day after their quarantine period,” he said. Curfew will be imposed in municipal areas from 11 p.m. to 6 a.m. from Tuesday, and will remain in force till January 5. Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar, Mumbai Municipal Commissioner I.S. Chahal, Mumbai Police Commissioner Parambir Singh, and principal secretary, health, Dr. Pradeep Vyas were among those who attended the meeting. The Chief Minister directed municipal commissioners to arrange hotels and independent hospitals near international airports for quarantining passengers. He also asked authorities to set up a separate hospital for passengers from Europe if they had symptoms of the new virus strain. “Passengers from other countries will be checked, their hands stamped and will be in home-quarantine. All airport staff checking passengers from European countries and the Middle East will be provided PPE kits,” Mr. Thackeray said.
22 December 2020||KOCHI,||Sivasankar cites health reasons for bail||M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who has been arraigned as an accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, has submitted that he is taking follow-up treatment at a Kochi hospital for “suspected malignancy.” References to the health condition of the former bureaucrat found mention in the bail plea submitted before the Economic Offences Court here on Monday. The petitioner submitted that he underwent treatment at a hospital for “suspected malignancy and his life is under threat while he is undergoing imprisonment in jail.” Mr. Sivasankar said he could not get the documents as an application for getting them could not be submitted to the hospital. He said he had also been undergoing treatment for his back pain since 2016. No proof of role He submitted that there was “not even a scrap of material available” to establish that he abetted any of the accused for smuggling. Referring to some of the statements of the co-accused against him, Mr. Sivasankar contended that even if the statements were taken into consideration, there was no material to establish the fact that he abetted the offence. The investigation agency obtained a belated statement from a co-accused to the effect that he was aware of the smuggling activities. Other than the highly belated and canvassed statement, there was absolutely no material against the petitioner, he submitted. The investigating agency could not make out a case that the petitioner was involved in a case of smuggling of contraband worth more than Rs. 1 crore.  The investigating agency could not collect any incriminating material against the petitioner to rope in the petitioner. The investigation in the case was almost over and even if the entire allegations were accepted at its face value, the ingredients of offence punishable under Section 135 of the Customs Act would not attract against the petitioner, he contended.
22 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Suspension of IBC extended till March ’21||The government has decided to extend the suspension of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) till March 31, 2021, to help businesses cope with the lingering difficulties posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman said on Monday. The Minister’s statement settles a major uncertainty facing businesses since the present government order to keep the insolvency code in abeyance was due to expire on December 25. Defaults from March 25 All defaults arising on or after March 25, when the national lockdown was imposed to curb the pandemic, will effectively remain out of the insolvency net for a full year, Ms. Sitharaman said. “When the lockdown was announced, there was constant engagement with industry. So many deadlines were postponed and many compliances relaxed. Even the suspension of the IBC has been postponed even further from December 25, I think we have moved to saying that will be in abeyance till March 31, 2021,” the Minister said at an interaction with the Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Commerce on Monday evening. “So, the entire year has had the IBC suspended, rightfully so because every industry has gone through major stress because of the pandemic and nobody could be drawn towards the insolvency process for problems that may have occurred during the pandemic,” she explained. Experts, however, said more action may be needed to help stressed corporate balance sheets.
22 December 2020||NARSAPURAM (WEST GODAVARI),||This year, haridasu arrives on a motorbike||This year haridasulu descend on villages in a different way surprising the people. At several places in the district they were seen moving on motorbikes. They generally move by walk only during Sankranthi festivities and farmers offer them sweets, clothes, rice and money. Visiting of haridasulu during the Sankranthi was an age old tradition. Farmers, who were happy after harvesting the crops, offer rice, sugar cane, turmeric, jaggery and other produce to the haridasulu and take their blessings, says a farmer, Cherukuwada Ranganayakulu of Palakol in the district.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Fresh off the boat||
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Registrations through CARD take off smoothly||Registration of non-agricultural properties through the old CARD (Computer-aided Administration of Registration Department) system took off smoothly at the sub-registrar offices (SROs) across the State on Monday without any major complaints from any district. Protests over continuation of the Layout Regularisation Scheme continued in front of the sub-registrar offices. Realtors staged protests in front of SROs at Uppal, Ghatkesar, Hayatnagar and other places raising slogans against the LRS.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Braving the chill||
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Champa Shasti concludes||
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Fresh off the boat||
22 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers to take decision on talks today||Appearing set to reject the fresh offer of talks by the Union government, farmer unions spearheading the agitation are of the opinion that the three laws are pro-corporate and promote stocking and black-marketing of foodgrains. The final decision will be taken in a meeting of Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a joint front of farmer unions, on Tuesday. In a virtual meeting during the day, farmer leaders said the government had selected eight issues and was now trying to claim they were the main issues, said sources privy to the meeting. They also took exception to the language used by PM Narendra Modi, wherein he said that “no one could stop him” from going ahead with the reforms.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Taste of victory||
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Braving the chill||
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,||First phase of GP polls today||Stakes are high for all three major political parties in Karnataka as 50% of villages are gearing up for elections to 3,019 gram panchayats in 117 taluks of the State amidst COVID-19, on Tuesday. Though fought on non-partisan lines, these polls are crucial for parties to provide strength in the coming elections to taluk and zilla panchayats, and the Assembly elections in 2023. Leaders and legislators of all three major parties were involved in campaigning. In fact, the legislature session was cut short to allow them to campaign. A total of 1,17,383 candidates are in the fray in 43,238 GP seats. Among them 50% of seats are reserved for women. A total of 4,377 candidates have already been elected unopposed. In the light of COVID-19, the number of voters in each booth has been reduced from 1,500 to 1,000, and anganwadi workers and ASHAs along with Health Department officials have been roped in for poll duty. COVID-19 positive people and those suspected to be suffering from it would be allowed to exercise their franchise in the last hour of the polling, State Election Commissioner B. Basavaraj told The Hindu.  Polling would be held in 23,706 booths on Tuesday, and the second phase is on December 27. Counting of votes is on December 30.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Bracing for long haul||
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Taking charge||
22 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Single-day tally comes down to 214||The number of new coronavirus positive cases in the State has further come down from 438 to 214 in the last 24 hours and two persons died during the period, one each in Krishna and Guntur districts, a bulletin issued by the Health Department said. In total, 40,295 samples were tested in 24 hours, which included 12,858 rapid antigen tests. The total number of samples tested (VRDL, Truenat, NACO and rapid antigen) so far reached 1,13,01,105 and the cumulative positive cases stood at 8,78,937 on Monday. Tests Per Million (TPM) and Positivity Rate (PR) as on were put at 2,11,631 and 7.78 respectively. Chittoor district reported the largest number of positive cases (46) in 24 hours and Vizianagaram witnessed the smallest number (4). With 1,23,323 positive cases, East Godavari stood first in the table and Vizianagaram was in the last slot . The total death as on December 21 is 7,078. Chittoor accounts for the largest number of persons who died of COVID (838) so far.
22 December 2020||New Delhi,||No flights to and from U.K. till Dec. 31||The Ministry of Civil Aviation on Monday banned all flights from the U.K. from Tuesday midnight until December 31 in an effort to keep out a new highly infectious coronavirus strain that is rapidly spreading in England. “This suspension will start w.e.f. 23.59 hours, 22nd December 2020. Consequently, flights from India to the U.K. shall stand temporarily suspended,” the Ministry said in a series of tweets. The government also clarified that no airline operating from any country would be allowed to bring a passenger who had travelled from the U.K. to India. Belgium, The Netherlands, France, Italy, Germany, Canada and Israel have already suspended U.K. flights. While international flights remain suspended, the government has entered into a special agreement with 22 countries to allow direct flights to and from India. The announcement will hit Air India, Vistara, Virgin Atlantic and British Airways, who together operate 21 weekly flights from Delhi and 16 weekly flights from Mumbai.
22 December 2020||IDUKKI,||Drugs seized from rave party||In a major haul, the narcotic wing of the police seized ISD stamps, hashish oil, ecstasy tablets and ganja from a night party at a resort at Wagamon on Monday and arrested nine persons, including a woman. A total of 59 persons, including 12 women, took part in the rave party, say initial reports.Page 4
22 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Bars and beer parlours to admit customers||The State government on Monday allowed bars and beer and wine parlours to resume in-person service and sale of liquor from Tuesday. The COVID-19 pandemic had impelled the government to ban indoor dining in bars to prevent the accelerated spread of the virus in early 2020. Nearly 700 bars and 385 beer parlours would open their doors for customers. So would 26 private member’s clubs. The purchase from retail outlets will continue through the virtual queue system. However, these should be reopened with the conditions prescribed under the Foreign Liquor Rules and safety precautions as per the COVID-19 guidelines, an order by Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta said. Permission has also been granted for the functioning of toddy shops as per the provisions of the Kerala Abkari Shops Disposal Rules. The outlets of the state Beverages Corporations and Consumerfed would also function from 10 a.m. to 9 pm. Lockdown The government had decided to shut all liquor shops since March 24 after the Union Home Ministry issued guidelines for the lockdown in view of the pandemic. After Unlock 3 guidelines came into force, the government had allowed sale of liquor as takeaway from special retail outlets following the virtual queue system. It had also said licensed clubs would sell liquor and food to their members as parcel with strict restrictions on the number of persons.   (With inputs from PTI)
22 December 2020||Patna,||‘Prepare for mid-term election in Bihar in 2021’||Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Tejashwi Yadav on Monday declared that there would be a mid-term Assembly election in Bihar in 2021, and warned of stern action within the party at a review meeting. “You all should be prepared for mid-term Assembly elections in the State in 2021. The party will also take stern action against those who damaged the prospects of the official RJD candidates contesting the recently concluded Assembly polls in the State,” Mr. Yadav said.
22 December 2020||New Delhi,||Veteran Congress leader Motilal Vora passes away||Congress veteran Motilal Vora passed away at Delhi’s Fortis Escorts Hospital on Monday, a day after his 93rd birthday. He had been admitted to the hospital on Saturday for a urinary infection but developed severe lung infection and was put on ventilator, his family said. Tributes poured in from political leaders and dignitaries for the politician.
22 December 2020||New Delhi,||New COVID cases hit four-month low in Delhi||The city recorded 803 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours — the lowest in four months — taking the total number of cases to 6,17,808, said a health bulletin relea-sed by the government. The last time the number of new cases was less than 803 was on August 17 — 787. Also, 27 more deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, pushing the toll to 10,304.
22 December 2020||Kolkata,||Amit Shah’s allegations garbage of lies: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said the allegations raised by Union Home Minister Amit Shah against the Trinamool Congress government on several development parameters were “garbage of lies.” She said, “Amitji, you are the Home Minister, and it does not suit you to shell out lies provided by your party workers without cross-checking.” Ms. Banerjee also said her government’s outreach programme, started from December 1, had reached 1.12 crore people.
22 December 2020||Mumbai,||Rao to be at private hospital till Jan 7: HC||Jailed poet-activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links’ case, will continue to remain at Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai till January 7 next year, as the Bombay High Court on Monday extended his stay at the private medical facility. Mr. Rao (81) has been receiving treatment for various ailments at the private hospital since last month following the intervention of the high court. A Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik extended his stay.
22 December 2020||Mumbai,||Metro land row: Pawar speaks to CM, Fadnavis||Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar has spoken to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Bharatiya Janata Party leader Devendra Fadnavis over the Kanjurmarg Metro car shed land dispute in Mumbai and may take up the issue with the Centre to resolve it, sources said on Monday. Mr. Thackeray on Sunday said he was open to a resolution of the land row through dialogue with the Centre and asserted it was not an “ego issue” for him.
22 December 2020||KALABURAGI,||Jewels worth Rs. 44 lakh taken away from bank||Thieves who struck at the Nidagunda branch of the Karnataka Gramin Bank at Chincholi taluk in Kalaburagi district in the early hours of Monday made away with Rs. 11 lakh in cash and gold jewellery worth Rs. 44 lakh. As per information provided by the police, two persons who wore masks to cover their faces cut connectivity to the Closed Circuit Television cameras before opening the lockers and cash drawers to make good with the booty. Senior police officials visited the spot soon after the incident came to light. A case was registered at the Sulepet Police Station.
22 December 2020||New Delhi,||New COVID cases hit four-month low in Delhi||The city recorded 803 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours — the lowest in four months — taking the total number of cases to 6,17,808, said a health bulletin relea-sed by the government. The last time the number of new cases was less than 803 was on August 17 — 787. Also, 27 more deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 10,304.
22 December 2020||Srinagar,||Two PDP leaders held ahead of DDC results||Two senior Peoples Democratic Party leaders have been arrested just a day ahead of the counting of votes of the District Development Council elections. They were identified as Sartaj Madni, uncle of PDP president Mehbooba Mufti and former Deputy Speaker of the Asse-mbly, and former legislator Peer Mansoor Hussain.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Find common ground, schools and parents told||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar has appealed to managements of private schools as well as parents to arrive at a common ground over the contentious issue of payment of fees.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Examine opening schools in phases: High Court||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday directed the State government to apply its mind on reopening schools on a regular basis in a phased manner in taluks where the number of COVID-19 cases are less, instead of keeping all schools closed throughout the State applying a uniform policy.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Kannada University in the doldrums||COVID-19 seems to have brought Kannada University, Hampi, almost to a standstill. While the teaching staff have not been paid for three months, the guest faculty has not been paid for 10 months now. Lack of funding from the government seems to be at the root of the present impasse.
22 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Banks achieve 72% Kharif loan target||Banks in Telangana lent Rs. 22,936 crore in the first six months (April-September) this fiscal for Vanakalam (Kharif) crop season, achieving 71.82% of the target. Overall, 43% of the short term production (crop) loan target, including for the ongoing Rabi season, had been achieved. These numbers were shared following the State Level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC) meeting on Monday that reviewed the performance of the banks for the June and September quarters. According to a release, SLBC president and SBI Chief General Manager Om Prakash Mishra, making a presentation, said banks disbursed Rs. 10,791 crore as agri term loans towards investment credit, agri allied, agri infra and agri ancillary activities up to September this fiscal. Total deposits of the banks, in the first half of current fiscal, stood at Rs. 5,34,031 crore, which was Rs. 49,591 crore more or 10.24% higher compared to March, 2020. Advances of the banks grew by Rs. 21,823 crore or 3.83% compared to March, 2020, to Rs. 5,92,241 crore in the first six months of 2020-21. As on September 30, the CD ratio stood at 110.90% as against 117.75% as on March 31 due to disproportionate growth of advances to deposits, the release said. During the same period, banks disbursed loans of Rs. 63,351 crore under Priority Sector thereby achieving 52% of the annual target. The release said under the COVID-19 assistance Rs. 231 crore was disbursed to eligible farmers as 10% emergency credit line and 68,190 SHG members extended a loan of Rs. 370 crore. Under the PM SVANidhi scheme, the banks sanctioned loans to 3,21,340 street vendors and disbursed Rs. 10,000 each to a little over 2.07 lakh beneficiaries. Senior officials of Telangana government led by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Finance Secretary K.Ramakrishna Rao, senior bankers, including SBI deputy MD Sanjeev Nautiyal, and Economic Advisor to the Department of Financial Services Lalit Kumar Chandel participated in the meeting.
22 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Eight apprehended in online loan case||Hyderabad Cyber Crime police has apprehended at least eight people in the app-based instant loans case. The people who were picked up from New Delhi and Hyderabad appeared to be the key persons in the loan racket, a senior police officer associated with the investigation of the case said. With close to a dozen heads of these companies under police radar, the sleuths are hopeful of getting more insight into the manner in which they operate. Simultaneously, the City police questioned the telecallers about their role in the app-based instant finance companies. The alleged harassment and public humiliation by the app-based money lenders have resulted in the death of at least three people in Telangana recently. “Our teams visited a call centre in Gurugram, which employs more than 400 people, and questioned the top heads before they were apprehended. The suspects are being brought to the city,” the officer said. In Hyderabad alone, the teams conducted raids on two call centres belonging to the app-based micro finance companies located in Begumpet and one in Punjagutta, which has at least 700 executives. Confirming that a few executive level leaders of these companies working in Hyderabad were also taken into custody for questioning, the senior officer declined to share more details. Police of the three commissionerates -- Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda, wrote to Alphabet Inc., which owns Google and online payment gateway link-ups to provide technical details, including IP addresses, bank account details, and domain of the apps in question. Meanwhile, Cyberabad Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) Rohini Priyadarshini said they were still waiting for a response from Google and other companies. Denying the reports that four people involved in the online loan racket were taken into custody by Cyberabad police, she said that their teams have conducted searches at a few companies and summons notices were served. “We have not apprehended anyone nor being questioned at present,” she confirmed.
22 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers to take decision on talks today||Appearing set to reject the fresh offer of talks by the Union government, farmer unions spearheading the agitation are of the opinion that the three laws are pro-corporate and promote stocking and black-marketing of the food. The final decision, however, will be taken at a meeting of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha, a joint front of farmer unions, on Tuesday. In a virtual meeting during the day, leaders of the farmer unions said the government had selected eight issues that it was now trying to claim were the main issues, claimed sources privy to the meeting. The leaders said the problem lay with the objectives of the laws. They also took exception to the language used by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, wherein he said “no one could stop him” from going ahead with the reforms. The leaders, at the meeting, argued that corporate houses across the world were trying to grab agricultural land and water resources, pitting them (corporations) against farmers. They were of the view that the government had twisted facts on the talks and claimed modesty, but the representations sent by them for the withdrawal of the laws had been turned down. Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal said the letter sent by the Agriculture Ministry Joint Secretary Vivek Aggarwal late on Sunday evening would be discussed on Tuesday and a decision taken. “It is not an invitation for talks. They have replied to our earlier letter. They have just said that the doors for the talks are open. We will discuss in the meeting tomorrow (on Tuesday) and decide,” said Mr. Pal, a Samyukt Kisan Morcha leader. Earlier, farmer leaders at several protest sites began a relay hunger strike in accordance with announcements made by Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Sunday. The leaders will hold a hunger strike in batches for 24 hours. The Morcha has also given a call to picket toll plazas in Haryana and make them free for the motorists on December 25, 26 and 27. The All-India Kisan Sangarsh Co-ordination Committee would hold protest in Mumbai on Tuesday at the offices of the Ambani and Adani groups at the Bandra Kurla Complex.
22 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. alert to U.K. virus strain: Minister||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday said the government was on alert to the new strain of the SARS-CoV-2 virus in the U.K. but added there was no need to panic. “The Central government is alert and scientists are closely keeping an eye on each development about the discovery of the new strain of coronavirus,” Dr. Vardhan said, speaking to the news agency ANI. Screening at airports The Health Ministry’s Joint Monitoring Group has directed that all passengers from U.K. be subjected to mandatory RT-PCR tests on arrival at the airports concerned and that State/Union Territory governments set up help desks at the airports to facilitate this. Following a meeting to discuss the emergence of the new COVID-19 strain, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan in a letter to secretary, Ministry of Civil Aviation Pradeep Singh Kharola, said a distinct phylogenetic cluster of SARs-CoV-2 had been detected which was spreading and growing rapidly in the U.K. “It has also been reported that this variant has an unusually large number of genetic changes, particularly in the spike protein. This development calls for enhanced containment and other measures to effectively tackle the challenge,” the official said. ‘Safety paramount’ On vaccination, Dr Vardhan said, “In any week of January, we can be in a position to give first COVID vaccine shot to the people of India.” “Our first priority has been safety and effectiveness of vaccines. We don’t want to compromise on that.” “The government has done everything that was important to handle the COVID-19 situation in the last one year,’’ Dr. Vardhan said. Dr. Vardhan also said currently India had around three lakh active COVID cases and its recovery rate wa 95- 96%, which was significantly higher than many developed countries. “But we need to strictly follow COVID-appropriate behaviour and cannot afford to relax on that front,” he added. The Minister added that India’s fatality rate was also significantly low at 1.45% now. “The major tool against COVID-19 will ultimately be masks, hand hygiene and physical distancing that we all need to follow. The troubles that we had to face as a country due to COVID-19 are on the decline,” he added. 333 deaths in 24 hours India reported 333 fatalities in the past 24 hours with 10 States/UTs accounting for 81.38% of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (98), West Bengal and Kerala followed with 40 and 30 deaths, respectively. “Kerala reported the highest daily new cases at 5,711, followed by Maharashtra with 3,811 new cases, while West Bengal recorded 1,978 new cases,” data released by the Ministry said.
22 December 2020||New Delhi,||Veteran Congress leader Motilal Vora passes away||Congress veteran Motilal Vora passed away at Delhi’s Fortis Escorts Hospital on Monday, a day after completing his 93rd birthday. He was admitted to the hospital on Saturday for an urinary infection but developed severe lung infection and was put on ventilator, his family said. Earlier, the veteran leader was admitted at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) after contracting COVID-19 but got discharged on October 16 after successfully fighting the disease. Tributes poured in from political leaders and dignitaries for the politician who was well known for his affable nature. President’s message Conveying his condolence, President Ramn Nath Kovind tweeted to say that Mr. Vora “was humility personified, and belo- nged to a generation of leaders who carry their politics with unflinching conviction till end”. Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu described him an “astute administrator. In a message, Prime Minister Narendra Modi remembered him as a leader “with vast administrative and organisational experience in a political career that spanned decades”. Congress president Sonia Gandhi, in a statement, said Mr. Vora’s death had left a huge void in public life and “his life is a shining example of public service unparalleled commitment to the Congress ideology”. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “Vora ji was a true congressman and a wonderful human being. We will miss him very much.” Starting out as a journalist, Mr. Vora occupied several key positions, including Chief Minister of undivided Madhya Pradesh twice (1985-88 and 1989), Health Minister in Rajiv Gandhi’s Cabinet and Governor of Uttar Pradesh in the mid-1990s. Eventful tenure His role as Governor was eventful as it was Mr. Vora who recommended Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav as Chief Minister on June 3, 1995. This followed the ‘Guest House’ episode when Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati had to lock herself up after SP workers threatened to cause physical harm to her. Known to be a loyalist of the Gandhi family, Mr. Vora served as the Congress’s treasurer for 16 years and represented Chhattisgarh in the Rajya Sabha for four terms, until this April. Among the rare breed of senior leaders of the All India Congress Committee (AICC) who would be found in the party headquarters with unfailing regularity, Mr. Vora was well known for following a simple dictum: never leave behind any paper work when you leave your office for the day.
22 December 2020||Kolkata,||Amit Shah’s allegations garbage of lies: Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Monday said the allegations raised by Union Home Minister Amit Shah against the Trinamool Congress government on several development parameters were “garbage of lies.” “Amitji, you are the Home Minister, and it does not suit you to shell out lies provided by your party workers without cross-checking,” Ms. Banerjee said. Asked about Mr. Shah’s response to the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) where he said the Centre would consider it only after the COVID-19 vaccination was over, the West Bengal Chief Minister described the BJP as a “party of cheats.” “The CAA and NRC are not withdrawn. They are very much there,” Ms. Banerjee said, adding that she would not allow anyone being denied citizenship. A day after Mr. Shah said West Bengal was lagging in several development indicators, Ms. Banerjee responded, “I will only speak on two things today. He said we are a zero in industry, we are number one in MSME. He also said, we have not made village roads, we are number one on that count too and this information has been shared by the Centre.” Outreach programme Meanwhile, speaking to journalists at the State secretariat, Ms. Banerjee said her government’s outreach programme ( Duare Sarkar ), started from December 1, had reached 1.12 crore people. “This is a new model not only in India but in the entire world. We have set up 20,000 camps in the past few days.” The Chief Minister announced a cash award of Rs. 5,000 (paid in two months) to State government employees who actively participated in the drive. Ms. Banerjee said she would hold a rally at Birbhum on December 29. Mr. Shah held a road show at Bolpur in Birbhum on Sunday. Central schemes Responding to allegations that the State government was not implementing Central schemes such as the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi, Ms. Banerjee said her government was willing to implement the scheme and funds should be transferred to the State. “The State government is already implementing a scheme of direct fund transfer to farmers including share croppers, with death benefit scheme, as had been enumerated in my letter under reference. More than 73 lakh farmers are to be benefited under the scheme,” Ms. Banerjee wrote in a letter to Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar. The Chief Minister urged the Centre to kindly “arrange for transfer of funds” and added that after disbursement, a list of beneficiaries would be made available.
22 December 2020||Kolkata,||BJP leader’s wife joins Trinamool||BJP leader Sujata Mondal Khan, who is the wife of West Bengal Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha president and Bishnupur Lok Sabha MP Soumitra Khan, on Monday joined the Trinamool Congress. Ms. Khan said she did not get the respect she deserved in the BJP. Hours after his wife announced her decision, Mr. Khan said at a press conference that he would send her a legal notice for divorce within 24 hours. Expressing surprise over the development, he said his wife was well aware of the misdeeds of the Trinamool Congress. He accused the ruling party of “ending his relationship” and “stealing his wife”. He asserted that he would continue his fight against the Trinamool Congress and vowed to remove the party from power in 2021. At the Trinamool Congress headquarters in Kolkata, Ms. Khan told journalists, “I was a BJP worker when the party had two MPs. Now, there are 18. There are many opportunists, who are joining the BJP... It has become a B-team of the Trinamool Congress. Why should I not join the Trinamool now?” She expressed the hope that good sense would prevail over her husband and he would return to the Trinamool Congress. Mr. Khan was a Trinamool MP before joining the BJP. Ms. Khan came into prominence for campaigning almost single-handedly for her husband in the 2019 Lok Sabha election. Senior Trinamool leader Saugata Roy welcomed Ms. Khan into the party and acknowledged her contribution in helping her husband win from Bishnupur. In 2019, Mr. Khan was not allowed to campaign in Bishnupur area because of legal issues. It was Ms. Khan who campaigned for her husband and the BJP won the seat. “We are happy that Sujata is joining the Trinamool Congress,” Mr. Roy said. The development comes two days after Trinamool heavyweight Suvendu Adhikari joined the BJP with nine MLAs (six from the Trinamool and three from other parties) and one MP.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,||NIA arrests 17 SDPI/PFI leaders, members||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Monday arrested 17 SDPI/PFI leaders and members for allegedly mobilising the mob and instigating violence at D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli on the night of August 11. Key among the arrested accused are Sharieff, president, Bengaluru district, Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), and Imran Ahmed, president, K.G. Halli ward, along with senior leaders like Rubah Waqas, Shabbar Khan, and Shaik Ajmal, who allegedly conducted meetings at Thanisandra and K.G. Halli wards in Bengaluru on the evening of August 11. They conspired, mobilised, and led the crowd, said the agency in a press release. Thousands of people had gathered at the spot and large-scale violence had broken out in these areas over a derogatory social media post against Islam by Naveen Kumar, nephew of Pulikeshinagar MLA R. Akhanda Srinivas Murthy, both of whose houses came under attack that night, apart from D.J. Halli police station. According to the NIA, Abbas, SDPI president of Nagawara ward, had also mobilised a large crowd at the K.G. Halli police station through his associates Azil Pasha, Irfan Khan, and Akbar Khan. All four have been arrested. Officials said that they used social media channels platforms and instant messaging services like WhatsApp to “spread terror among people and mobilised people from far away places to gather at K.G. Halli police station.” Other arrested include Saddam, Sayed Sohel, Kaleemulla, who were allegedly active on social media and participated in the riots. The NIA, which had taken over the probe into two cases related to the violence, has so far arrested 187 people. The investigation is ongoing, said officials.
22 December 2020||Srinagar,||Kashmiris turn to selfies to embrace chillai kalan||People in the Kashmir Valley are finding unique ways to celebrate the start of‘chillai kalan’, a local term for the 40-day period of harshest period that begins annually from December 21. Dozens of local tourists were seen thronging Baramulla’s Drang tourist spot, around 40 km away from Srinagar, to witness the formation of very long icicles from water dripping from a hillock. Scores were seen taking selfies on Monday against the backdrop of the icicles, which are taller than humans. “It is an amazing experience. I have been visiting Drang for the past seven years to enjoy the icicle formation. This year, many icicle formations were as big as 15 metres (45 feet) long. I guided scores of domestic tourists at the spot. They were equally excited,” Muneer Alam, an engineer-turned-mathematician, said. He said the sight of hundreds of icicles makes for a unique experience. “The best time to watch them is early in the morning or late in the evening, and they require [a temperature of] around minus seven degree Celsius for formation,” Mr. Alam said. In the Persian tradition, the night of December 21, the longest of the year, is celebrated as Shab-e-Yalda (night of birth) or Shab-e-Chelleh. Dozens of netizens from Kashmir named it the ‘Pheran Day’, after the long woollen gown worn during the winters in Kashmir. “The first day of ‘chillaii kalan’ is to be celebrated as ‘World Pheran Day’,” radio jockey Sardar Nasir Ali Khan said. He started an online trend to post “ pheran selfies”, which hundreds followed and did. The 40-daychillai kalanis followed by the‘chillai khurd’and‘chillai bacha’, which sees a rise in day temperatures.
22 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||In solidarity, Hyderabad man joins farmers||A 30-year-old engineer from Hyderabad flew to Delhi on Saturday to join the protesting farmers. Having quit his job, he is now on a hunger strike with the protesters and says he is here to say. Manoj M., a resident of Himayat Nagar in Hyderabad, sits without a banner or any placard, almost unnoticed. His brother, a doctor, via video call, tells him not to fast for more than three days because of the impact on his health. “My plan is to continue the strike for 15 days. However, I drink water,” said Mr. Manoj. Though he or his family members are not into agriculture, Mr. Manoj said he was in Delhi to support them because if farmers stop their work, the eventual result would be a huge loss to the economy. “At the moment, the laws will only impact farmers but in a few years, they will impact everyone. If and when farmers in Punjab and Haryana decide to stop farming, the cost of crops will increase and subsequently, transportation costs will increase and by the time it reaches people like us, the rates would have skyrocketed,” he said, adding this should not be only a farmer’s movement but a pan-India one. “When the Modi government took over, $1 was worth Rs. 48 and now it’s worth Rs. 74. The eventual result of farmers’ disappointment will be an economic crisis.” Mr. Manoj, who completed his Bachelors in Technology in 2011 and completed his Masters in Business Administration from Australia in 2015, said he quit his job at the end of November because he wanted to work for the people. “I am glad I quit because now I am able to join the protest. The company clause to not be associated with any movement would have restricted this.” People back home were not very concerned about the protests. “I was following the news and in Hyderabad, there isn’t enough media coverage of the protests but my father exports vegetables after buying from the mandis, so he is indirectly related to farming,” he said. Mr. Manoj has been staying at Guru Teg Bahadur Memorial, having come to the protest site straight from the airport. He understands Hindi and can even speak it haltingly — “ thoda-thoda (a little),” he said. “On Sunday, I spent time walking around 25 km of the protest site. People here are accepting me and supporting me,” he said.
22 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Super Hornet fighter jets being tested for Navy use||Boeing on Monday announced the successful demonstration of the compatibility of its F/A-18 Super Hornet fighter jets with the Indian Navy’s aircraft carriers as part of its pitch for the Navy’s fighter procurement. The demonstrations, held in coordination with U.S. Navy on a shore-based facility at the Naval Air Station Patuxent river in Maryland, U.S., show that the F-18 Super Hornet would do well with the Indian Navy’s Short Takeoff but Arrested Recovery (STOBAR) system and validate earlier simulation studies done over the last two years, a senior company official said. “The first successful and safe launch of the F/A-18 Super Hornet from a ski-jump begins the validation process to operate effectively from Indian Navy aircraft carriers,” said Ankur Kanaglekar, Head, India Fighters Sales, Boeing Defense, Space and Security. The F/A-18 Block III Super Hornet would not only provide superior war-fighting capability to the Indian Navy but also create opportunities for cooperation in naval aviation between the U.S. and India, Mr. Kanaglekar said, pitching it as a “lynchpin” for cooperation between Indian and U.S. Navies. ‘Force multiplier’ He also highlighted the ability of F/A-18 to interface with the Navy’s P-8I as a “force multiplier” and also with other platforms under induction. The Navy has contracted 24 Lockheed MH-60R multi-role helicopters with deliveries to begin next year. As a part of Boeing’s proposed “By India, for India” sustainment program, the Block III Super Hornets could be serviced in partnership with the Indian Navy as well as India and U.S. based partners throughout the life cycle of the aircraft, Mr. Kanaglekar said. The Indian Navy currently evaluates responses from aircraft manufacturers received in response to a Request For Information floated in 2017 for 57 twin-engine deck-based fighters. However, with the Defence Research and Development Organisation recently offering to develop a twin-engine deck-based jet, the Navy is in the process of cutting down the number of fighters from 57 to around 36. As reported by The Hindu , Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh said the Navy was trying to do the tender along with the Indian Air Force which, officials had stated, if accepted, the 57 tender would be combined with the IAF’s 114 jet tender. Both the Navy’s sole carrier in service, INS Vikramaditya, and the under-construction indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC)-I, Vikrant, have a ski-jump with the STOBAR mechanism.
22 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Postal ballots are to help those abroad’||The Election Commission (EC), in response to concerns raised by the Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury over the provision of postal ballots to NRIs (Non-Resident Indians), said last week that its proposal to the Law Ministry was an extension of its efforts to facilitate voting by overseas electors. In reply to Mr. Yechury’s December 4 letter, EC Secretary N.T. Bhutia wrote back on December 19 saying that special provisions for the registration of overseas electors were extended in 2011 under the Representation of the People Act, 1951, but under the current rules, NRIs can only cast their votes at their respective polling stations in India in person. Law Ministry options The official said the EC had recommended to the Law Ministry options for overseas electors, including postal ballots and voting by proxy, after consultations with stakeholders, including political parties, and on the recommendation of a committee in 2015. In October 2016, the Conduct of Elections rules, 1961 were amended for one-way electronic transmission of ballots under the Electronically Transmitted Postal Ballot System (ETPBS) from the Returning Officer to the elector for service voters. “The ETPBS system for service voters (armed forces and person employed under the GoI [Government of India], in a post outside India) is now completely streamlined and functioning satisfactorily. After successful implementation of ETPBS for service electors, the facilitation process for Overseas Electors was deliberated in the Commission,” the EC letter stated. The official added that in line with the recommendations made in 2015, the EC recommended to the Ministry on November 27 the extension of the ETPBS to overseas electors. He noted that Mr. Yechury’s letter said: “The CPI(M) is in favour of extending the voting right to overseas electors/NRls for participating in the election process in the country.” “The proposal to extend ETPBS voting option in favour of overseas electors sent to the M/o Law & Justice on 27.11.2020 is an extension of the continuing efforts to facilitate voting to the overseas electors, who are unable to exercise franchise in spite of amendment in Act, in 2011,” the letter said.
22 December 2020||S. Anil Radhakrishnan,||Kerala gets Rs. 1,269.96 crore more as GST compensation||Kerala has received Rs. 1,269.96 crore as part of the eighth instalment released to the States by the Union Finance Ministry on Monday as back-to-back loan to meet the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation shortfall. Of the Rs. 6,000 crore released, Rs. 5,516.60 crore is for 23 States, including Kerala, and Rs. 483.40 crore to three Union Territories (UT) of Delhi, Jammu & Kashmir and Puducherry. Taken as loan The remaining five States do not have a gap in revenue on account of the GST implementation. The money has been taken as loan through the Special Window of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) at an interest rate of 4.19%. The Union government had set up a special borrowing window in October 2020 to meet the estimated shortfall of Rs. 1.10 lakh crore in revenue arising on account of implementation of the GST. For Kerala, this is the fourth instalment of the dues after joining other States and UTs to accept Option I put forward by the Union government for meeting the shortfall. On December 7, the State received Rs. 642.12 crore. Another Rs. 956.04 crore reached the treasury from the seventh weekly instalment of Rs. 6,000 crore on December 14. A sum of Rs. 328.2 crore was received before that. Released till date The Centre has already granted additional borrowing permission of Rs. 4,522 crore to Kerala (0.5% of Kerala’s GSDP), according to the Finance Ministry. A sum of Rs. 48,000 crore had been released so far to States and UTs. This is in addition to the additional borrowing permission of Rs. 1,06,830 crore granted to the States.  The Centre has already granted Kerala permission to borrow additionally Rs. 4,522 crore, which is 0.5% of its GSDP
22 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,||Alappuzha court orders FIR against Vellappally, Thushar||The Judicial First Class Magistrate Court I, Alappuzha, on Monday directed the police to register a First Information Report (FIR) against Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan, his son and SNDP Yogam vice president Thushar Vellappally and their close aide K.L. Ashokan in connection with the death of SNDP Yogam Kanichukulangara Union secretary K.K. Mahesan. Mahesan was found dead inside the union office at Kanichukulangara on June 24. According to the police, it was a case of suicide. Widow’s plea After considering a complaint filed by Mahesan’s widow Usha Devi P., Judge Rejani Thankappan ordered the Mararikulam police to file the FIR and conduct a probe against the trio. “The court has directed the police to register a case under Sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code,” said C.D. Anil, counsel for Ms. Devi. Following Mahesan’s death, the local police had registered a case for unnatural death. Later, the probe was handed over to a special investigation team led by senior police officer Harshita Attaluri. However, the family moved the court alleging laxity in the police probe and demanding an impartial probe into the role of Yogam leaders and others that forced him to take the extreme step. Microfinance fraud Mahesan, a former close aide to Mr. Natesan, was the State coordinator of the SNDP Yogam’s controversial microfinance scheme. He was questioned several times by investigators in connection with cases related to misappropriation of microfinance funds. A note allegedly written by Mahesan and found pasted on the wall of the office room where he was found dead mentioned the names of Mr. Natesan and Mr. Ashokan. Prior to his death, Mahesan had also posted letters written by him on social media — one addressed to the Circle Inspector, Crime Branch, Alappuzha, and another to Mr. Natesan, levelling various allegations. He had also written a letter to the then Crime Branch Additional Director General of Police Tomin Thachankary stating that deliberate attempts were being made to implicate him in the case related to the microfinance fraud in the SNDP Yogam Mavelikara Union. Ms. Usha Devi said that the family would fight till justice was served.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Withdrawal of cases: HC restrains Karnataka||The Karnataka High Court on Monday restrained the State government from taking any further action based on a August 31, 2020 government order (GO) granting permission for withdrawing 61 criminal cases, including those against MPs and MLAs from the BJP. A Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty, passed the interim order on a PIL petition filed by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties-Karnataka challenging the legality of the GO. Against MPs, MLAs The cases withdrawn include those registered against MPs Pratap Simha and Sumalatha, Law Minister J. Madhuswamy, then Minister C.T. Ravi, Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil, Forest Minister Anand Singh, and MLAs M.P. Renukarcharya and Halappa Achar. The Bench, on December 1, had declined to stay the GO, but had pointed to a judgment of the apex court that said public prosecutors could agree or disagree with the government’s brief for withdrawal of criminal cases, and would have to return the brief if the prosecutors disagree with the request for withdrawal. Referring to Section 321 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (Cr. PC), the Bench said criminal cases could be withdrawn only with the consent of the jurisdictional courts. “No court is bound by such a decision taken to withdraw from the prosecution. Even if an application is made under Section 321 of the Cr. PC, the courts are duty-bound to assess whether a prima facie case is made out or not and the court has power to reject the prayer.” ‘Convey observations’ The Bench, in its December 1 order, had also directed the government to convey these observations to the public prosecutors, who in turn were asked to inform the courts concerned of the position of the law. When the petition came up for hearing on Monday, the government sought time to comply with the December 1 directions. Though the Bench granted the request, it directed that no further steps would be taken based on the August 31 order till then. The petitioner had alleged that the GO, which was based on a Cabinet decision acting on the recommendation of a Cabinet sub-committee headed by the Home Minister, was vitiated as it was for extraneous political considerations as many beneficiaries are from the ruling BJP. Pointing out that the Cabinet decision was contrary to the recommendations of the State Police Chief and the Director of Prosecution, who had recommended against the withdrawal of the cases, the petitioner said the decision amounted to interference with the orders passed by the Supreme Court, which was monitoring the progress of criminal cases against former and present MPs, MLAs, and MLCs across the country.
22 December 2020||Srinagar,||Mehbooba’s 3 associates held on the eve of DDC poll results||Three senior Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leaders, who form the core group of party chief Mehbooba Mufti, were detained in Kashmir, a day before the results of the maiden District Development Council (DDC) polls were to be announced. An official said two south Kashmir-based leaders were detained in the morning and shifted to a police station in Anantnag's Bijbehara town, also the hometown of PDP president Mehbooba Mufti. “One leader was arrested when he was heading for Srinagar from Anantnag,” a police official said. The arrested leaders have been identified as Sartaj Madani, Ms. Mufti’s uncle and ex-deputy speaker of the Assembly, and Peer Mansoor Hussain, a former legislator. In a separate raid, police arrested former Minister Naeem Akhtar around 9.45 p.m. “The police came knocking on our door. My father was detained at an unearthly hour. No order or government instruction was shown to us. We don’t know the ground of detention or the duration. I cannot relive the horror of last year but will stand by him always,” Mr. Akhtar's daughter Shehryar Khanum said. The police have neither confirmed nor denied these detentions nor have they given any details of the case under which the arrests were made. However, sources said the central investigating agencies have been probing funding and transactions during Ms. Mufti’s tenure as Chief Minister. The duo being questioned in a police station in the hometown of Ms. Mufti indicated that the case might involve her too. The PDP chief has termed the arrests “total lawlessness". “Mr. Madni and Mr. Hussain have been arbitrarily detained today on the eve of DDC election results. Every senior police officer here is clueless as it is ‘ upar se order (orders from above) ’ . No rule of law in J&K anymore. It is out and out Gunda Raj,” Ms. Mufti tweeted. She alleged that the J&K administration was on an arresting spree and “Mr. Akhtar has been abducted by the J&K police”. “It looks like the BJP is planning to manipulate the DDC results tomorrow and don’t want any resistance,” she added.
22 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab grain markets shut indefinitely over I-T raids||Commission agents ( arthiya ) in Punjab on Tuesday shut their shops at grain mandi s (markets) indefinitely across the State as a mark of protest against what they termed “motivated” raids conducted by the Income Tax department in the past few days. “We will continue to keep them shut until the Central government assures us we will not be harassed. We are of the firm view that the I-T raids against the commission agents were politically motivated. We want the government to assure us that there won’t be any more revengeful raids,” Ravinder Singh Cheema, president, Punjab Arthiya Association, told The Hindu . Mr. Cheema said farmer outfits and commission agents had jointly decided to continue their struggle against the new farm laws. “We will now fight with double the force. Also, we have decided that if anymore raids are conducted, farmers and commission agents will jointly stage peaceful protests at the place where the raid is conducted,” he said. “The government needs to understand that commission agents have their own set of concerns surrounding the new farm laws. We are protesting to save our business and interests. Farmers and commission agents are supporting each other but both have their own concerns,” he said. He added the Punjab Arthiya Federation was also participating in the ongoing strike. “We will soon be holding a joint meeting with farmer outfits and decide on future course of action. How to mobilise the protests beyond the indefinite strike will be the key issue of discussion,” said Mr. Cheema. Last week, I-T raids were conducted on the premises of several big commission agents of Punjab within a span of just four days of issuing notices, without waiting for responses to the notices, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had stated. Meanwhile, farmers under the banner of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ugrahan) held processions in several villages in memory of those who had died during the ongoing agitation. The general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union-Ekta (Dakaunda), Jagmohan Singh, said the reported suicides in the last few days were a matter of concern.
22 December 2020||SIDDIPET,||Telangana villagers see God in Sonu Sood, build temple||In a rare gesture, residents of Chelimi tanda under Dubba in Telangana constructed a temple for Bollywood actor Sonu Sood. The temple, 10 km from the newly-formed Dhulmitta mandal headquarters, was inaugurated on Sunday. Interestingly, the small hamlet with around 60 houses has not directly benefited from Mr. Sood’s largesse, but the youth in the village were so impressed with his work that they decided to go ahead with a temple. “Initially, Sonu Sood provided food, booked trains and even planes for those who were stranded at various places due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Later, he bought a tractor and donated it to an Andhra Pradesh farmer, who had been using the help of his two daughters to till his land. Recently, we came across the news that Sonu Sood had hypothecated his assets to help the poor. We saw God in him. Who else will indulge in such charity during a pandemic?” asked Bhukya Rajesh Rathod, a graduate from the tanda who took the initiative to construct the temple as a tribute to the actor. The entire tanda extended their support to Mr. Rathod’s initiative and contributed. The construction of the temple cost about Rs. 1.7 lakh, of which Rs. 50,000 was spent on a fibre statue of the actor. Madhusudhan, a native of Bengaluru and a resident of Hyderabad, made the statue. ‘Great response’ He was a direct beneficiary of Mr. Sood’s gesture as the actor had arranged a bus to help him reach his native place. When Mr. Rathod approached Mr. Madhusudhan to make Mr. Sood’s statue, he readily agreed and made the bust-sized statue at a charge less than the actual cost. “This is a great response from a beneficiary of the actor’s noble gesture,” Mr. Rathod told The Hindu .
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||BJP youth leader’s wife joins Trinamool Cong.||At the Trinamool Congress headquarters in Kolkata, Ms. Khan told journalists, “I was a BJP worker when the party had two MPs. Now, there are 18. There are many opportunists, who are joining the BJP... It has become a B-team of the Trinamool Congress. Why should I not join the Trinamool now?” She expressed the hope that good sense would prevail over her husband and he would return to the Trinamool Congress. Mr. Khan was a Trinamool Congress MP before joining the BJP. Ms. Khan came into prominence for campaigning almost single-handedly for her husband in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. Senior Trinamool Congress Saugata Roy welcomed Ms. Khan into the party and acknowledged her contribution in helping her husband win from Bishnupur.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Suspension of IBC extended till March ’21||“So, the entire year has had the IBC suspended, rightfully so because every industry has gone through major stress because of the pandemic and nobody could be drawn towards the insolvency process for problems that may have occurred during the pandemic,” she explained. Experts, however, said more action may be needed to help stressed corporate balance sheets.   “Many stressed corporates will find it difficult to fit into the One Time Restructuring option provided by the Reserve Bank of India. The IBC could have allowed such corporates to restructure liabilities and revive,” said Rajiv Chandak, partner at Deloitte India. Ms. Sitharaman said the government has ensured that small, medium and big companies got adequate liquidity to carry on business operations through the emergency credit line guarantee scheme, even as they avoided bankruptcy cases due to the IBC suspension.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Markets plunge on news of mutant virus||The NSE Nifty-50 index also fell 3.14% to 13,328.40 points. The top Nifty losers included ONGC down 9.44%, Tata Motors down 9.44% and GAIL down 8.44%. . “Travel restrictions imposed by several countries to and from the U.K. have added concerns of yet another lockdown,” said Vinod Nair, head, Research, Geojit Financial Services. “The European market witnessed further selling pressure. The vulnerability of the market was high, due to quick gains made in the ongoing rally leading to low margin of safety,” Mr. Nair added. “Despite this, we do not expect a big correction [but] rather a consolidation, in the short term, of not more than 7% to 10% in the main indices,” he said. Ajit Mishra, VP, Research, Religare Broking, said the next round of strict travel restrictions would dent economic recovery. S. Ranganathan, head, Research, LKP Securities, said, “While the street was bracing for a correction this week after a sharp up move, the sheer velocity of the fall took the bulls by surprise as practically none of the key index constituents was in the green.”  (With Reuters inputs)
22 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||Man attacks young woman in Hubballi||A young man reportedly jilted by a young woman he was in love with attacked her in broad daylight with a lethal weapon in Hubballi on Monday. The condition of the young woman who has suffered severe injuries is said to be serious. The accused identified as Ismail Kunkur, an auto driver, attacked the young woman with a machete at Deshpande Nagar in Hubballi, when she was proceeding to a jewellery shop where she works. As the woman screamed, onlookers stood watching, while a few recorded it on their mobile phones. However, a motorcyclist approached the accused and took him aside, saving the woman from further attack. Soon, the police arrived on the spot and took the accused into custody. The injured woman was then rushed to hospital. The woman, identified as Ayesha, is a native of Morab village in Navalgund taluk. She had shifted to Hubballi with her mother almost a decade ago. According to police sources, Ismail Kunkur had befriended her and used to meet on a regular basis. However, of late, the young woman had reportedly started avoiding Ismail Kunkur, which had angered him. On Monday, he had come with the motive to kill her for forsaking him for another. Police Commissioner Labhu Ram and others visited the spot. The Hubballi Suburban Police have registered a case.
22 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Instant loan apps funded by Chinese firms: police||As Hyderabad police continue their crackdown on app-based instant financing companies for allegedly harassing borrowers and even causing forced deaths, new evidence of involvement of Chinese firms has emerged. Police say that they found several of these companies, most of them being operated from National Capital Region (Delhi), funded by China-based firms who hired locals as directors to run these companies and their illegal operations. This development comes even as the Government of India and other countries decided to ban a raft of Chinese apps for security concerns. Seventy apps A few top police officers The Hindu spoke to said that they have identified at least 70 such apps on Google Play Store, whose operations are unlawful as per the guidelines of the Reserve Bank of India. They said that all these apps were developed by a software development kit (SDK), which is suspected to be provided by a Chinese firm based in Beijing. “Their operations are similar to the online gaming apps developed and run by some Chinese firms in India. A huge amount of money laundering is involved in these app-based loan providers,” a senior officer said on condition of anonymity.  He said that some Chinese firms through hawala and other illegal channels are pumping in money to the app companies, who in turn extend loans to prospective clients in the form of personal loans with higher interest rates. “The China-funded loan companies which are operating from the NCR are hiring local call centre companies to recover the loan amount by harassing and humiliating the borrowers,” he said. Another officer said that the call centre executives create WhatsApp groups in the name of borrowers calling them as ‘cheater, 420, chor, fraud’ and send fake legal notices and First Information Report to threaten and recover the loan amount. Fake notices “They send fake legal notices and FIRs stating that the company has already approached the police as he turned out to be a defaulter,” he said. After questioning a few telecallers during the raids, the police found that the former were trained in intimidating the defaulters. “They call the defaulters at least 50 to 100 times in a day to disturb his/her sanity with different numbers. They also call people on their contact lists, starting with women contacts,” he said.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,||CMI to set up Dr. F.C. Kohli Centre of Excellence||The Chennai Mathematical Institute (CMI) will establish the Dr. F.C. Kohli Centre of Excellence for Advanced Research in Mathematical and Computing Sciences “in honor of the visionary who created and shaped the IT industry in India and made it synonymous with excellence, globally”. The institute committed a donation of Rs. 10 crore to establish the centre, a CMI release said on Monday. To augment this corpus, it will raise additional funds from corporate foundations, community groups, colleagues and well-wishers. Besides establishing a Centre of Excellence and Endowed Chairs, it would provide grants for advanced research in areas such as data science, quantum computing and complexity theory.  ‘Pioneering efforts’ “Dr. F.C. Kohli’s pioneering efforts in working with different stakeholders — government, quasi-government bodies, technology majors in hardware and software, research labs and professional trade bodies — paved the way for India to emerge as a technology power house that the world today admires,” the release quoted N. Lakshmi Narayanan, managing trustee, CMI, as saying. The release further quoted Anil Kakodkar, former chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission and trustee of CMI, as saying the initiative would help boost the institute to reach greater heights.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||No flights to and from U.K. till December 31||All passengers already on their way to India until the ban came into effect would be subjected to a mandatory RT-PCR test on arrival, the government stated. “Vistara will comply with the government’s decision to suspend all flights originating from the U.K. to India. In order to minimise inconvenience to our customers, we will enable one-time free-of-charge rescheduling of affected bookings to any date until 31 December, 2021,” said an airline spokesperson. The announcement comes as a disappointment for the Tata- Singapore International Airline joint venture, which launched its operations to London recently to benefit from the massive “visiting family and relatives” category of passengers that dominates the India-U.K. sector. The launch happened at a time only airlines of the country of origin and destination were allowed to ferry passengers, eliminating via travel and competition from Gulf carriers. “The latest lockdown in the U.K. has been imposed very suddenly by its government, and its comments on the new strain of virus leave other countries with little choice but to restrict travel to and from the U.K. The decision will hurt U.K. airlines a lot, and will also obviously hurt others with U.K. operations too, including carriers operating between the U.K. and India in this peak travel season for NRIs and VFR traffic,” said Sanjeev Kapoor, ex-Chief Commercial and Strategy Officer for Vistara and an industry veteran. The announcement comes at a time when a task force on tourism, comprising airlines, airports and various government ministries, proposed further relaxation of visa norms and reopening of overseas travel
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Panel moots law to keep a check on hospitals||The committee observed that in the initial phase of the pandemic, medical insurance was not extended to patients with COVID-19 infection. With exorbitant charges levied by private hospitals, many patients had to suffer. “There is need to have regulatory oversight on all hospitals in the country to prevent refusal to accept insurance claims. The committee strongly recommends that the target should be to make COVID-19 treatment cashless for all people who have insurance coverage,” the report notes. While appreciating the work done by the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) in formulating standard operating procedures, creating awareness, and most importantly, acting as a nodal centre for funding manpower deployment to meet exigencies, the committee said the ongoing pandemic was unlike any natural disaster that the NDMA had handled. “The committee recommends that a separate wing may be formed in the NDMA that will specialise in handling /managing pandemics like COVID-19. This wing may take a leading role in building a partnership of government with the public sector, corporates, NGOs and other stakeholders,” the report observed. On the economic front, the parliamentary standing committee said while the government had taken many measures to ameliorate the impact of the pandemic, several schemes have not been implemented properly. “The committee observes that few of these schemes need effective implementation at the ground level. The problems being faced by farmers, non-corporate and non-farm small/micro enterprises in getting loans need to be addressed,” the report pointed out. Consumption had been severely curtailed due to huge job losses and fall in income due to the lockdown. It would take some time to mend, especially after the GDP having a contraction of 23.9% in the first quarter of 2020-21. The report said that more interventions and schemes were required to support the recovery and to sustain this economic revival especially for the MSME (Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises) sector. The committee expressed concern that with schools shut down now for more than nine months, many children were deprived of mid-day meal.
22 December 2020||Chandigarh,||Govt. has crossed limits of insensitivity: Selja||Haryana Congress chief and former Rajya Sabha MP Kumari Selja on Monday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party-led (BJP ) government at the Centre of crossing all limits of insensitivity as farmers’ protest against the new farm laws entered the 26th day. “More than 30 farmers have been martyred in this movement, but yet it did not have any effect on the BJP government. The government has crossed all limits of insensitivity,” she said in a statement. Ms. Selja alleged the BJP government wanted to snatch the rights of farmers and hand over the agricultural economy to big capitalists. “The Central government is pretending to interact with farmer organizations whereas in reality, the government is trying to mislead them,” she added.
22 December 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||NHRC seeks report on witchcraft in Odisha||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has directed the Odisha Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police to submit a report on the steps being taken to create awareness on witchcraft accusations and violence and compensation for the victims. The commission issued the direction on a petition by human rights lawyer Radhakant Tripathy, who had moved the NHRC drawing its attention to witchcraft-related violence and its impact on the lives of people in Odisha. Call to expedite probe Mr. Tripathy had demanded that the State agencies expedite probe and trial of offences under the Prevention of Witch Hunting Act, 2013 to ensure protection of basic human rights of the victims. “The State government should come up with more innovative programmes to spread awareness against blind beliefs and educate the people about the absurd concept of evil spirits and witchcraft,” the lawyer had submitted. Hearing the matter, the NHRC directed the Odisha Chief Secretary and the police chief to submit a report on steps taken to conduct the awareness programmes in all villages and the compensation provided to the victims in next 15 weeks. Mr. Tripathy pointed out that Odisha had recorded many violent attacks on suspicion of practice of sorcery and witchcraft, especially against the women.
22 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Pak. drone dropped 11 grenades in Punjab’||The Punjab police on Monday said that five days after busting a drone module with international linkages in Amritsar (rural) district, on December 20, they seized 11 Arges-84 hand grenades dropped on the night of December 19 by a drone launched from Pakistan. The Director General of Police said Border Security Force personnel deployed at BOP Chakri noticed a Pakistan drone entering Indian territory around 11.30 p.m. and they fired multiple shots in an attempt to bring down the drone. At the same time, they alerted the police. The police fired multiple shots from AK47 and SLR Rifles to bring down the drone but it managed to fly back into Pakistan territory. A combing operation was mounted the next morning, leading to the recovery of a box containing the 11 Arges-84 hand grenades from near Dhussi Bandh, in the area of Salach village of Dorangla. Austrian in nature, the Arges Type HG 84 series anti-personnel fragmentation hand grenade was a conventional system designed to inflict massive damage to soft targets, spraying shrapnel out to a distance of 30 metres at speed, the DGP noted.
22 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘BJP will struggle to cross double digits in Bengal’||Election strategist Prashant Kishor, who is advising the Trinamool Congress, claimed on Monday that the BJP will struggle to cross double digits in the upcoming West Bengal Assembly election. His comments come a day after Home Minister Amit Shah concluded his two-day tour of the State during which seven Trinamool MLAs and an MP switched sides to join the BJP. The BJP has only three legislators in the current West Bengal Assembly. Mr. Kishor tweeted,“For all the hype AMPLIFIED by a section of supportive media, in reality BJP will struggle to CROSS DOUBLE DIGITS in #WestBengal. PS: Please save this tweet and if BJP does any better I must quit this space!” Responding to Mr. Kishor’s tweet, BJP general secretary in-charge of West Bengal Kailash Vijayvargiya tweeted, “Given the BJP tsunami in Bengal; once the new government is formed, the country will have to lose an election strategist.”
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Bleak picture||
22 December 2020||KOCHI,||HC reserves order in LIFE Mission case||The High Court on Monday reserved its verdict on the petitions by U.V. Jose, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the LIFE Mission, and Santhosh Eappen, managing director of Unitac, a contracting company, challenging the Central Bureau of Investigation probe into the alleged irregularity in the LIFE Mission project at Wadakkanchery in Thrissur. Justice P. Somarajan extended the stay on the investigation against the LIFE Mission CEO till the pronouncement of the verdict. Counsel for the government contended that the registration of the crime against the LIFE Mission CEO was politically motivated. There was no violation of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act.
22 December 2020||KOCHI,||Customs moves court for statements||The Customs has once again approached the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, for copies of the confessional statements of Swapna Suresh and P.S. Sarith, the accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case, after their earlier application was rejected by the Court. The two had given confessional statements to a magistrate under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The confessional statements under Section 164, which are made before a magistrate, can be used as an evidence against those who are making the statement. The statements have to be made voluntarily as per the code. The earlier application of the agency was rejected by the court.
22 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala to hold special session on farm laws||The State Assembly will convene for a special session here on Wednesday to discuss the contentious farm laws passed by the Centre and pass a resolution against them. The Agriculture Department has formed a subcommittee to study the possibility of framing legislation to counter the Central laws. A meeting of the Cabinet here on Monday morning decided to recommend Governor Arif Mohammed Khan to convene the special session to discuss the three laws. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s office said the special session would discuss the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, which have sparked nationwide farmer protests. Fronts’ stand Both the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) in the State have opposed the laws, passed in September, calling them pro-corporate and inimical to the welfare of farmers. The fronts had demanded that the Centre repeal the laws immediately. In December, the Kerala Assembly had passed a resolution urging the Centre to scrap the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA). With regard to the farm laws, the LDF government had earlier stated that it would move the Supreme Court against the laws. Kerala has held that the method by which the laws were passed was constitutionally untenable as agriculture is a State subject under the Seventh Schedule. Subcommittee report A subcommittee of Agriculture Department officials formed to study the possibility of framing legislation against the farm laws is expected to submit its report in a week's time. The panel consists of the Chairman, Prices Control Board, members of the Project Planning and Monitoring Cell and law officers of the department. Earlier, the State Law Department had advised the department that it could, if needed, opt for legislation in this regard.  Both the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front and the Congress-led United Democratic Front in the State have opposed the laws, passed in September, calling them pro-corporate
22 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Dal Khalsa hits out at BJP, RSS over protest||Sikh radical outfit Dal Khalsa on Monday said as a result of the ongoing farmers agitation “the Modi phenomenon created in the last six years by the BJP and RSS has started to dismantle.” Dal Khalsa leader Kanwar Pal Singh accused the BJP government of adopting arm-twisting tactics against those who are backing the farmers agitation. Mr. Singh said since the agitation doesn’t belong to any individual or organisation, considering the farmer as one entity, the outfit has decided to name “the protesting farmer as person of the year 2020”.
22 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Grand plans for Bose birth anniversary||The Centre on Monday decided to set up a high-level committee to plan the commemoration of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary in 2022. In a statement, the Culture Ministry said the committee would be headed by Home Minister Amit Shah and would decide on the activities in Delhi, Kolkata and abroad for a year-long commemoration starting January 23, 2021. “Netaji Subhas Bose’s bravery is well-known. A scholar, soldier & statesman par excellence, we are soon to commence his 125th Jayanti celebrations. For that, a high-level committee has been formed. Come, let us mark this special occasion in a grand manner!” Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a tweet. The committee would include experts, historians, Bose’s family members, and eminent persons associated with the Azad Hind Fauj, the statement said.  A scholar, soldier & statesman par excellence, we are soon to commence Netaji’s 125th Jayanti celebrations
22 December 2020||Kolkata,||Suvendu’s resignation accepted||West Bengal Assembly Speaker Biman Banerjee on Monday accepted the resignation of MLA Suvendu Adhikari. Mr. Adhikari met the Speaker and gave a clarification on the resignation letter that he submitted last week. “I told him that I have willingly and in sound mind resigned from the post of the MLA,” Mr. Adhikari told journalists. He submitted his resignation last week but the letter did not bear any date. The Speaker had said the letter was not in proper form and as per rules.
22 December 2020||Bhubaneshwar,||Elephant run over by train in Odisha||The Puri-Surat Special train mowed down an elephant between the Hatibari and the Maneswar stations in Odisha’s Sambalpur district in the early hours of Monday. As an elephant caution has been imposed, the train departed the Hatibari station with a speed of 50 km per hour. The last of the 15-member herd was crossing the track when the train hit it. “The elephant got entangled with the front portion of the engine and all the front wheels derailed,” said the East Coast Railway (ECoR) here. There was no casualty or injury to any passenger, it added. After five hours, the track was set right and the train left at 7.24 a.m.
22 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI gets new crime manual after 15 years||Union Minister of State for Prime Minister’s Office Jitendra Singh on Monday released the Central Bureau of Investigation’s revised Crime Manual, which will be instrumental in guiding the agency on legal matters and tools for an efficient probe. The exercise of updating the manual in accordance with the current requirements took almost 18 months, under CBI chief Rishi Kumar Shukla. It was last revised in 2005. The new manual provides information about the laws, procedures and their interpretations. Apart from details on Interpol notices and its functioning, the manual has a separate chapter on investigation in foreign jurisdictions.
22 December 2020||Kadapa,||Four held on charge of stealing copper wire||Kadapa police busted a gang for stealing copper wire from electrical transformers and arrested four persons on Monday. Deputy Acting on a tip-off, the team zeroed in on the gang on Paluru cross road in Peddamudium mandal and arrested Onteru Ankalu (28), Mallika Nagaraju (35), Mallika Chinna (27), and Yakasiri Nagesh (25), all daily wagers in Pendlimarri mandal.
22 December 2020||KOCHI,||Minister’s wife entered temple observing norms: court told||The Guruvayur Devaswom Management Committee informed the High Court on Monday that Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran’s wife and two others entered the nalambalam of the Guruvayur Sreekrishna temple by strictly following the COVID-19 protocol. The affidavit was filed in response to a petition by A. Nagesh, State secretary, BJP, seeking to register a case and seize the unedited CCTV footage.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Examine opening schools in phases instead of keeping all closed: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday directed the State government to apply its mind on reopening schools on a regular basis in a phased manner in taluks where the number of COVID-19 cases are less, instead of keeping all schools closed throughout the State applying a uniform policy. The court also asked the government to ascertain the admission of children from anganwadis to class one besides verifying readmission of students to higher classes to ensure that children are not pushed to child marriage, child labour, or trafficking in view of closure of all schools since March dur to the pandemic. A Division Bench comprising Justice B.V. Nagarathna and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy passed the interim order on a PIL petition filed by A.A. Sanjeev Narrain and two others in Bengaluru. Vidyagama clarification Earlier, the government clarified to the Bench that the Vidyagama programme would recommence from January 1, 2021, while submitting the Government Order issued on December 15 and the circular issuing Standard Operating Procedure for conducting the programme. This was in response to the court’s December 4 order of directing the government to decide on Vidyagama to ensure that there is continuity of education as per Constitutional provisions and the provisions of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009. To a query by the Bench, the government counsel, on instruction from officials, said that Vidyagama would be conducted from classes one to 10 both in government and private schools across the State.  The Bench also asked the government to inform the court the steps taken to seek assistance from private corporate firms under the Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives to provide gadgets like laptops, tabs, etc. to students from economically-weaker sections to access online education.
22 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Registrations through CARD take off smoothly||Registration of the non-agricultural properties through the old CARD (Computer-aided Administration of Registration Department) system took off smoothly at the sub-registrar offices (SROs) across the State on Monday without any major complaints from any district. Protests over continuation of the Layout Regularisation Scheme continued in front of the SROs. Realtors staged protests in front of SROs at Uppal, Ghatkesar, Hayatnagar and other places raising slogans against the LRS. Though reverting to CARD could push up registrations as it would do away with slot-booking process and avoid technical issues, there would not be much change without scrapping the LRS, they asserted. Real estate dealers and document writers' associations shouted slogans against the ‘LRS-linked registration’ process in Nalgonda. They said the government must re-think its policy. The SROs witnessed more footfall on Monday, the first day of resumption of registrations through CARD, as there was no need for slot-booking. The number of transactions too were said to have increased and the Registration and Stamps department officials were busy compiling details of the types of transactions and the amount generated from each of the more than 140 SROs in the State. According to information reaching here, close to 50 transactions of non-agricultural properties were completed in Khammam in the normal method. Most of these registrations were related to education loans and other loans against mortgage of immovable properties, sources in the Stamps and Registration department said. Registration of two open plots and two residential flats were carried out through CARD at the SRO office. In Nalgonda, officials said the process of registration of non-agriculture properties by CARD was comparatively “simple and easy” than those through Dharani portal. Only properties permitted by LRS are being accepted. However, for registration of agriculture properties, officials said both the the buyer and seller should compulsorily produce their Aadhar card, without which the process cannot be initiated. For document writers and agents in Nalgonda SRO limits, registration through CARD was a better procedure, as the buyer and seller have control over any changes to be made. This was not the case with Dharani portal where the control would be entirely with a server and corrections were procedurally complicated. About 10 successful transactions were made in Nalgonda SRO.
22 December 2020||IDUKKI,||Drugs seized from rave party at Wagamon||In a major haul, the narcotic wing of the police seized ISD stamps, hashish oil, ecstasy tablets and ganja from a night party at a resort at Wagamon early Monday and arrested nine persons, including a woman. As many as 59 persons, including 12 women, took part in the rave party arranged through social media groups and the narcotic items were brought from Maharashtra and Bengaluru, say initial reports. They were arrested under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. A decision on more arrests would be taken after completing the interrogation, the police said. CPI leader’s resort The resort is owned by Communist Party of India (CPI) Wagamon local committee secretary and former Elappara grama panchayat president Shaji Kuttikadan. There were allegations that similar rave parties were held in the resort located in an isolated area in the past. All rooms except one were booked for the night party arranged under the guise of a birthday party and it went on till morning. The raid was conducted on a tip-off received by District Police Chief R. Karuppusami and led by Assistant Superintendent of Police Sureshkumar and senior police officers from nearby police stations, except Wagamon, on Sunday night. The arrested Those arrested on Monday were identified as Ajmal, 31, of Thodupuzha; Mehar Sherin, 26, of Malappuram ; Nabil, 36, of Edappal; Sulaiman, 38, Ajay, 41, and Shoukath, 36, of Kozhikode; Muhammed Rasheeda, 31, of Kasaragod; Nishad, 36, of Chavakkad; and Basti Viswas, 23; of Tripunithura. The rave party was arranged as part of the birthday celebration of Nabil, Sulaiman and Soumya from Kollam. The rooms were booked online in advance. Remoteness of the resort allegedly favoured for its selection. Those arrested had confessed to arranging similar parties in the past also. The arrested were those who helped in bringing the contraband items to the resort. Narcotic substances were also recovered from luxury cars parked in front of the resort. Personnel of the Wagamon police station were kept in the dark about the raid to plug any chances of leaking out the information. Resort to be sealed District Collector H. Dinesan said the resort would be sealed and its functioning would be stopped. The report from the authorities concerned was awaited, he added. Mr. Sureshkumar said that those arrested were in custody and interrogation was going on. S. Sivaraman, district secretary of the CPI, said that Shaji Kuttikadan had been removed from the post of local committee secretary and had been ousted from the primary membership of the party.
22 December 2020||KOCHI,||Actor molestation: Malappuram youths held||Two youths from Malappuram who had been charged with molesting an actor at Lulu Mall here were arrested on Sunday and remanded in judicial custody on Monday. The Kalamassery police said Mohammed Irshad and Mohammed Aadhil were charged under Sections 354 (outraging modesty of a woman) and 354-D (stalking) of the Indian Penal Code. The police might seek their custody in case an identification parade is necessary. The actor, who narrated her ordeal on Instagram, had accepted their apology late Sunday night. Neither had she filed a police complaint.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MNM, Cong. jostling for ‘Centrist’ space||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan’s attempt to lay claim to the political legacy of former Chief Minister and AIADMK founder M.G. Ramachandran drew severe criticism from the AIADMK. But his other comment, that he considers himself to be ‘Gandhi’s B team’, went under the radar. Some political observers feel Mr. Haasan’s habit of extolling Mahatma Gandhi and invoking the idea of “unity in diversity” makes him an ideal Congressman. A few in the MNM hope that the Congress and Mr. Haasan could work together. Contending that there were a lot of ideological similarities between the MNM and the Congress, MNM general secretary C.K. Kumaravel claimed that the grand old party had lost its relevance in State elections. The Congress, according to him, remains relevant only in national politics. “When people vote in the Lok Sabha election, they consider the Congress. But in a State election, they [Congress] are not as relevant. People in Tamil Nadu don’t like the high-command approach visible in national parties,” he claimed. He said there was a possibility of the two parties working together. “Definitely, synergy is possible. If their leadership approaches our leader, he will take a call then,” he added. Despite agreeing about the ideological similarities between the Congress and the MNM, All India Congress Committee in-charge for Tamil Nadu, Goa and Puducherry Dinesh Gundu Rao said the Congress would not be negatively impacted by the MNM. ‘In DMK alliance’ “Ideologically, I don’t think we have any differences. As far as alliance goes, we have been in an alliance with the DMK and other parties for a long time. The question only arises when Mr. Haasan wants to join our alliance or we want to quit it. We are not looking to leave the alliance [with the DMK],” he said. Asked if the Congress was wary of Mr. Haasan, he said, “The Congress has its own space in Tamil Nadu. Those who don’t like the communal ideology the BJP represents, those who are against the AIADMK, and those who want a new government… will vote for the DMK-Congress alliance. I don’t see Mr. Haasan making much of an impact on our vote bank.” “Whether he is individually strong enough to make a difference…that is one thing. If you don’t have that strength, you should think of being with people who are closer to your ideology. We may be sharing the same space but people are going to look at what difference being alone would make. The Congress-DMK alliance is a winning alliance, and people will take it very seriously. Though he may have good intentions, how much impact he can have is a big question,” Mr. Rao added.  Whether Kamal is individually strong enough to make a difference…that is one thing. If you don’t have that strength, you should think of being with people who are closer to your ideologyDinesh Gundu RaoCongress leader
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Commission constituted to collate caste-wise data in State||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday issued orders, constituting a Commission for the collection of quantifiable data on castes, communities and tribes of Tamil Nadu. The Commission will collect details pertaining to various social, educational, economic and political parameters of the State’s population. The government, as announced earlier, appointed retired Madras High Court judge A. Kulasekaran as chairman of the Commission, and issued a government order to this effect, while laying out the terms of reference of the Commission. CM’s announcement The government’s move comes against the backdrop of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announcing the collection of caste-wise data in the State, to better administer and target various welfare schemes of the government. Prescribing the terms, the G.O. said: “The Commission shall obtain such information as it may consider necessary or relevant for its purpose, in such form and manner as it may think appropriate, from relevant authorities, organisations or individuals, as may in the opinion of the Commission be necessary/or of assistance.” The government has also authorised the Commission to form sub-committees from among its members, and hold sittings, as determined by the chairman. A separate order regarding the appointment of other members of the panel will be issued separately, the government said. The Commission has been given the mandate of submitting its report to the government in six months. Improving rule The data to be collated by the Commission will be helpful in administering and targetting various welfare schemes of the government, better. “This quantifiable data will also be necessary to support the policy of the 69% reservation, followed in the State,” the G.O. said.  The government, as announced earlier, appointed retired Madras High Court judge A. Kulasekaran as chairman of the Commission, and issued a government order to this effect
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Electricity staff unions protest plan to outsource operations||A section of workers of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) on Monday went on a protest demanding the cancellation of outsourcing of operation and maintenance of substations and filling of vacancies for maintenance posts. Against the backdrop of the protest, Electricity Minister P. Thangamani told journalists that the State government would never privatise electricity operations. The government had taken steps to withdraw the proposal to outsource the operation and maintenance of substations and fill up the vacancies in the sub-division offices, he added. The electricity employees affiliated to various unions including the TNEB Engineers’ Union, LPF and CITU organised protests in front of electricity offices in Chennai, demanding that power operation and maintenance not be “privatised”. Protest was also held by employees at the headquarters of the Tangedco on Anna Salai. S. Manoharan, president, TNEB Engineers Union, said the protests were held against the proposal of the Tangedco to outsource maintenance operations in various sub-divisions, and entrusting the substations to private players. The protest was also held demanding the administration to fill-up the more than 40,000 vacancies in the field staff category all over the State. Despite protests there were not many complaints in the operation and maintenance of electricity distribution in the city, Tangedco’s senior officials said. The Minister, however, blamed the unions for going to the Madras High Court to stop the recruitment of over 10,000 people for the post of gangman. He said the State government had taken all steps for the recruitment process. The Electricity Department was willing to hold talks with the unions but the latter were not willing to come for talks, he added.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NHAI told to collect only 50% toll at two plazas||The Madras High Court on Monday extended till January 18 an interim order it had passed on December 9, directing the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to collect only 50% toll at two plazas situated on the Maduravoyal-Ranipet stretch of National Highway 48, which connects Chennai with Bengaluru. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha extended the interim order as they were dissatisfied with the repair work carried out to close potholes and craters on the highway. The senior judge said he had personally witnessed the shoddy patchwork that had been done, and had also noticed that several potholes were yet to be closed. After recording in the order that he had travelled from Chennai to Vellore on Saturday and returned on Sunday, the judge said the patchwork “had not been done to the road level, leading to a bumpy drive.” Noting that the safety of road users was of utmost importance, the Division Bench said the highway was highly unsafe. It pointed out that the median on the highway was not being maintained properly, and that there were no proper signboards and road furniture available for those travelling at night. The Bench also said that the NHAI had been carrying out only patchwork, and had not re-laid the highway for the last 13 years, citing a proposal to widen it into a six-lane highway. Though the six-laning work ought to have been completed in 2013 as per the original plan, neither did it fructify nor was the existing highway re-laid. Nevertheless, the NHAI had been collecting toll from the road users despite the harrowing experience they had to undergo due to poor maintenance of the highway, the judges lamented. Pointing out that the NHAI was touted as a premier agency that had the expertise to lay all-weather roads, the judges said the Maduravoyal-Ranipet stretch of NH 48 did not match even the minimum standards expected of a national highway. The Madras High Court then extended the interim order and directed the NHAI to file a status report by January 18.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New Year revelry banned on beaches, roads in T.N.||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday announced a ban on New Year celebrations on beaches and roads, on account of COVID-19 and citing the mutation of the virus in the U.K. The government said as there was a possibility of a large number of people congregating on beaches to ring in the New Year, there was a danger of further spread of COVID-19, which has been brought largely under control in the State. The public are banned from celebrating on beaches and roads on December 31, and on January 1, 2021, the government said. However, restaurants, hotels, clubs, resorts (including beach resorts), have been allowed to function as usual, the government said. “At a time when the virus is mutating in a few countries abroad, there is a need to step up the vigil against the virus,” it said.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Petition seeking caste data on govt. appointments dismissed||The Madras High Court on Monday dismissed a public interest litigation petition filed by Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) founder S. Ramadoss, seeking a direction to the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) to provide caste-wise details of selections made by it for government jobs, from January 1989 to August 2020. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha held that the petition was not maintainable, and, hence, they were not inclined to entertain it. The Division Bench, however, observed that the petitioner would be at liberty to pursue his remedies under the Right to Information Act of 2005, to obtain the requisite information. It is a well settled position of law that the writ jurisdiction of the High Court cannot be invoked if a litigant has an effective alternate remedy, the judges said. Though the petitioner had complained that the TNPSC refused to share caste-wise data with him under the RTI Act, the judges said he could go on appeal against the refusal. ‘Caste, a reality’ During the course of the arguments, the petitioner’s counsel, K. Balu, told the court that caste was an existing reality in society, and it could not be denied even by those who speak about marching towards a casteless society. He said the goal of a casteless society could be achieved only when inequalities prevailing in the society were erased. Pointing out the references to caste in the names of some law firms, he said such names find place even in the cause list printed by the High Court, every day. Describing Mr. Ramadoss as a crusader of social justice, he said the petitioner’s aim was to ensure that the Backward Classes get their due share in education and employment. Claiming that the TNPSC would certainly have individual caste-wise data, regarding the selections made for Group I to Group IV vacancies in government services, since 1989, he said the commission was intentionally refusing to divulge such data, claiming that it was in possession of only category-wise (OC, BC, MBC, SC, ST and so on) data.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court advises Ilaiyaraaja to end recording theatre dispute amicably||The Madras High Court on Monday advised legendary music composer Ilaiyaraaja not to press the claim for damages if the owners of Prasad Laboratories allow him to pay a visit to a sound recording theatre from where he had been composing for the last 35 years. Justice N. Sathish Kumar asked senior counsel P.S. Raman to get instructions from the composer by Tuesday on the suggestion made by the court to end a bitter battle between him and the owners of the laboratories where the theatre was located. The judge also asked P.H. Arvindh Pandian and advocate Abdul Saleem representing the landlords to persuade their clients and make them agree for a day’s visit to the recording theatre by the music composer and permit him to take away all his belongings. The judge said no one else but the composer, an Advocate Commissioner to be appointed by the court for taking inventory of the articles and counsel from both sides, could be allowed to visit the theatre on a mutually agreeable day. The suggestion was made after Mr. Pandian complained to the court that the music composer was particular on seeking damages and hence his clients do not want to let him inside their campus. They, however, were agreeable to hand over his belongings to his representatives. On the other hand, Mr. Raman said his client was insisting on reserving his right to seek damages because musical instruments worth several lakh of rupees were available in the theatre and he was not sure whether those instruments were maintained properly or had been damaged. He said that Mr. Ilaiyaraaja had occupied the theatre for more than three decades on the basis of an oral understanding between him and L.V. Prasad, the founder of the laboratories. However, the landlord’s legal heirs were now trying to evict him unceremoniously.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former official flags poor functioning of Tangedco’s grievance redressal forum||A former official has written to the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC), flagging the poor functioning of Tangedco’s consumer grievance redressal forum (CGRF). P. Muthusamy, former director (engineering), TNERC, had earlier written to the Chairperson of the forum on August 30 and September 19 for replacing a faulty bidirectional meter and shifting his 1 kW solar rooftop plant to another service connection, respectively. He had also urged the CGRF chairperson to direct the assistant engineer to replace the meter immediately and pay Rs. 1,000 as compensation for not having replaced it since May 22, under the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Distribution Standards of Performance Regulation, 2004. Pleas not acknowledged In his letter to the TNERC on December 16, Mr. Muthusamy said the CGRF had not acknowledged his petitions dated August 30 and September 19, and had not issued any speaking orders even after three months had lapsed. “The CGRF is the first and the easily approachable judicial forum wherein electricity consumers can get their grievances redressed. It is regrettable to note that even after the lapse of 16 years since their issuance, the Commission’s CGRF regulations have not been respected and implemented by the Tangedco officials,” he said in the letter. “It is of more concern to me personally, as the consumer-oriented/friendly CGRF regulation, which was drafted by me, has not served its purpose even after 16 years have lapsed,” Mr. Muthusamy said. ‘Won’t pay fee’ He said his grievance petition had to be filed under Section 142 as a miscellaneous petition by paying Rs. 1,000 as fees under the Commission’s Fees and Fines Regulations. But he won’t be paying it since it is the responsibility of the Commission to see to it that its regulations are implemented, he added. “Though several forums violate the CGRF regulations, many consumers don’t come forward to file a petition with the Commission since they have to pay Rs. 1,000 to get the Commission’s regulations implemented,” he said. Mr. Muthusamy also urged the TNERC to take appropriate action against the chairperson of the consumer grievance redressal forum for not acknowledging his petitions and not issuing appropriate orders.  Many consumers don’t come forward to file a petition with the Commission since they have to pay Rs. 1,000 to get the Commission’s regulations implemented
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kamal’s ‘governance and economic agenda’||Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Haasan on Monday announced his party’s ambitious “seven-point governance and economic agenda” that promises to create a “green-channel government”, through which statutory certificates and documents would be issued “without the citizens having to apply for them” and “online homes” would be created. A party press release said it plans to provide each home with “a computer and high-speed Internet”, strive to create equal opportunities in urban and rural areas and monetise housework done by stay-at-home women across the State. Explaining “green-channel government”, the party said it would strive to create “paperless government offices”, running on a single “enterprise resource planning (ERP)” from the panchayat office to the Chief Minister’s Office, co-ordinated by the Ministry of Digital Governance. “A state-of-the-art command and control centre will be established at the Chief Minister’s office for routine reviews and managing natural disasters. Statutory certificates and documents that the government issues, shall henceforth be issued without the citizens having to apply for them.” The government will also create “online homes”, providing high-speed Internet through optic fibre cable for every house, “as a common property resource” by implementing the BharatNet and TamilNet projects. “This will be one of the highest investments in human resource development, anywhere in the world, and can bring huge and far-reaching transformational changes in rural families and societies. The Internet will be declared a basic human right,” the party said. The party proposed to create a Ministry of Possibilities, which would act as a single-window clearance facility for “fostering and handholding” entrepreneurs, and create a “strong and deep connect with all industries, requesting them to outsource few tasks in the industrial process to villages”. Payment for housewives The party’s earlier promise of giving housewives “their due recognition through payment for their work, which remains unrecognised and unmonetised” also features in its agenda. The party also stated that it has plans to “transform farmers to agri-entrepreneurs”. The party added that it would lay emphasis on “clean and green cities”.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. cites official report for extending Pongal cash gift||The State government has cited an official report on the adverse impact of COVID-19 and the two cyclones, on the livelihood of the poor and the middle class, as reasons for its decision on extending cash support of Rs. 2,500 each, as part of the annual Pongal gift hamper. In an order issued by the Cooperation, Food and Consumer Protection Department on Monday, the government, quoting a report of the Commissioner of Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection, Sajjansingh R. Chavan, stated that even though lockdown relaxations were being made, normalcy had not returned. As part of measures to revive the State’s economy, the Rangarajan Committee had recommended that the government extend one more round of cash support to families whose livelihood had been badly hit. Hit by cyclones The government also referred to how cyclones Nivar and Burevi had affected those residing in the coastal districts and the Cauvery delta, including workers and the fisherfolk, apart from hitting people in other districts. As for the break up of different categories of ration cards in the State, the government said that as on December 19, there were 93,27,499 priority household (PHH) cards, which include old age pensioner (OAP) cards and Annapoorna (ANP) cards; 18,64,042 PHH Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) cards; 94,24,264 non-priority household (NPHH) cards and 18,923 cards for Sri Lankan refugees. Besides, 3,75,235 sugar cards were expected to get converted into rice-drawing cards. Eventually, the total number of cards will be 2,10,09,963, the order added.  The government also referred to how cyclones Nivar and Burevi had affected those residing in the coastal districts and the Cauvery delta, including workers and the fisherfolk
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh infections in State drop to 1,071||Fresh infections dropped to 1,071 in Tamil Nadu on Monday, taking the State’s tally to 8,07,962. In Chennai, 306 persons tested positive for COVID-19, taking the city’s total case count to 2,22,580. The district was followed by Coimbatore with 109 cases. There were 65 cases in Chengalpattu, 60 in Salem, 59 in Tiruppur and 43 each in Tiruvallur and in Erode. While Perambalur recorded no new case, 23 districts saw under 20 cases each. Those testing positive on Monday included eight returnees as well. As many as 1,157 persons were discharged, taking the total figure to 7,86,472. Twelve more persons succumbed to the infection. Till date, 11,995 persons have died of COVID-19 in the State. Chennai accounted for six of the 12 deaths. A 36-year-old man from Chennai, with systemic hypertension, was admitted to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on December 16. He died on December 18 due to viral pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. A total of 9,495 persons are under treatment in the State. Of these, 3,017 are in Chennai and 991 in Coimbatore. In the last 24 hours, 63,016 samples were tested for COVID-19 in the State, taking the total figure to 1,35,23,032.  A total of 9,495 persons are under treatment for COVID-19 in the State. Of these, 3,017 persons are in Chennai and 991 in Coimbatore
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man recovers from COVID-19 after 82 days||After undergoing treatment for 82 days, a 47-year-old man, who had 90% lung involvement due to COVID-19, was discharged from the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on Monday. The patient, Rathnam, tested positive and underwent treatment in private hospitals in Ariyalur, Tiruchi and Chennai from August 31 to September 30. He continued to suffer from breathlessness and was admitted to the RGGGH on September 30 in critical condition with 90% lung involvement, according to a press release. The patient required oxygen support and was administered life-saving drugs. He was also put on respiratory support. He was started on continuous positive airway pressure ventilation and then moved to high flow nasal cannula followed by nasal oxygen. He was on room air for five days. After undergoing treatment, he started to breathe on his own on December 10. After 112 days of testing positive for the infection, he recovered from COVID-19 and was discharged from the hospital. A team of doctors led by treatment coordinator Raghavendran, T.S. Shanthi (general medicine) and Bhavani (anaesthesia) treated him. E. Theranirajan, dean of the RGGGH, said till date, a total of 28,000 patients, who had tested positive for COVID-19, had been treated at the hospital.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Data collected by IIT-M during Nivar will help flood forecasting||Real-time data collected by researchers from IIT Madras on water discharged at several critical places along the Adyar during Cyclone Nivar is expected to help in a crucial way in flood forecasting and mitigation in the future, a statement issued by the institution said. According to the statement, a team of students and researchers led by Balaji Narasimhan, professor, IIT-M, measured river currents and flow depths across the width of the waterbody to get the integrated flow rate of the river. K. Phanindra Reddy, Commissioner of Revenue Administration, Tamil Nadu, was quoted in the statement as saying that the data collected during by IIT-M, in close coordination with the Tamil Nadu State Disaster Management Authority (TNSDMA), would be useful in operationalising the Real Time Flood Forecasting (RTFF) and Spatial Decision Support System (SDSS) being coordinated under the World Bank-assisted Tamil Nadu Sustainable Urban Development Project (TNSUDP). The statement highlighted that the data collection project arose after the Chennai floods in December 2015. Through this, a network consisting of 15 automatic weather stations, rain gauges and six water level recorders were established in 2017. However, as the years since 2017 witnessed below normal monsoons, sufficient data in terms of river discharge could not be collected. Highlighting the outcome of the project, Mr. Narasimhan said this was an important exercise in calibrating and validating the developed flood forecasting models. This could be used to forecast the discharge at the river based on rainfall predictions by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) with different lead times (from three hours to 72 hours or even longer), he said. “The ground truth collected during this field campaign during Cyclone Nivar showed that certain parts of the Adyar contributed to up to almost 70% of the flow realised at Anakaputhur with the rest contributed by the release from the Chembarambakkam reservoir,” he added. “Even more critical is that the collected data will be incredibly useful to manage and moderate the reservoir releases from Chembarambakkam, giving sufficient lead time for the TNSDMA to issue a warning to the public and coordinate flood mitigation and relief measures,” he said.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Old Chennai Commissionerate building to become a museum||The old building of the City Police Commissionerate in Egmore will soon become a police museum. The museum will be opened to the public in two-months. The City Police Commissioner’s office was shifted to the new building in Vepery in 2013 while the old building was temporarily used as the offices of the Joint Commissioner of Police (east), Deputy Commissioner (security), Armed Reserve Administration Office and a few other wings of the police. At the estimated cost of Rs. 4 crore, the renovation work is being undertaken at the old building by over 60 workmen under the guidance of Director General of Police J.K. Tripathy and other officers of the Tamil Nadu Police Housing Corporation (TNPHC). City Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar and Additional Commissioner of Police (Headquarters) A. Amalraj are regularly monitoring the work. Mr. Amalraj told The Hindu , “We are renovating the original structure with the help of archaeological experts and architects. All partitions which were made earlier were removed and this brought the interiors to their original state.” “The work is under way. Very soon we will finish. The valour of the police personnel who died in the line of duty and the long history of the City Police will be on display in the museum,” he said. The property was bought by Arunagiri Mudaliar for Rs. 36,000 before the police moved in here. On May 1, 1842, the police moved into the bungalow from their headquarters in Vepery for a monthly rent of Rs. 165.   The valour of the police personnel who died in the line of duty and the long history of the City Police will be on display in the museum A. Amalraj Additional Commissioner of Police (Headquarters)
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||27% quota for OBCs in AIQ seats under consideration: Gehlot||The implementation of 27% reservation for students belonging to Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in the All-India Quota (AIQ) medical seats is under consideration of the Supreme Court and a decision will be taken after the final judgment, Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Thawar Chand Gehlot said. A year after T.K. Rangarajan, former Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha), CPI(M), raised the issue of deprival of medical seats to OBC students due to the reservation policy in the Rajya Sabha, Mr. Gehlot, in a reply dated December 10, said the matter had been examined. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare is implementing the AIQ scheme for admissions to medical colleges. It had informed that the issue of implementation of 27% reservation for OBC students in AIQ seats is under the Supreme Court’s consideration. A decision will be taken on receipt of final judgment, he added.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Junior Kuppanna sheds 25% stake to Chennai-based Super Capital Advisors||Hotel Junior Kuppanna, a family-owned brand serving Kongu cuisine, has sold 25% of its stake to Chennai-based Super Capital Advisors for an undisclosed sum. With professionals coming in, the original promoters now want to strengthen the brand and experiment with newer business formats. 60-year-old brand “We have been looking for an investor for three years. Some of our franchisees were not performing well, and we had to close them. Now, we want to strengthen this 60-year-old brand,” said K. Murthy, co-chairman of Junior Kuppanna. He is from the promoter’s family. P. Arumugan, another promoter and a member of the family, said, “We want to strengthen our base in Tamil Nadu and then expand to other States.” The firm has set a target of establishing 250 restaurants across India and abroad by 2025. When asked if this was a good time to invest in the restaurant business, Sameer Bharat Ram, director of Super Capital Advisors, said that with COVID-19, the dynamics of the industry had changed, and hence the focus would now be on setting up outlets with less than 100 seats.   “Plans are afoot to set up small outlets on highways, preferably on the premises of petrol pumps,” he said. The promoters and the new investors said that by March 2021, six new outlets would come up in Chennai. Currently, the firm has over 40 restaurants across Tamil Nadu. The restaurant, which started its journey in 1960, is now going in for a rebranding exercise as well.  Plans are afoot to set up small outlets on highways, preferably on the premises of petrol pumps
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Private conservancy operations launched in Perungudi zone||The Greater Chennai Corporation launched private conservancy operations in Perungudi zone on Monday. Urbaser Sumeet has launched conservancy operations in the zone, increasing the number of bins, introducing battery-operated vehicles and promoting source segregation. The Greater Chennai Corporation has directed the private conservancy operator to reduce the quantity of waste sent to the Perungudi dumpyard by promoting source segregation in zones such as Kodambakkam, Teynampet and Adyar. But the private operator is yet to follow the directions of the civic body. Corporation officials said they had directed the operator to reduce the waste sent to the dumpyard by at least 50%. The private conservancy operator will launch operations in Alandur zone on December 26 and Valasaravakkam zone on December 30. Another private conservancy operator is expected to launch operations in Tiruvottiyur, Manali, Madhavaram and Ambattur in the first week of February. A senior official of the Corporation said mechanical sweeping of roads would increase in the city after launch of private conservancy operations in 11 zones of the city. Residents had requested the civic body to improve street sweeping in some locations by increasing the number of workers. For instance, roads such as Woods Road, Whites Road and Pattulos Road have inadequate number of sweepers to clean them. Residents have also complained that the battery operated vehicles do not have tools to clear garbage.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Unfinished check dam across Cooum helps store floodwater||Work to construct a check dam at Pudumavilangai village across the Cooum in Tiruvallur district, located about 50 km away from Chennai, is yet to be completed. But, it has already helped store rainwater in the pristine stretch this season. Nearly 80% of the work on the 2.25 m check dam has been completed across the 100-m wide river. But, the structure had already been storing water for a distance of 2 km, up to Sattarai bridge, due to the rainfall from earlier this month, said officials of the Water Resources Department. This check dam is being built in the unpolluted stretch of the river, nearly 12 km downstream of the Kesavaram anaicut, where the waterway branches out to flow as the Cooum. The WRD plans to complete the Rs. 7.80 crore project in one or two months. “Surplus water from two tanks upstream in Cooum village and Sattarai joins the stretch of the river at Pudumavilangai. This will help drinking water and irrigation needs of 7,000 people in villages, including Kadambathur, Agaram and Kavankolathur,” an official said. Though arrangements have been made for water to be diverted to the Cooum through the Kesavaram anaicut, this year it did not reach the stretch near Tiruvallur district. Groundwater level now stands at an average of 16 ft in the surrounding villages. As groundwater in 35 irrigation wells has been recharged, it will help in the cultivation of 200 hectares of land. Paddy and vegetables are mainly cultivated in the region. Farmers may cultivate twice a year now as there will be sufficient water for more months. After nearly a decade, the department also diverted water from the Cooum to fill the Kesavanallathur tank through an off-take channel. Residents also wanted steps to be taken to fill other waterbodies in Agaram and Kadambathur by improving link channels. A proposal to build another check dam at Adikathur between the ones in Pudumavilangai and Putlur that are nearly 8 km apart is also waiting to be implemented.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||People need not be intimidated by mathematics or chess, says Anand||Acknowledging that many people are intimidated by chess and even more by mathematics, five-time world chess champion Viswanathan Anand said that it is unnecessary. Speaking at a virtual discussion organised by HeyMath!, an organisation working towards making math learning easier, Mr. Anand, a brand ambassador of the organisation, pointed out that people could often be seen to preemptively say that they were poor in maths. The discussion with Nirmala Sankaran, the co-founder of HeyMath!, was organised to mark the 133th birth anniversary of Indian mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujam. “Most people know as much about politics and cricket as they know about mathematics,” Mr. Anand remarked. He added that while people commented with confidence about politics and cricket, there was an unnecessary fear about mathematics. Highlighting that the same was the case with chess, he said that at least in chess there was no consequence if people did not take a liking to it.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Boat catches fire at Kasimedu fishing harbour||A mechanised fishing boat docked at the Kasimedu fishing harbour went up in flames due to a fault in the engine on Monday. Nine fishermen jumped into the water and escaped from the burning boat. Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Royapuram and Tondiarpet stations doused the fire after an hour-long operation. Sources said the owner had purchased the second-hand vessel from a seller in Kerala recently. The incident occurred when the owner decided to put the vessel to use on Monday, police said. An electrical short circuit in the engine could have triggered the fire, said sources.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Space enthusiasts may get to watch ‘great conjunction’ today as well||Space enthusiasts in the city got to watch a rare celestial event on Monday evening. Many focused their telescopes towards the sky to see two giant planets — Jupiter and Saturn — appear closer to form a first visible ‘bright double planet’ in 367 years. No arrangements were made at the Tamil Nadu Science and Technology Centre, Kotturpuram due to the pandemic. The centre’s executive director, S. Soundararajaperumal, said residents may get to watch the event after sunset on Tuesday, too. But, the planets may have moved little away from each other. It can be observed directly in the evening sky. When the giant planets align very close to Earth, it is called as great conjunction and such events occur once in 20 years. “The two planets will appear closer to each other on October 31, 2040 and April 2060. But, similar events like this may occur only on March 15, 2080,” he added. The event also coincided with the December solstice, which is the shortest day of the year, on Monday.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Korean Consulate brings out book on Indian laws||The Consulate General of the Republic of Korea will release a book titled Survival Indian Law on Tuesday. The book aims to enhance the awareness of the Korean business community on the various Indian laws, thereby enabling them to avoid unnecessary legal risks in India. According to a press release from the consulate, existing companies and potential investors from Korea have faced difficulties in adapting to the Indian business culture based on comprehensive and complicated commercial and contractual law structure unlike in Korea. The release also said there had been a few cases of local companies and law firms taking advantage of the lack of legal experience of Korean companies and investors. For example, a local software company recently tried to blackmail foreign companies, including Koreans, into purchasing its programs by falsely accusing it of unlicensed usage of its software without evidence. Deputy Consul General H.Y. Lee said that this book would provide necessary legal knowledge for Korean companies and investors to shield themselves from baseless legal accusations and threats. He expressed the hope that State authorities would actively intervene to protect companies and investors from legal abuse. The consulate has been operating a troubleshooting centre on a trial basis for Korean companies since September 14.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fake NEET documents: search on for duo||The Periyamet police have intensified their search for a girl and her father who submitted fake certificates at the NEET medical counselling. A senior officer said, “We have served them summons twice.They failed to appear before the investigating officer and switched off their mobile phones. A special team has been constituted to trace them.” N.B. Deeksha, from Paramakudi, Ramanathapuram, and her father Balachandran were caught when they allegedly produced a fake NEET scorecard during the counselling session at the Jawaharlal Nehru Indoor Stadium. According to officials, the girl’s name was not on the MBBS rank list and she was not called for counselling. On a complaint from Dr. Selvarajan on Saturday, the police booked a case.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK to hold general council meet on January 9||The ruling AIADMK will hold its general council meeting on January 9, and launch its election campaign in Chennai on December 27. The general council, along with the party’s executive, will meet at a marriage hall in Vanagaram, near Chennai, according to a press release issued by Chief Minister and party co-coordinator Edappadi K. Palaniswami and party coordinator and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam. The previous meeting of the party’s general council took place on November 24, 2019. The present meeting is being conducted to fulfill stipulations set by the Election Commission. Mr. Palaniswami, at a meeting of senior functionaries last week, hinted that the general council would be convened shortly. CM candidate The council is expected to endorse the decision taken by senior functionaries of the party to declare Mr. Palaniswami as the candidate for the post of Chief Minister. Senior functionaries of the party have also been making the point that the composition of the present alliance, will remain intact for the polls. As for the campaign for the upcoming Assembly election, Mr. Palaniswami, along with Mr. Panneerselvam, will kick-start electioneering, at an event on YMCA grounds, in Royapettah, according to another press release.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Assembly session may be held in Jan.’||There is a possibility that the Assembly session will be held in January, when a Bill to replace an Ordinance promulgated by the State government banning all online games, including rummy, played with stakes on the cyberspace, could be tabled, Advocate-General (A-G) Vijay Narayan told the Madras High Court on Monday. Justices R. Subbiah and C. Saravanan were informed that the Act may or may not be an exact replica of the Ordinance. Therefore, some online rummy companies that had now approached the court challenging the validity of the Ordinance might have to file fresh cases challenging the Act, the A-G said. The submission was made during the hearing of cases filed by Junglee Games, Play Games, Head Digital Work and Gameskraft Technologies. They wondered why online rummy should be banned in Tamil Nadu alone, when it was permitted elsewhere. However, the A-G said the government had to promulgate the Ordinance because teenagers and young adults had got addicted to online gambling. He also undertook to file a counter affidavit to the writ petitions, by the first week of January. The judges adjourned the cases.
22 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Alagiri slams V.K. Singh for saying MSP will stay||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K.S. Alagiri on Monday criticised Union Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways V.K. Singh for stating that the minimum support price (MSP) for agricultural produce would stay under the newly-enacted farm laws. In a statement, Mr. Alagiri asked whether Mr. Singh could explain why there was no mention of the MSP in the new legislation, why contract farming was imposed, and why corporates were allowed to enter the farm sector. The Congress leader urged members of his party to undertake a massive campaign to highlight the negative impact of the new laws. He added that a function to mark the Congress entering its 136th year would be held on December 28, with a huge gathering of farmers in Vellore, and urged party cadres to participate in large numbers.
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New Year celebrations on beaches, roads banned||The Tamil Nadu government announced a ban on New Year celebrations in the State on beaches and roads, on account of COVID-19 and citing the mutation of the virus in the U.K. The government said as there was a possibility of a large number of people congregating on beaches to ring in the New Year, there was a danger of further spread of COVID-19, which has been brought largely under control in the State. Celebration on beaches and roads would be banned on December 31 and January 1, 2021, the government said. However, restaurants, hotels, clubs, resorts (including beach resorts), would be allowed to function as usual. “At a time when the virus is mutating in a few countries abroad, there is a need to step up the vigilance against the virus,” the government said.
22 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tiruppur garment exporters see good flow of orders||Garment exports from Tiruppur in the 2020-2021 financial year is expected to be worth Rs. 24,000 crore. “We are trying to reach last year’s level of exports this year too. The order bookings are good and exports are encouraging,” Raja M. Shanmugham, president of Tiruppur Exporters' Association, told The Hindu on Monday. Tiruppur exports for the eight months period (April – November 2020) is estimated to be Rs. 14,150 crore. “We hope that in the current financial year, we estimate that Tirupur exports will reach around Rs. 24,000 crore,” Mr. Shanmugham said at the annual meeting of the Association on Saturday. “We expect that the positive export performance found in second quarter of this financial year would continue in the second half-yearly period also. But unfortunately, the announcement of lockdown by countries such as the U.K., France and Netherlands in November 2020 would somehow derail the overall export performance. However, we hope things would get normal in the coming months,” he said. With relaxations in lockdown restrictions, the garment exporters in Tiruppur, who are on the track of recovery, continue to face supply side challenges and issues such as non-availability of containers, increased air freight charges, etc. In the first half-yearly period of the current financial year, all India knitwear exports were to the tune of Rs. 18,990 crore, with exports from Tiruppur amounting to Rs. 10,000 crore. Exports of knitwear products from the country declined in Rupee and Dollar terms last financial year compared to the previous year. All India knitwear exports in 2019-2020 decreased to Rs. 53,199 crore as against Rs. 54,692 crore recorded in 2018-2019, registering 2.73% fall. In Dollar terms, all India knitwear exports in 2019-2020 declined to $ 7.51 billion against $ 7.82 billion in 2018-2019, registering 3.91 % decline. Knitwear exports from Tiruppur decreased to Rs. 27,280 in 2019-2020 as against Rs. 27,650 crore the previous financial year , he said at the meeting.
22 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||AEPC seeks talks with the U.K. on free trade agreement||The Apparel Export Promotion Council (AEPC) has appealed to the Union Government to give priority to talks on free trade agreement (FTA)with the United Kingdom (U.K.) when British Prime Minister Boris Johnson visits India next month. The Council chairman, A. Sakthivel, said in a press release that India should give priority to discussions on FTA and ensure that India has duty parity with other countries for apparel imports by the U.K. India has 9.6 % duty disadvantage in the U.K. for apparel exports compared to countries such as Bangladesh, Pakistan and Cambodia. “The total import of apparels in the U.K. in calendar year 2019 was $24.9 billion. Out of this, imports from Bangladesh was $3.6 billion, while it stood at $1.4 billion for India,” Mr. Sakthivel said. If it is not possible for the two countries to have FTA, India should look at a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with the U.K. Though Indian exporters enjoy good ties with the garment buyers in the U.K., they face high competitions due to duty disadvantages arising out of benefits under Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) to 47 Least Developed Countries (LDCs), including Bangladesh, which will continue even beyond Brexit in January 2021. “If the issue of duty disadvantage in the U.K. is addressed, we are likely to double our exports of apparels to the U.K. in two years time,” Mr. Sakthivel said.
22 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Annamalai clarifies on remark||A day after insinuating that the State government was seeking to disburse “stolen money” to the people, at the time of the Assembly election, BJP State vice-president K. Annamalai clarified on Monday that he was not referring to the proposed Rs. 2,500 Pongal cash gift. On Sunday, speaking in Karumathampatti, near Coimbatore, at a meeting organised by the BJP in support of the three farm laws, he had said: “Giving money stolen from the Tamil Nadu people, back to them, as Rs. 2,000 during election time, is what the Tamil Nadu government [is doing].” As the clips of this portion of his speech went viral on social media platforms, Mr. Annamalai took to Twitter on Monday to clarify that he was referring only to the “cash-for-votes” practice. “We welcome the Chief Minister increasing the cash gift for Pongal from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 2,500...,” he tweeted. AIADMK spokesperson Kovai K. Selvaraj said State-level BJP leaders like Mr. Annamalai must speak with responsibility.
22 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Residents seek better living condition||A few residents of Asthanayakkar Street in Singanallur, who submitted petition at the weekly grievances redress day on Monday, demanded better living condition. They said the absence of title deeds for the lands they lived on had denied a few other government benefits as well. The locality had no drainage, drinking water, underground sewerage facility and the over-all environment was bad. Their petition to the National Commission for Scheduled Castes had not yielded any favourable result. The district administration had said that though it had taken steps for providing alternative houses for the residents at the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance tenements in Vellalore, they were reluctant to go and demanded only title deeds. Therefore, the administration had written to the Coimbatore Corporation seeking its no-objection as the land belonged to the Corporation Commissioner.  AIDWA stages protest More than 50 members of the All India Democratic Women’s Association on Monday staged a protest in front of the Collectorate demanding free houses. The protesters urged the administration to allot houses at Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board projects for homeless persons. They claimed there were 300 such persons who were in need of houses and said they were submitting relevant documents for allotment of houses.  ‘Do away with two burial ground system’  A. Murugesan of Arunthathiyar Munnetra Kazhagam has urged the district administration to do away with caste-based burial ground system. In his petition, he alleged that there were two burial grounds in Pappampatti – one for caste Hindus and another for Arunthathiyar. While the infrastructure was good in the burial ground for the caste Hindus, the condition of the Arunthathiyar burial ground was poor. The district administration would do well to do away with the discrimination and improve infrastructure in burial grounds.
22 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. deploys machine to process garden waste||Coimbatore Corporation has deployed a tractor-trailed pulveriser to treat garden waste. According to sources, the civic body, as a first step, had deployed the machine in West Zone to cut and pulverise fallen trees and leaves dumped on road. The driver operating the tractor would stop the vehicle at the spot where trees have fallen or felled or garden waste was dumped on road to pulverise those. Thereafter, he would collect the pulverised waste and drop it beneath the next tree or trees so that the waste turned manure. Thus far, the Corporation had deployed lorries to carry the waste to Vellalore, where the dry waste increased the potential for spreading fire. With the Corporation deploying the machine, it had saved on transportation and reduced the chances of fire in Vellalore, the sources said. In the next few weeks, the Corporation would deploy four more machines at one each a zone to take care of garden waste in all the five zones. In a development related to waste management, the Corporation Commissioner had invited suggestions from the public for improving the city’s status from open defecation free (ODF) to open defecation free plus, as categorised by the Central government in clean cities ranking. In a release issued on Monday, the Commissioner said for taking the city from ODF to ODF+ the public would do well to mail their suggestions tocommr.coimbatore@tn.gov. inin the next 15 days.
22 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Four fined Rs. 1 lakh for possessing deer meat||The Forest Department on Sunday levied a total fine of Rs. 1 lakh on four persons on charges of possessing venison in Valparai forest range at Anamalai Tiger Reserve. Officials said that Selvaraj (40), Chinnasamy (60), Elumalai (38), and Ramkumar (37) allegedly collected the meat of a sambar deer that was killed by a pack of wild dogs inside a coffee estate. Based on a tip-off, the officials inspected the spot and seized the venison. The four men were levied a fine of Rs. 25,000 each, according to the officials. Found dead The body of a man aged around 30 was found in Kannampalayam Kuttai at Sulur on Monday. Police suspect the deceased was strangulated. Sulur police are investigating.
22 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||DMK Women’s Wing stages protest||Members of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Women’s Wing staged a protest in front of the Coimbatore South Taluk office on Monday condemning the rise in price of LPG cylinder.  Sources said more than 100 women led by the Wing’s State deputy secretary Meena Jayakumar raised slogans urging the Centre to roll back the price rise. Within a month, the government had increased the cylinder price by Rs. 100, the protesters said. Party’s wealth protection committee vice-president Pongalur N. Palanisamy participated.
22 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Contributions for Labour Welfare Fund||Contributions towards the Labour Welfare Fund as per the Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Fund Act for 2020 must be paid by January 31, 2021, the Labour Department said. A release on Monday said employees working in factories, motor transport undertakings, plantations, catering, shops and establishments must contribute Rs. 30. This comprises the employee’s share of Rs. 10 and the employer’s share of Rs. 20. The contributions should be submitted along with Form-A by January 31. The contributions shall be remitted either online atwww.lwb.tn.gov.inor through demand draft drawn in favour of The Secretary, Tamil Nadu Labour Welfare Board.
22 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Tractor usage in Thadagam Valley to be checked||The Transport Department will conduct surprise checks every month to check whether tractors meant for agriculture purposes are being used by the brick kilns in Thadagam valley, said T. Sivagurunathan, Regional Transport Officer, Coimbatore North, here on Monday. Two tractors used for commercial purposes were seized during the surprise check in November. “They were levied a fine of Rs. 20,000 each,” he added. Many activists from Thadagam Valley have alleged that the brick kilns have been using agriculture tractors illegally for commercial purposes such as transport of bricks and red earth. One of the activists, S. Ganesh, claimed that at least 150 such illegal tractors were currently being operated. As the State government subsidised purchase of tractors used for agriculture, the brick kilns purchased these tractors and used them illegally, he alleged. Complaint Mr. Ganesh said he sent a complaint in this regard to Agriculture Department in October, which had recently forwarded the complaint to the Agriculture Engineering Department for further action.
22 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two run over by truck||Two persons were killed when a truck ran over them at Nariyampalli near Avinashi in Tiruppur district on Monday. Police said Nandhagopal Krishnan (41), a junior engineer at the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation’s Annur depot, was driving a two-wheeler from Annur with his friend Ananthakumar (37) on the pillion. When Krishnan tried to avoid hitting a parked vehicle at Nariyampalli, the two fell off the two-wheeler and the truck ran over them. Both of them died on the spot. History-sheeters warned In an effort to curb crimes, the Coimbatore City Police on Monday held a meeting with around 50 history-sheeters to warn them against repeating any crime. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) G. Stalin spoke to the history-sheeters, who had been arrested for crimes and were out on bail, police sources said.
22 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Former Mayor of Coimbatore joins DMK||Former Coimbatore Mayor P. Rajkumar, who was with the AIADMK, joined the DMK in Chennai, on Monday, in the presence of party president M.K. Stalin, general secretary Duraimurugan, and Coimbatore east urban unit in-charge and MLA N. Karthik. Hailing from a family of Congress supporters, Mr. Rajkumar began his political journey with the AIADMK. He served as the Opposition leader in the Coimbatore Corporation Council, the Corporation North Zone chairperson and the AIADMK urban district secretary. The then AIADMK leader and Chief Minister, Jayalalithaa, had nominated him as the party’s candidate for the mayorship by-election. Mr. Rajkumar’s political ascension began with this. After the death of Jayalalithaa, he largely remained on the sidelines, and was hardly seen at AIADMK events. He was not available for comment.
22 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||EVMs arrive from Maharashtra||Ahead of the 2021 Assembly election, electronic voting machines (EVMs) have arrived here from Maharashtra. Collector K. Rajamani, who inspected the EVMs before they were taken to a strong room, told journalists that for the 3,048 polling booths, the administration required 4,267 ballot units, as many control units and 4,500 VVPAT (voter-verifiable paper audit trail) machines. The district had 753 ballot units, 205 control unit and 85 VVPAT machines. Those that arrived on Monday were from Satara in Maharashtra. A few more ballot and control units and VVPAT machines were on their way from Solapur. Engineers from Bharat Electronics Limited would inspect all the machines on December 23, Mr. Rajamani said.
22 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||QCI award for hospital||The Quality Council of India (QCI) recently conferred the QCI-D.L. Shah National Quality Platinum Award on K.G. Hospital for its use of technology to reduce the patient wait and turnaround times. A press release said the hospital used artificial intelligence at its wellness centre and operation theatres. The award was presented during QCI’s virtual conclave held on December 17.     Arun Kumar, Head Operations (Plantations) of Parry Agro Industries, has been elected Chairman of Planters' Association of Tamil Nadu (PAT) for 2020-2021. A press release from the Association said that T.J. Varghese Vaidyan, Senior General Manager of Matheson Bosanquet Enterprises, Nilgiris District, has been elected Vice-Chairman of the Association.
22 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Corruption rampant in T.N., says Udhayanidhi||DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin on Monday claimed that the nine-and-a-half-year rule of the AIADMK government had been marked by rampant corruption. Kick-starting the DMK’s pre-poll road show “Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural” in Cuddalore, he charged that there was complete disregard for good governance in the State. “Wherever I go for campaigning, I noticed there is a big change among the public who want the DMK to come back to power and relieve them of all the hardships faced during the current regime,” he claimed. Mr. Udhayanidhi said that during his interaction with fisherfolk in Devanampattinam, a deluge of complaints poured in over poor upkeep of the Tsunami tenements. The authorities demanded kickback of Rs. 30,000 to Rs. 50,000 from each beneficiary for taking up repair works, he alleged. Mr. Udhayanidhi said the second leg of his road show had been facilitated by the government which had relaxed all the COVID-19 curbs to pave way for the Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s campaign. “I was not allowed to speak during the first leg of the roadshow and the police arrested me again and again for violation of physical distancing guidelines in view of the spread of COVID-19. The DMK’s campaign has evoked an overwhelming response from the public giving the ruling party the jitters which has now relaxed all the norms,” he said. Replying to a question on the Rs. 2,500 cash gift announced by the government for Pongal, he said the DMK had all along been demanding the government to provide a relief of Rs. 5,000 per card holder due to the pandemic. The present relief of Rs. 2,500 is not sufficient and the government should increase it to Rs. 5,000, he said. Replying to another question on actor Rajinikanth’s move to start a political party, he said the actor had cordial relations with the DMK patriarch and former Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi. “There is no threat to the popularity of the DMK from Rajinikanth as the actor had not announced his party,” he said.
22 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||11 test positive in Cuddalore district||Cuddalore district reported 11 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Monday, taking the district’s tally to 24,526. While 24,143 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district stands at 72. In Villupuram district, seven persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 14,877. Kallakurichi district reported nine positive cases, taking the overall count to 10,770.
22 December 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Farm laws needed for the nation, says BJP leader||The three agriculture laws, passed recently, were needed for the nation, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic, said BJP State vice-president K. Annamalai. Addressing reporters in Dindigul on Monday, he contended that the DMK had not opposed the contract farming Act, which was in force in Tamil Nadu since 2014. The party had also made a poll promise in the past that it would eliminate middlemen in the agriculture sector. This is what the BJP government had done through the new laws. The Congress had also stated in its 2019 election manifesto that it would revamp the agriculture sector. Though the BJP and AIADMK were ideologically different, for electoral purposes, the BJP high command would decide about seat sharing and other aspects. The State BJP unit had been touring the State to strengthen the party by enrolling youth and women, he said. He criticised the Pongal gift of Rs. 2,500 announced by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami.
22 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Frost affects watermelon crop in Talavadi hills||With normal life continuing to be affected in Talavadi hills due to frost, farmers said that frost had caused extensive damage to their watermelon crops which will be ready for harvesting in a few weeks. Agriculture is a major activity carried out in the hill that is located on the inter-State border with Karnataka. Vegetables like cabbage, tomato, sugarcane, tapioca, beans, cauliflower, ginger, turnip, potato, radish, garlic and banana are widely cultivated by the farmers as favourable weather prevails at the hills. However, cold and heavy mist for the past 10 days had affected the normal life of the people who cannot commute or work in their fields. Velu, a farmer, who had cultivated watermelon on five-acre holding said that the fruit is ready for harvesting in another one week, but started to rot due to the prevailing frost. “Onset of frost in December that continues in January and February will affect most of the horticultural crops in the hills”, he said and added that survival of the crop will be a question now. S. Manickam, another farmer, said that the fruit, each weighing from one kg to two kg, is usually purchased by traders from Karnataka and from other places in the State and marketed widely. “Frost has started affecting the crops and we fear the yield will be poor”, he said and added that farmers are planning to harvest the crop earlier. Farmers said that while potato and beans can withstand the prevailing climate, watermelon fruit is getting affected the most. “We are trying to spray water on leaves in the early morning”, farmers said.
22 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Implement wage hike from the date of announcement’||Members of the Erode District Local Body Workers’ Association, affiliated to AITUC, has urged the State government to implement the increase of consolidated wage payment to conservancy workers ( Thooimai Kaavalars ) from the date of announcement and not from the date of issue of government order. In a letter to the Chief Minister, AITUC district president S. Chinnasamy said that the Minister for Municipal Administration had on March 16, 2020 in the State Assembly announced that the wage of workers will be hiked from Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 per month. However, no government order was issued and the wage hike was not implemented in the past months. The union along with workers staged many protests and had also sent petitions to the government seeking to implement the wage hike and also pay the dues. A Government Order No. 208 dated December 5, 2020 was issued by the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department that hiked the wages by Rs. 1,000 for 66,025 Thooimai Kaavalars working in 12,524 village panchayats in the State involved in solid waste management activities. The order said that wage hike will be implemented from the date of issue of the G.O. and not from the date of announcement in the Assembly.
22 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Protest against cylinder price hike||Members of the All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIWDA) staged a demonstration condemning the hike in price of LPG cylinder at Veerappanchatiram bus stop here on Monday. They said that the hike in the price of cylinders regularly is affecting the people and urged the government to roll back the recent hike. They also expressed solidarity with the protesting farmers in Delhi. They also wanted the 100 days work under the MGNREGS to be increased to 200 days.
22 December 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Five women pilgrims killed in accident||Five women pilgrims were killed when the tractor they were travelling from Karnataka to a temple in Anchetty turned upside down here on Monday. Axle of wheel snaps The victims were among the women pilgrims from Koralaru village in Kanakapura taluk in Ramnagar district of Karanataka headed to a Sivan temple at Thappakuli here in Anchetty. The incident occurred when when the axle of the tractor wheel snapped Manjukondappalli. The tractor upturned on the road, killing five persons and grievously injuring others. The deceased were identified as Mangalamma (25), Gowramma (60), Puttalingamma (60), Osappamma(80) and Mullamma(80). They died on the spot. Five persons were taken to a private hospital, while five others were taken to Kanakapura taluk hospital. Ten others were taken to Anchetty primary health centre and later shifted to Kanakapura hospital. Anchetty police have registered a case and are investigating.
22 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||People need not dread going to a police station any more||Often people with a grievance hesitate to enter a police station fearing indifferent or cold response they might get from the police personnel. Besides, they fear that they might be forced to wait for hours together. To put an end to these apprehensions, Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha has opened reception centres at all the 27 police stations in the city. Each police station will have a receptionist, preferably a woman police constable or head constable, to receive petitioners and complainants. “We have provided furniture in the front office so that people can sit comfortably before airing their grievance,” Mr. Sinha said. “A major issue is that people are clueless as to whom they should approach on entering a police station. Often they are made to wait in the police station for hours together. Now the receptionist will listen to their problem and guide them to the right officer. For instance, if it is a theft, the complainant will be directed to the crime wing,” he said. No more waiting Mr. Sinha said one such reception centre opened due to the initiative taken by Inspector N. Selvi at Mathichiyam police station has proved to be a successful model. “The petitioner will get clarity on whom to approach for his problem. If a particular officer is not available, he will be guided to another officer or asked to come back at a particular time to meet the right officer. Thereby, the petitioner need not indefinitely wait at the police station and waste his time,” he said. Ms. Selvi said police personnel assigned to receive petitioners had been asked to show patience while listening to their problem. “A glass of water offered to a tense complainant can help him calm down and explain his problem lucidly,” she said. “Since the reception area has been set up on the portico, physical distancing is also being maintained,” she said, pointing to many police personnel in the city getting infected with COVID-19. The station also offers masks to people who come without one. The reception centre will function from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. The receptionist will wear a badge for easy identification and also help in drafting the petitions for unlettered people.  What to expect  The receptionist will guide the complainant to the right officer  Help in drafting the petitions available for unlettered people The reception centre will function from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.
22 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Permission sought for market at Bama Nagar||Members of Madurai Street Vendors; Union petitioned the Collector here on Monday, urging him to permit vegetable vendors to set up market on Sundays at Bama Nagar near P and T Nagar. Union president M. Nanda Singh said the vendors had been setting up weekly market at Uchaparambumedu from 2 p.m. to 9 p.m. on Sundays for the past 15 years until the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. “After the relaxation of lockdown norms, the vendors had set up the weekly market at Uchaparambumedu for two weeks,” he said. However, based on complaints from a few residents, Madurai Corporation disallowed the setting up of weekly market at Uchaparambumedu. Later, the Corporation officials inspected an alternative site and decided that the market can be set up at Bama Nagar near P and T Nagar. But, till date, the Corporation has not given permission to set up the weekly market at Bama Nagar. “It has been more than eight weeks since the Corporation decided to shift the weekly market to Bama Nagar. However, they are delaying the permission to set up the market,” he said. When vegetable vendors tried to set up the market on Sunday, the police personnel asked the vendors to remove the shops, he added. Women vendors were the most affected, said Mr. Singh. “Most of the women are widowed and sell their vegetables at the weekly market as they consider it to be a safe space for earning money. So the district administration must intervene and immediately permit setting up of the weekly market at Bama Nagar,” he added.
22 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC orders action against Nagercoil Bar Association||“Bar leaders are neither labour leaders nor political leaders to call a strike. They are advocates belonging to a noble profession,” the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court observed on Monday while directing the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry to take appropriate action against Nagercoil Bar Association for going on a strike. The court was hearing the petition filed by advocate G. Sivakumar of Kanniyakumari district, a member of Nagercoil Bar Association. The association had called court boycott on December 8 in support of farmers protesting in Delhi. However, Mr. Sivakumar attended the court and argued a case before a Judicial Magistrate, in the interest of his client. Irked by this, the association suspended the advocate’s membership, and issued a show cause notice to him. The petitioner was prevented from entering courts, and denied access to the association library and wash room. He sought action against the association for denying his rights. Taken aback by the conduct of Bar Association members, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that advocates could not resort to strike under any circumstances since aggrieved public were approaching courts for relief. The Supreme Court had deprecated the practice of advocate abstaining from work. As a result of boycotts, justice delivery system was affected. Legal profession was a noble profession and advocates were supposed to discharge their duties not only to their clients, but also to society. Some Bar Associations were indulging in boycotts according to their political or communal affinities, the judges said. The court said this was not only affecting the rights of the litigants, but also advocates who were ready to discharge their duty as per the Advocates Act and the Bar Council Rules. Taking into account the advocate was prevented from attending the court and there was a likelihood of him being abused and assaulted, the judges ordered police protection to him to attend court and use the Bar room. The case was adjourned till January 18.
22 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Spectacle in the sky draws an eager crowd in Madurai||A large number of people gathered at Thirumalairayar Padithurai off the Vaigai here on Monday evening to witness the Great Conjunction, a rare celestial event where Jupiter and Saturn appear to merge. The Madurai branch of Tamil Nadu Science Forum had made arrangements for the public to witness the rare celestial event through three telescopes. TNSF district president M. Rajesh said this would be the closest for the two planets after it happened in 1623. Although the planets would appear close together, they would be about 600 million kilometres apart. The next time the two planets would appear this close in the sky will be in 2080, he added. The crowd gradually swelled at Thirumalairayar Padithurai to witness the conjunction. Many science enthusiasts and students downloaded several applications on their smartphones to view the accurate location of the conjunction. G. Kannan, a resident of Sellur, who had come with his family, said that his children were thrilled to watch the celestial event. “Witnessing the conjunction will kindle an interest towards science among the children,” he said.
22 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||128 motorbikes with altered silencers seized||In a drive against two-wheelers that were making a din with altered silencers, Madurai city police seized 128 such motorbikes in the last five days. A statement said based on the instructions of Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha, the city traffic police conducted special vehicle check in which 128 motorbikes were seized. The loud noise made due to alteration of the silencers were scaring the wits of other road users, especially women, elderly people and children. It would also lead to accidents, the statement said. After booking cases, the vehicles were released to the owners only on production of the original documents. The owners were asked to set right the silencers to their original parameter so that they did not make the strange noise again. Only upon verification, the original documents were handed over to the owners. The Commissioner warned that vehicles of those violating the Motor Vehicle Rules and effecting changes in the silencers would be seized. Warning to workshops The police plan to take stringent action against workshops and dealers who helped in altering the silencers.
22 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Scrap New Pension Scheme’||The government must scrap the New Pension Scheme and revert to the old scheme, said R. Shanmugarajan, State president of Tamil Nadu Government Officials Union. Addressing mediapersons here on Monday, he said the State government had assured last year that the New Pension Scheme would be scrapped. However, no step had been initiated to this effect. The government must handle the medical insurance reimbursements of government employees instead of outsourcing the work to a private company. “Currently, reimbursement is given only when surgeries are performed. But the government must give reimbursement for all medical emergencies, including surgeries,” he said. The government must pay the monetary benefits due to the employees for 21 months from January 2016, based on recommendations of Seventh Pay Commission. Vacancies in all departments must be immediately filled. The government must rectify the issues with Integrated Financial and Human Resource Management System. Employees who died due to COVID-19 must be given financial assistance of Rs. 50 lakh, as announced by the Chief Minister. The government must stop the practice of outsourcing employees in all the departments. In the third week of January, a massive protest would be staged in Chennai, pressing for these demands, he said. Suruliraj, State general secretary of the Union, was present.
22 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Wife of fireman killed on Deepavali day ends life||S. Angayarkanni (29), wife of K. Sivarajan (33), one of the two firemen who were killed in the roof-collapse at a textile shop here while fighting a fire in the early hours of Deepavali day, committed suicide on Monday. Police said Angayarkanni was found hanging in the house of her parents at Seenivasa Colony under Nagamalai Pudukottai police station limits. She was rushed to Tirupparankundram Government Hospital, where doctors declared her brought dead. A mother of two sons, aged six and one, Angayarkanni had been depressed following her husband’s death even after she moved from her in-laws’ house at Chekkanoorani to her parent’s house in Nagamalai Pudukottai, the police said. When her parents had gone to hospital taking the two boys along with them on Monday, she hanged herself in the house. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on State’s health helpline 104 and Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
22 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Opposition leaders spread false news about farm laws: Kushboo||Opposition parties spread false news about the three agricultural laws and instigate farmers to protest against them, said claimed Bharatiya Janata Party functionary and actor Kushboo Sundar in Madurai on Monday. Campaigning in favour of the three laws, she told journalists, “If the opposition leaders read the laws in detail, they will know that they are in favour of the farmers. Only farmers from Punjab and Haryana were protesting against the laws. Their counterparts in Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka and north-eastern states have not protested as they knew that these laws will benefit them,” she said. Though massive farmers’ protests were staged in 2018, the BJP won the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. “It was because the people were confident that the BJP government will work for their benefit,” she said. When asked if she would contest the upcoming Assembly elections, she replied that she would abide by the party leaders’ decision. The people had no complaints against the ruling AIADMK, she said. On actor Rajinikanth’s proposed political party, she said that any comment could be made only after he makes an announcement (on party launch) on December 31.
22 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court pained by caste discrimination||Expressing deep pain over the prevailing caste-based discrimination, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday said, “We have to hang our heads in shame.” The bench initiated suo motu proceedings based on a news report about a group of Scheduled Caste people in Melur in Madurai district who were forced to carry a body through an agricultural field as there was no pathway leading to the burial ground. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that even now Scheduled Caste people were not getting basic amenities and were being discriminated against. The lack of a pathway forced them to carry the deceased through an agricultural field. Every village should have a proper pathway leading to burial grounds. Since there were reports about the lack of proper pathways for the Scheduled Caste people to carry the deceased, the court thought it fit to take up the issue as a public interest litigation petition, the judges said. “Not only the living, but also the dead should be treated with dignity,” the judges said and put forth a series of questions to the State government. The court asked how many SC community habitations were there in the State and if basic amenities like drinking water and pathways were provided to them. The court asked if steps were taken to provide them in the colonies. It asked the State to file a detailed response to the queries on January 20, 2021. However, with regard to the Melur incident, the court sought response on December 23.
22 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||As the TANGEDCO plans to carry out monthly maintenance on December 23 (Wednesday), there will be no electricity supply from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the following areas: Sholavandan, Thachampathu, Thiruvedagam, Melakkal, Kachirairuppu, Narayanapuram, Oothukuli, Thenkarai, Mullipallam, Mannadimangalam, Kadupatti, Irumbadi, Alankottaram, Rishabam, Rayapuram, Nagari Industrial area and other areas supply served by Sholavandhan Substation, a press release from the Executive Engineer S Arumugaraj has said.
22 December 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||‘State govt. has not kept its promise to build groynes’||Fishers of Samanthanpettai hamlet kept off sea on Monday in protest against the delay in construction of groynes. The State government had promised to construct the groynes at a cost of Rs. 75 lakh in 2015, but had not fulfilled it, the fishers said and threatened to go on indefinite strike and boycott elections to the Assembly. Over 3,000 fishers in the hamlet sought the structure for prevention of coastal erosion and to ensure safety of their boats. In the absence of the facility that helped in controlling water currents and keeping the shore calm, they found it an ordeal to anchore their boats in the vicinity of the shoreline. Senior officials held talks with representatives of the fishers, but they did not budge, sources said. “With the amount sanctioned during 2015, the Fisheries Department constructed an auction hall and other facilities including provision for fishing net mending,” a senior official said. There was indeed a requirement for groynes at the location. So was the case in all other fishing hamlets abutting the open sea. But it would entail huge expenditure, sources said. The process of construction of groynes at Samanthanpettai had to begin with formulation of a proposal by the Fisheries Harbour division. As such, the department was not in a position to give any commitment on the issue, the official said. Meanwhile, the fishers resolved to stand their ground until the government came up with a concrete assurance for creating the facility, the sources added.
22 December 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||5 teens nabbed for burning man alive||Kottar police have arrested five teens for allegedly burning alive a man, aged around 60, under the influence of alcohol. The police said five teens consumed liquor on Sunday night after the girlfriend of one of them ended her friendship with him. When they were returning to their homes in the night, they burnt alive a man who was sleeping near the road in a secluded area at Kottar. Then, the teens left the place. The gruesome murder came to light on Monday afternoon, and Kottar police started investigation. With the evidence they collected from the scene of crime, the police picked up the five teens for interrogation. Further investigations are on.
22 December 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||DMK man hacked to death||A DMK functionary was hacked to death during the late hours of Sunday at Komarapalayam. According to police, the deceased was identified as Saravanan from Kaveri Nagar. On Sunday night, while Saravanan was chatting with his friends near his residence unidentified persons, who came in a two-wheeler, pushed Saravanan and hacked him to death. His friends, Prabhakaran and Muralidharan who suffered injuries in the attack have been admitted at at Erode Government Hospital.
22 December 2020||New Delhi,TAMIL NADU||Central team to assess cyclone damage||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has deputed an inter-ministerial central team to Tamil Nadu to assess the damage caused by cCclone Burevi. The team, led by a Joint Secretary-rank officer, will assess the damage caused by the cyclone and submit its report. “The team will shortly visit cyclone-affected districts of the State,” a tweet by the Ministry of Home Affairs said. Tamil Nadu and Puducherry received heavy rainfall under the influence of Cyclone Burevi in the first week of December.
22 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Allotment list for medical courses published||The Centralised Admission Committee (Centac) has published the first round of provisional allotment list for NEET-related medical courses in the Union Territory. The admission committee had already alerted the students about the availability of the list on the website. Candidates who have been allotted the seats should download the allotment order using their dashboard login credentials, a release from Centac said. The students could report to the respective colleges till December 24 either in person or via online. The candidates were requested to transfer the fee fixed by the government to Centac account by generating NEFT challan using their dashboard login credentials and proceed for payment. The fee collected would be transferred to the respective colleges. Tuition fee details are posted on the website, the release said. The list classifies students under government, management and NRI quota towards admission for medical degree courses at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Research Institute (IGGMC& RI) and private medical institutes such as Pondicherry Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), Sri Manakula Vinayagar Medical College and Research Institute (SMVMC & RI), Sri Venkateswara Medical College and Research Institute (SVMC & RI), Rajiv Gandhi Ayurvedic Medical College, Mahe, Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Dental Sciences, Puducherry, Mahe Institute of Dental Sciences and Sri Venkateswara Dental College. As per data available with Centac, 136 candidates were selected in the first round for admission under government quota and 22 under management quota at IGGMC&RI. The three private medical colleges together have a combined intake of 450 students. Allotment letters were issued to 155 candidates under government quota in these institutes. The remaining would be filled under management, minority and NRI quota.  136 candidates were selected under the government quota and 22 under management quota at IGGMC&RI
22 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Tempers run high at SC, ST members’ welfare panel meet||A meeting of the State-level high committee for Adi Dravidar and Scheduled Tribes Welfare on Monday turned into a forum for community members to vent their anger on various issues. The meeting chaired by Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy and attended by Social Welfare Minister M. Kandasamy saw community leaders raising issues such as under-utilisation of funds allotted for special component plan (SCP) and non-cooperation of top bureaucrats in implementing welfare schemes meant for Scheduled Castes and Tribes. Former Congress legislator Neela Gangadharan, who spoke first, said the funds allotted for implementing various welfare and development schemes under SCP remained unutilised every year. The fund budgeted was meant to be utilised by 22 departments. But except for Adi Dravidar and Scheduled Tribes Welfare Department, others failed to utilise the funds properly, he charged. The Education Department provided financial assistance to primary class students belonging to other communities, but not to SC and ST sections, he said. Promises not kept Former Janata Dal legislator Murthy said the government was unable to deliver several of its promises, including free distribution of rice. The government wanted to distribute rice but was able only to transfer the amount to beneficiaries’ accounts. The head of the family often withdrew the money and spent it for his personal purpose instead of buying rice, he said. The attitude of government Secretaries was evident even at the meeting as most of them skipped the event itself, he remarked. The comment drew the attention of other representatives asking the government to initiate proceedings against the absentee Secretaries. L-G blamed The sharp reactions prompted the Chief Minister to intervene. The Chief Minister said the government was keen to provide rice that was the reason why he approached the court on the issue. The government was willing to buy rice from FCI. The former Union Union Minister for Consumer Affairs and Food Ram Vilas Paswan had even promised to supply the rice. The Lt. Governor, however, prevailed upon the Union Home Ministry to force his government to transfer money instead of rice. And on the issue of absence of officials, Mr. Narayanasamy said the Chief Secretary was not a member of the committee and hence, he was not present. He promised to seek clarification from other Secretaries. Again tempers ran high when VCK principal secretary Deva Pozhilan spoke. He wanted the directors of various departments present at the meeting to personally reveal the fund utilised by them under SCP. Media asked to leave The Chief Minister tried to convince them that a handout given to the participants contained department-wise allocation. But when a few other participants joined Mr. Pozhilan in insisting on directors to reveal fund utilisation at the meeting personally, the Chief Minister asked the media to leave the venue. An official with the Social Welfare Department told The Hindu that the meeting ended with Chief Minister promising participants that files on financial assistance for students pursuing higher education would be sent to the Lt.Governor. The file pertaining to increased financial assistance for building houses from Rs. 4 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh would also be sent for clearance to the Lt Governor. He promised to consult the members on deciding the next course of action if the files were returned, the official said.
22 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records one more death||Puducherry recorded one more COVID-19 death on Monday raising the toll to 627 while new cases in the last 24 hours dropped to 14. The death of an 85-year old man in Karaikal has taken the toll in the enclave to 61. Of the new cases, which were detected while testing 1,971 samples, seven were from Mahe, six from Puducherry and one from Karaikal. The number of active cases stood at 332 after 26 people recovered. While 192 patients are in hospital, 140 are in home isolation. The test positivity rate was 0.71%, case fatality rate 1.66% and recovery rate 97.46%. The Health Department has to date tested 4.56 lakh samples of which 4.14 lakh were negative. A. Anbarasu, Commissioner, Relief and Rehabilitation, sent out a public audio message cautioning about the emergence of a variant of coronavirus in the U.K. that was reported to be 70% more transmissible. He said the VUI strain was also being reported in Denmark, the Netherlands and Australia and led the WHO to issue caution. The Joint Monitoring Group under the Director General of Health Services had also appealed to States and Union Territories to tighten safety and prevention measures. In spite of the marked decline in the coronavirus caseload in Puducherry, the level of vigilance had to remain high especially with the Christmas-New Year season around the corner, Mr. Anbarasu said.
22 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Anbalagan seeks Pongal gift for ration card holders||AIADMK leader A. Anbalagan has sought Pongal gift for ration card holders in Puducherry on the lines of the Rs. 2,500 announced by Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. Hailing the Tamil Nadu government for setting an example for other States through this measure during the pandemic, Mr. Anbalagan said on similar lines the Puducherry government too should give a cash gift to the estimated 3.25 lakh ration card holders in the U.T. The AIADMK will meet Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi seeking sanction of the amount required for such a measure, he said. The AIADMK leader also condemned the act of Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy tearing up the copies of the Farm Reforms Acts at a solidarity fast organised by the Congress here recently. The people would see through the posturing as Mr. Narayanasamy had first welcomed schemes of the Centre such as GST and DBT and later turned against them, he said.
22 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Case filed against 4 men||The Nettapakkam police have registered a case against four unknown persons for desecration of Ambedkar statue at Sooramangalam. A case has been registered under Sections 153 A, 295 of IPC and provisions of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes Community (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Act.
22 December 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Agitation by Tangedco staff in Pudukottai||A section of Tangedco employees staged a waiting agitation here on Monday in support of their demands. The agitation was held in Tangedco Superintending Engineer office campus from around 11 a.m. to 6.40 p.m., according to police sources. The protesters wanted the State government to regularise contract workers who had served during Okhi, Vardha and Gaja cyclones. They also demanded filling up of vacant posts of Technical Assistant and Assistant Engineer among others. The waiting agitation call was given by Tangedco trade unions joint action committee.
22 December 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||DMK cadres stage demo against hike in LPG price||Members of the DMK led by former MP Bhavani Rajendran protested against the hike in the LPG refill introduced by the Centre. Staging a demonstration near Aranmanai here on Monday, the DMK members said that it was shocking for the womenfolk, as the Union government had hiked the price not once, but twice within 30 days. At a time, when the people were yet to come out of the covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent losses due to the curfew and lock down, such a measure to hike the price of the LPG was like an electric shock to the people. They shouted slogans against the Centre and also demanded repeal of the farmers' law among others.  Dindigul The CPI (M) women staged a demonstration in front of the West Taluk office condemning the Central government for increasing the LPG cylinder price by Rs. 100. Former CPI (M) MLA Balabharathi and others shouted slogans urging the authorities to roll back the price immediately. It appears to be a routine affair for the BJP at the Centre to irk the common man. Already, the farmers were protesting for almost three weeks now in New Delhi demanding the Centre to withdraw the ' draconian' agriculture laws. When the issue was still burning, the Central government had increased the LPG price by Rs. 100, they charged. The DMK women's wing members numbering about 1,500 also staged a demonstration in Palani and Natham in which the DMK MLAs I.P. Senthil Kumar and Andi Ambalam participated.  Sivaganga Former Minister K.R. Periakaruppan led the demonstration at Karaikudi where the DMK women's wing members led by Bhavani Ganesan and others participated. The members criticised the Centre and the AIADMK government in Tamil Nadu. The elections to be held next year would teach a lesson both to the BJP and the AIADMK, they claimed.  Thoothukudi Condemning the liquefied petroleum cooking gas cylinder price hike, the DMK women’s wing members staged demonstration here on Monday. Led by party’s MP K. Kanimozhi, the women’s wing cadre raised slogans against the price hike, saying that the uncontrolled increase in the price of LPG cylinder would hit hard everyone except the rich. Addressing the protesters, Ms. Kanimozhi said the Narendra Modi-led Union Government, which had promised to create 2.50 crore new jobs per year, had killed thousands of industries over the past six years through its anti-industrial policies, demonetization and erratically designed and introduced GST. Education, healthcare, employment, poverty alleviation etc. had taken a beating due to these ‘anti-people’ policies. In Palayamkottai, the DMK women’s wing organised a demonstration after garlanding LPG cylinders while a similar protest was conducted near Tenkasi taluk office, in which party’s Tenkasi south district in-charge Siva Padmanathan addressed.
22 December 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Farmers complain of crop loss due to rainfall in Ramanathapuram district||Farmers from Mudukulathur block in the district and peripheries complained to the Collector that their crops had washed away in the rainfall, here on Monday at the weekly grievance redressal meeting. Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver, who presided over the meeting, received petitions from the public. According to the farmers representative Singarayar, at least 2500 acres of chilly and other crops, including paddy, were raised in Michaelpattinam, Ponnaganeri and other surrounding places. They complained that on the one side the heavy rainfall had resulted in waterlogging in the fields and in some other cases, the recently desilted tanks done in 'kudimaramathu' had not been completed properly. As a result, the water flowed from the tank into the fields and that there was no way out for it to be drained by them, they charged. The farmers who had grown chilly said that they had spent a minimum of Rs. 25,000 per acre and expected the government to give them relief at the earliest. The Collector also gave away relief cheques to the tune of Rs. 10 lakh to 11 beneficiaries who had lost their kith/kin in road accidents or suffered multiple injuries. Similarly, five differently-abled people received new two-wheelers (altered) at Rs. 3.09 lakh which could be used by them, a press release said.
22 December 2020||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Bring back fishermen jailed in Sri Lanka’||Members from All Fishermen Associations staged a demonstration on the shores of Mandapam on Monday, demanding the Central government to immediately bring back the arrested fishermen by the Sri Lankan Navy on Dec 15 on the charges of violating the IMBL. About 35 fishermen from Rameswaram, Mandapam, Thangachimadam, Thoothukudi and Pudukottai, along with their seven mechanised boats, were detained by the Sri Lankan Navy personnel on the charges of crossing the Indian waters while fishing. The demonstrators, led by association leader Sesu Raja, said that though there was information that the Centre had been invited for talks with the Sri Lankan authorities with regard to the detention of the fishermen on December 30, it should be preponed and a favourable action should be taken at the earliest. Qurantined The Sri Lankan authorities, according to the reports available here, had quarantined the fishermen for 14 days after which they would be sent to the prisons in the country. After the Burevi Cyclone, when the fishermen ventured into the sea on December 14, they were arrested the following day.
22 December 2020||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Refugee camp escapee returns after a year, arrested||Mujibur Rahman (35), who had illegally reached Mandapam seashore from Sri Lanka in a fibreglass boat on Sunday, was arrested by police on Monday. Preliminary inquiries revealed that Rahman was a resident of Mandapam Refugee Camp for Sri Lankans. He had come here with his family in 1990 and married a woman here. The couple have a daughter. In December 2019, Rahman reportedly left the camp and clandestinely went to Sri Lanka along with four others, including a woman, in a stolen boat. As they reached the Sri Lankan waters, the authorities there arrested them. They were later sent to jail, investigations revealed. After obtaining bail a few months ago, Rahman again reached Mandapam seashore on Sunday night and sneaked into the refugee camp. As the police came to know of it, they interrogated Rahman’s relatives and found that he was hiding in his brother’s house in the camp. After questioning him, Q Branch police produced him before a court. He might be sent to Puzhal Central Prison, Chennai, a senior officer said.
22 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||DMK confident of winning 200 seats in Assembly poll: Dayanidhi Maran||Dayanidhi Maran, MP, said that Dravdia Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) is confident of winning 200 seats in the upcoming Assembly elections as said by the party president M.K. Stalin. Mr. Maran was here on Monday to campaign as part of Vidiyalai Nokki Stalinin Kural programme. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Maran said that Mr. Stalin has the support of the public. He said, “if Prime Minister Narendra Modi is sincerely against graft, he should launch raids at the residences of State Ministers and their kin.”  On Pongal cash gift of Rs. 2,500, Mr. Maran said, “DMK leader requested the government to provide cash relief of Rs. 7,500 during the COVID-19 pandemic. But the Chief Minister said that the State treasury was empty.” On cancellation of winter session of Parliament, Mr. Maran questioned while Tasmac shops, cinemas and even when schools are open why not Parliament? He said the Centre is wasting public money of approximately Rs. 10,000 crore in the name of new Parliament. On Pattali Makkal Katchi’s demand for 20% reservation for Vanniyar community and whether the party would join DMK alliance, Mr.Maran said, “we did not know with whom they are holding talks now.” Mr. Maran met with construction workers, silver anklet manufacturers, artisans and people from various other walks of life and heard their grievances.
22 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco staff protest outsourcing of maintenance works||Members of various trade unions under electricity department staged a protest in front of the residence of Superintending Engineer here on Monday demanding steps to withdraw move to outsource maintenance works at five substations here. The protesters complained that the department had already outsourced maintenance works at five substations in State and they are now outsourcing various other works now, including providing new connections to private parties.
22 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Man sentenced to 10 years under POCSO Act||The Special Court for POCSO cases here on Monday sentenced a daily wage earner to 10 years of imprisonment for sexually assaulting a three-and-a-half year old girl. According to police, Periyasami sexually assaulted the child while she was sleeping. Based on the complaint by the victim’s mother, Sooramangalam All Women Police Station registered a case. The court also imposed a fine of Rs. 25,000.
22 December 2020||Sattur,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK MLA flays Rajenthra Bhalaji for ‘ignoring’ hard working cadres||Infighting in the ruling AIADMK in Virudhunagar district was open yet again on Monday with party MLA M.S.R. Rajavarman saying that Minister for Dairy Development K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji would be taught a lesson in the ensuing election for "ignoring" hard working cadres of the party and giving party posts to “outsiders.” Addressing his supporters in Sattur, he charged that Mr. Bhalaji, "who has distanced himself from the real party workers", would be taught a lesson by the cadres and functionaries in the general election to Assembly. “We will give him a befitting reply … in four months. Be it Sivakasi, Rajapalayam or Virudhunagar Assembly constituency, people will teach him a lesson,” he said. Mr. Rajavarman alleged that Mr. Bhalaji had a secret relationship with the DMK. Claiming that the Minister had furthered his self-interest in the last 10 years in office, he said he had not helped the party cadres. The MLA also charged that the Minister had threatened him with dire consequences.
22 December 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Teacher held for misbehaving with old student||The Courtallam police have arrested a married teacher for allegedly misbehaving with a girl student, who had left the school in 2017 itself. Police said Manmatharaj, 35, of Azhagunatchiyarpuram near Sankarankovil, who is working with the Government Higher Secondary School at Kuruvikulam, had developed a relationship with a girl student when she was studying in the school in 2017. Even after the girl left the school in 2017 and joined nursing training programme, the relationship continued. When the girl contacted Manmatharaj over the phone to clarify her doubts in her nursing programme, he asked her to come to Courtallam, where he was enjoying the weekend. After the girl came to Courtallam on Monday, he took her to a park where he allegedly misbehaved with her. As the girl screamed for help, the passers-by informed the Courtallam police who arrested Manmatharaj.
22 December 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Reopen direct purchase centre, say protesters||Traffic on Orathanadu-Vallam Road at Thennamanadu was disrupted on Monday after farmers parked tractors on the road protesting ‘non-functioning’ of a direct purchase centre (DPC) in their area. The DPC was closed following heavy rain during the past few weeks. On Monday, some farmers harvesting the paddy crop went to the centre to find out if it was opened or not. As the gates remained locked, they brought their tractors and parked them on Orathanadu-Vallam Road. As a result, traffic was disrupted for a few hours. On hearing about the protest, police rushed to the spot and pacified the demonstrators. They said their plea for reopening of the DPC would be conveyed to authorities. The farmers then removed their vehicles from the road. Meanwhile, Thamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam on Monday passed a resolution warning the Tamil Nadu government that a State-wide agitation would be organised if the free farm power supply scheme was scrapped as a fall out of the Electricity Amendment Bill. The resolution was passed at a memorial meeting of C. Narayanasamy Naidu held here. The Sangam observed that farmers feared that they would be at the mercy of private mandi owners as the new farm laws did not assure the minimum support price. Further, if the free farm power supply scheme was withdrawn despite an assurance from the Chief Minister, the Sangam would organise State-wide mass demonstrations. It had also chalked out plans to conduct a demonstration demanding waiver of all loans obtained by farmers. The meetwas presided by Thanajvur, Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam district coordinator P. Jagadeesan and attended by State president S.A. Chinnasamy and vice-president T. Manimozhiyan.
22 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||DMK cadres stage protest against LPG price hike||Condemning the liquefied petroleum cooking gas cylinder price hike, the DMK women’s wing members staged demonstration here on Monday. Led by party’s MP K. Kanimozhi, the women’s wing cadre raised slogans against the price hike, saying that the uncontrolled increase in the price of LPG cylinder would hit hard everyone except the rich. Addressing the protestors, Ms. Kanimozhi said the Narendra Modi-led Union Government, which had promised to create 2.50 crore new jobs per year, had killed thousands of industries over the past six years through its anti-industrial policies, demonetization and erratically designed and introduced GST. Education, healthcare, employment, poverty alleviation etc. had taken a beating due to these ‘anti-people’ policies. In Palayamkottai, the DMK women’s wing organised a demonstration after garlanding LPG cylinders while a similar protest was conducted near Tenkasi taluk office, in which party’s Tenkasi south district in-charge Siva Padmanathan addressed.
22 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Sterlite panel summons Rajini||The Justice Aruna Jagadeesan Commission, probing the police firing at anti-Sterlite protesters that killed 13 persons, has summoned actor Rajinikanth to appear before it on January 19, for examination. He had asserted that anti-social elements had infiltrated the protest, to unleash violence during the agitation. This is the second summon from the Commission to the actor, after he failed to appear on February 25 this year. Mr. Rajinikanth, while visiting those injured during the firing, had said that anti-social elements, who infiltrated the protest, had triggered violence, leading to the police firing. Despite sharp criticism from various quarters, including parties, the actor had refused to change his stance. Subsequently, he was summoned by the Commission to appear before it on February 25. However, the actor had failed to appear. His counsel informed the Commission, through an affidavit, that his client could not honour the summon as his personal appearance would cause inconvenience to the people. The actor is currently busy with the shooting of his next movie Annaatha in Hyderabad. He has announced that he will launch his political outfit in January.
22 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Poor waste management at Tiruchi fish market||Consumers visiting the newly constructed Kasivilangi Fish Market and residents in the nearby Kuzhumani Road are irked by the poor waste management at the market. While the civic body claims it is the responsibility of vendors to keep the premises clean, the vendors say the civic body has not made necessary provisions. Sanitation at the fish market has been an issue for residents and consumers since its opening in October. The civic body haphazardly shifted the vendors from Puthur Market without proper infrastructure, creating unhygienic conditions space, they allege. While retail vendors sell their ware from the parking lot, fish waste, thermocol containers used to transport the fish and waste water from the wholesale shops fill the area, making for unhygienic surroundings and an unbearable foul smell. “They have constructed a small gutter, half a foot in width. How is that sufficient for waste water to flow? There is no designated area to dump the garbage either. All vendors, especially those who clean the fish at the back end of the market collect it through the entire day,” a vendor said. The civic body has not even created a designated garbage dumping area. V. Rajendran, president of the fish market association, says vendors stand in the unhygienic water to sell fish, exposing themselves to infections. “We were better off in Puthur. There are no facilities for here us here” he says. N. Jamaluddin, former president, Tamil Nadu Consumer Rights Council has written to the Collector seeking his intervention. In the letter, he claims that the civic body has made errors in construction of the market. Water will be used in large quantities in a fish market to ensure its hygiene. Here, there is no supply or route for the water to drain. It is a waste of public money.” The civic body claims that the Puthur market was shifted due to unhygienic conditions but the condition in Kasivilangi is worse, he adds. Meanwhile, city traffic police on Monday visited the market to take stock of the new shed being constructed to accommodate retail vendors. “By constructing these shops, they will obstruct entry of trucks within the market, and in turn, the trucks will block the road,” a traffic police officer says. A meeting will be organised with officials of the civic body to discuss the same, he adds.
22 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Four railway stations get security system under Nirbhaya Fund||A surveillance cameras-based monitoring system will be soon be in place at four more important railway stations in Tiruchi Railway Division. Over 150 cameras have been installed at Villupuram, Thanjavur, Mayiladuthurai and Kumbakonam stations by the railway administration to serve as manpower multiplier in enhancing security and surveillance. The cameras, connected to monitors established at the four stations for RPF personnel to keep round-the-clock vigil, are ready for commissioning. Villupuram and Thanjavur have 40 each, Mayiladuthurai junction 41 and Kumbakonam 30. The cameras have been installed at the entrance, platforms, passenger and circulating areas and reservation centres, after RPF and railway officials of the Signal and Telecommunication department conducted joint inspection at the four stations and identified the vantage locations. The Internet Protocol cameras have been installed to enhance security and surveillance at the four stations, which are major ones in the rilway division, says a senior RPF officer. The system has been installed under Nirbhaya Fund and will serve as a manpower multiplier in enhancing security and surveillance. The cameras have a 30-day backup facility that will enable RPF, which is vested with the responsibility of ensuring security at railway stations and on board trains, to examine footage to identify criminals committing crimes on the premises and in the vicinity. They can be utilised by any security agency for investigation, the officer further said. With more number of special trains being operated during the COVID-19 pandemic, RPF of Tiruchi Division has been deploying train escort teams on board express trains when they pass through the jurisdiction of Tiruchi division. Train escort parties are being deployed every day in 17 to 20 express trains that are being run only with reserved coaches on the mainline section, chord line section and other stretches falling under the division. .
22 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||93 new cases, 2 deaths in central districts||Ninety-three patients tested positive for COVID 19 in the central region on Monday. Two deaths, one each in Karur and Thanjavur, were recorded in the region, according to the bulletin released by the Department of Health and Family Welfare. A 75-year-old man from Karur with a history of diabetes and another 75-year-old man from Thanjavur who had been suffering from coronary artery disease died of the viral infection. Thanjavur reported 27 fresh cases for the viral infection, the highest in the region on Monday. Among them were primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. All other districts in the region reported below 25 cases. Twenty-one patients tested positive in Tiruchi. Among them were local index cases with no travel or contact history or patients with a history of Influenza-Like Illnesses and their immediate contacts. Nine patients who were undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection on Monday. Nagapattinam and Karur reported equal fresh cases for the viral infection with 13 patients testing positive. Among the patients who tested positive in Karur were residents of Mettupatti and Gandhigramam. Interdistrict travellers also tested positive. Tiruvarur reported a marked drop in COVID-19 cases on Monday with eight patients testing positive. Meanwhile, Pudukottai continued to report a low number of cases with seven fresh cases reported. Four patients tested positive in Ariyalur district while in Perambalur, no new patients tested positive for COVID-19, recording a sharp fall in cases in the two neighbouring districts. Meanwhile, a total of 360 throat swabs were lifted at the government hospitals and primary healthcare centres in the district and sent for testing.
22 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees protests by women’s outfits, farmers and fishermen||The DMK’s women’s wing on Monday staged demonstrations in Tiruchi, Perambalur, Ariyalur and other districts in the central region condemning the hike in price of LPG domestic cylinders. The demonstrations in Tiruchi were held near the old Collectorate and at Chinthamani. The demonstration at Chinthamani was led by women’s wing district secretary Leela Velu. State women’s wing vice-president Salma participated. The demonstration near the Collectorate was led by city deputy secretary Vijaya Jayaraj. Around 700 members took part at both places. In Perambalur Town, around 250 members staged the demonstration led by district secretary Mahadevi Jayapal at old bus stand. In Ariyalur Town, the stir was held near Anna Silai led by party coordinator Vijayalakshmi. Women associations in Thanjavur on Monday staged a demonstration demanding withdrawal of the three new farm laws enacted by the Union government. Participating in demonstrations organised jointly by Pengal Udhavum Karangal and All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA), the protesters raised slogans urging the Centre to withdraw the laws and refrain from bringing the curtains down on the public distribution system. The demonstrators led by Nazeena Begam of PUK and R. Kalaiselvi and S.Thamizhselvi of AIDWA and other office-bearers of the organisations also demanded distribution of ration free of cost through PDS outlets and disbursement of loans without any conditions for women living below the poverty line. As a mark of protest against the steep hike in the price of liquefied petroleum gas cylinders, the protesters displayed firewood stoves at the venue.
22 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||139-year-old basilica makes it to tourism department’s ‘places of interest’ list||Barring a few iconic structures, most historic monuments and places of interest in the city have not received the attention they deserve. The Tourism Department recently updated a list of places of interests in Tiruchi district. “Be it local residents or foreign visitors, many are not quite aware of places that are of cultural and architectural value. So we decided to include lesser known spots in the district to encourage more people to visit them,” T. Jegatheswari, Tourism Officer, told The Hindu . ‘Historically important’ “These are places not just of religious significance, but also of educational and historic importance,” she said. One such addition is the 139-year-old Holy Redeemer’s Basilica in Palakkarai. Consecrated on June 29, 1881, the Roman Catholic Church was built on land gifted by Diwan Kanjamalai Mudaliar. Its striking design, in an Indo-Gothic architectural style, makes ample use of windows and vents to optimise the city’s natural sunlight. Holy Redeemer’s Basilica is also known locally for its Sahaya Matha Kovil in honour of the many miracles that are thought to have taken place through Mother Mary (also referred to as ‘Mother of Perpetual Succour’) at the shrine here. “The novena [prayers repeated for nine days or weeks] was started by Redemptorist priest Rev. Fr. Francis in 1957,” Rector and Parish Priest Fr. S. Arokiaraj of Holy Redeemer’s Basilica (Sahaya Matha Shrine) said. Besides an imposing altar showing Jesus Christ as the saviour, the walls of the basilica have paintings and statuettes of Biblical significance. The portrait at Sahaya Matha Shrine has been executed in the traditions of Eastern Art, and is traditionally said to have been drawn by the evangelist St. Luke. In 2006, the church was raised to the status of a minor basilica by Pope Benedict XVI on the recommendation of Rt. Rev. Dr. Antony Devotta, Bishop of Tiruchi. The basilica joins Our Lady of Lourdes Church, situated within the campus of St. Joseph’s Autonomous College, as the two Christian places of worship on the Tourism Department’s updated list this year. Information on 32 places are being collated to include the latest visitor information and will be published on the websites of Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation and the district administration, said Ms. Jegatheswari. “Our aim is to make people appreciate these places and safeguard them for future generations,” she added.
22 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Lorry owners urge CM to convene talks and address demands||Lorry owners in the State have appealed to the Chief Minister and the Transport Minister to call them for talks immediately to address their charter of demands and avert an indefinite truckers’ strike from December 27. The strike call, given by the State Lorry Owners’ Federation, Tamil Nadu, has received the backing of the South Zone Motor Transporters’ Welfare Association (SIMTA), an apex organisation of truckers, transporters and passenger vehicle operators. ‘Last resort’ Addressing the media in Tiruchi on Monday, SIMTA general secretary G.R. Shanmugappa said the lorry owners had been pressing the State government to concede their eight-point charter of demands for the past six months, and had decided to go on strike as the last resort. It takes three to four days to obtain a fitness certificate for goods vehicles in the State. However, the certificate is being issued in three to four hours in Karnataka, he claimed. Nearly 1.5 lakh vehicles from Tamil Nadu are being registered in the neighbouring State due to this problem, leading to the loss of several crores of rupees for the Tamil Nadu government, Mr. Shanmugappa alleged.
22 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Cancellation of half-yearly exam comes as no surprise, say govt. teachers||Teachers of government and government-aided schools say they are not unduly surprised over the decision of the School Education Department to cancel half-yearly exams. “Leave alone completing the portions, we are still groping in the dark to establish an interface with students. We have not met the students since March, and cancellation of the exam was the only option for the government,” a teacher of an aided school in Tiruchi said. The teachers had some hope that the half-yearly exams could be conducted at least in a curtailed manner had the schools reopened on November 16 as per the earlier plan. The prevailing pandemic situation was cited by the government for postponement of the day of re-opening, and no date has been announced as yet. While the private schools have been conducting classes online and giving assignments to students to keep them pre-occupied, the government and government-aided schools have not been able to maintain the contact with students. “We did form WhatsApp groups for dissemination of subject contents. But, the measure means precious little in the absence of reciprocation from the side of students. In the first place, a majority of students do not possess smart phones for attending the online classes. Secondly, most of the small section of students who possess such phones are simply not interested in attending online classes. Their socio-economic background is such that monitoring their academic progress is not a priority for the parents who are, in most cases, under compulsion to earn their daily bread,” a headmaster said on condition of anonymity. “In fact, we feel guilty about not being able to do justice to the monthly salary we get,” a teacher said. The teachers are not sure if the ‘all pass’ policy of the government could be extended to this academic year. “Last year, there was a possibility to factor in performance of students in quarterly and half-yearly exams. This year, not even a small test has been conducted. No parameter is in sight for adjudging the performance of students” another teacher pointed out. It remains to be seen what kind of exam will be conducted for Plus Two students for whom evaluation of performance will the basis for admission into higher educational institutions, and appearing in entrance exams for admission into professional courses. Teachers predict that the school education department will be left with no choice other than conducting small tests with objective type questions during the last few months of this academic year for all levels. Official sources say though there are possibilities for starting regular classes in a staggered manner from the latter part of January, the mode of exams has not been decided as yet.
22 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||BHELSIA for modification of sub-debt scheme||BHEL Small Industries Association (BHELSIA) has conveyed to the Union Finance Ministry the necessity to modify the sub-debt scheme announced by the government to enable enterprises in the MSME category to tide over the crisis caused by COVID pandemic. In a meeting with Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman last week, a BHELSIA team led by its president Rajappa Rajkumar explained why the sub-debt scheme in the present form has not been of help to the stressed units of Tiruchi MSME engineering cluster. The Finance Minister had suggested that the BHELSIA prevail upon the MSME Ministry to come out with a proposal to that effect, while assuring to secure the clearance from Reserve Bank of India. The BHELSIA team secured an assurance from the Finance Minister that the request of MSME sector for extension of time for payment of GST arrears until March 1, 2021, will be considered. The MSME units must be permitted to pay the same without any Penalty, renew the GST registration and start the manufacturing activities, Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar emphasised. The Finance Minister agreed to take up the issue with the committee concerned, he said.
22 December 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||New chairperson nominated for Yi Tiruchi||Kaveri Annamalai, Director, ARA Wealth Management Services, has been nominated as Chair of Young Indians Tiruchi Chapter for 2021 – 2022 at the annual meeting of Yi Tiruchi Chapter held recently. Pradeep Chenthilkumar, partner, S. Chenthilkumar and Co Chartered Accountants, has been nominated as Co-Chair of the chapter for the year, according to a Yi press release here on Monday.
22 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Release Manimuthar dam water in second reach’||Even as water from Manimuthar dam is being released to facilitate farming operations in the third and the fourth reaches of the reservoir, a group of agriculturists from the second reach have appealed to the district administration to release water to their farms also to save the standing crop, paddy. In their petition submitted on Monday during the weekly grievance redressal meet, the farmers having their ranches under Manimuthar dam’s second reach irrigation area said 445 cusecs of water from the largest reservoir of the district was being discharged since December 9 to irrigate the crops cultivated under the third and fourth reaches of the dam. Since water level in the dam had moved up to 110 feet now against its maximum capacity of 118 feet, water should be released in the second reach also as the farmers of this area had cultivated paddy on 4,000 acres. “With the water we got in the recent rains and also anticipating release of water from Manimuthar Dam, we’ve cultivated paddy. The one-month-old crop is badly craving for water as there was no water in the irrigation tank. Hence, water should be released from Manimuthar dam in the second reach also to save the standing crop,” farmer A. Madasamy of Singikulam.  Petition against quarry A group of villagers from Vijayapathi submitted petition against a stone quarry functioning illegally near their village. The petitioners said the explosives being used in the stone quarries liberally had caused cracks in the walls of good number of houses in the village. Though the government had banned the operation of stone quarries within 5 km from the Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project as the explosives used to blast the rocks would affect the reactor building, these stone quarries were functioning illegally. “Since the illegal operation of the stone quarries near Vijayapathi and Idinthakarai villages are posing serious threat to the residents living nearby, stone quarrying in this area should be banned permanently,” the petitioners said.
22 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Supply Tamirabharani drinking water, villagers appeal to Collector||Seeking supply of drinking water from the Tamirabharani instead of supplying calcium-rich drinking water being supplied from the deep borewells that was causing kidney ailments, a group of villagers submitted a petition during the weekly grievances redressal meet held here on Monday. In their petition, a group of villagers from Sivagnanapuram under Servaikaaranmadam village panchayat said drinking water to the residents of Sivagnanapuram, Thangammalpuram, Jakkammalpuram, Kamaraj Nagar, Servaikaaranmadam, Alwar Nagar and Senthiyambalam was being supplied from the deep borewells sunk in the irrigation tank and also in the nearby sandy areas. As calcium content in the drinking water being pumped from these borewells was high, a good number of people was suffering from gastro and nephrological complications and a few of them had succumbed to the diseases. Though drinking water from the Tamirabharani Combined Drinking Water Scheme was being supplied to 28 village panchayats of this region, Servaikaaranmadam panchayat had been excluded from the project.  ‘Drain rainwater’ Residents of P and T Colony submitted a petition seeking draining of rainwater stagnating in their area for the past few weeks. “Since the sewage has mixed-up with the stagnant rainwater, life has become miserable in our area. Hence, drainage channels should be constructed properly in our area – streets from 13 to 16,” the residents said. A group of villagers from Mela Thattappaarai submitted a petition against the proposal to establish an oil refinery in their area. The villagers said 2,200 acres of land close to Mela Thattappaarai, Keezha Thattappaarai, South Silukkanpatti, Allikulam, Ramasamypuram, Paeroorani and Umarikottai was to be acquired for establishing an oil refinery. If the factory was established, it would seriously pollute these villages and hence the refinery should be shifted to some other place away from the villages, they said.
22 December 2020||TIRUVARUR:,TAMIL NADU||Official Language Act Week celebrations||The Tamil Nadu Official Language Act Week will be celebrated in Tiruvarur district from December 23 to 29. Disclosing this in a press release, Tiruvarur Collector V. Santha pointed out that the celebration was being organised as per an announcement made by Minister for Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture K. Pandiarajan on the floor of the Legislative Assembly during the presentation of Tamil Development Department 2019-20 policy note. During the week from December 23 to 29, pasting of stickers, distribution of pamphlets and displaying names of shops and business establishments in Tamil would be carried out in order to commemorate the enactment of the Tamil Nadu Official Language Act, 1956 (Tamil Nadu Act 39 of 1956) on December 27, 1956, the press release added.
22 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Forest dept. monitoring movement of elephant herd near Coonoor||Officials from the Nilgiris Forest Division are monitoring the movement of five elephants near Coonoor. The herd, comprising one juvenile male and a four female elephants, is usually seen around the Geddai region near Manjoor. They have been spotted along the Manjoor to Velliangadu road frequently by motorists and commuters on TNSTC buses heading to Coimbatore. “Every winter, the elephants transit via Coonoor to Pilloor, and are rarely a major problem,” said a forest department official. However, during their regular seasonal migration to Pilloor, the elephants sometimes raid crops from nearby farms and plantations. The herd, which is seen just outside Coonoor town for the last few days has reportedly damaged a few houses and crops. Fortunately, no one was injured by the elephants. Coonoor Ranger Sasikumar said that forest staff are monitoring the herd throughout the day and into the night and ensuring that local residents are provided enough warning to keep out of the elephants’ path. “We expect that the herd will pass through the area and move towards Pilloor in the coming days,” said Mr. Sasikumar, adding that the forest department was limiting their operation to drive away the elephants to a bare minimum.
22 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||INDCO Tea House inaugurated||The first-ever ‘INDCO Tea House’ selling tea and snacks was inaugurated on the Tamil Nadu Small Tea Growers Industrial Cooperative Tea Factories Federation Limited (INDCOSERVE) head office premises in Coonoor recently. A release said the INDCO Tea House would sell the different blends of tea manufactured at INDCOSERVE factories across the Nilgiris. The aim was to promote and market teas made by INDCOSERVE factories. Tourists and visitors to the tea house could read books at the facility, with a dedicated reading corner to be set up, while local artists would also be allowed to perform there. Supriya Sahu, Principal Secretary and Chief Executive Officer, INDCOSERVE, said this was the first tea house opened by INDCOSERVE and there were plans to open such tea houses at metro stations. Ms. Sahu handed over 25 traffic barricades featuring branding of teas manufactured by INDCOSERVE as well as information about the Nilgiris’ unique wildlife to district Superintendent of Police V. Sasi Mohan. The Nilgiris Collector J. Innocent Divya and B.B. Sivakumar, Chairman of INDCOSERVE, were among those who participated.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Political parties seek single-phase polls||The AIADMK suggested holding the polls in the third or fourth week of April, considering the weather conditions in May. ‘Hot weather conditions’ “People will struggle to vote under the hot weather conditions in May,” Deputy Speaker of the Assembly Pollachi Jayaraman said. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam submitted a list of 11 demands. “To avoid malpractice and misuse of official machinery, we request the ECI to conduct the election in a single phase,” the party organisation secretary R.S. Bharathi said. The DMK also requested the ECI to ensure that EVMs are secure from tampering or manipulation of data. “Ensure that there shall not be any such illegality affecting fair elections,” the party said. The DMK also sought the installation of high-force jammers at strong rooms, polling centres and counting centres to prevent illegal access to EVMs. The Tamil Nadu Congress Committee also raised the issue of EVM safety, and particularly brought up the issue of shifting 70 unused EVMs during the last Lok Sabha polls. The party requested the setting up of more polling booths, on account of COVID-19, S.K. Nawaz, co-chairman, TNCC legal cell, said. CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan also sought a single-phase poll.  The DMK sought the installation of high-force jammers at strong rooms, polling centres and counting centres to prevent illegal access to EVMs
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Heritage tour by collective focuses on important historical sites||A two-day heritage tour organised by Friends of Heritage Sites, a collective focussed on bringing awareness of the importance of preserving heritage sites, covered important historical and archaeological spots across Madurai district. The tour, which concluded on Sunday, was led by V. Vedachalam, former senior epigraphist, State Archaeology Department. More than 25 persons participated in the tour. They visited Sitranai and Peranai check dams and the Madakulam, Nilaiyur and Thiruvathavur tanks. Madurai was earlier known as ‘Madakulakeezh Madurai,’ as it was the primary source of water. Pandya-period inscriptions belonging to 12th Century CE could be found near the tank. Nilaiyur tank was known as Veeranarayanakulam. It was named after Pandya king Paraanthaga Veeranarayanan (862-905 CE). The Thiruvathavur tank is one of the oldest irrigation tanks with Pandya and Chola inscriptions. When the tank runs dry, people worship the 'Purusha Mirugam' found on top of the sluice, as there is a belief that it could bring a spell of rain. The two check dams across the Vaigai - Sitranai and Peranai - have great historical significance. Peranai was built during Pandya era.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Air passengers from U.K. to be tested, quarantined||In the wake of reports of a new variant of the coronavirus having emerged in the United Kingdom, air passengers from the U.K. arriving at Chennai airport on Monday night and in the early hours of Tuesday would have to undergo an RT-PCR test and institutional quarantine. Due to the latest development, all flights from the U.K. have been suspended from December 23. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation issued a circular on Monday stating, “During the transition period, i.e., up to 23:59 hours IST of 22 December 2020, all passengers arriving in India from the United Kingdom shall be compulsorily subjected to an RT-PCR test at the arrival port. Passengers found to be COVID-19-positive shall be quarantined as per the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.” On Monday night, passengers of two flights from London, which had transit at Delhi before landing in Chennai, had to be tested, State government officials said. “We have already set up counters equipped with test kits to handle passengers. These passengers, even if they have a COVID-19-negative certificate, would be tested again, and then go into institutional quarantine. But they have to be in institutional quarantine for only half a day or one full day till the results come and will then be allowed to head home,” an official said. Two more flights are expected to arrive on Tuesday morning, and State government officials have begun making arrangements for quarantining passengers. The passengers would be given the option of free or paid accommodation. Owing to this temporary suspension of flights, the travel plans of thousands of passengers have gone awry, leaving them worried.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode sees 43 new cases, Salem reports 60||Coimbatore district reported 109 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the overall tally to 51,368. No deaths were reported on Monday, the Health Department said. A total of 49,740 patients have recovered and 991 were active cases. Coimbatore district’s death toll was 637. On Monday, 142 patients were discharged. Tiruppur district reported 59 fresh cases and the district’s tally stood at 16,646. No deaths were reported in the district. As many as 15,925 patients have recovered and 507 were active cases. The district reported 214 deaths so far. On Monday, 74 patients were discharged. In the Nilgiris, 11 persons tested positive and the total number of cases stood at 7,800. The toll increased to 43 from 42 on Monday and 140 persons were under treatment. Erode district reported 43 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 13,355. While 26 persons were discharged, 296 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the district’s toll to 143. All the 60 cases reported in Salem were indigenous. In Namakkal, 29 cases were reported. Four patients returned from Salem, Tiruppur, Erode and Coimbatore. Krishnagiri reported 11 cases and 26 discharges on Monday. There were 120 active cases and the total number of infections stood at 7,743. Dharmapuri saw six cases and six discharges. The total number of active cases stood at 96 and the infections 6,315.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||22 ITBP recruits pass out||After one year of rigorous training, 22 soldiers passed out of Indo-Tibetian Border Police (ITBP) Recruits Training Centre at Illupaikudi in Sivaganga district. DIG of the Recruit Training Centre Ranbir Singh reviewed and administered oath to the soldiers at the passing out parade held on Monday. Addressing the soldiers, he said that ITBP was an elite Central Armed Police Force raised in 1962, after the Chinese aggression, in order to guard the Indo-China border. It was initially started with four battalions to guard the northern borders. It had grown to 60 battalions with a strength of 90,000 troops. Apart from guarding the border, ITBP was also involved in anti-naxal operations, guarding sensitive institutions such as the Rashtrapati Bhavan. The performance of ITBP in UN peacekeeping and disaster response was well recognised, said DIG Ranbir Singh. He urged the soldiers to live up to the expectations and trust of the nation and uphold the high tradition, professionalism, and name and fame of the IPBP. Commandant Pritam Singh explained the rigorous training given to the soldiers.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Hold talks’||Lorry owners in the State have appealed to the Chief Minister and the Transport Minister to call for talks immediately to find an amicable solution to their charter of demands and avert an indefinite truckers’ strike from December 27. The strike call given by State Lorry Owners Federation, Tamil Nadu, has received the support and backing of South Zone Motor Transporters’ Welfare Association (SIMTA), an apex organisation of truckers, transporters and passenger vehicle operators. Addressing journalists in Tiruchi on Monday, SIMTA general secretary G.R. Shanmugappa said lorry owners had been pressing the State government to accept their eight-point charter of demands for the past six months and decided to go on strike only as a last resort. He alleged that it took about three to four days to obtain fitness certificate for goods vehicles in the State. However, the certificate was being issued in three to four hours in Karnataka. Nearly 1.5 lakh vehicles from Tamil Nadu were being registered in neighbouring Karnataka due to this problem, leading to loss of several crores of rupees to the State government, he pointed out. The lorry owners appealed to the State government to bring in a system whereby the fitness certificate could be obtained from any regional transport office after inspection of vehicles instead of being taken to the place where it was purchased. Mr. Shanmugappa said the price of diesel was lower in neighbouring States such as Karnataka and Puducherry than Tamil Nadu and urged the State government to reduce VAT on diesel to bring down the price of the fuel. The truck operators generated revenue to the tune of Rs. 4,000 crore to Rs. 5,000 crore for the government by way of taxes and GST. It was really disappointing that the Chief Minister had not called the lorry owners for talks yet, he said adding that they felt ‘ignored.” He blamed the Transport Minister for pushing them towards the indefinite strike. Mr. Shanmugappa said around four lakh lorries would be off the roads in the State from December 27. Lorries from other States too would not enter Tamil Nadu. Even mini trucks and other smaller vehicles numbering around 12 lakh would not run in the State.  Around four lakh lorries will be off the roads in the State from December 27 and lorries from other States too will not enter Tamil Nadu G.R. Shanmugappa General secretary, South Zone Motor Transporters’ Welfare Association
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||RELIGION||Thiruvenkatavan Charitable Society : Margazhi prayers, Sri Venugopal Perumal and Sri Kalyana Venkatesa Perumal temple, Kovaipudur, 5.20 a.m.     Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Christmas Fest 2K20 Cake Fruits Mixing Ceremony, Google Hangouts Meet (virtual event), 10.30 a.m.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||22-12-2020-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA  ANUSHAM ARTS ACADEMY – 9884190454 Today at R.R.Sabha Hall-2 Mylapore 4.30pm G.Barath Kumar & G.Vijhay Kumar - Violin Duet, A.Rohith - Mridangam, 6pm Vaibhav Ramani - Violin Solo, Aaduthurai Guruprasadh - Mridangam, Sivaramakrishna - Kanjira, 7.15pm Bharathanatyam by Aishwarya Iyer Guru Kalaimamani Pandanallur S.Pandian. All are Welcome.
22 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Strict vigil in place in Belagavi||The Belagavi district administration and the police are keeping strict vigil to ensure smooth polling on Tuesday. More than half of the district goes to the polls on Tuesday with ballots being cast in around 260 of the 500 gram panchayats in seven taluks. The major part of these rural bodies fall in the jurisdiction of the district police and only 55 gram panchayats are in the area of the city police commissioner. Around 450 police officers and personnel are on duty. Additional officers will be patrolling extra sensitive and sensitive booths to avoid any untoward incidents. Booths have been divided on the basis of their history of violence and malpractice. The district has been divided into sectors, headed by deputy Superintendents of police or assistant commissioners of police. There are three levels of security with sitting, moving and on call squads. The police are checking every vehicle that crosses the State border. Belagavi Rural Police seized 720 bottles of branded liquor valued at around Rs. 20,000 from a car that was allegedly carrying it from Goa to Belagavi on Monday. The police arrested Santosh Kavandalkar and Mohammad Gouse Maniyar who were transporting the liquor. Meanwhile, residents of Veerapur village in Dastikoppa gram panchayat said that supporters of Kashavva Kilari, candidate from ward number 4, were distributing saris to voters. Followers of the opponent stopped them and reprimanded them. Meanwhile, officials ended the process of mustering at the Vanita Vidyalaya Grounds in Belagavi on Monday, and poll duty personnel were sent to their respective gram panchayats with ballot boxes.  The State Election Commission is using ballot papers across the State, in except Bidar district where EVMs would be used.
22 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Returnees find a new purpose||In an interesting trend developing in the gram panchayat elections this year, those who have returned from cities after losing their livelihoods during and after the lockdown are finding a purpose in these polls. Some, like Siddalingappa Patil, are actively working in their villages. Mr. Patil recently returned to his home village of Bagewadi, near Hukkeri, after nearly six years in Mumbai. He went to Mumbai seeking work in the factories. When he felt he had saved some money to start a business in his home district, he decided to come back. “That was in February. But before I could move, we were hit by the COVID-19 lockdown. I had to wait in Mumbai till October. By that time, I lost a lot of money. But I had made up my mind to come back and I could not stay in that city any longer.” He gathered some friends and started a foodgrain and seed wholesale business. But that is not what keeps him busy most days. He has been busy helping his friend Eshwar Badiger contest in the gram panchayat polls. “Members of the Badiger (carpenter) community are largely concentrated in our village. But no one from the community has ever won a seat in our gram panchayat. I want to help him win this time,” said Mr. Patil. He said that like him, many people who have returned from big cities during or after the lockdown are active in the gram panchayat polls. “They want to use that knowledge of networking to their benefit here,” he said. “The gram panchayat polls seem to give them a sense of purpose,” said Shankar Sannagonda, who has himself come to his village of Ambewadi in Khanapur after working for a few years in a brick factory in Goa. “They travel to the taluk headquarters or Belagavi to help their fellow villagers or to take up development works in the village. Otherwise, they feel bad about having landed in the village after leaving lucrative jobs or the active city life,” he said. One of his brothers, who worked for a hotel in Goa, is contesting in the elections. Rajasab Makandar of Jakkanatti is fielding his sister-in-law. He worked as a painter in Sangli and Miraj for a few years. “I am helping my sister-in-law, only to send a message that I have not lost touch with friends at Jakkanatti and other villages.”
22 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Star Air launches flights to Surat, Ajmer from Belagavi||Star Air launched its flight services between Belagavi and Surat that further connects Ajmer (Kishangarh), at the Sambra Airport in Belagavi on Monday. Star Air already operates flights between Bengaluru, Mumbai, Ahmedabad, Indore and Kishangarh and Belagavi. The flights, Belagavi-Surat and Belagavi-Ajmer (Kishangarh) via Surat, will operate three days a week on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath, who was present during the inaugural flight, said that the new service will benefit ordinary travellers and businesses persons across North Karantaka districts. It would help trade, industry and business with Goa, Maharashtra and North India, he added. In a release, Managing Director of the group Shrenik Ghodawat said that the journey of 1,480 kilometres will now be covered in around three hours, instead of 24 hours. He said that the airline which now connects 11 cities will soon start operations from Jodhpur and Nasik. Artists performed folk songs and dances before the flight. .
22 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Raghavendra Joshi, journalist and author, passes away in Belagavi||Raghavendra Joshi, senior journalist, author and Kannada activist, died in Belagavi on Monday. He was 78. He collapsed at his house in Bhagya Nagar, after he returned from a morning walk, family sources said. Doctors, who came home, said he had suffered a heart attack. He founded Nadoja, one of the earliest Kannada dailies in the State, and worked there for over five decades. He used to edit Nirbheeta, a Kannada magazine, after his retirement. Raghavendra Joshi wrote books in Kannada, explaining the long-pending border dispute between Maharashtra and Karnataka, the Mahadayi river water dispute and the Upper Krishna Irrigation Project. He also wrote about the history of Kannada organisations and activism in Belagavi. He was among the protagonists of the united Karnataka movement that opposed the demand of the Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti seeking the merger of Belagavi with Maharashtra. However, his opposition was based on ideology and he maintained cordial relations with MES leaders. He wrote a moving tribute when Ashok Yalagi, senior journalist and MES sympathiser, died recently. Members of the action committee of Kannada organisations attended Joshi’s final rites at the burial ground in Hindwadi.  He collapsed at his house in Bhagya Nagar, after he returned from a morning walk, and doctors, who came home, said he had suffered a heart attack
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Waste management, cleaner transport key to clean air plans||Transport options driven by fossil fuels, poor waste management (due to waste burning), emissions from industry, and road dust are among the top common components of air pollution in the non-attainment cities. Speaking to The Hindu , Centre for Study of Science, Technology and Policy (CSTEP) Executive Director Jai Asundi said the think-tank was making customised clean air action plans for non-attainment cities across the country whose air quality do not conform to the national ambient air quality standards. In Karnataka, Bengaluru, Davangere and Hubballi-Dharwad are among the 122 non-attainment cities. CSTEP recently launched the Clean Air Action Plans for Gaya, Muzaffarpur and Patna in line with India's National Clean Air Programme.  “We are also working on a plan to improve air quality in Bengaluru with the relevant State authorities, including the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB). We covered two aspects — developing an emission inventory and a source apportionment study. This will be one the most detailed studies done in the past decade covering four seasons. I believe this is the gold standard for such an exercise, but it is prohibitively costly both in terms of time and money and would be difficult to do for every city in the country. In Bengaluru, luckily, the KSPCB already had certain equipment which was used for the study,” said Mr. Asundi. He added that the plan they develop along with State authorities will go a long way in achieving the targets in the National Clean Air Programme. Particulate matter The Clean Air Programme envisions the 122 cities achieving 20% to 30% reduction in particulate matter concentration by 2024 using 2017 as the base year. This would involve identifying the sources of pollution through emission inventories. For example, in Bihar, brick kilns were one of them, which may not be the case with other cities, necessitating customised plans, he said. “In Bengaluru and Delhi, for instance, a comprehensive waste-management plan needs to be drawn with the city municipalities. In Patna, introduction of electric vehicles, increasing penetration of LPG cylinders and advanced technology for industries were recommended,” Dr. Asundi said. But there are some common implementable solutions: making sure industries use the best possible technology to reduce pollutants, introduction of CNG or electric buses, and efficient public transport where it is missing, proper waste management practices — including processing C&D, street cleaning and sweeping, and ensuring reliable power supply which would eliminate the need to use DG sets. The timelines for implementing these solutions and achieving the targets though will vary within States too, as is the nature in India, he said. Explaining, he said factors such as the airshed in which the city resides cannot be controlled easily, while emissions in cities can be. Similarly, smaller cities may have fewer pollution sources to control, but the bigger cities may have more resources. “But all cities have an opportunity to work on a plan and the 20%-30% reduction target is achievable, provided everyone puts their effort into it. Given that clean air plans are going to be based on data, there is a lot of hope,” said Dr. Asundi. Coordination is key Given that clean air is a multi-departmental task, coordination will be key. He offered the examples of Bihar, where the (then) Deputy Chief Minister has asked the CSTEP team to revisit and assess the implementation, and Karnataka, where the Chief Secretary is the convenor of a task force on air pollution. More benefits But the overall impact, he said, is of public good, with benefits weighing much higher than the cost. “There will be significant benefits on reduction in cardiopulmonary diseases. Pollution-control technology in thermal power plants will have huge benefits. The interventions are not pies in the sky. These are current plans with technology already in place. The innovations are in terms of management, policy and implementation,” he said.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||GP polls unfold amid promises and scepticism||Candidates in the fray for the gram panchayat elections have been wooing voters for the past few days, promising the provision of urban amenities in rural areas (PURA), as envisaged by the former President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam. However, despite many assurances, some villages have threatened to boycott the elections in protest against the neglect shown by local bodies and the State government. Elections to 3,019 gram panchayats in 117 taluks of the State will be be held on Tuesday, while the rest will go to the polls on December 27. Interestingly, the State Election Commission (SEC) has countermanded the unanimous election of 13 members in Byluru village of Sindigeri gram panchayat in Ballari after they allegedly agreed to pay Rs. 51 lakh to a local temple in an auction. A few other cases of such auctioning have been detected in Karnataka and locals say the actual number may beeven higher. Some of the districts have recorded a high number of unanimous elections. A total of 437 GP candidates — the highest — have been elected unopposed in Belagavi, while Mandya follows with 364. The numbers are 331 in Ballari, 250 in Vijayapura, 220 in Yadgir, 211 in Davangere, 203 in Raichur, 197 in Hassan, 158 in Chitradurga, and 156 in Tumakuru, according to the SEC. Inflow of funds The devolution of huge sums as funds to the gram panchayats is one of the factors that makes these rural local body elections attractive, besides the fact that they often serve as a stepping stone for further political growth. Annually, the panchayats receive Rs. 3,250 crore under the 15th Finance Commission, nearly Rs. 6,000 crore under the National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, and Rs. 1,000 crore under the State Budget for payment of bills related to electricity, water supply, and other services. There are also funds from the State and Union governments under various flagships programmes such as Swachh Bharat, Indira Awaas Yojana, rural electrification, and midday meal.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Find common ground, Minister tells schools and parents||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar has appealed to managements of private schools as well as parents to arrive at a common ground over the contentious issue of payment of fees. This comes amidst protests by both parents and private schools, with both accusing the government of siding with the other. Two sides Parents, many of whom are finding it difficult to pay school fees on account of job losses or salary cuts, have been asking for a reprieve. A section of schools, however, have threatened to stop online classes until the fees are paid. In a long Facebook post, Mr. Kumar said he has recently directed private school managements to hold meetings with parents and chalk out a solution that is acceptable to both sides. “Parents are so keen to admit their children in particular private schools, even though they charge hefty fees. But now many have lost jobs and are suffering salary cuts and it is natural to expect rebates in the fee, especially given there have been no physical classes. At the same time, it is also true that several ‘budget schools’ are struggling to pay salaries for teachers. There have been reports of teachers taking to sell vegetables and even as labour in the State. I understand the concerns of both sides. Since the parents and schools enjoy a good relationship, they can arrive at a middle ground,” he said in the post. Hold meetings He suggested that each school hold meetings with parents, listen to their side and come clean on their financial position as well. “If schools take a stand that they will take enough fees only to meet the administrative expenses and parents also understand they need to support the teachers, a solution is possible to this impasse,” Mr. Kumar reasoned.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SHLCC clears investments running up to Rs. 26,659 crore||A meeting of the State High-Level Clearance Committee (SHLCC), chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, on Monday cleared investments totalling Rs. 26,659 crore. These investment proposals are expected to generate 13,341 jobs. According to the Industries Department, Boeing India Pvt. Ltd. is to invest Rs. 1,152 crore on 36.5 acres at the Aerospace Park in Bengaluru. Elest Pvt. Ltd. will invest Rs. 14,255 crore on 85 acres in Hubballi-Dharwad to establish an electric vehicle manufacturing unit. The proposed unit is expected to generate employment for 867 persons. In another project, Elest Pvt. Ltd. is also to invest Rs. 6,339 crore on 88 acres in Hubballi-Dharwad to set up lithium-ion batteries, commonly used for electric vehicles. This would create 1,804 jobs. The SHLCC has also cleared investments of Rs. 1,825 crore by Hyunet Pvt. Ltd. and this is expected to provide employment to 2,210 persons. Investments running up to Rs. 1,290 crore by Miraculum Green Power Pvt. Ltd. have also been cleared to generate 2,820 jobs. Sanali Power Pvt. Limited’s investment Rs. 2,950 crore is expected to create 5,640 jobs. New clearance system Mr. Yediyurappa on Monday launched an affidavit-based clearance system under the Karnataka Facilitation Act to enable investors to establish their businesses without any clearance/approval from various departments for the first three years. He said the launch of this “historic reform” would provide an investor-friendly ecosystem to the business community and various stakeholders. In terms of business reforms, the State has taken various steps to improve the business climate for the stakeholders by implementing land reforms, labour reforms, auto-renewal of various licences/clearances, and a central inspection system, the CM said.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Task force recommends revision of Nali Kali curriculum||The task force which was constituted to roll out the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 in Karnataka has recommended that the activity-based teaching-learning method adopted under the Nali Kali curriculum be reviewed and revised. The task force also has said that grade three should be separated from grades one and two. Larger plan This is part of the larger plan to include early childhood care as part of school education. Currently, early childhood care and education takes place in anganwadis which follow the ‘Chili Pili Plus’ curriculum and comes under the ambit of the Department of Women and Child Development. Some government schools which include the Karnataka Public Schools also have pre-primary classes. As pre-primary education comes under the purview of both anganwadis and government schools in some areas, the task force has suggested mapping of students between 0 to 3 years and 3 to 8 years along with the number of teachers serving them and their locations. “This will provide information for identifying which children will study in anganwadis and the pre-primary sections respectively,” the task force has said. The Nali-Kali teaching-learning method was rolled out in 1995 as a small UNICEF-assisted pilot project in H.D. Kote, Mysuru. It also helped cater to schools where there were a shortage of teachers as classes one to three are clubbed together. Government school students in grades one to three adopt this method of learning. Despite being a hit among students as they enjoyed the playful activities, the project later drew criticism as children were not able to pick up writing skills, which in turn affected learning outcomes. Although the Department of Primary and Secondary Education had decided to roll out Nali Kali 2.0 for the 2018-2019 academic year to upgrade it and make it relevant to the schools, it did not take off. Rishikesh B.S., associate professor at Azim Premji University, who was part of the School Education sub-committee said that students till class two would be a part of the foundational stage and students in classes three, four and five are in the preparatory stage.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drug racket case: Police arrest party organiser||The Central Crime Branch police, which has stepped up its probe in the drug racket with links to the Kannada film industry, arrested one of the 12 accused named in the case on Monday. According to officials, Vinay Kumar, who had been absconding for the past few months after he was named in the FIR, allegedly organised parties at well-known hotels in the city where he sold drugs. “He did this at the behest of a key accused party organiser and socialite, Viren Khanna, whose bail application was recently rejected. Other accused in the case, including actress Ragini Dwivedi and second division clerk Ravishankar attended these parties,” said a senior CCB official. Soon after Vinay Kumar’s name cropped up, he went on the run and applied for anticipatory bail. However, the court dismissed his bail petition. A CCB team, acting on a tip-off, arrested him in Goraguntepalya where he had come to meet his friends to seek help.  Probe on Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police, said, “He has been taken into custody to ascertain his drug network and also his whereabouts while he was on the run. We are also probing those who helped him evade arrest all this while.” Many of the accused in the case are socialites and actors who allegedly attended high-profile parties where drugs such as ecstasy, LSD and marijuana were sold. Still absconding The prime accused still remain elusive, including party organiser Sheikh Fazil and Aditya Alva, son of the late Minister Jeevaraj Alva and brother-in-law of actor Vivek Oberoi. As part of their search, the police had raided Oberoi’s residence in Mumbai and summoned Alva’s sister Priyanka who is married to the actor for questioning. They had also questioned Rickey Rai — the son of the former underworld don-turned-social activist late Muthappa Rai — and searched his apartment in Sadashivnagar and family house in Bidadi as they believed that Alva was hiding there. So far, however, they are yet to track him down.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||772 new COVID-19 cases, seven deaths reported in Karnataka||Karnataka recorded 772 new COVID-19 cases and seven deaths on Monday taking the total number of infections to 9,10,241 and the toll to 12,016. The Health Department bulletin also noted less than average number of tests, at 73,651 over 24 hours. The day also saw 1,261 patients getting discharged after recovery, leaving 14,001 active cases. Bengaluru Urban district continued to account for most of the new cases, with 363 infections on Monday. Five out of the seven deaths were from Bengaluru Urban. So far in Karnataka, 9,10,241 COVID-19 positive cases have been confirmed, which include 12,016 deaths and 8,84,205 recoveries, the Health Department said. This is apart from 19 deaths of COVID-19 patients due to other causes. Of the active cases, 13,782 patients are improving at designated hospitals, while 219 are in intensive care units. Of the total cases, Bengaluru Urban district tops with 3,83,231 infections, followed by Mysuru 51,847, and Ballari 38,688. Among recoveries too, Bengaluru Urban has the highest at 3,69,701, followed by Mysuru at 50,426, and Ballari at 37,854.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pandemic affects BBMP’s sapling distribution in city||The outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in the city has had an impact on all activities and spheres of life. So much so that it has even affected the planting of saplings in the city. According to information provided by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), just around 1.25 lakh saplings have been distributed free of cost to various civil society organisations that routinely take up plantation drives in the city. Every year, the civic body raises saplings and gives them away for free to organisations that want to take up plantation drives. “This year, despite several publicity activities about available saplings, not many organisations came forward to take the saplings from our five nurseries in the city,” claimed H.S. Ranganathaswamy, Deputy Conservator of Forests, BBMP Forest Cell, who added that last year, over 2.5 lakh saplings had been distributed. The civic body has a stock of over five lakh saplings still in its five nurseries at Kudlu in Bommanahalli zone, Atturu in Yelahanka zone, Kempapura in Mahadevapura zone, Mallathahalli in Rajarajeshwarinagar zone, and Bangalore University, Jnana Bharathi. Mr. Ranganathaswamy said this year, the civic body, during the monsoon months, had planted nearly 1.3 lakh saplings across eight zones in the city. “Last year, we were not able to meet the target; just around 65,000 saplings were planted,” he pointed out. Over the past few years, the civic body has been giving priority to indigenous species, both flowering and fruit bearing varieties, such as honge, neem, mahogany, sampige, ranjal, and nerale. These species, officials said, were hardy and suited for city. “These species are known as urban species and can grow well in city environs. While they may not have a huge canopy, their roots are strong. This is one of the reasons why we are giving priority to these species, since they can withstand strong winds and rain unlike many exotic tree species that have weak roots,” they said.  The civic body has a stock of over five lakh saplings still in its five nurseries.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drug racket: Absconding party organiser held in Goraguntepalya||The Central Crime Branch police, which has stepped up its probe in the drug racket with links to the Kannada film industry, arrested one of the 12 accused named in the case on Monday. According to officials, Vinay Kumar, who had been absconding for the past few months after he was named in the FIR, allegedly organised parties at well-known hotels in the city where he sold drugs. “He did this at the behest of a key accused party organiser and socialite, Viren Khanna, whose bail application was recently rejected. Other accused in the case, including actress Ragini Dwivedi and second division clerk Ravishankar attended these parties,” said a senior CCB official. Soon after Vinay Kumar’s name cropped up, he went on the run and applied for anticipatory bail. However, the court dismissed his bail petition. A CCB team, acting on a tip-off, arrested him in Goraguntepalya where he had come to meet his friends to seek help. Drug network Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner of Police, said, “He has been taken into custody to ascertain his drug network and also his whereabouts while he was on the run. We are also probing those who helped him evade arrest all this while.” Many of the accused in the case are socialites and actors who allegedly attended high-profile parties where drugs such as ecstasy, LSD and marijuana were sold.  Prime accused elusive The prime accused still remain elusive, including party organiser Sheikh Fazil and Aditya Alva, the son of the late Minister Jeevaraj Alva and brother-in-law of Bollywood actor Vivek Oberoi. As part of their search, the police had raided Vivek Oberoi’s residence in Mumbai and summoned Alva’s sister Priyanka, who is married to the actor, for questioning. They had also questioned Ricky Rai — the son of the former underworld don-turned-social activist late Muthappa Rai — and searched his apartment in Sadashivnagar and the family house in Bidadi as they believed that Alva was hiding there. However, they are yet to track him down.  Vinay Kumar, one of the 12 accused, allegedly organised parties at well-known hotels in the city where he sold drugs
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP budget to focus on civic infrastructure||The focus of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s (BBMP) 2021-22 budget will be on the improvement of civic infrastructure, said civic chief N. Manjunath Prasad. Speaking after launching Janaagraha’s MyCityMyBudget bus on Monday, he acknowledged the lack of proper footpaths and severe shortage in public toilets in the city. The existing footpaths were narrow, full of obstructions, have missing slabs, dumped with garbage and debris and not pedestrian friendly, he pointed out. Severe shortfall With just 585 public toilets, there is a severe shortfall given the population. The city needed at least 1,600 toilets. “We have the budget for the construction of public toilets. However, we need inputs from citizens about places where these should be constructed. Janaagraha’s #yellowspotsbeda is an effective way of crowd-sourcing citizen inputs,” he said. City on board Sapna Karim, head, Civic Participation, Janaagraha, said over 25 organisations from across the city are on board for the #MyCityMyBudget effort. The budget bus and seven electric autorickshaws will go around the city till January 7 collating inputs from citizens on improving footpaths and identifying places for construction of public toilets.  Civic body chief N. Manjunath Prasad acknowledged the lack of proper footpaths and severe shortage in public toilets in the city.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ganigas demand board for their welfare||The demand for setting up caste-specific boards and corporations seems to be only rising in Karnataka, with the Ganiga community now demanding one for their welfare. Members of the Akhila Karnataka Ganigara Sangha met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa recently and submitted a petition seeking a Ganiga development corporation. The Sangha, in the petition, has said that their traditional occupation of manual oil pressing had become redundant over time and many members, especially the young, were in need of financial and other kinds of assistance.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New farm laws an assault on federalism: Devanuru||Kannada writer and activist Devanuru Mahadeva has said the farm laws enacted by the Union government were not only “anti-farmer”, but also an assault on “democracy, federalism and the Constitution”. Participating in a farmers’ protest in Bengaluru on Monday, he said agriculture was a State subject and the Union government bringing about these wide-ranging fundamental reforms was an assault on federalism. He added that the way in which these laws were passed in Parliament, without consulting farmers, did not augur well for democracy. Pointing out the dismal ranking of the country on the Global Hunger Index (at 95th among 107 countries for the 2015-2020 period), he said the farm laws coupled with proposals to cut down the Public Distribution System would also hit food security. “We need to tell the government enough of poverty, hunger, and malnutrition. We don’t need an India where foodgrains are priced high, where rural masses lose agriculture and are pushed to the slums in cities,” he said. “Those in power seem to believe they know how to win elections... If we hit their arrogance in the elections, even they may develop some sensitivity towards the poor.”
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Jeeva Sarthakathe to be recognised as SOTTO||Jeeva Sarthakathe, the nodal agency that facilitates cadaveric organ donations, will now be the State Organ Tissue Transplant Organisation (SOTTO). This is aimed at promoting more organ donation in Karnataka. The decision was taken at a meeting presided over by Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Monday. It was based on the National Law School of India University’s report on Jeeva Sarthakathe. It was decided that all district hospitals and medical colleges would be given licence and a higher-level advisory committee formed to ensure proper execution. A deputy director, additional staff, and 20 organ transplantation organisers would be appointed. In 2019,there were 105 donors. From January to March 2020, before COVID-19, the State saw 25 transplants. There were nine more in the last two months.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lok Adalat creates history by settling 2.61 lakh cases||The High Court of Karnataka and the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA) have created history in settlement of cases, with a record 2,61,882 cases being settled in a single day at the mega Lok Adalat held on December 19. This has resulted in a 12.17% reduction of cases pending before courts in taluks and districts, apart from the High Court. A total of Rs. 669.95 crore was awarded as compensation or settlement amount by amicably resolving cases related to motor vehicle accident claims, land acquisition, and other civil matters. The settlements also yielded a revenue of Rs. 41.45 crore for the State exchequer by way of fine through the compounding of around two lakh pending criminal cases. Justice Aravind Kumar, judge in the Karnataka High Court and executive chairperson of KSLSA, told presspersons on Monday that the settlement number was historic for Lok Adalat in Karnataka and was probably the highest even at the national level. Unlike the e-Lok Adalat heldon September 19, which was only through virtual mode, this time the physical presence of litigants was allowed in 10 districts where COVID-19 numbers were low. However, on-the-spot COVID-19 tests were conducted there, he said. Partition cases For the first time, a large number of litigants showed keen interest in settling cases related to the partition of property among family members, with a record 3,095 litigations over partition being settled on December 19, said Justice Kumar. He pointed out that in the past, Lok Adalats had never witnessed amicable settlements of more than 32 cases related to partition disputes. Considering that a judge disposes ofthree cases a day during regular court proceedings, Justice Kumar said it would have taken at least 80 days to dispose of these 2.61 lakh cases under the normal course of adjudication before the regular courts.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||11 Saturday sittings for HC||The Karnataka High Court has declared 11 Saturdays in 2021 as sittings for the court to compensate the loss of sitting days this year in view of COVID-19. Usually all Saturdays are non-sitting days for the High Court. January 16, February 6, March 6, April 17, May 29, June 19, July 24, August 7, September 4, October 23, and December 18, will be sitting days for the court, as per a notification.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Conman held for kidnapping hotel staffer||The Kadugodi police have arrested an inter-State fraudster who allegedly kidnapped a hotel employee, kept him prisoner for a fortnight at his flat in Bengaluru, and extorted Rs. 48 lakh from his family in Haveri. Based on a complaint filed by the victim’s family, the Kadugodi police arrested the accused, Swaroop Shetty, from a prestigious apartment on ITPL road on Sunday. According to the police, Shetty met Arshad at Radisson Blu where he worked. “‘The accused was a regular customer and befriended the victim. During one of their conversations, Arshad shared details of his financial problems as he had taken a huge loan. Shetty offered to help him out,” said a police officer. He took Arshad to his apartment on the pretext of helping him and tortured him before calling his family in Haveri demanding money. According to the police, Shetty would get high on alcohol and drugs, and torture Arshad. “He recorded it on his mobile phone,” the officer added. He tortured Arshad to get information about his family members and relatives and used that information to blackmail them by posing as a police officer. “Over many days and several calls, he extorted Rs. 48 lakh from the victim’s family through online transfers,” said the officer. After around 15 days, Arshad was allowed to leave the flat. Later, his uncle Mohammed Rafi filed a complaint with the police, who tracked down Shetty and arrested him. Investigations so far have revealed that the accused had cheated several people in Pune posing as the CEO of an MNC.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Clash at Shivajinagar||Supporters of a former councillor in Shivajinagar clashed with those of Rizwan Arshad, MLA, on Monday afternoon when the latter distributed dustbins to residents as part of the #ProjectShivajinagar campaign which aims to make the ward clean again. Heated argument ensued between the two groups following which one of the former councillor’s supporters got himself admitted to Bowring Hospital claiming that he had been assaulted. Reacting to the incident, Mr. Arshad said that some people did not want development work in Shivajinagar. “There were policemen at the programme who took note of the entire incident. Let them probe and take necessary action,” Mr. Arshad said. The campaign aims to improve Shivajinagar’s solid waste management record.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Conference||The 32nd State annual conference of Karnataka Association of Community Health was inaugurated on Monday at Ramaiah Medical College Hospital.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to monitor arrivals from U.K. since Dec. 7||In view of a new variant of COVID-19 virus reported from the United Kingdom, the international airports at Bengaluru and Mangaluru have been instructed to provide the list of passengers who arrived from the U.K. from December 7 onwards. The State has made RT-PCR testing mandatory for all passengers arriving from the U.K., including those transiting from other airports outside the U.K., from Tuesday.Minister for Health and Family Welfare K. Sudhakar said 587 people arrived in Karnataka from the U.K. in the last two days and 138 passengers had not submitted COVID-19 test report. Tests would be done to such passengers from Tuesday, he said. In a circular issued here on Tuesday, Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary to Health and Family Welfare Department, issued the instructions on RT-PCR testing. Isolation, quarantine Those who test positive in the RT-PCR should be under hospital isolation and positive samples should be sent to NIMHANS, Bengaluru, for molecular testing, in order find out if it’s the new strain or the old one, said the circular. Passengers who test negative on RT-PCR, should be under strict home quarantine for 14 days. Contact details of all such passengers should be provided to the District Surveillance Officers for quarantine follow-up, the circular added. Mr. Sudhakar said it was decided that testing would be ramped up at airports to prevent further surge in COVID-19 cases. He, however, ruled out further lockdown in the State.
22 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||For long-time GP member, a tenth and final battle||For 70-year-old Mahesh Gowda of Kanavinakoppa in Thirthahalli, it will be his 10th gram panchayat election. He has been elected from Mandagadde panchayat for nine consecutive terms since 1972. Mr. Gowda got into electoral politics a couple of years after he completed his pre-university education. When he contested in 1972, he was 22. “I filed the nomination papers curious to know how people would respond and I won. Since then, I have been contesting,” he said. In the last nine terms, he was elected twice to head the panchayat and served as vice-president three times. Given the change in reservation of wards, he shifted to different wards in the panchayat and won. “I have a record of winning with huge margins in the taluk. Once I got 600 of the total 700 votes polled,” he said. Right now, he is busy campaigning in Lingapura-2 ward with 770 votes. “I go alone and spend a couple of hours in each house, talking to the family members. They know me well and I request their suggestions and move forward,” he said. Mr. Gowda, a farmer, added that he has never spent money to win an election. In his earlier days, all the candidates were like him, spending no money on the campaign. “Only in recent years have people begun to spend huge sums of money. My opponents are also spending Rs. 7 lakh to Rs. 8 lakh. But I am not. I am happy if the people elect me, but there is no disappointment otherwise,” he said. All these years, he has never attempted to get to the taluk or zilla panchayats. “I cannot afford to spend money on the campaign for TP or ZP elections. I have no ambition to build a career in politics,” Mr. Gowda said. He has decided that this will be his last election. “I was thinking of not contesting this time. However, friends and family members forced me to contest one more time and finish with my tenth term,” he said.
22 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||All set for first phase gram panchayat elections in four districts||With polling for the first phase of gram panchayat elections scheduled to take place on Tuesday, the district administrations of Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri, Uttara Kannada have made elaborate arrangements for the smooth conduct of the process. Deputy Commissioners of Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri and Uttara Kannada Nitesh Patil, M. Sundaresh Babu, Sanjay Shettennavar and K. Harish Kumar, respectively, reviewed the election preparations, held meetings and visited mustering centres to take stock of the situation on Monday. In all these districts, the elections are being held in two phases with polling for the first phase taking place on Tuesday. The respective Deputy Commissioners have issued prohibitory orders and also a ban on holding village santes (weekly bazaars) and fairs and on liquor sale in the wake of the elections in their districts. In Dharwad district, polling for the first phase of elections is taking place on Tuesday in 65 gram panchayats of Dharwad, Alnavar and Kalaghatagi taluks. Polling will take place in 412 polling stations of these taluks from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m., according to the Deputy Commissioner. A total of 2,81,299 voters of these three taluks, including 1,44,646 male, 1,36,645 female and eight of the third gender, will exercise their franchise on Tuesday. Speaking to presspersons after visiting a mustering centre at Basel Mission English Medium School in Dharwad, Mr. Nitesh Patil said that all necessary preparations had been made for free and fair elections. Steps had also been taken to provide postal ballots for those deployed on poll duty, he said. In Gadag district, polling will take place for elections to 53 gram panchayats in the taluks of Gadag, Shirahatti and Laxmeshwar. For 743 posts, there are 2,216 candidates in the fray and a total of 2,55,241 voters will cast their votes on Tuesday. Reviewing the preparations, Mr. Sundaresh Babu said that a total of 2,187 polling officials and personnel had been deputed on election duties. Adequate police personnel had been deployed to provide security to 381 polling stations, he said. In Haveri district, polling will take place for gram panchayat seats in the taluks of Haveri, Ranebennur, Hirekerur and Rattihall. In Uttara Kannada district, polling will take place in Karwar, Ankola, Kumta, Honnavar and Bhatkal taluks of Uttara Kannada district in the first phase of the gram panchayat elections.
22 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||APMC bandh total in North Karnataka||APMC merchants across various districts of North Karnataka observed APMC bandh on Monday in response to a call for a State-wide protest seeking withdrawal of the hike in APMC cess and fulfilment of other demands. The APMC merchants are up in arms against the State government for its decision to reverse an earlier order on reducing APMC cess/user fee to 0.35 % and increasing it to 1 %. In response to the bandh call, the APMC merchants downed the shutters of their shops and offices in the APMC yards in various districts, including, Dharwad, Haveri, Gadag, Belagavi, Vijayapura and Bagalkot. They took out protest marches in the APMC yards and submitted memoranda to the APMC secretaries seeking immediate roll-back of the hike. Taking out a protest march in Dharwad, the APMC merchants of Hubballi and Dharwad staged a demonstration in front of the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad and demanded immediate roll-back of the hike. Addressing the protestors, the office-bearers of the associations said that although the State government had reduced the cess/user fee to 0.35 % after an indefinite closure of APMCs in July, it had now suddenly increased it to 1 % putting further burden on the merchants who were already meted out injustice through the new farm laws of the Centre. They said that the government was acting in contradiction to its own assurance of saving the APMCs. Increasing the cess/ user fee would only force the merchants to stay away from the APMC yards, as outside the APMC they had no cess or fee to be paid. They submitted memorandum seeking immediate roll-back of the order. The State committee of APMC merchants is scheduled to meet on December 23 to decided the further course of action.
22 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Work on road underbridge set for completion in record time||In a record of sorts in the Indian Railways, the Hubballi Division of South Western Railway (SWR) is all set to complete the construction of a road underbridge in less than 90 days. According to a press release issued by the Hubballi Division, proper planning and coordination by the engineering team of Hubballi Division has helped in the early completion of the structure at Londa Station Yard, in less than 90 days, which, otherwise, would have taken over 20 months. The road underbridge is being constructed to remove Level Crossing Gate No 343 at Londa Station Yard in Hubballi Division. According to the release, it was during the visit of General Manager of South Western Railway A.K. Singh on September 29 this year that the residents of Londa had appealed to him seeking the construction of road underbridge. Responding to their plea, Mr. Singh had asked Divisional Railway Manager Arvind Malkhede to take steps accordingly. Subsequently, the Hubballi Division initiated the process and completed awarding contract within 30 days thereof. Consequently, the work on earth excavation and casting of reinforced cement concrete work began on October 29. Meanwhile, Hubballi Division took permission from the Deputy Commissioner of Belagavi and Superintendent of Police of Belagavi for diverting traffic at Level Crossing Gate No 343. Under the project, a total of 25 RCC boxes have been inserted covering a length of 40 metres for constructing the limited height road underbridge. As much as 90 % of the project taken up at a total cost of Rs. 6.12 crore has been completed and it is all set for completion by December 25. And, the officials plan to remove the level crossing by December 27. The engineering team of Hubballi Division led by Senior Divisional Engineer (West) Neeraj Bapna and others has completed the work in a record time and Mr. Arvind Malkhede attributed it to proper planning and working without rest. Congratulating the team, Mr. Malkhede said that the construction of the road underbridge would enhance safety in train operations and also help road users on the stretch.
22 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Vinay Kulkarni’s judicial custody extended||The CBI Special Court on Monday extended the judicial custody of Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni by seven days. Vinay Kulkarni has been arrested in connection with the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar. He has been remanded in judicial custody. As his judicial custody ended on Monday, the CBI produced him before court via video conference from Hindalga Jail in Belagavi, where he is lodged at present. After hearing counsel for CBI, CBI Special Court Judge Gangadhara C.M. extended the judicial custody of Vinay Kulkarni for seven days and asked the CBI to produce him before court on December 28. Vinay Kulkarni’s uncle Chandrashekhar Indi alias Chandu mama has also been arrested. He is remanded in judicial custody till December 28. Bail plea Meanwhile, the bail plea by Vinay Kulkarni questioning the CBI Special Court’s order rejecting his bail application is scheduled to come up for hearing on Tuesday before the High Court of Karnataka, Dharwad Bench. The High Court has admitted the bail plea moved by Vinay Kulkarni’s counsel and has asked CBI counsel to file their objections before December 22.
22 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalyana Karnataka ready for polling today||A day ahead of the first phase of gram panchayat elections, towns and cities across Kalyana Karnataka region saw intense activities of preparations by the Election Commission on Monday. Deputy Commissioners of Bidar, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal and Ballari districts, who are the Election Officers for the respective districts, were found monitoring the last stage of preparations and visiting mustering and de-mustering centres to ensure that everything was going on well. Thousands of polling staff were found visiting the centres in the region to get last-minute guidance and collect polling material. “The staff should carry the material safely to the polling stations and follow the directions and guidance in conducting the process. Sector officers should supervise the entire process of polling. They should also ensure that the polling staff reached their respective polling stations and commenced their work,” Vijaya Jyothsna, Deputy Commissioner of Kalaburagi, directed the officials concerned during her visit to the mustering and de-mustering centre at the Government Polytechnic College in Kalaburagi. The gram panchayat constituencies in Kalaburagi, Aland, Afzalpur, Kamalapur, Kalagi and Shahabad talus would go to the polls on Tuesday. In Ballari, Election Supervisor K.M. Suresh Kumar, Additional Deputy Commissioner P.S. Manjunath, Additional Superintendent of Police B.N. Lavanya, Assistant Commissioner Ramesh Konareddy and other senior officers were found visiting the mustering and de-mustering centres and giving directions to polling staff on the eve of the first phase of elections in the district. Elections would be held to gram panchayats in Ballari, Kurugodu, Siruguppa, Hosapete and Kampli taluks in the first phase on Tuesday. As per the information provided by the district administration, 305 members have been elected unopposed and elections would be conducted to the remaining 1,372 seats for which 3,288 candidates are in the fray. The district administration has deployed 3,600 staff for the smooth conduct of the elections.
22 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Border survey being derailed to protect illegal miners: Tapal Ganesh||Taking exception to the way the survey work was going on to demarcate the Karnataka – Andhra Pradesh border in Ballari district, Tapal Ganesh, a mine owner and activist, alleged that the officials of the Survey of India, which had taken up the job as per Supreme Court direction, were working under the pressure of political heavyweights. At a media conference in Ballari on Monday, Mr. Ganesh said that the Central surveying agency was being influenced to conduct the survey in a way that its report protects miners who had destroyed the interstate border for their illegal mining. Mr. Ganesh’s main contention was that the Survey of India was relying on the Ballari Reserve Forest map of 1896, which, he argued, was not a primary map as mentioned by the earlier Surveyor General of India. He argued the agency should rely on the 1887 traverse data measurements and readings for the missing boundaries of the cluster village. “If the survey is based on Ballari Reserve Forest map of 1896, certain areas such as Timmappana Gudda that had been part of Karnataka would go to Andhra Pradesh. If the survey is done based on the revenue map as per 1887 traverse data measurements and readings, these areas would remain in Karnataka and the encroachment of it by the illegal miners would come out. In an effort to protect the illegal miners, the Survey of India is forced to rely on Ballari Reserve Forest map of 1896,” he said. Mr. Ganesh said that after he had submitted his objections to the Prime Minister, and the Chief Ministers and Chief Secretaries of the two State governments, the Deputy Commissioner of Ballari wrote to Survey of India and sought an answer to the objections raised. “The lack of political will to act against those culprits who had carried out illegal mining and the massive influence and power of the illegal miners are derailing the survey process. As long as the political leadership and the people in power continue to work hand in hand with the illegal miners, the problem will persist,” he said.
22 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||172 GPs in Dakshina Kannada, Udupi go to the polls today||As many as 172 gram panchayats in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi will go to the polls in the first phase on Tuesday. The second phase of the elections will be conducted on December 27 and counting will take place on December 30. Elections in Dakshina Kannada will be conducted in the first phase to 106 gram panchayats in Mangaluru, Moodbidri and Bantwal taluks. In Udupi district, it will be held in 66 gram panchayats in Udupi, Brahmavar, Hebri and Baindoor taluks. Earlier, the elections in Udupi were to be held in 67 panchayats. Since people in Kodi have boycotted the polls due to various issues, including the coastal regulatory zone matters, and three candidates who had submitted their nomination papers in Kodi withdrew it, the polls will not be held there, an election official said. Hence, only 66 gram panchayats will go to the polls with 2,349 candidates in the fray in 1,047 constituencies. In Dakshina Kannada, elections will be conducted in 1,631 constituencies with 3,854 candidates in the fray in 106 panchayats. Of the panchayats where the elections will be held, 37 are in Mangaluru taluk, 12 in Moodbidri taluk and 57 are in Bantwal taluk. Candidates in 50 constituencies in Dakshina Kannada have been elected unopposed. Elections will be conducted in 817 booths in Dakshina Kannada. Elaborate security arrangements have been made in the two districts to ensure that polling goes off peacefully.
22 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||D.S. Sridhar selected for Parthi Subba Award||Karnataka Yakshagana Academy has chosen senior Yakshagana scriptwriter and ‘arthadari’ D.S. Sridhar for its prestigious Parthi Subba Award for 2020. The award carries a Rs. 1 lakh in purse, a certificate, a plaque and a shawl. Mr. Sridhar, from Daremane, Nittur village, Hosanagara taluk in Shivamogga district, who is leading a retired life now had taught Kannada at Pompei Pre-University College, Kinnigoli in Dakshina Kannada for three decades. Mr. Sridhar has written 35 Yakshagana ‘prasangas’. He is also a ‘veshadhari’ and a critic. Udupi Yakshagana Kendra has published his 26 Yakshagana scripts in two volumes, as 13 scripts each, titled Yakshagana Prasanga Malika. Some of his other works are Shukra Sanjeevini, Maha Prasthana, Garuda Pratapa, Bala Bharatha and Aasura Guru Shukracharya. He has won many awards including the one in 2011 from the then Karnataka Yakshagana and Bayalata Academy .  The academy has selected five persons for its Honarary Award for 2020 which carries Rs. 50,000 purse, a plaque, a certificate and a shawl. They are Bannanje Sanjeeva Suvarna from Udupi, K. Thimmappa Gujaran from Dakshina Kannada, Vijaya Nalini Ramesh from Sirsi, Chakkere Shivashankar from Bengaluru and B. Parashuram from Harapanahalli. It has selected 10 persons for its annual Yaksha Siri Award for this year. The award has Rs. 25,000 in purse, a plaque, a certificate and a shawl. Those who have been selected for the Yaksha Siri Award are Gopala Acharya Thirthahalli from Kundapura, Belthur Ramesh from Kundapura, Aavarse Srinivasa Madivala from Udupi, Harinarayana Baipadithaya from Mangaluru, Sanjay Kumar Shetty from Mangaluru, M.R. Hegde Kanagoda from Sirsi, Subrahmanya Dhareshwara from Kirimanjeshwara in Kundapura, Vitla Shambhu Sharma from Bantwal, Hanumantarayappa from Sira in Tumakuru and A.M. Mulavagalappa from Kolar. Sanjeeva Suvarna, who has been chosen for the Honorary Award, is an artiste of Badagu Thittu school of Yakshagana and Principal at Udupi Yakshagana Kendra. He is known for new experiments within the boundaries of traditional Yakshagana. Vijaya Nalini Ramesh has obtained her Ph.D. degree from Karnatak University Dharwad on the topic creativeness in talamaddale. Addressing presspersons here on Monday the chairman of the academy M.A. Hegde said that the awards will be presented at a function either in Ravindra Kalakshetra or in Nayana Rangamandira in Bengaluru in February 2021.
22 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Boat overturns, man rescued||The Coastal Security Police from Bhatkal rescued a 32-year-old fisherman, Yadava, from drowning in the sea after a country boat overturned near Alvekodi Kaki Gudda Island off Bhatkal on Monday. According to a press note, Yadava who went fishing in his boat, Pati, fell into the sea after his vessel overturned in gutsy winds. A team of personnel, including captain Mallappa Mudigowdar, Civil Police Constable Dinesh Naik, Sanjeev Nayak and Janardhan Mogera, rushed to Yadava’s rescue in their patrolling boat. The personnel not only rescued Yadava but also pulled his boat and the fishing net ashore. Lauding the rescue operation, Additional Director-General of Police (Internal Security) Bhaskar Rao tweeted: “Dramatic and daring rescue by Coastal Police Bhatkal, Karnataka, for saving the life of a drowning fisherman. Very good seamanship to close in on the subject.” Coastal Security Police Superintendent of Police R. Chetan also appreciated the work of the team.
22 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Making a definite difference in panchayat raj administration||A double postgraduate science degree holder, Shivanand K., who had won the election to the Aranthodu Gram Panchayat in Sullia taluk, Dakshina Kannada, five years ago and became panchayat vice-president later, is trying his hand at a second stint in the gram panchayat elections this time. He filed his nomination papers for the December 27 elections from Aranthodu Ward II on Tuesday last. Mr. Shivanand, who had obtained his M.Tech in Materials Engineering from the National Institute of Technology-Karnataka (NIT-K), Surathkal, and M.Sc in Materials Science from Mangalore University more than one-and-half-decades ago, later became a full-time agriculturist. “Getting higher education definitely makes a difference in panchayat raj administration, especially in gram panchayat level. All political parties should motivate candidates with higher education to contest elections to the rural local bodies,” he told The Hindu . Graduates and post-graduates too should not shy away from contesting the elections to gram panchayats to make a difference, he said. Mr. Shivanand said that with the gram panchayat administration and services now depending on Information Technology tools, basic knowledge in Information Technology came in handy in managing the rural body. “If there is good coordination between the gram panchayat officials and the elected representatives, the panchayats can really do better works with the available funds,” he said. The science postgraduate said that Aranthodu Gram Panchayat won the first prize from the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) for the best solid waste management (SWM) among the gram panchayats in Dakshina Kannada for 2019. He said: “We missed the district level Gandhi Grama Puraskar this time by just a few points.” Mr. Shivanand said that panchayats could explore self-revenue-generating opportunities. For example, he said, his panchayat planted cashew saplings in the available space in a crematorium about three years ago and the trees of these saplings have started yielding now. The trees are spread over an acre now, he added. In addition to him, the last elected body of the panchayat comprised three more graduates. It also had a member who had studied up to Class II.
22 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Minister condemns attack on policemen in city||Condemning the recent attacks on policemen in the city, district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary said here on Monday that the State government has taken a serious view of the incidents. The culprits involved in such attacks will be prosecuted. Speaking at a function to felicitate the district police team that had arrested six persons who had abducted an eight-year-old boy from Ujire last week, Mr. Poojary lauded the team members for arresting the accused within 48 hours of the crime. The others involved in the crime should also be arrested at the earliest, he added. Among the policemen who were felicitated included Deputy Superintendent of Police Valentine D’Souza, Belthangady Circle Inspector Sandesh P.G. and Belthangady Sub-Inspector Nanda Kumar. Member of Parliament and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel attended the function.
22 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two arrested for attack on constable||The police have arrested two persons, including a minor, in connection with the attack on a police constable near New Chitra Junction here on December 16. The Mangaluru East Police arrested Mohammed Nawaz (30) and a 16-year-old boy on the charge of assaulting head constable Ganesh Kamath. While Nawaz has been sent to Mangaluru District Prison till December 24, the boy has been sent to the Observation Home in Nittur village of Udupi. The police said that they are yet to establish the motive for the attack.
22 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two persons get 1 year imprisonment||The Fourth Additional District and Sessions Judge T.P. Ramalinge Gowda on Monday sentenced Saddam Hussain and Mohammed Irshad to one year imprisonment on finding the two guilty of attempting to assault a public servant. Saddam Hussain and Mohammed Irshad were among the five arrested for allegedly attempting to run over policemen when the police tried to stop the car in which the accused were travelling in a group at Guruvayanakere in June, 2018.. Bantwal CI T.D. Nagaraj had filed chargesheet charging the accused under Sections 399, 402, 353 and 307 of the IPC.
22 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Man found dead at waterfalls||A 21-year-old man was found dead at Arbi waterfalls of Karkala taluk in Udupi district on Sunday evening. The Ajekar Police gave the name of the deceased as Kiran. The police said that Kiran was among five people who had been to the waterfalls in Kervashe village on Sunday afternoon. While the rest were bathing at the falls, Kiran left the place stating that he had to answer nature’s call. As Kiran did not return for a long time, his friends sought the help of the local people and swimmers in a bid to trace him. However, Kiran was found dead at around 8.30 p.m., the police said.  Fisherman drowns A 40-year-old fisherman drowned near Gudde Kopla of Surathkal on Monday morning. The police said that Lokesh Kotiyan was laying a fishing net, a few metres from the shore, in the sea. Though Lokesh had had a safety tube around his waist, a huge wave swept him off and his leg got stuck in the net. He could not get his leg out from the net and then, the safety tube slipped from him. Fishermen saw Lokesh drowning and they rushed to his rescue. Lokesh was brought to a local hospital where he died.
22 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kasturba Hospital gets WASH certification||Kasturba Hospital, Manipal, has received Workplace Assessment for Safety and Hygiene (WASH) certification from the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare providers (NABH), Quality Council of India. H.S. Ballal, Pro-Chancellor, Manipal Academy of Higher Education, handed over the certificate to Muralidhar Varma, Chairman, Hospital Infection Control Committee and team Kasturba Hospital, Manipal, on Monday.
22 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Peripheral Ring Road remains a non-starter||The Peripheral Ring Road (PRR) for Mysuru proposed in the master plan 2031 to wean away out-bound traffic and disperse growth, has remained a non-starter over financial and land acquisition issues. The PRR was initially mentioned in the master plan and the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) announced its intent on going ahead with it in 2016. But almost 5 years later, the project is on the backburner and there is little discussion on taking it forward though the authorities aver that the project has not been scrapped. MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajeev said that the project is definitely on and the issue was also discussed with the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) and the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for their support. The proposed PRR will have a length of nearly 106 km and will come up about 5 km to 6 km from the ORR. Mr. Rajeev said MUDA envisages having around 1,000 acres of land for implementing the road work of which nearly 400 acres was already available with it. ‘’We may need another 600 acres of land to take the project forward’’, according to Mr. Rajeev. But officials pointed out that the cash-strapped MUDA will have a tough time arranging funds for land acquisition on such a scale. Even the government may be reluctant to go ahead with the PRR at this juncture as bulk of the resources have been diverted to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. Besides, there are other critical infrastructure works that need to be completed for which there is a financial crunch. Incidentally, the MUDA had envisaged an expenditure of Rs. 1,500 crore for the road works including cost of land acquisition when it announced the project. But with uncertainty looming large on commencement of the project, the authorities expect the cost to increase further. The alignment of the PRR has already been drawn cursorily in the master plan though recent developments including plot developments on the periphery of Mysuru may entail tweaking it, according to the authorities. Connection The PRR will also connect a cluster of villages, some of which display semi-urban characteristics, to improve road connectivity in the region. With the Outer Ring Road already attaining high density of traffic besides triggering a spurt in new residential areas along the 42.4 km periphery, the authorities aver the PRR cannot be delayed any further. But funding and land acquisition issues will further delay the project which is yet to take off from the drawing board despite the imperatives of taking it up, according to the MUDA officials.
22 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Husband-wife face-off||A man and his wife are pitted against each other in the ensuing gram panchayat elections in Somwarpet in Kodagu district. According to officials of 7th Hoskote gram panchayat in Somwarpet, Kishore and his wife Srija are contesting the elections for the same seat in Kambibane village. Though Mr. Kishore is contesting in two seats, his wife is contesting in only one seat, but will be facing her husband in the elections, the officials added. There are a total of 37 candidates in the three seats in Kambibane village. “We may be husband and wife at home, but we are opponents in the elections”, Ms. Srija said. Interestingly, they went around together seeking votes. “We both wish to serve the people. Whoever wins, we will serve the people together”, she said.
22 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Energy award||The Central Workshop at Ashokapuram in Mysuru has bagged the National Energy Conservation-Bureau of Energy Efficiency award. It was ranked 4th in the country under the category of Industry-Railway Workshops. A release said National Energy Conservation week is celebrated from December 14 to 21 every yearand awards are announced to recognise the efforts of various industrial units, establishments and organisations that have shown exemplary performance in conservation of energy and effective utilisation of available energy. This scheme has motivated industries to adopt energy efficiency measures and the Central Workshop, Mysuru achieved the stipulated goals of energy conservation mainly due to a series of initiatives undertaken by it. The release said the Workshop has made provisions to provide solar-heated water to canteen and paint shop, provided natural pipe lighting in Cartridge Taper roller bearings section, introduced energy saver in the welding plant, and provided air turbo ventilators.
22 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Protest against Siddaramaiah’s remarks on Kodavas||Scores of people staged a protest in Madikeri on Monday to condemn the remarks of former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah on beef and the Kodava community. People under various banners assembled in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office and raised slogans against the former Chief Minister, demanding an apology. The protestors were drawn from Madikeri Kodava Samaj, Ponnampet Kodava Samaj, and Madikeri Hitarakshana Vedike, among others. The demonstrators dubbed Mr. Siddaramaiah’s statement as an affront to the sensibilities and beliefs of the Kodava community. ‘Out of context’ Incidentally, Mr. Siddaramaiah in a series of tweets had clarified earlier that he was quoted out of context and his remarks were misinterpreted while reiterating his respect for the culture and beliefs of the Kodava community.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||All set for GP polls in Kodagu dist.||Deputy Commissioner of Kodagu Annies Kanmani Joy has said additional security measures will be taken, including patrolling in man-animal conflict zones and naxal-infested areas in Madikeri and Somwarpet taluks of the district, where polling will be held as part of the elections to 66 gram panchayats between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m. on Tuesday. She told reporters on Monday that polling stations in areas prone to man-animal conflicts, particularly havoc by wild elephants, had been identified by the officials and polling personnel deputed to such polling stations will accompanied by teams of police as well as Forest Department personnel. Patrol The security teams will not only be deployed on night rounds, but also to conduct patrolling during the day. Necessary security measures are in place and people can come out and vote, she said. Elections will be held for 26 gram panchayats in Madikeri and 40 in Somwarpet taluks spread across a total of 357 polling booths including 135 in Madikeri and 222 in Somwarpet. Ms Joy said 63 booths fall in man-animal conflict zones including 34 in Madikeri and 29 in Somwarpet. While a total of 43 candidates – 24 in Madikeri and 19 in Somwarpet - had been elected unopposed, 676 contestants are vying for 267 seats in Madikeri and 1,488 candidates are in the fray for 462 seats in Somwarpet. In Madikeri, 45 booths had been categorised as sensitive, 6 as hyper-sensitive and 8 as naxal-prone, besides 80 general booths. In Somwarpet, there are 48 sensitive booths, 24 hyper-sensitive booths and 154 general booths. All the polling officials had left for their respective polling stations on Monday afternoon with ballot papers, ballot boxes and other polling material.  COVID-19 Ms. Joy said arrangements were in place for permitting COVID-19 positive patients to cast their votes between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m. on Tuesday. The names of COVID-19 positive patients had been collected by the respective gram panchayat officials and shared with taluk health officers.  Vehicles for patients Vehicles had been arranged to bring the patients from Covid Care Centres and COVID-19 hospitals to their respective polling booths. COVID-19 patients who are in home isolation are allowed to come in their private vehicles also. Mandatory Health Department officials had been deputed to all the polling booths and entry will be permitted only after undergoing a check of body temperature on thermal scanner, wearing a mask and cleaning hands with a sanitiser.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Adapt, align and be agile||It is 8.50 a.m. on a Monday and software engineer Mansavi logs into her laptop. Soon there is a Zoom call by Kishore, her team manager, about the tasks to be done for the day. She gets on to her work like any other day, except, Mansavi is working from a village 110 km from Bengaluru and two of her team mates are working remotely from their villages across Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. This is “Work from native place” which is the new trend, reminding you that about 2/3rd of the talent working in Bengaluru are not from the city. Will work from anywhere be the norm of tomorrow? With improved digital connectivity, it it is a reality today and can connect all in at least a few industries. City’s charms The life in the city has always charmed the young who looked at cities as the future which offers reward and quality of life, also an opportunity to own property and better education to their children. The story of the last 100 years of mankind has been the story of the man moving to cities. The pandemic created a reverse short-term migration for a whole lot of techies. It’s a first but may not be the last. Tech companies have always been reluctant to move into tier-2 or tier-3 cities, citing lack of talent and inability to pursue top talent to move into smaller cities. The pandemic has changed all that. Simply adapt or die is the mantra not only for an organization but a whole new generation of tech talent. The idea of the office as a work location has rebooted and given way to “work from anywhere” which was unthinkable. Bengaluru is the Mecca of tech in south Asia and is also a leader in service industries. It has created million-plus jobs for all kinds of techies, skilled workers, and also unskilled workmen in the last two decades. But now, ‘work from home’, or simply WFH, is the standard in Bengaluru for techies and other high-tech jobholders. Visit to the office is on ‘absolute must meet’ basis only. Business travel has dwindled to bare 10% or less for both entrepreneurs and corporates. We see a whole lot of businesses reinventing themselves to adapt to the new reality. Will Bengaluru have the same charm left to attract talent across the nation post the pandemic? What happens to the whole support service system, transport and housing infra that depend on the growth of the tech industry in the future? Bengaluru has taken a massive hit on its service economy as it lost over two lakh jobs during the pandemic, this includes techies, manufacturing workers, cab drivers, hospitality workers and the entire support ecosystem. However, like any global city, Bengaluru is bouncing back with resilience and energy. The pandemic has tested our ability to adapt and be agile. I believe we have passed the test. As someone born here and seen the IT industry grow in the last 30 years and the city from a population of 5 million people to now 10 million people, it is a relief to see smile back on the faces of a regular Bengaluru citizen even though we are halfway in fighting the pandemic. Back to roots Bengaluru goes where the techie goes and the techies who went back to their rural roots during the pandemic might have just opened whole new ideas. A bunch of smart techies spending time in villages and smaller towns can bring in benefits as well. They may be able to help smaller rural communities to connect their business to the online market. This may not be the last of the pandemics we will see, and as a knowledge city, Bengaluru has learnt how to adapt, align and be agile to remain in the race for who we are: the silicon valley of Asia.  (Murthy B.S. is a talent researcher and headhunter based in Bengaluru.)
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Kannada varsity in the doldrums as fund flow stops||COVID-19 seems to have brought Kannada University, Hampi, almost to a standstill. While the teaching staff have not been paid for three months, the guest faculty has not been paid for 10 months now. Student fellowships, medical reimbursements and pensions have all stopped, bringing academic activity to a grinding halt. Lack of funding from the government seems to be at the root of the present impasse, causing outrage among Kannada writers, activists and political opposition. The university administration has been running pillar to post since May this year seeking grants from the government. S.C. Ramesh, Vice-Chancellor, had written to the State government giving a breakup of the administrative expenses, including salaries the university incurs every year, pegging it at Rs. 6 crore annually, seeking a grant. “Unlike other universities, we do not have college affiliations and hence lack independent sources of revenue and are heavily dependent on government funding. Our publication division is a good source of revenue, which has also been hit by the pandemic,” explained Dr. Ramesh. However, the government has only allocated Rs. 50 lakh for development works for 2020-21 and only a part of it has been released till date. “There is absolutely no money to run the university,” he said. Steady decline While the State government has been regularly issuing grants in the range of Rs. 4 crore to Rs. 6 crore every year, there has been a decline in funding from 2018-19 which saw the government allocate only Rs. 1.5 crore, followed by Rs. 1 crore in 2019-20. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah recently wrote to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who also holds the finance portfolio, strongly condemning the lack of support for Kannada University. “It is shameful that your government doesn’t have money for knowledge development works in Kannada,” the letter stated, demanding immediate release of funds. Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan told The Hindu that the department was closely following up with the Finance Department and funds would be released soon. “We are also arranging for Rs. 10 crore to be released to the university as one-time grant from the District Mineral Fund of Ballari district,” he said. DMF is a fund for socio-economic development for mining-affected districts. Downgraded Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV) recently ran a Twitter campaign to “save Kannada University.” The campaign also highlighted how the rot ran deeper at the university. The university was downgraded from A+ to B by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) in 2019, indicating the general slide in the quality of academic work. “Over the last few years, several administrative issues have cropped up at the university impacting the academic work as well. For instance, there has been a centralisation of programmes under the Vice-Chancellor, robbing the departments of academic freedom,” a senior professor at the university said.  The university has contributed immensely to Kannada intellectual life. But all institutions develop intellectual fatigue after a few decades. Given that the university is on the verge of completing three decades, it is in that phase now. The university needs to reinvent itself.K.V. NarayanaFormer professor at Kannada University, Hampi
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Protest against farm laws||Members of various trade union organisations staged a protest in Mysuru on Monday to express their solidarity with the agitating farmers across the country. The activists were drawn from various trade union organisations including AITUC, INTUC, AIUTUC and CITU all of whom had come together under the banner of Joint Committee of Trade Unions. The activists flayed the Centre for its “anti-farmers and anti-workers’’ policies and said though thousands of farmers are protesting in Delhi since the last three weeks, the government has failed to reach out to them. The JCTU said the Centre has passed the three farm laws - Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. It described them as inimical to the interest of the farmers and food sovereignty of the country and had been introduced without any debate. It is a step to strengthen the hands of private enterprises to the detriment of the interest of farmers and would hasten the closure of APMC yards across the country, according to JCTU. Expressing concern over some of its provisions, the JCTU feared that the new laws will facilitate hoarding and create an artificial scarcity of foodgrains in the market. Referring to the ongoing agitation in Delhi, the JCTU said almost 30 farmers have died ever since the agitation began but the government was yet to respond to their demands or even empathise with the agitating farmers. Instead, the agitating farmers have been dubbed ‘traitors’ by the government which was accused of misleading the public.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||IRCTC announces Andaman package||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has announced a tour package to Andaman Islands in January 2021. The tour “’Tropical Wonders of Andaman’’ is a 5-night and 6-day package and includes return air tickets by Go Air from Bengaluru to Port Blair and back, airconditioned accommodation for 3 nights at Port Blair, 1 night in Havelock Island and 1 night at Neil Island with breakfast and dinner, ferry charges to Neil Island, Havelock Island and back, entrance tickets at the sightseeing places mentioned in the package, travel insurance, transfer and sightseeing in vehicle. It is a single departure scheduled for January 29, 2021 and those opting to join the tour should mandatorily get themselves tested for COVID-19 (RTPCR test) with samples taken 48 hours before the departure, besides adhering to other COVID-19 guidelines. The return flight is on February 3 and the cost per person for single occupancy is Rs. 51,500 and Rs. 37,500 for double occupancy. The available seats are 12. For details contact IRCTC Bengaluru on 8287931934 or the IRCTC counter at Mysuru city railway station, Ph: 0821-2426001 or 8595931294.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Coorg Person of the Year 2020’||Sanjana Kattera, a corona warrior who was part of the Oxford COVID-19 vaccine trial team, is ‘Coorg Person of the Year, 2020’, according to a release. Kodagu-born Dr. Sanjana was involved in treating COVID-affected children. A paediatrician, she was part of the vaccine trial team at the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine in the United Kingdom. The release said Dr. Sanjana served patients selflessly by risking her life, especially when PPE suits were in short supply initially. Dr. Sanjana was selected ‘Coorg Person of the Year’ in a poll conducted by www.coorgtourisminfo.com, Kodagu’s first news portal, promoted by senior journalist P.T. Bopanna. She worked with phase I/II of the trial with the age group 18-55 years by initially screening and recruiting patients as part of the eligibility criteria. Dr. Sanjana, daughter of Suresh Kattera and Smitha Suresh, did her schooling in the United World College South East Asia (UWCSEA) in Singapore. She studied medicine at the University of Edinburgh in the U.K. Paediatrics training After completing her medicine, she specialised in paediatrics in a hospital in the U.K, and is currently training in NHS, Liverpool. She will be completing her Membership of the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health (MRCPCH) early next year. The corona warrior had a tough competition for the ‘Coorg Person of the Year’ title from M.A. Ganapathy, IPS, Director-General of the Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS), the release added.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Organisers of talent hunt show booked||Organisers of a popular Kannada music talent hunt show have been booked for violating COVID-19 guidelines during the finale programme held in Byatarayanapura on Sunday. According to the police, action was initiated for violating social distancing norms and not wearing masks at the ‘Sa Re Ga Ma Pa’ finale. “Permission was given for 100 members, but double the number of people gathered,” the police said. Those on security duty noticed the violations and informed their seniors.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Recognition||photo
22 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||242 new cases in Alappuzha||The district reported 242 COVID-19 cases and 202 recoveries on Monday. It also recorded two COVID-19-related deaths. Of the fresh cases, 222 people contracted the virus through local transmission, while the source of infection of another 16 patients remains unknown. Two persons each who came from abroad and other States also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,065. Kollam The district reported 234 new COVID-19 cases, two deaths and 333 recoveries on Monday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 233 contact cases and one person without any known source. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 49-year-old Kottarakara resident and 47-year-old Eravipuram resident were due to COVID-19. Cases with no known source have been reported from Kottamkara. The district currently has 14,154 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 5,41,336. While 1,000 people completed home quarantine on Monday, the Health Department has traced 1,31,859 primary and 12,117 secondary contacts of the positive cases. 217 in Kottayam As many as 217 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Monday Of the fresh cases, all patients contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also included 21 children and 36 people aged above 60. With 30 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Changanassery with 26 cases. With 217 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 5,958 active cases. 112 in Pathanamthitta As many as 112 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 101 people contracted the virus through local contact and among these, the contact source of 25 cases were yet to be identified. Among the local bodies, Pandalam and Thiruvalla reported eight cases each, followed by Ayiroor with seven cases. The disease claimed three more life in the district. The victims were identified as an 83-year-old Kulanad native, 65-year-old Mallapally native and 69-year-old Vechoochira native. With 257 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 3,626 active cases.  (With contributions from Kollam, Kottayam and Pathanamthitta bureaus)
22 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Members take oath of office in Alappuzha||Members elected to the local bodies in the district took the oath of office on Monday. In a function held at the Alappuzha District Panchayat Hall, all the 23 members of the district panchayat were sworn in. District Collector A. Alexander administered the pledge to M.V. Priya, the senior-most member, representing the Veliyanad division in the local body. Later, Ms. Priya administered the pledge to the remaining 22 members. In Alappuzha municipality, all 52 newly elected councillors took the oath of office. The elected representatives to Cherthala, Haripad, Kayamkulam, Mavelikara and Chengannur municipalities; 12 block panchayats and 72 grama panchayats were also sworn in. Last week, the CPI (M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) registered a thumping victory in the local body elections in the district. It won 21 out of the total 23 seats in the district panchayat. The LDF was also voted to power in Ambalappuzha, Aryad, Bharanikavu, Chengannur, Haripad, Kanjikuzhy, Mavelikara, Muthukulam, Pattanakkad, Thycattusserry and Veliyanad block panchayats. In Champakulam block panchayat, both the LDF and UDF won six seats each. Besides, the LDF won Alappuzha, Cherthala and Kayamkulam municipalities and a majority of grama panchayats. On the other hand, the United Democratic Front (UDF) won Chengannur municipality and less than 20 grama panchayats. It also emerged top in Haripad municipality but fell short of a majority there. In Mavelikara municipality, all the three fronts LDF, UDF and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) won nine seats each. An LDF rebel candidate won from Umbarnnad ward of the Mavelikara municipality by a margin of five votes..
22 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||New representatives take charge in Wayanad district||The swearing-in ceremony of the newly elected members to the district panchayat, municipalities, block panchayats and grama panchayats was held at various places in the district by adhering to the COVID-19 protocol on Monday. The swearing-in ceremony of the district panchayat members was held at the District Panchayat Conference Hall here at 10 a.m. on the day. District Collector Adeela Abdulla, who is also the District Election Officer, administered the oath of office to the senior-most member, N.C. Prasad of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), who administered the oath to the rest of the 15 members. Tests negative Ms. Adeela, who is in quarantine after her driver tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 recently, arrived for the ceremony in personal protective equipment (PPE). Though she tested negative, she wore the kit as a precautionary measure. M. Sajeer, Joint Registrar, Cooperative Societies, who was also the returning officer of the Kalpetta municipality, administered the oath to the senior most member of the civic body, C.K. Sivaraman. Basil Paul, Executive Engineer, Minor Irrigation Division, Sulthan Bathery, and A.S. Sheena, Executive Engineer, Minor Irrigation, Mananthavady, administered the oath to Valsa Jose of Sulthan Bathery municipality and Margaret Thomas of Mananthavady municipality respectively.
22 December 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Kannur corpn., panchayat members begin new term||The newly elected members of the Kannur Municipal Corporation and the district panchayat took oath on Monday. District Collector T.V. Subhash, who is also the District Election Officer, administered the oath of office to senior corporation council member A. Kunhambu, who in turn read out the oath to the other members. Minister of Ports and Archaeology Ramachandran Kadannappally, K. Sudhakaran, MP; former Mayor, and leaders of various parties were present. First meeting After a photo session, the first meeting of councillors was held under the chairmanship of Mr. Kunhambu. Corporation Secretary T. Saju read out the circular on election of Mayor and Deputy Mayor, and a meeting on it will be held on December 28. In the district panchayat, 23 members were sworn in. Mr. Subhash administered the oath of office to E. Vijayan, a senior member representing the Panniyannur Division. Mr. Vijayan then administered the oath of office to the other members. District Panchayat Secretary V. Chandran officiated the function.
22 December 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||CPI(M) alleges vote trading by IUML, BJP||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] district secretary M.V. Jayarajan has released an audio recording claiming that the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) indulged in vote trading during the recent local body elections. Addressing the media here on Monday, Mr. Jayarajan played a 17-minute phone conversation between two activists, allegedly of the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) and the BJP, over the defeat of the UDF candidate in the Gopalpet ward of the Thalassery municipality. He said BJP’s candidate M.R. Nijin got only nine votes in the ward, while IUML Independent Sandhya Prasad polled 497 votes. Jisha Jayachandran of the CPI(M) won with a majority of 260 votes. In the conversation, the ‘BJP activist’ could be heard inquiring the ‘IUML activist’ why the CPI(M) candidate had won despite they cast the vote for the IUML candidate. To a question if they had cast full votes, the BJP activist explained that it was clear as their candidate got only nine votes.  However, Mr. Jayarajan did not disclose the names or documents proving that those engaged in the conversation were BJP and IUML activists. He said the details would be released at the appropriate time.
22 December 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Coastal policemen forcibly taken to Mangaluru shore||Two officers from the Kasaragod Coastal Police, who attempted to stop alleged illegal fishing by a group of fisherman near the Kumbala coast, were forcibly taken to Mangaluru, on Monday evening. They were later released on the intervention of District Police Chief (Kasaragod) D. Shilpa. On noticing the act, the officers boarded the fishing vessel and instructed the fishermen to move to the shore. But they drove it straight to the Mangaluru port. According to the police, there were 19 persons in the boat. They had no permits and documents, making them liable to pay huge fines. They might have driven the boat to Mangaluru to avoid fine, the police said. A case has been filed against the fisherman under various sections of the Indian Penal Code.
22 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||District manages to integrate palliative care into COVID care||While Ernakulam has to some extent managed to integrate palliative care with COVID care and triage, the rest of the State is yet to follow suit, doctors say. “In a situation where a patient receiving palliative care tests positive for the novel coronavirus, a system is in place by which trained palliative care nurses discuss the goals of care with the patient and family. If symptoms aggravate and intensive care might only affect the quality of life, we try to focus on giving supportive, home-based care rather than intensive care considering co-morbidities,” said Dr. Athul Joseph Manuel, who heads the palliative care project at the Ernakulam General Hospital. Health officials in the district had initially decided to set aside a separate facility for patients who test positive for the coronavirus and also require palliative care, but decided against it when they realised it might turn out to be a hospice. Palliative care was instead provided at the treatment centres where patients were admitted. Having an existing grid of palliative care specialists and trained nurses and volunteers in the district has helped counsel and provide support to families and patients, Dr. Athul said. Around 12,000 patients in the district are receiving palliative care at home through a network of trained nurses and volunteers, and some patients who tested positive for the virus chose to battle the disease or succumb to it at home, said Dr. Mathews Numpeli, district programme manager, National Health Mission. Dr. Athul points out that there are two aspects to palliative care where doctors focus on the quality of life of the patient and utilisation of facilities. The pandemic has also highlighted the need to manage resources. If the facilities are limited, their use on a terminally ill patient will have to be discussed, he added. But the State never arrived at a situation where ICU beds were short of demand, said Dr. Suresh Kumar, director, WHO Collaborating Centre for Community Participation in Palliative Care and Long-term Care at the Institute of Palliative Medicine, Kozhikode. “But there were people who returned from other countries, had other malignancies and tested positive for COVID. Already terminally ill patients who test positive are automatically directed to the ICU, and their last days are spent in difficulty on ventilators,” he said. “For doctors, it might be easier to admit such patients and administer critical care rather than discuss other options, which is an emotionally draining situation, particularly in cases where the family might also be in quarantine,” Dr. Kumar said. Palliative care professionals are few in COVID-19 care centres, he said.  While Ernakulam has managed to implement a system of involving palliative care professionals in COVID care, experts in the field might only be consulted informally in other parts of the State, Dr. Kumar said.
22 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||New corpn. council members sworn in||The 74 newly elected councillors of the Kochi Corporation took the oath of office on Monday in a ceremony cut short by COVID-19 restrictions. District Collector S. Suhas administered the oath to the senior-most councillor, Mercy George, who won from the Poonithura Division. In order to comply with COVID-19 curbs and avoid prolonging the gathering at the council hall, Ms. George administered the oath to all councillors together, rather than calling upon each individually. Marking their victory after 10 years, the LDF councillors were greeted with crimson garlands. IUML rebel T.K. Ashraf and J. Sanilmon, the two Independents who had promised support to the LDF, were seated alongside senior LDF councillors M. Anilkumar and C.A. Shakkeer. While officials asked everybody but the councillors and mediapersons to step outside to avoid crowding, the two small galleries of the flower-decked council hall were packed. Two TV screens were set up in the courtyard of the corporation office for the public, besides party workers and family members of the councillors. UDF councillors assembled at the Ernakulam District Congress Committee office and marched together to the council for the oath-taking ceremony, while the five NDA councillors met at the Revenue Tower before they walked into the council. A brief council meeting was also held on Monday with Ms. George at the helm, at which she announced December 28 as the date for the election to the posts of Mayor and Deputy Mayor. The District Collector has been in-charge of the corporation after the term of the previous council ended on November 11. Of the 74 new members, 46 are debutants, according to a corporation official. While none of the LDF councillors addressed the council at its first meeting, the UDF’s Deepthi Mary Varghese and M.G. Aristottil spoke briefly. “The ruling and opposing fronts will work together towards the city’s development,” Ms. Varghese said. Municipal councils Newly elected municipal council members in the district were sworn in on Monday. Officials chosen by the Election Commission administered the oath of office to the senior-most member of the council, and the member in turn read out the oath to other members, said a communication here. The first meeting of the newly elected members was chaired by the senior-most member. Chairpersons and vice chairpersons of municipalities will be elected on December 28.
22 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||A sweet ending to an arduous wait||For Maneesh Narayanan and Eldhose Baby who work as healthcare professionals in Kuwait, Tuesday morning will bring with it a sweet reunion with their toddlers at the Kochi airport after an arduous wait of six months. Mr. Narayanan, 35, working with the Health Department in Kuwait, said the country had chartered flights for health workers to return from Kerala to Kuwait from June to August. The cardiac perfusionist and his wife, Suby, who is also a health worker, had arrived in Kochi in February on leave. They returned to Kuwait by the first flight in June, worried that they might lose their jobs if they did not, but had to leave their daughter behind. “We had to leave Dhaksha, our four-year-old daughter, behind with her grandparents in Ernakulam. The Kuwait government would not allow children to return with the workers,” Mr. Narayanan said. With Kuwait also having shut its airport to flights from several other countries, including India, following the spread of the novel coronavirus, the parents were in a dilemma. Mr. Narayanan wrote to officials in the Health Department, hoping for a change in regulations. The Kuwait government issued a circular earlier this month, allowing first-degree relatives of employees of the Ministry of Health to enter the country via direct flight. Even health workers could not enter the country directly earlier, and the couple had to quarantine themselves in Dubai for 14 days before returning to Kuwait in June, Mr. Narayanan said. For Mr. Narayanan and Mr. Eldhose, a nurse from Angamaly who had to leave his three-year-old child behind in Ernakulam, the order brought a long-awaited relief. They will arrive in Kochi on Tuesday and return to Kuwait with their children after a three-hour wait at the airport. Since his wife is pregnant, Mr. Narayanan wanted to return to Kuwait immediately. He said, “We were not the only ones to have faced this situation. Several other workers who returned on chartered flights from Kochi, Thiruvanthapuram, and Kozhikode had to leave their children behind,” he added.  Several other workers who returned on chartered flights from Kochi, Thiruvanthapuram, and Kozhikode had to leave their children behind Maneesh Narayanan Cardiac perfusionist
22 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC sets aside distance norm of NGT||The Kerala High Court on Monday set aside the order of the National Greens Tribunal (NGT) that stone quarries maintain a minimum distance of 200 metres from residential areas. Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar passed the verdict while partly allowing a batch of writ petitions filed by the State government and some quarry operators challenging the NGT’s order. The court also directed the NGT to dispose of an application on which it had passed the order after giving due notice to those who are affected by the prescription of the stringent distance criterion. The court made it clear that its interim order that quarries, during their valid period of licence or lease, need not follow the 200-metre distance norm set by the NGT and these quarries need to maintain only the distance norm of 50 metres as contemplated in the Kerala Minor Mineral Concession Rules, which would continue till the disposal of the application. The interim order, however, had made it clear that licence of quarries whose licence/lease period had expired and which did not follow the distance norms set by the NGT should not be renewed. Free to modify The court also ordered that the NGT would be free to modify the interim order pending disposal of the representation afresh, if the situation warranted. The court found that the NGT’s order was vitiated for non-compliance of the principles of natural justice. The court observed that it did not choose to issue notice to the quarry operator who had secured all requisite permissions and licences for the same and who would be affected by the proposed order. The State government and others submitted that the NGT had passed the order on July 21 without hearing the State or those affected by the order. It would not be in the best interest of the public as it would affect development activities. The tribunal had passed the order without a proper study. Besides, it had not assigned any reasons for prescribing the distance norms, the government contended.
22 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CBSE schools asked to ensure safety protocols||Schools under the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) are getting ready to implement all health and safety protocols as part of the partial reopening for revision and doubt-clearing sessions from January 1 onwards. The Council of CBSE Schools Kerala and the CBSE School Managements Association have urged the schools to strictly ensure the guidelines issued by the authorities concerned ahead of the partial reopening. The managements have to disinfect all areas, furniture, equipment, stationery, storage places, water tanks, kitchens, washrooms, and laboratories on the campuses. The schools have to ensure availability of key supplies such as thermometers, disinfectants and soaps. As suggested by the Union Ministry of Health, there must be a distance of at least 6 ft between students in the revised seating plan. It is advisable to mark the seating that the students should occupy. Similarly, physical/social distancing should be maintained in staff rooms, office areas and other places of public interaction. Staggered entry The authorities could consider staggering the timing of entry and exit for students of different classes. The ban on spitting has to be strictly enforced. They could mark circles on the ground at different places such as reception, water facility and hand washing stations, and areas outside wash rooms as part of the safety guidelines. School campuses have to be cleaned daily. The authorities have to ensure frequent cleaning and sanitisation of commonly touched surfaces such as doorknobs and latches inside and outside the classrooms. All teaching materials, including teaching aid, desks, chairs, computers, printers, laptops, and tables, have to be disinfected regularly. The availability of soap and clean water at all handwashing facilities should be ensured. If possible, alcohol-based handsanitiser may be placed at prominent places such as the reception and entrance to the school. The managements have to ensure frequent cleaning and disinfecting of washrooms. Wearing of masks should be made mandatory, according to the guidelines.
22 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||UDF meet likely to be stormy||The United Democratic Front (UDF) district meeting to be held on Tuesday in the wake of the front losing the Kochi Corporation, will see the Congress and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) blaming each other for the poll debacle. While the Congress-led UDF fell short of the required number for continuing in power, the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF), which had 34 councillors, ensured the support of two Independents, including T.K. Ashraf, the League rebel, to return to power after a hiatus of 10 years. It was the infighting and internal issues, said a Congress leader, in the League in the West Kochi region that denied the UDF power in the corporation. Mr. Ashraf, who wielded significant clout among voters in West Kochi, won the seat for himself, defeating both the LDF and the UDF and ensured the defeat of the UDF in at least three other seats, he said. Realising the influence of Mr. Ashraf among the masses, several senior Congress leaders from the district had approached the State and the district leadership of the League with a request to placate him. However, the League leadership did not heed to the suggestion, for which the UDF had to pay dearly, he said. The Congress leader said the issue would be raised in the UDF meeting. Standing committee The LDF is likely to offer the chairmanship of the health standing committee of the corporation to Mr. Ashraf, who was denied the post during the term of the previous council, despite a power-sharing agreement in the party with his fellow councillor P.M. Harris. At the same time, League district leaders blamed it on infighting in the Congress. While accepting that the Ashraf factor had some impact on the electoral scene, a senior League leader from the district said Congress rebels did the UDF in. Had the Congress succeeded in quelling internal squabbles and withdrawing rebels from the scene, the UDF could have performed better in several local bodies of the district, including Kochi Corporation, he said. The 700-plus votes, pointed out another League leader, secured by the Congress rebel in Kaloor North resulted in the LDF candidate Ashitha Yahiya winning the Kaloor North Division. UDF candidate Smrithi Harris lost the seat by a margin of 74 votes, he pointed out.  Had the Congress succeeded in quelling internal squabbles and withdrawing rebels from the scene, the UDF could have performed better in several local bodies of the district
22 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||KMRL to adopt ‘circular economy’, to focus on reuse of materials||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has decided to adopt ‘circular economy’, a sustainable approach to development. Circular economy is a new way of creating value, and ultimately prosperity, by extending product lifespan and relocating waste from the end of the supply chain to the beginning — in effect, using resources more efficiently by reusing them. Through this, the agency plans to reduce the cost of construction also. Kochi metro will begin relying on construction materials having recycled content, to reduce dependence on virgin materials, for less important areas. Use of locally available materials to minimise the environmental impact from transporting them from afar is also under consideration. “KMRL is known for promoting sustainable development. The circular economy is gaining attention worldwide. Through adopting circular economy, KMRL can work on the concept of reduce, reuse, redesign and regenerate,” said Alkesh Kumar Sharma, Managing Director of the agency. The new policy will also encourage use of materials having low emissions to reduce adverse health effects on the public. KMRL had decided to maximise usage of structural steel in stations, especially at entry and exit points, to reduce the quantity of concrete used, said metro sources. It has been decided to resume Kochi metro services from 6 a.m. and to extend their operation till 10 p.m., from December 22. The move followed demand from commuters, said metro sources. At present, services begin at 7 a.m., while the last service is at 9 p.m. The last train would leave Aluva and Petta stations at 10 p.m., they added. The daily average ridership of Kochi metro has climbed from 15,000 in November to 21,000 at present. It was less than 10,000 when the services resumed in October.
22 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fish farmers to sell catch directly to consumers||This Christmas season, about 50 fish farmers, engaged in cage fish cultivation under the aegis of the Palliyakkal Service Cooperative Society, will attempt to directly sell fish to consumers without the aid of middlemen. The aim of the venture was to reach out to consumers on their own, said P.P. Vijayan of the Palliyakkal Service Cooperative Bank, which has been supporting those engaged in vegetable, poultry, dairy and fish farming activities. The Korampadam Service Cooperative Bank, under the Palliyakkal society, too has seen a large number of farmers take up such ventures. The growth of cage fish farming was a story of success for the 45 self-help groups of farmers under the Korampadam society, said Mr. Vijayan. The farmers will begin selling live pearl spot, tilapia and sea bass from Tuesday onwards at the farm site. The sale would be between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. at Kothad Service Road along the Container Terminal Road between December 22 and 24, said a spokesman for the Korapmadam society. Bank president Harold Nicholson said the fish farmers had been affected by the COVID-19 lockdown and subsequent loss of business but hoped to make use of the Christmas season to generate some revenue.
22 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Subdued mood in Fort Kochi without the famed carnival||Fort Kochi, considered a must-see destination, especially during the Christmas-New Year season, presents a picture of stark contrast this year, with the famed Cochin Carnival and its culmination, ‘burning of the Papanji’, standing cancelled due to the pandemic situation. Even as domestic tourists visit the beachfront, most homestays that cater for guests from Europe remain closed. “Such a situation is unheard of in recent memory. We had no other option but to cancel the carnival,” said P.J. Josey, treasurer, carnival committee. “Else, the organisers will be blamed for any surge in COVID-19 cases. Moreover, the recent developments show that the pandemic has struck Europe in a different form, causing mass cancellation of flights. In addition, visitors to Kerala from other States must undergo a week’s quarantine, and this has turned away many tourists. It was a particularly bad year for the carnival organisers, what with Kochi Metro Rail Limited [KMRL] demolishing a row of three heritage buildings on the beachfront to construct a Water Metro terminal, one of which housed our committee office,” he added. According to Mr. Josey, more domestic guests would have arrived in the heritage locale but for incomplete road and drainage work by Cochin Smart Mission Limited. “Most footpaths are strewn with pre-cast slabs and other concrete debris, providing a bad time for people who loved to check out the streets which are lined by heritage buildings. Tourism agencies too must be responsive, since they are not ensuring cleanliness of the beach and its walkway,” he said. Domestic tourists Approximately, 80% of homestay operators in Fort Kochi are not entertaining reservations this season, to prevent health risks to their families who reside in the same compound. Unlike most other locales in Kerala, Fort Kochi banks heavily on guests from Europe. Now that they cannot come, the concept of wooing domestic tourists could become popular, he said.
22 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||College to promote animal welfare||The National Service Scheme (NSS) of St. Albert’s College here has joined hands with Humane Society International / India to promote animal welfare. The collaboration includes introducing animal welfare as part of the curriculum and promoting animal welfare activities among students, according to a release. Prof. Sebastian A.V., NSS programme officer, department of English, said the joint initiative would help in ensuring kindness to all living beings. Sally Varma, senior campaigner, Humane Society International / India said research had found that those who committed crimes against animals had higher disposition to commit crimes against human beings.
22 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||The Sheikh who kept Kerala close to his heart||The passing away of Sheikh Nasser Sabah Al Ahmed, a member of the royal family of Kuwait, on December 20 has plunged the desert kingdom into mourning and also cast a pall of gloom over the coastal village of Cherai in Kochi. The 72-year-old former Defence Minister of Kuwait and a high-profile royal family member was a frequent visitor to Kochi and had touched the lives of people here with his philanthropy, social interactions, and business interests. The Sheikh first arrived in Kochi in 2004. During his stay at Hotel Le Meridien, he established a warm relationship with Philip Joseph, a fitness trainer at the hotel, and his brothers Sebastian and Martin Joseph. Over time, he formed a deep friendship with the family from Cherai and, with every visit, discovered more of Kerala and its culture. Philip Joseph became his private secretary and bodyguard. Sebastian, on whose family the Sheikh bestowed love, trust, and respect says, “The Sheikh was attracted to Kerala and fell in love with its people, culture, and food. Despite his high-profile background, he loved the simple life in the State. He wore Indian clothes and the ‘mundu’ too. He often angled for fish and cooked it for his local friends and those who accompanied him.” Architect Tony Joseph who met him on several occasions and became a friend, says, “It is an incredible loss for Malayalis because he was a great lover of Kerala.” Recalling his first meeting with the Sheikh, Tony says, “Though he was the former Emir’s son, he had no airs. When he spoke so knowledgeably about his Al Sabah collection at the Metropolitan Museum in New York, I knew it was him.” Over the years, the Sheikh slowly established a network of businesses here, buying property, houseboats, and bungalows. “It was not easy for him. He was duped once, but it did not deter him from making Kerala his home away from home,” says Tony. His entourage often included the rich and the famous and introduced Kerala as a destination to people like the Prince of Jordan, and members of the Kuwaiti royal family. Stories of his generosity abound. He donated an ambulance to Muhamma panchayat and helped individual people and families bring in investments as part of the Make in India initiative. Sheikh Nasser would often be found fishing at the Munamban fishing harbour and also enjoyed Ayurvedic wellness treatments. Favourite spot “He would zip around casually in a rickshaw. Jew Town was one of his favourite spots,” says Sebastian, who along with his younger brother Martin, is a director at Hasabi Hospitality Services Private Limited, a company the Sheikh founded in 2012. Sebastian recalls how the Sheikh brought Lakshmi Bai Thampurati, the princess of Travancore, to his home in Cherai. “She was his guest.”
22 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||377 new COVID-19 cases in Ernakulam||Ernakulam recorded 377 new COVID-19 cases and 476 recoveries on Monday. The source of infection in 74 newly infected people could not be determined. Health workers Kalamassery registered 16 new cases, while Kadamakkudy and Thrikkakara recorded 15 each. Four health workers were tested positive. In quarantine While 28,259 people are in quarantine, the district’s active case load is 8,231. A total of 4,621 samples were sent for testing on Monday. A majority of those recovering from the disease — 6,447 people — remain at home, while 91 patients are admitted at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, 56 are at PVS Hospital, 24 are at the Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital, 511 patients are being treated at private hospitals, and 261 people are being monitored at first-line treatment centres.
22 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Leelavathy felicitated||Literary critic M. Leeavathy, who was selected for the ONV Award, was felicitated under the aegis of Samskarika Kochi, a cultural organisation. Critic M.K. Sanoo, Father Thomas Puthussery, director, Chavara Cultural Centre, and book publisher Jayachandran were among those who attended.
22 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Designs invited for Streets for People challenge||Aimed at promoting pedestrian-friendly, child-friendly and safe and happy public spaces / streets in Kochi, Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) has invited designs from the public for the Streets for People challenge. The designs should have fair distribution of spaces, safety, and security for all users, comfort, sensitivity to local surroundings, liveability and environmental stability, pedestrian-friendly streets, activity area, shopping area, interaction spaces, and kids play area. “CSML has shortlisted four major sites / streets to promote pedestrian-friendly spaces. They are Vasco Da Gama Square in Fort Kochi, P.T. Usha Road, streets along Eruveli and Kalvathy canals in West Kochi, and Jew Town in Mattancherry,” said Jafar Malik, Chief Executive Officer, CSML. For registration, visit https://smartnet.niua.org/indiastreetchallenge/cities/kochi/
22 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||1,596 new members of local bodies take charge in Kollam||Members of the Kollam Corporation, district panchayat, four municipalities, 11 block panchayats and 68 grama panchayats took oath of office at separate functions held here on Monday. District Collector B.Abdul Nasar administered the oath to George D Kattil from Port division, senior most member of corporation, during the ceremony held at Kollam Town Hall. Mr.George presided over the first meeting that followed the swearing-in of other 54 members. Elected members from the 26 divisions of Kollam district panchayat were sworn in at Jayam Memorial Hall. District Collector administered the oath to N.S.Prasannakumar, the senior most member of the council elected from Kottankara division and subsequently Mr.Prasannakumar administered the oath to the remaining members. He also presided over the first meeting of the council that followed the swearing-in ceremony. Among the persons present were K.Somaprasad, MP, MLAs, Mullakkara Ratnakaran and R.Ramachandran, CPI(M) State secretariat member and former Rajya Sabha MP, K.N. Balagopal, CPI(M) district secretary S.Sudevan, former district panchayat president C.Radhamani, vice president S Venugopal and other members. Antigen test was done for all new members after the swearing in ceremony and the election of the panchayat president is scheduled to be held on December 30. S.Podiyan Pillai, Jolly.P.Varghese, Arifa Teacher and M.Ansar were the first to swear in various municipalities. A total of 1,596 people who were elected to the three-tier local bodies in Kollam took oath on Monday.
22 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||1,512 take oath in Kottayam||A total of 1,512 people who had been elected to the three-tier local bodies in Kottayam took the oath of office on Monday. In a function held at the District Panchayat Hall, District Collector M. Anjana administered the oath of office to Radha V. Nair , the senior-most member in the upcoming district panchayat. Later, Ms. Nair administered the pledge to the remaining 21 members. Nibu John, member from Puthuppally division who is in quarantine, attended the function in protective gear and was sworn in after other members left the hall. Additional District Magistrate Anil Oommen was also present . In the municipalities, Mollikutty Sebastian (Kottayam), K.R. Prakash (Changanassery) V.S. Viswanathan (Ettumanur), Jose Edayath (Pala), P.M. Abdul Qadir (Erattupetta), B. Chandrasekharan (Vaikom) were the first to take the oath. The election of presidents and vice-presidents in the municipalities and the three-tier panchayats will be held on December 28 and December 30 respectively. Meanwhile, the swearing-in ceremony at the Kottayam municipality witnessed some tense moments after a BJP member, K.Shankaran representing Ward 41, took the oath in Sanskrit. LDF members soon protested, demanding that the member take the oath either in Malayalam or translate the oath to Malayalam. Issue settled The issue, however, was settled by the intervention of the presiding officer, who said the oath could be taken in any language as recognised by the Constitution of India. This was followed by another controversy over a CPI(M) councillor, Sheeja Anil, allegedly taking the oath in a wrong way. Though the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) members raised the issue, the presiding officer intervened once again to settle the issue.
22 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Governor launches MGU newsletter||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan on Monday released ‘Insider,’ the official newsletter of Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam. Addressing the function, the Governor extended his wishes to the initiative and hoped that the newsletter would effectively serve the communication and extension activities of the university in the days to come. A university is duty bound to transmit to society, knowledge, its fruits and the love for knowledge, he noted. According to the Governor, it is the strength of intellectual productivity which emboldens every university to seek solutions for the problems faced by the society. Intellectual wealth enables a university to keep pace with the development of life and the progress of society, and even to guide society with the power of knowledge. The Governor also congratulated MGU , which has been ranked 13th by the CSIR , in terms of intellectual productivity. “Mahatma Gandhi University, which has won the coveted Chancellor's trophy twice, can take pride in some of its faculty members being front-runners in developing indigenous technologies and holding around 20 patents, including four from the U.S.,” he said. MGU Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas presided over the function. Pro Vice Chancellor C.T. Aravindakumar, Syndicate member P. Shanavas and Registrar. B. Prakash Kumar also spoke.
22 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||LDF’s vote share climbs in Kozhikode||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has significantly improved its vote share in the just concluded three-tier local body polls when compared to the Lok Sabha polls of 2019 in Kozhikode district. The Left parties secured 44.53% of the total votes polled, while the United Democratic Front (UDF) received 41.59% and the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), 11.98%. The LDF won the Kozhikode Corporation and the district panchayat, nine out of the 12 block panchayats and emerged victorious in 38 out of the 70 grama panchayats and two — Koyilandy and Vadakara — out of the seven municipalities. Its vote share was below 40% in the 2019 polls. Multiple factors The vote share of parties and fronts differs in local body, Assembly and Lok Sabha elections based on a variety of factors and the evolving political circumstances. Multiple factors contribute to the winnability of a candidate such as local issues, personal contacts, profile, caste, religion and party affiliation in civic elections. Besides, the voting pattern varies in Lok Sabha and Assembly polls. As for the UDF, it captured Feroke and Ramanattukara and retained the Koduvally Municipality and won 21 grama panchayats. Mukkom Municipality threw up a tie, while both the LDF and the UDF won some grama panchayats with the support of Independents. It was a tie in two grama panchayats. LDF nominees bagged 49 seats in the 75- member corporation council, while the UDF and the NDA got 14 and 7 seats respectively. The remaining five Independents were backed either by the LDF or the UDF. Notably, the NDA finished second in over 20 seats. Incidentally CPI(M) candidate A. Pradeepkumar had received 37.92% votes in the Lok Sabha polls. His main opponent, M.K. Raghavan of the Congress, who retained the seat for the third time, got 45.97% in the Kozhikode Lok Sabha constituency. BJP nominee A. Prakash Babu got 15.53% of the total votes. (Kozhikode constituency comprises Kozhikode North, Kozhikode South, Beypore, Elathur, Balussery, and Kunnamangalam and Koduvally Assembly segments). In Assembly polls In the 2016 Assembly polls, the LDF secured 44.02% in the district. The front had made a rich haul in Kozhikode by bagging 11 out of the 13 Assembly seats. At the same time, the UDF got just two seats. Also, Mr. Pradeepkumar secured 48.40% against his nearest rival P.M. Suresh Babu of the Congress, who got 27.38% and BJP nominee K.P. Sreeshan, 22.51% in the Kozhikode North segment. Likewise, IUML candidate M.K. Muneer got 43.12%, Abdul Wahab of the LDF, 37.66%, and Satheeshan Kuttiyil of the NDA, 16.55% in the Kozhikode South segment. Both these segments form a major part of the Kozhikode Corporation.
22 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Newly elected members take oath in Kozhikode||Complying with the COVID-19 protocol, the swearing-in ceremony of elected members of the three-tier local bodies was held in Kozhikode district on Monday. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao administered the oath to Mukkom Mohammed, the senior-most member of the Kozhikode district panchayat at the district panchayat hall at 10 a.m. This was followed by the swearing-in of the remaining 26 members. Similarly, the Collector dictated the oath to M.P. Hameed of the Kozhikode Corporation at the Tagore Centenary Hall at 11.30. a.m. Subsequently, all the councillors in the 75-member council took the oath of office. Designated returning officers of the seven municipalities in the district also conducted the swearing-in ceremony of the new members. Members of block panchayats and grama panchayats were also sworn in. Meetings of the new councils in the three-tier local bodies were also held on the occasion. The election to the post of mayor and deputy mayor, and chairpersons and vice chairpersons of municipalities will be held at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. respectively on December 28. However, elections to the posts of chiefs in grama panchayats, block panchayats, and the district panchayat will be held only on December 31. The election to the posts of vice president will be held at 2 p.m. the same day. The elections to the three-tier local body polls was held in 91 local bodies — Kozhikode Corporation, seven municipalities, 70 grama panchayats, 12 block panchayats and district panchayat on December 14.
22 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||‘Polarisation’ row may not die down soon||‘Communal polarisation’ is set to be the catch phrase of rival parties and fronts heading to the upcoming electoral battle for the State Assembly. The sharp reactions to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s comment on his Facebook page on Saturday that the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) is pursuing dominance in the United Democratic Front (UDF) and deciding who should lead the Congress have arguably set the scene for the perceived communal divide to occupy the centre stage in the coming days ahead of the election. ‘Aiding Sangh Parivar’ The UDF leadership has already criticised the Chief Minister’s post, terming it an attempt to divide the electorate on communal lines ahead of the Assembly election. IUML general secretary K.P.A. Majeed on Monday said the remarks exposed the ‘communalist’ in the Chief Minister. Accusing Mr. Vijayan of aiding the Sangh Parivar’s drive for communal polarisation, the IUML leader urged the CPI(M) Central leadership to intervene. The allegation that Mr. Vijayan is creating communal polarisation was reiterated not only by the IUML but also a prominent Sunni faction. The sharply-worded editorial in the Suprabhatham daily, the mouthpiece of the Samastha faction of the Sunnis, on Monday sought to find a pattern in the Chief Minister’s remarks. The editorial noted that the observation is in conformity with the then CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s reported comment in October last that the UDF is now being led by UDF convener M.M. Hassan, IUML leader P.K. Kunhalikutty, and Jamaat-e-Islami (JeI) Ameer, among others. Mr. Balakrishnan was apparently reacting to reports of Mr. Hassan holding talks with the JeI leaders. The editorial stated that the Chief Minister’s statement was meant to reap more gains from recent widespread disinformation in the southern parts of the State against Muslims. In defence CPI(M) State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan defended the Chief Minister’s remarks about the IUML, but clarified that Mr. Vijayan’s observation was on the IUML and not on the Muslim community. The IUML leadership’s reaction betrays its discomfort when its communal stand is exposed, he added. Reactions and counter-reactions to the Chief Minister’s statement are expected to define the political posturing in the State in the run-up to the Assembly election.  The UDF leadership has already criticised the Chief Minister’s post, terming it an attempt to divide the electorate on communal lines ahead of the Assembly election.
22 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Source of shigella infection in Kozhikode yet to be confirmed||The source of the shigella bacterial infection that led to the death of an 11-year-old boy in the Kozhikode Corporation area is yet to be confirmed even as surveillance activities are being taken up in a nearby ward and adjacent grama panchayats. According to sources, the test results of the water and food samples sent to the regional analytical lab will take some more days to be made available. Microbiological culturing of the water samples is being done to detect the presence of the bacteria. The infection came to the fore when the boy from the Kottamparamba-Mundikkalthazham area in the Mayanad ward died last week and people who attended his last rites also complained of sickness. Over 30 people were treated as suspected cases and there were fewer than 10 confirmed cases of the infection. A health camp was held in the area on Saturday. No new cases Additional District Surveillance Officer Sarala Nair said on Monday that no new suspected cases of the infection had been reported. Those under observation have only mild symptoms, she added. Meanwhile, the health wing of the Kozhikode Corporation has now extended chlorination of wells in the nearby Chelavoor ward as well. Similar activities are being taken up in Kunnamangalam and Peruvayal grama panchayats that are adjacent to it. Nine persons from Kunnamangalam, including six children, who attended the last rites were found to have mild symptoms. They were given medicines and were advised against hospitalisation as the infection was not that serious. Over 100 wells in this panchayats had been chlorinated, said sources.
22 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Test positivity rate surges in Kozhikode||The test positivity rate of COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district surged to 14.29% on Monday and the Health Department has issued an alert indicating the possibility of a spike in new infections here. According to the District Medical Officer, 507 people were newly tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday when 3,546 samples were tested. There is a chance of fresh cases going up in the next few days in the wake of people coming out in large numbers in the open and intermingling at beaches, public parks and tourism centres, according to a release from the DMO’s office. Those who have COVID-19 symptoms such as fever, cough, sore throat, breathing difficulties, fatigue, headache, diarrhoea, lack of smell and taste, and running nose should test themselves. Free tests were available at primary health centres and other government hospitals, the release added. Meanwhile, 493 of the fresh cases reported on Monday were locally acquired infections and the source of seven others was not known. There were 124 cases of local transmission of the infection within the Kozhikode Corporation, 31 from Perumanna, 22 from Peruvayal and Narippatta, and 20 from Changaroth. Three deaths were reported from the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Monday and one on Sunday. In Wayanad Wayanad saw a sharp decline in the number of COVID-19 cases as only 62 people tested positive for the virus on Monday. All persons, including one health worker, were infected through contact. As many as 120 persons recovered on Monday.
22 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||SDPI’s strategy yields dividends in local polls||A multi-pronged strategy adopted by the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI), including a tacit understanding at the local level with any political party aimed at defeating the BJP, helped this minor Muslim party to get over 100 seats across the State in the just-concluded three-tier local body polls. The SDPI, the political wing of the Popular Front of India (PFI), secured 95 seats while bagging another seven, which the party had supported as Independents. This was a quantum jump from the 47 seats the party won last time. No open tie-up The SDPI had no open election understanding with either with the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front or the Congress-led United Democratic Front, but it secured more seats than the Welfare Party of India (WPI), which had an electoral alliance in some regions with the UDF or the Indian National League (INL), that was inducted into the LDF. The SDPI won a division in the Kollam Corporation, 20 seats in municipalities, a block panchayat seat and about 80 seats in grama panchayats.  More than 10 seats came from Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kottayam, and Kannur districts. In about another 200 seats , the party nominees finished in second position. The WPI and the INL emerged victorious only in 27 and 29 seats respectively. Traditional voters That SDPI nominees winning more in Muslim-dominated areas also strengthens the belief that the traditional voters of both coalitions, especially the LDF, switched loyalty to the party. “We tactically did not field candidates where the BJP would win and supported either the CPI(M), the Congress or even the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML),” Mustafa Kommeri, SDPI State secretary, told The Hindu . Sole purpose He said that the party fielded only six candidates in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation and none in the Palakkad municipality with the purpose to defeat the BJP. “The party supported and secured the victory of the CPI(M) candidates in the Beypore, Beypore Port and Marad divisions of the Kozhikode Corporation, the seats which the BJP had won earlier,” Mr. Kommeri said. CPI(M) stand At the same time, the CPI(M) branded the WPI, the political avatar of the Jamaat-e-Islami Hind, as a communal and an Islamist outfit. This propaganda led to a fear psychosis among traditional Christian voters in Central Travancore that the Congress was favouring an Islamist organisation. However, neither the Congress nor the IUML could effectively counter the CPI(M)-orchestrated campaign. Also, it fuelled an issue within their front.
22 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||1,226 grama panchayat members sworn in||A total of 1,226 newly elected grama panchayat members took the oath of office in Kozhikode district on Monday. The swearing-in ceremonies were held in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol. Local political party leaders and campaigners escorted the newly elected members to the panchayat halls. Processions were held in many locations in keeping with the Health Department protocol to celebrate the day and congratulate the members. Rousing reception First timers in many local bodies got a rousing welcome on their arrival. Though there were restrictions on the total number of persons permitted on the panchayat compounds, close family members were given special consideration. In some panchayats, it was also an occasion for members to finalise their president and vice president candidates to be sworn in next week. Though the list was almost ready in the case of a majority of the panchayats, many others were found waiting for the final opinion of some Independent candidates. In Kozhikode district, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) had claimed supremacy in 43 out of the 70 grama panchayats after the elections. However, the strategic alliance with some of the Independent candidates will be a crucial factor for the fronts.
22 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Man held on murder charge||The Thamarassery police on Monday arrested a 40-year-old man suspected of murdering his friend during a drunken brawl at Puthuppadi on Sunday night. The victim, Reji Sreedharan, died of serious stab injuries. Two others also sustained stab injuries in the clash and have sought treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital. An argument related to some financial deals led to the clash, said the police. The accused, Kuttan alias Sabin, also sustained minor injuries. The arrest was recorded after he was discharged from the hospital.
22 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Local body members assume office||The newly elected members of the three-tier local bodies in the district took the oath of office on Monday. District Collector D. Balamurali administered the oath to the eldest member of the district panchayat, V.K. Jayaprakash, who was elected from the Puthuppariyaram division. Mr. Jayaprakash later administered the oath to the remaining members of the district panchayat. District panchayat secretary P. Anil Kumar read out a letter by Local Administration Minister A.C. Moideen congratulating the newly elected members. Oath in PPE Mini Murali, who was elected from the Kozhinjampara division, took the oath by wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) as she was in quarantine. Outgoing district panchayat president K. Santhakumari, former president T.K. Narayanadas, and CPI(M) district secretary C.K. Rajendran, attended the function. In Palakkad municipality, where the unfurling of a Jai Sriram banner by the Sangh Parivar activists had kicked up a controversy, the swearing-in took place in the presence of a strong police force. Municipal electoral officer Sreedhara Varier administered the oath of office to the eldest member N. Sivarajan in the municipality. Mr. Sivarajan then administered the oath to 51 other members. In Pattambi municipality, 28 elected members took the oath of office. Several political leaders, including Mohammed Mohasin, MLA, attended the function. Subcollector Arjun Pandian administered the oath of office to the eldest member S. Gangadharan at Ottapalam municipality. Mr. Gangadharan later administered the oath to other members. The newly elected members took the oath in Chittur Thathamangalam, Cherpulassery, Mannarkkad and Shoranur municipalities too, apart from the 13 block panchayats and 88 grama panchayats.
22 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Nelliyampathy accident: one rescued, another dead||One of the two youngsters who fell off a steep cliff at Seetharkundu viewpoint at Nelliyampathy on Sunday evening was rescued on Monday morning. The other one was found dead and the body was retrieved after strenuous efforts. Raghunandan, 22, was rescued by a joint search team of Fire and Rescue and police personnel. He was found trapped in a tree about 60 ft down the cliff. He suffered serious injuries. He was admitted to Government Medical College Hospital, Thrissur. The body of Sandeep, 22, was retrieved from a rock about 600 ft down the cliff. The accident took place on Sunday evening when Sandeep and Raghunandan were returning after their visit to Seetharkundu viewpoint along with two other friends. The cliff at the viewpoint is nearly 3,500 ft deep. The exact bottom location of the cliff was not known, as it was forest areas. The Fire and Rescue teams assisted by the police conducted several rounds of search by using rope. Raghunandan was saved as the searchers heard his cry. The body of Sandeep was found about 200 metres away from the spot from where they fell.  The incident happened when they were returning after visiting Seetharkundu viewpoint
22 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||1,042 take oath of office in Pathanamthitta district||As many as 1,042 people who had been elected members of the three-tier local bodies in Pathanamthitta took the oath of office on Monday. In a function held at the District Collectorate in the morning, District Collector P.B. Noohu administered the oath of office to Omallur Shankaran, the senior-most member in the upcoming district panchayat. Later, Mr.Shankaran administered the pledge to the remaining 15 members. After the swearing-in ceremony, the first meeting of the newly elected members was held at the panchayat conference hall. The 67-year-old Shankaran, as senior member of the panchayat, chaired the meeting. The president and vice-president of the new district panchayat will be elected on December 30. The elected representatives to the remaining local bodies including the four municipalities, eight block panchayats and 53 grama panchayats of the district were sworn in before the respective presiding officers. Meanwhile, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) moved closer to capturing power in the Pathanamthitta municipality with one of the three Independent councillors here deciding to extend his support to the Left coalition. Soon after swearing in, Independent councillor K. R. Ajithkumar announced his decision to support the LDF. According to sources, one more Independent, Indiramaniyamma, is expected to follow Mr.Ajith Kumar and is most likely to be appointed as municipal vice chairperson for a year. Two Independents With the support of two Independents, the LDF's strength in the 32-member council will rise to 15 seats against the 13 seats won by the United Democratic Front. The Social Democratic Party of India has won three seats.
22 December 2020||S. Anil RadhakrishnanTHIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Focus on women’s safety in vehicles||With the aim of enhancing the safety of women and girls, public passenger transport vehicles in the State will be equipped with location tracking devices and emergency buttons for raising an alert in case of an emergency. Panic buttons will be set up in all passenger transport vehicles, except three-wheelers, for the travellers to send alerts during emergencies, speeding, rash driving, and in case of harassment or misbehaviour. Through the 24x7 GPS-based tracking and monitoring platform, the real-time monitoring of the vehicles can be undertaken and law enforcers and rescuers can rush in immediately in case of an emergency or accident. The government has given the administrative sanction for the development, customisation, deployment and management of the State-wise Vehicle Tracking Platform for safety and enforcement as per AIS-140 specification under the Nirbhaya framework. In 2018 itself, a real-time 24x7 GPS-based tracking and monitoring platform for public transport vehicles was introduced in the State. Developed by the Centre for Development of Advanced Computing (C-DAC) for the Motor Vehicles Department, the master control room of Suraksha-Mitr, the vehicle tracking management system, is at the Transport Commissionerate in Trans Tower here. For implementation of the scheme, 60% of the allocation will be from the Centre and 40% from the State. In addition to the Rs. 80 lakh provided in the Budget, the Centre has released Rs. 5.79 crore as the first instalment of the project cost of Rs. 20.35 crore.
22 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Building permit clearance made easy||The Local Self-Government Department has introduced a risk-based classification and inspection procedure for quick and easy clearance of building permits, as part of its measures to improve ease of doing business in the State. Earlier this month, the State government issued orders to this effect, mandating risk-based classification of buildings and assigning inspecting officers based on risk classification for the conduct of inspections to issue building permits in urban local bodies. Risk-based building classification enables the introduction of a fast-track clearance mechanism for low-risk buildings, allowing officials to spend more time for thoroughly reviewing and ensuring structural and public safety for the other category of buildings. Three types of buildings, low-risk buildings, moderate-risk buildings and high-risk buildings, based on occupancy groups are proposed. Low-risk buildings would include those with less than 300 sq m and height less than 7 m, with the number of floors limited to two. It would also include hostels, orphanages, dormitories, old-age homes, educational institution buildings, and seminaries of the above mentioned area and height. Moderate-risk buildings would include those with a built-up area of less than 300 sq m and height of less than 16 m, with the number of floors limited to five. It would include hostels, orphanages, dormitories, old-age homes, educational institution buildings, and seminaries of built-up area of less than 500 sq m and height of less than 16 m. All other buildings not included in the above two categories will be considered as high-risk buildings. Inspection of buildings In the city Corporation, the assistant executive engineer will be the officer responsible for inspection of high-risk category buildings, while an assistant engineer will have to inspect moderate-risk category buildings and a first-grade overseer will have to inspect low-risk category buildings. These officials will have to inspect the application and intimate the applicant in advance about the date and time of inspection. Site inspections Site inspections have to be limited to a check-list provided along with the order. The inspecting officer has to submit the inspection report within 48 hours to the permit issuing authority. Plinth level inspections can be carried out, if necessary, by the officer, according to the new system.
22 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Council witnesses swearing-in, sloganeering in tandem||The spirit of a keenly contested local body election remained suspended in the air, as the otherwise solemn occasion of swearing in of new councillors in the city Corporation council hall on Monday was also noted for the competing sloganeering from supporters of the various parties in the thickly packed hall. While a majority of the hundred councillors solemnly affirmed or took oath in the name of God, six councillors deviated from the script and took oaths in name of specific gods, while an LDF councillor also used the occasion to raise a slogan in solidarity with the farmers’ protests in Delhi. District Collector Navjot Khosa administered the oath to the senior-most member, P. Ashok Kumar of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), who in turn administered the oath to the rest of the 99 members. Left Democratic Front councillor S. Jayachandran Nair of the Kudappanakkunnu ward who had tested positive for COVID-19 came in last, wearing a Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kit. In wheelchair LDF councillor R. Surakumari of the Kinavoor ward, who came in a wheelchair after hurting her leg during campaigning, was the only one not to go up on the dais for the swearing in, as she took oath from her seat. BJP councillor Karamana Ajith took the oath in the name of Lord Ayyappa, while NDA Independent councillor Janaki Ammal took the oath in the name of Sree Padmanabhaswamy and the deity Gomathi Amman. Independent councillor Mary Jypsy of the Poonthura ward took the oath in the name of Thomasleeha (St. Thomas), while Independent councillor M. Nizamudeen of Harbour ward and INL councillor Muhammad Basheer of Manikyavilakom ward took oath in the name of Allah. At the end of his oath, LDF councillor R. Unnikrishnan of Attukal ward chanted “farmers’ protest zindabad, long live martyrs”. BJP councillor P.V. Manju of Punnakkamughal uttered her oath completely in Sanskrit. Though the District Collector has stipulated that only a relative or a member of the political party can accompany an elected member for the swearing-in ceremony in view of the COVID-19 protocols, the area surrounding the council hall was filled with supporters of the political parties. Silent UDF camp The LDF and the BJP supporters competed with each other in sloganeering, as each of their candidates walked in for the oath-taking, even as the UDF candidates walked in almost in silence, as there were hardly any supporters in the hall, reflective of their reduced strength in the council too. At a point, BJP workers chanted “Jai Shri Ram,” prompting vociferous slogans for secularism from the LDF camp. The sloganeering at times did not stop even during the oath-taking, prompting the Collector to request the supporters to maintain decorum. The Corporation council will convene again on December 28 to elect the Mayor and the Deputy Mayor.  While most councillors took oath in the name of God, six took the name of specific gods, while an LDF councillor raised a slogan in solidarity with the farmers’ protests.
22 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New cases drop with dip in testing||As on every Monday, the State had lower number of new cases of COVID-19 as testing dipped by nearly half on Sunday. The State reported 3,423 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday when 34,847 samples were tested in 24 hours. The test positivity rate, which had been over 10% for the past three days, stayed at 9.82% on the day. The cumulative case burden of the State climbed to 7,09,292 cases. The active caseload climbed to 60,504. With 4,494 persons reported to have recovered on Monday, the cumulative recoveries till date rose to 6,45,779. The State’s official cumulative toll rose to 2,843 when 27 more deaths which occurred during the past few days were added to the list of COVID-19 deaths on Monday. Ernakulam accounted for eight deaths, Thiruvananthapuram five, Thrissur three, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kottayam and Kozhikode two each, while Wayanad, Palakkad and Malappuram reported one death each. An official bulletin issued by the Health Department on Monday put the number of critically ill COVID-19 patients occupying ICUs in various hospitals in the State at 852, with 227 persons requiring ventilator support. Of the 3,423 new cases reported on Monday, a history of travel outside the State was reported in 48 cases while the remaining 3,375 were locally acquired infections, with the epidemiological link to infection remaining untraced in the case of 359 cases. The number of health-care workers who contracted COVID-19 was 34. Cases in districts Among districts, Malappuram reported 626 cases, Kozhikode 507, Ernakulam 377, Palakkad 305, Thrissur 259, Alappuzha 242, Kollam 234, Thiruvananthapuram 222, Kottayam 217, Kannur 159, Pathanamthitta 112, Wayanad 65, Idukki 55 and Kasaragod 43 cases.
22 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Help for NRIs to scale up start-ups||The Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) has joined hands with the Non-Resident Keralites Affairs (NoRKA) Department to train them to launch or scale up technology start-ups through the NoRKA Pravasi Start-up Programme (NPSP). The KSUM will select the best technology start-ups from over 300 applicants from various domains, who will be given thorough guidance and training under the ambitious project. The programme has been designed to cover all major areas of entrepreneurship and help the returnees start their ventures with sound domain knowledge and confidence. It will facilitate the Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) by means of various technology business opportunities, which they can adopt and contribute to the State’s economic development. Starting from December 23, in the first batch, the NPSP will include idea valuation, handholding, mentoring, experience sharing sessions, introduction to start-up journey, start-up dos and don’ts, support mechanism and incubation support. The participants for the NPSP will be selected by a screening committee and they will be taken through a three-month intensive programme. The participants will get a clear idea to decide on the business sector they have to focus on or how to add value to their business investments. The selected candidates shall be eligible for getting financial assistance through the existing NoRKA Department Project for Returned Emigrants (NDPREM) scheme. Loan and subsidies Those who successfully complete the programme will get loan and working capital subsidies as part of the NoRKA Rehabilitation Programme.  The participants for the programme will be selected by a screening committee
22 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU to commence classes on Jan. 4||The University of Kerala has formally decided to resume regular classes of undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) courses in affiliated colleges on January 4. The Syndicate which met on Monday granted approval to the resumption of offline classes for final-year UG courses, first and fourth semesters BEd and all PG courses in accordance with COVID-19 guidelines laid down by the government. According to official sources, colleges will function from 8.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. on all days except Sunday. Class sessions will be conducted in morning and evening shifts daily to ensure 50% attendance at a time.  The university issued directions to all teachers to report for work in colleges and teaching departments from December 28 onwards. The faculty have been tasked with reopening colleges by adhering to the instructions of the Higher Education Department. The Syndicate also resolved to resume all its courses, including those conducted under private registrations. The decision is bound to bring cheer to large sections of students who have been protesting against the delay in permitting private registrations. The move comes in the wake of the Kerala High Court staying the introduction of courses by the Sree Narayana Guru Open University which is mandated with bringing distance education courses and private registrations in the State under one roof.  Colleges will function from 8.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m., in morning and evening shifts, on all days except Sunday
22 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Poll panel gears up for Assembly polls||About 55,000 M3 model electronic voting machines (EVM) and almost as many voter verifiable paper audit trail (VVPAT) machines will arrive in the State over the next few days as part of the preparations for the Assembly polls next year. The first-level checks on the machines are planned for December 26, Teeka Ram Meena, Chief Electoral Officer, Kerala, told The Hindu . The advanced M3 model EVMs would replace the old M2 ones used in the past elections, he said. “About 55,000 M3 EVMs and 51,000 VVPAT machines are being brought from Telangana and Maharashtra. Our teams have been despatched to those States. The team that went from Kollam has, in fact, returned. But we will need more machines in view of the auxiliary polling stations needed for the elections. We will approach the Election Commission of India (ECI) for more if that is the case,” he said. COVID threat Earlier this month, Mr. Meena had informed the State government that the 2021 elections would require at least 15,000 auxiliary polling booths if the COVID-19 situation persisted. The M3 model EVMs were less susceptible to technical glitches, Mr. Meena said. Engineers deputed by the Bharat Electronics Ltd would carry out the first-level checks on the machines in the presence of the political parties. The exercise would be supervised by District Collectors. Defective machines would be sent back immediately and the rest sealed and stored under guard. Storage facilities Meantime, permanent storage facilities for the machines were getting ready, Mr. Meena said. Godowns in Wayanad, Kasaragod and Alappuzha were ready and the facilities for the remaining districts would be built by March-April next year, he said.
22 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||222 new cases, 227 recoveries in capital||The district reported 222 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, even as the death toll rose to 624. While 227 more people have recovered from the infection, the active case pool now stands at 3,480, the district administration said. Five more recent deaths due to the infection were reported in the district on Monday. The deceased included a 64-year-old woman from Pangode, an 84-year-old man from Medical College area, a 68-year-old man from Kattayikonam, a 62-year-old man from Panakode and a 49-year-old woman from Kottakkal. The district has a case fatality ratio of 0.79. In the first three weeks of December alone, 73 deaths due to COVID-19 have been reported in Thiruvananthapuram district. With the newly reported 222 cases, the cumulative case burden of the district has gone up to 78,670. Of the new cases, local transmission of the infection accounted for 155 cases. The list also included five health workers. Quarantined On Monday, 1,473 more people were quarantined in the district, taking the total number currently under quarantine to 23,094. Of this, 23104 are undergoing the compulsory isolation in their residences.
22 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||In municipalities, panchayats||The newly elected members of the district panchayat, municipalities, block panchayats and grama panchayats in the district were sworn in on Monday. In the district panchayat, Collector Navjot Khosa administered the oath to the seniormost member Sasidharan Nair of the United Democratic Front, who was elected from the Vellanad division. He administered the oath to the rest of the 25 members. In Varkala Municipality, Deputy Collector (Revenue Recovery) K. Mohanakumar administered the oath to the seniormost member N. Ashokan, while in Attingal Municipality, District Industries Centre General Manager G. Rajeev administered the oath to seniormost member G. Thulaseedharan Pillai. In Nedumangad Municipality, Fisheries Deputy Director P. Beena Sukumar administered the oath to member S. Raveendran, while in Neyyattinkara Municipality, Resurvey Assistant Director V. Prakash administered the oath to P.K.Rajmohanan.
22 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tobacco products worth Rs. 15 lakh seized from house||The police have seized banned tobacco products worth approximately Rs. 15 lakh from Venganoor, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. The contraband was seized from the rented home of Faisal, S. S. Bhavan, Muttackad, Venganoor. In 75 sacks The tobacco products, reportedly meant for sale in Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam districts, were kept in 75 sacks in the house and a car belonging to Faisal. Faisal was not at home during the raid, and the police have launched a search for him. The police have arrested his wife Mehrunnisa, 45. The raid was conducted by the Kovalam police with the assistance of the District Anti Narcotics Special Action Force. According to the police, this is the largest haul of its kind in the capital city. The police said the banned products were being smuggled into Thiruvananthapuram from Tamil Nadu by mini-lorry and car. The raid was also a part of the anti-narcotics special drive being carried out by the city police on the instructions of State Police Chief Loknath Behera.  Police say it is the largest such haul in the city
22 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ideas invited for IFFK signature film||The Kerala State Chalachitra Academy has invited ideas for a signature film of up to 30 seconds for the 25th edition of the International Film Festival of Kerala to be held from February 12 to 19. The idea/story board received will be reviewed by an expert committee and work will be assigned on the basis of the excellence of the idea as well as the cost. Last date Proposals, including cost, should be submitted before 3 p.m. on January 5, in an envelope superscribed ‘25th IFFK Signature Film,’ addressed to the Secretary, Kerala State Chalachitra Academy, CIFRA, Sathyan Memorial Building, KINFRA Film and Video Park, Sainik School P.O., Kazhakuttam, Thiruvananthapuram - 695582. The academy has also invited proposals for the production of the festival handbook. The team will be responsible for the content, layout, and compilation of the catalogue. The proposal including a short bio of the team members should be submitted to the academy before 5 p.m. on January 10, in an envelope superscribed ‘Proposal for Festival Handbook’ and addressed to the Secretary. For more details, contact the academy office - 0471-2756622, 2755322.
22 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BSNL’s online workshop||The Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd. (BSNL) is organising an online workshop for its customers at 2.30 p.m. on Wednesday via Google Meet. The event is being organised as part of customer services in the BSNL Thiruvananthapuram business area. Those interested in taking part may contact 0471-2578080, 2579898.
22 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Moving car catches fire, passengers unhurt||A moving car caught fire at Plamood, near Pattom, around 9.30 p.m. on Monday causing panic in the area. While the car was destroyed in the blaze, the two occupants, identified as Murugan and Anthony from Madurai, Tamil Nadu, escaped unhurt. Anthony was driving the car which belonged to one Sivaprakash of Madurai. Anthony and Murugan were on their way to Vamanapuram when the incident occurred. They had slowed down on the Plamood-Pattom road to ask for directions when passersby noticed the fire on the left side of the front portion of the car. By the time the men exited the vehicle, the fire had spread. The Fire and Rescue Service received the alarm at 9.35 p.m. Two units led by Assistant Station Officer Vijayan and Grade Assistant Station Officer Suresh rushed to the spot. The fire was put out before it spread to the fuel tank of the vehicle. The incident also caused a traffic jam in the area.
22 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Testing facility provided for election officials||The Health Department is on heightened alert after reports from some districts about officials who were on election duty during the local body bolls last week, testing positive for COVID-19. The department has given a general direction that all officials who were on poll duty may undergo RT-PCR tests if they wish to confirm whether they were unwittingly exposed to the virus during the poll activities. Not mandatory “RT-PCR has not been made mandatory for those who were on poll duty as of now, but the government has provided the facility for testing and those who wish to test can avail themselves of this facility,” a senior Health official said. The State is expecting the COVID case graph to surge in the coming days as a result of the increased relaxations in social gatherings that were an inevitable part of the elections. Despite dire warnings, poll campaigning and post-poll celebrations and congregations, throwing all caution to the winds, seems to have had an impact in COVID transmission in the State, with the case graph rising in many districts. Sabarimala factor Sabarimala pilgrimage has been another trigger increasing virus transmission, with some 250-odd officials who had been deployed for duty at Sabarimala testing positive. The Health Department had issued a GO that all officials put on Sabarimala duty be tested for COVID-19 using RT-PCR at specific intervals till the pilgrimage season is over. District Collectors have now asked returning officers to prepare a list of those who were engaged in poll duties and to hand it over to the district medical officers. “Though we are not insisting that all poll officials must undergo testing, we have informed the details of the available RT PCR testing facilities in the public sector. Those who were on election duty can get tested for free at these facilities, whether they are symptomatic or not,” the Health official said.  The State is expecting the COVID case graph to surge in the coming days as a result of the local body polls
22 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Hefty fine awaits realtors skipping K-RERA deadline||Real estate developers may have to pay heftier penalties if they fail to keep the December 31 deadline for compulsory registration of ongoing real estate projects in the State. The Kerala Real Estate Regulatory Authority (K-RERA) has warned that the hefty penalty could turn even heavier if they failed to meet the deadline. After December 31, the penalty will be determined by K-RERA on a case-to-case basis following a hearing, the State regulator says. 10% of cost “The promoters may take notice that the penalty for non-registration of projects may be extended up to 10% of the estimated cost of the project, as laid down under Section 59 of the Real Estate (Regulation & Development) Act, 2016,” K-RERA said in a final notice issued on December 17. Already, non-registration of projects carries a penalty of 40% of the application fee fixed on October 31 this year. This condition is valid only till December 31, when K-RERA will complete one full year. In its final notice, K-RERA said Section 59 (2) stipulates that “if any promoter does not comply with the orders, decisions or directions issued by this authority in this regard or continues to violate the provisions of Section 3 of the Act, he shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend up to three years or with fine which may extend up to a further l0% of the estimated cost of the real estate project, or with both.” K-RERA has so far received around 500 applications from builders. In all, 318 registered real estate projects have been uploaded on the K-RERA website. In all, 107 real estate agents have registered with K-RERA so far.
22 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Onus on society to protect children: Shylaja||Expressing concern over the abuse faced by children in their homes, Minister for Health and Social Justice K.K. Shylaja said that it was up to society to ensure care and affection for the young ones. Society must remain vigilant to unnatural incidents taking place in neighbourhoods. The Minister was presiding over the annual general body meeting of the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare here on Monday.  Ms. Shylaja lauded the efforts made by the council to encourage child adoptions. Attempts being made to organise arts and cultural activities for children amid the COVID-19 scenario and to rehabilitate children in distress under the Thanal project were commendable. Budget presented Council treasurer R. Raju presented a budget that anticipated a revenue of Rs. 28,60,17,263 and an expenditure of Rs. 25,36,42,821 for the 2020-21 fiscal. The budget lays stress on orphaned children and children in distress. Council general secretary Shiju Khan J.S. presented the annual report at the meeting. Resolutions The general body passed a resolution seeking a Central legislation to ensure right to health and nutrition, citing rising incidence of malnutrition, stunted growth, and inadequate health care systems for children in the country. It urged the Centre not to implement the National Education Policy that ‘paves way for communalism and commercialisation of education.’ Council executive member M.K. Pasupathy and State lifetime member G.L. Arun Gopi moved the resolutions. Women and Child Development Director Anupama T.V., council vice president Azhikodan Chandran, joint secretary Meera Darshak, executive committee member O.M. Balakrishnan, district child welfare committee secretaries and lifetime members took part.
22 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Muscat airport closed||Flights to Sultanate of Oman will be hit with the closure of the Muscat international airport from December 21 midnight because of COVID-19 outbreak. The national carrier Oman Air has cancelled all its international flights from December 22 to January 6, 2021, though the airport is scheduled to be opened on December 30. Oman Air operates two weekly flights from the Cochin international airport. Air India Express and Salam Air operates two weekly flights to Oman from Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode international airports. Oman Air also operates from Chennai, Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Mumbai, and New Delhi. As per an agreement between India and Oman, national carriers were allowed to operate two weekly flights to and from Oman from October after international flights were banned in March following pandemic -induced lockdown.
22 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Booking for marriage registration||The city Corporation has introduced advanced booking for marriage registration as part of measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19. A new counter has also been set up at the Corporation for registrations to handle as many as 20 registrations per day. The public can contact the call centre (9496434488) in advance to fix an appointment time for registration. Only the husband and wife need to appear in person at the Corporation office for registration. They need to present a self-attested copy of the identity cards of the witnesses.
22 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Sugathakumari tests positive||Poet Sugathakumari and senior Congress leader V.M. Sudheeran have been admitted to Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, after they contracted COVID-19. Ms. Sugathakumari, who had been undergoing treatment in a private hospital in the city and was on ventilator support, was transferred to the MCH on Monday. As she has developed respiratory issues following broncho pneumonia, the medical team which examined her has admitted her in the ICU, with non-invasive ventilation support. An official release issued by the hospital said that her condition was stable now. Sudheeran in MCH Mr. Sudheeran, who has co-morbid conditions and is considered to be in the high-risk category of patients, has been admitted in the VIP room where he is under close observation, the release said.
22 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UN forum lauds State’s pro-women steps||Hailing Kerala as the ‘lighthouse of the global south’ in women empowerment, UN Women on Monday entered into an agreement with the State government to set up a gender data hub to collect more nuanced data and influence policy formulation in a manner that focusses on women’s rights. While the world body reiterated that Kerala has been a role model for the rest of the world through exemplary leadership in gender equality initiatives, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan described the partnership as a “step in the right direction” to further the cause of a “just and equal society”. P.T.M. Sunish, CEO of The Gender Park, an autonomous body under the State government, signed the MoU with UN Women Deputy Country Representative Nishtha Satyam at the Chief Minister’s official residence here. The two officials exchanged the agreement, marking the start of many ambitious projects where the UN Women will offer project development and capacity building to The Gender Park for empowerment of women in South Asia. “Kerala is one of the best places in the region to emerge as a hub of gender discourse,” Mr. Vijayan said. Noting that the State’s women were among the country’s most educated, he quoted a recent official survey that cited a rise in female workforce participation to 20.4% in 2018-19 from16.4% in 2017-18. The Chief Minister stressed the need for social enterprises and businesses to be gender-inclusive. “This is important for us to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals by 2030,” he said, adding that the government looks forward to the cooperation with UN Women and its contributions to Kerala society. Minister for Social Justice K.K. Shylaja noted that The Gender Park provided gender-related policy advice, research, education and social initiatives to reduce gender gaps in society. Pro-women steps Ms Satyam, in her keynote address, lauded Kerala’s pro-women steps such as 24/7 She Taxi, the three-tier community network to empower women, jobs for transgender persons, and stress management amid the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. Secretary, Social Justice, Biju Prabhakar was present on the occasion.
22 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||G. Arunima is KCHR Director||G. Arunima has assumed office as Director, Kerala Council for Historical Research (KCHR). She has served as faculty at the Centre for Women Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, and published research works on modern Indian history, culture and contemporary politics. She has been visiting professor at the Centre for Development Studies, Asian and African Area Studies, Kyoto University, Nehru Memorial Museum and Library, Jadavpur University, and English and Foreign Languages University.
22 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||List of appointed sportspersons published||The government has published the select list for appointment to vacant posts under the scheme for recruitment of eminent sportspersons in government service. The list can be viewed at the Kerala Sports Council, Department of Sports and Youth Affairs, District Information Offices, Press Club, Thiruvananthapuram, or on the website www.prd.kerala.gov.in.
22 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Polytechnic college invites applications||The Central Polytechnic College, Vattiyurkavu, has invited applications for the following courses: diploma in computer application, tally (computerised financial accounting), computer hardware maintenance and networking (advanced), mobile phone technology, AutoCAD, Total Station, garment making and fashion designing. For details, call 0471-2360611, 8075465539.
22 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Power supply regulation||Power supply to areas under the Thycaud and Vellayambalam electrical sections will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesday. Power Supply to Nellivila, Mukkola, Karippukonam, Mullassery, Travancore villas, Ambala-kkadavu and Nambadu in the Peroorkada section limits will be disrupted from 8.30 a.m. to 5 p.m.
22 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Elected representatives take oath||Elected representatives to various local body institutions took oath of office on Monday. The functions were held by maintaining COVID-19 protocol. All the 54 members elected from various divisions under the Thrissur Corporation took the oath of office at a function at 11.30 a.m. at the Corporation council hall. The oath ceremony was held after paying homage to M.K. Mukundan, the LDF candidate from Pullazhi, who died before the polling took place. Election to Pullazhi division has been postponed following his death. District Collector S. Shanavas administered the oath to the senior-most member M.L. Rosy, elected from the Kalathode division, first. After that, all the other members too took the oath. Mayor and Deputy Mayor will be elected on December 28. An informal meeting of the councillors was held under the leadership of M.L. Rosy. Representatives elected for the district panchayat too took pledge on Monday. District Collector S. Shanavas administered oath of office to the senior-most number in the district panchayat P.M. Ahmmed, elected from the Thalikkulam division. President and vice president will be elected on December 30. Elected representatives of all the seven municipalities too took charge on Monday. In all, 41 members of the Irinjalakuda municipality took the oath of office. Deputy Collector A. Jayasree administered the oath to senior-most member P.P. George first. Later he administered the oath to other members. In Wadakkanchery, District Registrar C.P. Vincent administered the oath of office to senior member K.T. Joy, elected from Division number 3. In Kodungallur municipality, Returning Officer A.P. Kiran administered the oath of office to senior member and former municipal chairman K.R. Jaithran first. Later, he administered the pledge to other members. The chairperson will be elected on December 28. Chalakudy DFO and election officer O. Sambuddha Majumdar administered the oath of office to senior-most members of the Chalakudy municipality, Rosy Laser. There are 36 members in the Chalakudy municipality. Kunnamkulam The oath ceremony and first council meeting of the Kunnamkulam municipality was held on Monday morning. Election officer P.D. Sindhu administered the oath of office to senior-most member and former municipal chairperson Seetha Raveendran. The oath ceremony of Guruvayur municipality was held at Municipal Town hall. Prof. P.K. Santha Kumari took the oath first. The chairperson will be elected on December 28. Senior-most member of Chavakkad municipality Akbar Kanedath took the oath first at the Chavakkad municipality. Elected representatives of the 16 block panchayats and other local body institutions too took pledge on Monday.
22 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||259 cases in Thrissur, 590 people recover||There are 259 COVID-19 cases in Thrissur district on Monday while 590 people recovered from the disease. There are 5,731 active cases in the district and 127 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in various other districts. So far 69,600 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district and 63,363 people recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 247 people, including two health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Monday. Of them, 43 patients are above the age of 60, and 13 children are below the age of 10. In all, 4,076 patients are under home observation. In all, 164 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment of COVID-19 on Monday. In all, 3,523 samples were collected for testing on Monday.  There are 5,731 active cases in the district
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the warpath||
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||COVID concerns||
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Celestial party||
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||The new rage||
22 December 2020||Anantapur,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tadipatri Branch Canal of HLC breaches, restored||The Tadipatri Branch Canal (TBC) of the Tungabhadra High-Level Main Canal (HLC) breached sometime in the night near Putlur village in the district, inundating some portions of the village and agricultural lands. Irrigation Department officials immediately began temporary plugging and restoration work at the breach point near a structure on the canal. Leakage plugged When contacted, HLC Superintending Engineer Nayakanti Rajasekhar told The Hindu that by afternoon, the leakage was plugged and overflows were stopped. After the rectification of the breached canal, water flows to Komatikuntla Tank were restored.
22 December 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three Maoists arrested at R Kothagudem||Three ‘Maoist militia members’, who allegedly plotted to plant landmines in the areas frequented by the police combing parties, were arrested by the police during a vehicle checking drive at R Kothagudem village in Charla mandal on Monday, police said. On noticing the police conducting a surprise vehicle check at R Kothagudem, the trio got out of an autorickshaw and tried to flee from the spot on Monday morning, police said, adding that they were nabbed by alert police personnel after a brief chase. They hail from Kondavai and Puligundala villages and are wanted in connection with blasting of a road, planting of explosive materials by the ultras at the behest of the Charla area guerrilla squad commander Madhu in the border mandal in the recent past, police added.
22 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Herd of wild elephants driven back into thickets||After a three-day long operation, forest officials on Sunday night succeeded in driving a 13-member herd of wild elephants back into the forests of Palamaner range from Bangaru Tiruttani hillock in Somala mandal, where they had been sheltering since a month. The herd, said to be from the forests of Tamil Nadu, had crossed into Chittoor district at Kuppam and later moved towards Palamaner range, before finally entering the Punganur range. They had reportedly passed through several forest-fringe villages in the three mandals in their month-long sojourn, giving tense moments to the farmers. The herd kept raiding the seasonal crops at the villages of Nadimpalle, Somala, Karakamanda, Chinna Somala and Mundrivaripalle at nights and returning to the hillock before dawn. Farmers’ loss Several farmers in Sadum and Somala mandals complained to the officials about huge loss to their standing crops of banana, tomato and mango trees. At several villages, the farmers had maintained campfires to keep the elephants at bay. The forest officials, however, heaved a sigh of relief as no major problem ensued due to the movement of the pachyderms close to Punganur-Tirupati highway. Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor West) S. Ravi Shankar confirmed that a 13-member herd had crossed into Chittoor district from Tamil Nadu. “After much effort, we made the herd retreat towards Palamaner, and expect them to cross into TN in a few days. Several herds are crisscrossing the forest terrain at the tri-State junction, covering a vast corridor from Mudumalai in Tamil Nadu to Bannerghat in Karnataka and as far as Kuppam and Seshachalam in Chittoor district. Our personnel are constantly on the move to prevent man-animal conflict at the forest fringe areas,” the DFO said.
22 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jilted girl attempts suicide, in critical state||A 20-year-old girl had attempted suicide at Kattivaripalle village in Madanapalle rural mandal on Monday, after allegedly getting jilted by her lover. The girl was rushed to the area hospital at Madanapalle. According to the police, A. Srilatha had fallen in love with an auto-driver, Vinodh Kumar, while she was studying intermediate at Hindupur in Anantapur district. The duo was said to have known each other through Facebook, and later their friendship developed into love. After deciding to marry, the duo had reportedly lived together for a couple of years. Following COVID-19 lockdown, the girl came to their parents’ house. As her lover started avoiding her calls, the girl grew suspicious and soon got to know that he was getting ready for an arranged marriage at Hindupur. In this backdrop, the girl picked up a poisonous substance used for treating ticks on cattle and reached the outskirts of the village. After consuming the contents, she fell unconscious at the roadside. The passersby found her battling for life, and rushed her to the local area hospital, and her condition is said to be serious. The Madanapalle rural police are investigating the matter. Those in distress can call Dial 100.
22 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Get ready for vaccination drive, Collector tells staff||District Collector I. Samuel Anand Kumar has ordered the district machinery to gear up for COVID-19 vaccination programme. Addressing the district task force meeting on the vaccination, the Collector said that training programmes were conducted according to the module, the crew was provided by the government to participate in the vaccination programme from the district level to the every village of the district. All the branches at the district level have to perform a workshop specifically on the vaccination programme. He asked government and private medical colleges to be partners in the training programmes. The Collector said hundred percent recorded in the programme --15,023 medical staff serving in the 190 government hospitals in the district -- in the first stage. He asked the budget to be allocated to the staff to be in reserve like election duty. The cold chain management has taken all the steps to ensure that vaccination storage was perfect. Second phase In the second phase, the police home guard, Armed Forces and staff of the Jail Department, and volunteers would provide immediate information to register the details of the vaccination programme. Everyone would be vaccinated in coming days. But to clear doubts, staff should take door- to- door campaign, the Collector said. Sanitation programme Meanwhile, I. Samuel Anand Kumar organised an awareness programme on cleanliness at P.V.K. Naidu market in the city on the occasion of the birthday of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and said a similar campaign is being organised across the district as well. Mr. Anand Kumar suggested that the market remain closed every Sunday so that the surrounding areas can be cleaned before opening on Monday.
22 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan has emerged as people’s CM, says Sajjala||Adviser, Public Affairs, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy has said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has emerged as the people’s CM by ushering in many welfare schemes during the past one and a half years. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy along with several other party leaders on Monday took part in a blood donation camp held at the YSRCP central office at Tadepalli on the occasion of Mr. Jagan’s birthday. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said that a record 50,000 units of blood was collected on Monday as a large number of people turned up at the camp, he said. Stating that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was the first CM to announce a welfare calendar, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said that the YSRCP government would continue to stand by the weaker sections, minorities and farmers. Beginning with the revolutionary decision to appoint five Deputy Chief Ministers from BC, SC, ST and minorities, the CM had taken several decisions that would go a long way in ushering in welfare rule in the State, he said. Blood donation camps were held in several parts of the district. In Guntur, chairperson of the AP State Council for Higher Education S. Hemachandra Reddy and Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar were present at the camp at the Red Cross blood bank. More than 1,500 volunteers donated blood at the camps organised by the Red Cross.
22 December 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS govt. files plea against stay on Dharani process||The State government has filed a petition in the Telangana High Court on Monday seeking to vacate the order staying collection of details of Aadhaar card and caste of citizens for registration of properties. A division bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy passed the stay order on this November 3, after hearing a batch of PIL pleas challenging enlistment of properties in Dharani portal. Seeking a direction to vacate the stay order, the government stated that State was empowered to ask for Aadhaar details in all government schemes providing subsidy to people. In schemes like Rythu Bandhu, Rythu Bandhu Group Insurance and Crop Loan Waiver the petitioners contended that insisting for Aadhaar card was in violation of the Supreme Court order in Justice K.S. Puttaswamy (Retired) and another vs Union of India. The apex court order stated that State cannot ask for Aadhaar card details of citizens unless the government is providing any benefits, service or subsidy through welfare schemes to citizens. The government contended that after the apex court verdict, the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) issued guidelines under Section 7 of the Aadhaar Act-2016. Pursuant to this, Telangana government issued notifications under Section 7 of the same Act empowering the State government to insist for Aadhaar card. Government schemes like Rythu Bandhu enable owner of an agricultural land eligible to receive financial assistance as agricultural investment. If the land is sold or transferred, the new owner of the land would be automatically made beneficiary of Rythu Bandhu scheme. The idea of Dharani portal was conceived to affect instant transfer of the rights over the land to the new owner. “The State is in no manner contravening any provisions of Aadhaar Act-2016 as contended by the petitioners,” the government stated in its petition. Directing the petitioners to present their objections over the petition seeking to vacate the stay order, the bench posted pleas to December 31 for next hearing.
22 December 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||TS suggests changes in Centre’s procurement policy||At a time when the farming community is agitating against the new farm laws and the political parties across the spectrum, with an exception of a few, are demanding assurance on minimum support price, Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy has stressed the need for change in the policy of limited procurement under price support scheme. “When the extent of cultivation and production of crops is increasing in Telangana with the supportive measures of the State government, the Centre is unfortunately not taking such aspects into consideration,” the minister said at a meeting on procurement held here on Monday. He said the system of deciding the procurement quantity of pulses at 25% of the production estimated from the last five years’ cultivation extent was not correct. Stating that he would take the issue to the notice of the Centre by writing to Union Agriculture Minister with a request to take up redgram procurement based on the extent of its cultivation with minimum support price (MSP), the minister said as part of planned cultivation during the Vanakalam (Kharif) season the crop was cultivated in nearly 10.85 lakh acres. He felt that farmer could get good returns only if he/she could hold back his produce till there was good price in the market. Favourable weather With favourable weather conditions this year, the production of redgram was expected to be high this year in the State and the harvesting had already commenced in the Narayanpet area. He asked the Markfed authorities to open procurement centres in the areas by this weekend itself. The minister complimented some farmers’ efforts to process the paddy and make good returns by selling rice instead of the raw material. He called a farmer of Hajipur in Mancherial district over phone and complimented his work of taking the mobile milling machine to the doorstep of paddy farmers and processing their paddy into rice so that they could make good returns. He also asked the cotton farmers not to sell their produce in a hurry for lesser price as about 300 procurement centres were opened this year.He stated that awareness meets for farmers, Rythu Bandu Samithi members and agriculture and horticulture department officials would be held next month.
22 December 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan to celebrate Christmas in Pulivendula||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will celebrate Christmas this year in his home town of Pulivendula in Kadapa district. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy will land in Kadapa airport and reach Idupulapaya on December 23, two days ahead of the festival. After praying at the YSR Ghat and at Idupulapaya church, he will participate in a series of ground breaking ceremonies for various projects worth Rs. 5,500 crore in Pulivendula town on December 24. Programmes galore The Chief Minister will also lay the foundation stone for the renovation of APSRTC bus depot, which is being shifted from the congested town to a sprawling compound on the outskirts at a cost of Rs. 35 crore. Later, he will participate in the ground breaking ceremony of Apache leather industries coming up in 35 acres and attend a programme at Andhra Pradesh Centre for Advanced Research in Livestock (APCARL), which will sign an MoU with Institute of Rural Management Anand (IRMA), Gujarat, regarding launch of academic programmes. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy will leave for Vijayawada after attending the Christmas festivities in Pulivendula church on December 25 morning. Meanwhile, the Chief Minister’s birthday was celebrated on Monday where Member of Parliament (Kadapa) Y.S. Avinash Reddy cut a cake in the presence of party activists at Pulivendula. Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha also cut a cake in Kadapa city.
22 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jana Sena opposes Divi’s pharma unit in Kakinada||Jana Sena Party Affairs Committee (PAC) Chairman Nadendla Manohar on Monday announced that the party would extend legal aid to those fighting against the pharma unit proposed by Divi’s Laboratories Limited in Thondangi mandal in East Godavari district. Speaking to the media here on Monday, Mr. Manohar said the State government would be given a ten-day deadline to scrap the pharma project. “Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan will launch the battle against the project, if the State government does not scrap the project by the December-end. In 2018, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy gave a call to break the walls of the pharma project on the site. Now, he is allowing the same project on hundreds of acres of land,” said Mr. Manohar. Mr. Manohar demanded that the government announce cancellation of the ‘hazardous project’ for the welfare of the fishermen and farmers.
22 December 2020||NARSAPURAM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||This year, haridasu arrives on a motorbike in W. Godavari||This year haridasulu descend on villages in a different way surprising the people. At several places in the district they were seen moving on motorbikes in the district. They generally move in villages and towns by walk only during Sankranthi festivities and farmers offer them sweets, clothes, rice and money. Visiting of haridasulu during the Sankranthi, also known as Harvest Festival or Pedda Panduga, was an age old tradition. Farmers, who were happy after harvesting the crops, offer rice, sugar cane, turmeric, jaggery and other produce to the haridasulu and take their blessings, says a farmer, Cherukuwada Ranganayakulu of Palakol in the district. “From our childhood we used to see haridasulu by carrying an ‘Akshaya Patra’ on his head and hold ‘chidatalu’ in one hand and tambura on the other hand. They come to colonies by wearing traditional ‘dothis’. But, this year they were seen moving on motorbikes,” says a woman, Talla Venkata Lakshmi of Tadepalligudem. “The sheen of the Harvest Festival is seen with the arrival of haridasu in villages, who render songs of Bhagavatam and Ramayanam. They move for about one month,” says P. Janaki of Narsapuram. Women and children wear new clothes, offer rice, sweets and ethnic foods they prepare during Sankranthi and take the blessings of haridasu.. Face mask A haridasu was seen playing recorded spiritual songs in the public address system fixed to his bike, while moving slowly on it by wearing a mask. Women offered rice, along with flowers and coconuts, touched the ‘Akshaya Patra’ and took his blessings. “Like earlier, we can walk and move in colonies. But, coronavirus has changed our attire. We cannot move house to house like previous years due to COVID-19 protocol. So we decided to switch to two-wheelers,” says a haridasu.
22 December 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Volunteer’s death a case of suicide, say police||Prakasam police on Monday cleared the air over the death of a differently-abled woman under suspicious circumstances, within 48 hours of the incident. Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal told the media here on Monday that a probe by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) headed by Officer on Special Duty (OSD) K. Chowdeshwari revealed that the woman, Bhuvaneswari, a ward volunteer in Gopal Nagar here, had committed suicide on Friday night. Registering a case of suspicious death on a complaint from the mother of the deceased, the police took up investigation of the case. Ongole Taluka police rushed to the spot after being alerted by Dial 100 staff late in the night and tried in vain to save her by putting off the flames. WhatsApp audio sent to friends After recording the evidence available at the crime scene and the narration of eye-witnesses and making call data record (CDR) analysis of the two mobile phones used by her, the police found that disgusted with life, the woman doused herself with petrol and ended her life, the SP said. She was spotted by a resident of Dasarajupalli and a security guard at KIMS hospital when she was approaching the crime scene. She was active on the social media and had been chatting with friends in Guntur, Visakhapatnam and Srikakulam daily. She had revealed to them her plans to take the extreme step. The deceased had sent a WhatsApp audio to one of her friends in Bengaluru. ‘No injuries’ According to the post-mortem report, she died of burns and there were no murder-related injuries on her body. CC camera footage analysis revealed that the deceased had travelled alone after getting three litres of petrol from two of her friends, both auto drivers, the SP said. She had stated that her WhatsApp would no longer work and bid goodbye to some friends and relatives before taking the extreme step.
22 December 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TB awareness campaign brings him award||Srikakulam District TB Control Association honorary president Mantri Venkata Swamy received an award and an appreciation letter from Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan for creating awareness among the rural people about tuberculosis. Addressing the media here on Monday, Dr. Venkata Swamy said that he, along with 51 newly joined association life members, has been touring the rural areas to make people aware of the seriousness of the disease and treatment facility offered by the Health Department. He thanked the Governor for presenting him the award in Vijayawada on Saturday in spite of the COVID-19 threat. Mr. Venkata Swamy, past president of the Rotary Club Central, bagged many awards previously for creating awareness about AIDS.
22 December 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vehicle donated to Tirumala temple||A businessman from Delhi, Sri Jain, on Monday donated a state-of-the-art Digital Satellite News Gathering (DSNG) vehicle to the temple of Lord Venkateswara. At a function in front of the main temple, Mr. Jain handed over the keys of the Rs. 1.20 crore vehicle to TTD Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy. CEO of Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC) Suresh Kumar was present.
22 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rally, blood donation camps mark Jagan birthday fete||The YSR Congress party celebrated the birthday of their leader and Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy by holding a rally in Tirupati and organising blood donation camps across the district on Monday. Thousands of workers, carrying placards that displayed the party’s flagship programmes, participated in the rally that originated at Krishnapuram Thana and culminated at the YSR Statue at TUDA junction. Traffic was thrown out of gear for 45 minutes on the 1 km stretch of the arterial road in the heart of the city. Addressing the public, legislator Bhumana Karunakar Reddy, who spearheaded the rally, said the government had extended benefits and schemes to the tune of Rs. 57,000 crore to two lakh beneficiaries across Tirupati assembly constituency and would distribute house site pattas on December 25 to 26,000 eligible beneficiaries. TUDA Chairman and government whip Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy organised concurrent blood donation camps in Tirupati rural, Chandragiri and Pakala. A large number of youth from across his constituency volunteered to donate blood. “The simplest form of wishing long life to our leader is through a step that can save thousands of lives,” Dr. Bhaskar Reddy said on the occasion. In Srikalahasti, MLA Biyyapu Madhusudhan Reddy led by example by donating blood after inaugurating the camp. His video of extending birthday wishes to the Chief Minister by donating food and blankets to roadside alms seekers went viral on the social media. Party leaders led by his daughter B. Pavitra Reddy donated saris and food material to inmates of ‘Amma’ old age home in Thottambedu mandal and patients at Srikalahasti Area Hospital.
22 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srikalahasti all set for Jagan’s visit||The sleepy little village of Urandur, tucked away from Tirupati-Srikalahasti State highway, resembled a beehive of activity over the last few days with the arrival of officials and ruling party leaders in droves. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is all set to visit the village on December 28 for the State government’s flagship programme of distributing house site pattas to the eligible poor, where he will also address a massive public meeting. Srikalahasti legislator B. Madhusudhana Reddy, Collector Bharat Narayana Gupta, Joint Collectors V. Veerabrahmam (Development) and S. Rajasekhar (Welfare) and other officials inspected the helipad proposed to be developed near this village. Dr. Gupta directed the officials of Panchayat Raj and Roads & Buildings to ensure barricading in place all along the road to the meeting spot and arrange parking lot to accommodate the hundreds of vehicles expected to arrive for the meeting. The housing officials have been told to bring out an attractive pylon which will be formally unveiled by the Chief Minister.
22 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIIT Sri City invites students to share ideas||The Technology Business Incubator (TBI) – Gyan Circle Ventures, under the Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) Sri City, invites innovative ideas in areas like infrastructure development, smart manufacturing, agriculture, education, from students and graduates by leveraging emerging technologies like Artificial Intelligence, block chain, cyber physical systems, cyber security, Internet of Things, robotics and so on. The national institute has been selected as a Group 2 centre (G2C) under TIDE 2.0 scheme of Central government’s MeitY Startup Hub programme with an initial funding for five years and inaugurated recently by Union Minister for Education Ramesh Pokhriyal. Contact details According to IIIT Director G. Kannabiran, selected candidates admitted as Entrepreneurs-In-Residence (EiR) will get Rs. 4 lakh for developing and validating their idea at the campus, while the nascent startups will get up to Rs. 7 lakh as a grant. Applications received by January 19, 2021, will be considered for the next round of selection. Those interested can contact www.iiits.ac.in, gyancircle.ventures@iiits.in or 95503 80002 for more details, Dr. Kannabiran said in a release.
22 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NABARD, SBI sign MoU to improve rural prosperity||The National Bank for Agricultural and Rural Development (NABARD) and the State Bank of India have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) aimed at mutual collaboration in their mission to impove rural prosperity through convergence of their institutional lending and ongoing developmental initiatives. The MOU was executed by NABARD Chief General Manager Sudhir Kumar Jannawar and SBI Amaravati Local Head Office Chief General Manager Sanjay Sahay in the presence of NABARD Chairman Govinda Rajulu Chintala, on Monday. Mr. Chintala said that agriculture had always been the silver lining in the current pandemic time. To supplement the efforts of the Union Government under ‘Atma Nirbhar’ package, especially in the agricultural and rural development sector and to ensure uninterrupted and adequate credit flow to the sector, the NABARD has announced a number of special concessional refinance products for credit to watershed / tribal areas, micro-food processing entreprises, water, sanitation and health (WASH) and creation of infrastructure by PACS under Agricultural Infrastructure Fund. Skill development The bank has also redesigned a number of its developmental programmes aimed at skilling and providing entrepreneurial skills among the rural youth especially, the reverse migrants. He said that such collaboration between NABARD and the banks would not only benefit the various stakeholders of rural Andhra Pradesh but also ensure effective convergence of the efforts of the individual institutions. Mr. Sudhir Kumar Jannawar said that during the last five years, 293 Farmer Producers Organisations (FPO) had been promoted and nurtured in the State, covering more than 1 lakh farmer shareholders. Processing infrastructure With the active collaboration between the two entities, the FPOs would be able to access bank credit for their business initiatives including setting up of storage and primary processing infrastructure. Mr. Sanjay Sahay said this joint initiative of teh NABARAD and the SBI would give a fillip to the lending by the SBI in the State especially in areas wherein NABARD has already areas.
22 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Birthday greetings pour in for Jagan||Birthday greetings poured in for Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy from a host of dignitaries on Monday, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan. Mr. Modi conveyed his wishes to Mr. Jagan through Twitter and prayed for a healthy and long life. At the CM’s camp office at Tadepalli, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy cut a cake marking his 48th birthday in the presence of Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishnadas, Ministers Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, Balineni Srinivasa Reddy, Audimulapu Suresh, Pinipe Viswaroop, T. Vanitha and Vellampalli Srinivas, MPs A. Ayodhya Rami Reddy and Vemireddy Prabhakar Reddy, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, Director General of Police Gautam Sawang, TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, CM’s Additional Secretary K. Dhananjaya Reddy, I&PR Commissioner T.V.K. Reddy, CMO CPRO P. Srihari and others. Various Ministers and a large number of YSR Congress Party leaders personally conveyed birthday greetings to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy at Jaggaiahpet on the sidelines of the launch of land resurvey project. A band of TTD priests rendered Vedasirvachanams on the Chief Minister at his camp office at Tadepalli. They also honoured Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy with Sesha Vastram of the deity and presented laddu prasadam, holy water and a memento.
22 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Administer COVID vaccine to frontline warriors first: TDP||TDP Repalle MLA Anagani Satya Prasad has stressed on the need to give a priority to frontline warriors when the COVID-19 vaccination drive begins in the State. In a letter addressed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday, the TDP MLA said that doctors, police, journalists and health workers should be vaccinated first as they had been risking their lives to save the people ever since the first COVID-19 infection case was reported in the State in March this year. “There is an urgent need for increasing the vaccine storage capacity from the existing 1.46 lakh litre to 3 lakh litre in the State so that there would be no problems in meeting the requirements of all sections of people,” he said. The government has decided to administer vaccine to 1 crore people in a month. The storage capacity would need to be enhanced to meet this requirement, he said.
22 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Missing woman traced in Proddatur||A 32-year-old woman, who went missing from Gannavaram Airport a few days ago, was traced in Proddatur in Kadapa district. She was a native of Nelamuru in West Godavari district. The woman, mother of two children, was working as a domestic help in a house at Kuwait. She came to India on December 16 and landed in the airport, but did not reach home. Her husband lodged a complaint with the Gannavaram police, who launched a search for her. Police are trying to find out why she went to Proddatur. Investigation is on.
22 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Drug trade, the dark side of Vizag||The recent raids by the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) has exposed the dark side of the drug world that is flourishing in the city’s underbelly. With marijuana (ganja) flowing into the city from the Visakha Agency, where it is grown rampantly in the inaccessible hills allegedly under the watchful eyes of the Maoist, the use of the weed, especially among the youth in the age group of 17 and 30 years, has become a concern for the police. Anti-drug week “In an attempt to check the menace, the State government has declared anti-drug week from December 15 to 22. Drugs are an area of concern for us and we are working on it,” said Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha. This year so far, the city has witnessed 67 cases pertaining to drug busts and about 2,300 kgs of ganja was seized. Stepping up the heat, the SEB has booked about 20 cases in the last one month alone. Like ganja, the availability of other drugs such as LSD, hashish, MMDA, Fortwin and Ketamine is also a concern, said ADCP (SEB) Ajitha Vejendla. Dark web In the recent times there were drug busts, where the accused had sourced drugs such as LSD and MMDA through the dark web and payment were made in Bitcoins. It is learnt that drugs were even sourced from abroad such as Indonesia, through the dark web. But, the worrying factor for the law enforcement agencies is the profile of the users. Most them are in the age group of 17 to 30 and about 80% of them are college students, sources said, adding that drugs were freely available in some premium colleges, especially in the hostels and many of the addicts themselves had turned to peddlers to fund their vice. Coming to marijuana, Visakhapatnam is turning to be the logistic hub. Ganja is primarily transported to the plain areas from the interior parts of Visakha Agency. From the city, it is transported through rail and road to other States such as Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Goa, Haryana and Delhi. Distribution network The District Police and the SEB have seized tonnes of ganja at various points, but a good quantity slips through and is offloaded in the city for trade. The police and the SEB feel that an organised network is involved in the trade. It is learnt that there may be a few kingpins who procure the ganja from middlemen in the Agency area and after getting it transported to the city, it is distributed through a well-oiled network of peddlers including women from areas such as Kobbarithota and Allipuram. The quantity that is smuggled into the city varies between 10 kg and 30 kg. The weed is packed in 50 gm to 200 gm plastic sachets that cost in the range of Rs. 100 and Rs. 500. “Peddlers caught in the raids have confirmed that while a Rs. 100 sachet for consumption in a day or two, Rs. 500 packet is for a week. The same may cost about Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 5,000 in Bengaluru or Delhi,” said Ms. Ajitha.  Another area of concern for the enforcement agencies is that many young peddlers are smuggling weed to places such as Goa and Bengaluru in small quantities and exchanging it for other drugs such as LSD and MMDA and bringing them back to the city.
22 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 1 crore unaccounted cash seized||In a joint operation, the City Task Force (CTF) personnel and the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) officials raided a lodge near Vizag Railway Station seized unaccounted cash worth about Rs. 1 crore from two persons hailing from Hyderabad on Monday. They were identified as Raj Purohit Bharat Kumar and Chota Ram from Abids in Hyderabad. Giving details of the case, ACP Prem Kajal said Bharat Kumar and Chota Ram were doing electrical works for a builder Pralabh Bhai, a construction contractor in Hyderabad. On instructions from Pralabh, both came to Visakhapatam to collect money from one Raju at Duvvada. After collecting Rs. 1 crore, they checked into a lodge near the railway station and awaiting to board a train to Hyderabad. Based on a tip-off, the City Task Force and SEB personnel along with Two Town police raided the lodge and nabbed the duo and seized the money. As they failed to provide sufficient proof for the source of the money they were taken into custody for further investigation. Two mobile phones were also seized from them. Silver ornaments In another incident in the same area, both the police and SEB staff raided a lodge and caught two persons who were in possession of silver ornaments weighing about 29.5 kg. They were taken into custody and produced before mandal executive magistrate for further investigation. They were identified as Suhan Singh and Himmat Singh of Rajasthan, who were working as delivery boys for one C.S. Rathod, a jeweller in Vijayawada. Ganja seized The SEB and CTF combine also arrested one J. Gaurav and seized 100 kg ganja under Duvvada police station limits. The car in which the contraband was hidden was also seized.
22 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MoU on cancer research signed||A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between GITAM Institute of Medical Science and Research (GIMSR), GITAM Deemed to be University, and Mahatma Gandhi Cancer Hospital and Research Institute (MGCHRI) for clinical, academic and research collaboration in oncological services here on Monday GITAM Registrar D. Gunasekharan and MGCHRI Managing Director V. Murali Krishna exchanged the MoU documents in the presence of Vice-Chancellor K. Sivaramakrishna and GIMSR Pro Vice-Chancellor C.V. Rao at a function held in GITAM campus. MGCHRI will participate in joint research projects in collaboration with the related departments in the university as per the MoU. Faculties from GIMSR and MGCHRI will prepare academic programmes in the fields of Nuclear Medicine, Robotic Surgery, cytogenetics, molecular genetics, oncology Nursing, Imaging and all clinical areas of oncology. MGCHRI would provide training for the faculty and Post-Graduate of General Surgery, E.N.T., Obstetrics and Gynaecology, General Medicine and Paediatrics in the oncology-related areas and radiology. Addressing the experts during MoU signing ceremony, Prof. Sivaramakrishna hoped that the new partnership would contribute to capacity development in the field of oncology and improve the standard of care. Dr. Muralikrishna said that his cancer hospital and research institute have been serving the public for the last 15 years. He said that the present MoU will help run joint research projects, publications, patenting, training activities and to start new PG programmes. GIMSR Radiology Department Head B.K. Durgaprasad was present.
22 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M): stop collection of drainage connection deposits, user charges||CPI(M) Greater Visakha City Committee has condemned the attitude of the GVMC authorities in threatening citizens to stop water supply, if they do not take underground drainage (UGD) connection and to stop collection of garbage, if they do not pay user charges for garbage disposal. Party City Committee secretary B. Ganga Rao demanded that the GVMC stop collection of drainage connection deposits and abolish user charges. He said it was unfortunate that the State government was imposing the additional burden in times of crisis due to the pandemic. He said that the GVMC has issued notices to the public asking them to pay Rs. 1,000 immediately for UGD connection, failing which water supply would be stopped. The house owners should also pay Rs. 40 a month towards drainage charges, to pay garbage tax of Rs. 250 a month to GVMC for segregation of dry and wet wastes, failing which garbage would not be lifted and notices pasted on the houses. Deploring the unilateral decision of the State government, he said that the property tax includes all these charges. The property tax includes all these charges but the plan was to calculate property tax based on capital cost and it would result in hike in property tax by four to 10 times. Mr. Ganga Rao alleged that the BJP government at the Centre and the YSR Congress Party government in the State were trying to privatise civic services in a phased manner.
22 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan going back on his word on bauxite mining, alleges Ayyanna||Former Minister and TDP leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu alleged that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was going back on his words. Releasing a video from his home town Narsipatnam on Monday, he said that in the past, before the 2019 elections, Mr. Jagan during his tour to Chintapalli, promised the tribals that there will be no mining of bauxite in any part of the Visakha Agency. “But the same person after becoming the Chief Minister has formed a six-member committee to work out the modalities to operationalise the Anrak Aluminium Refinery at Makavarapalem. How do you intend to operate the plant when you said that there will be no bauxite mining in the agency?,” questioned Mr. Ayyanna. He warned that any attempt to restart the bauxite mining in Visakha agency, will lead to a strong agitation.  ‘Higher taxes’ The former TDP minister also pointed out that the YSR Congress Party government was doling out sops and schemes on one hand and taking them back in much bigger quantity from the public in the form of taxes and penalties, on the other hand. Quoting the penalties under the modified Motor Vehicle Act, he said, “During TDP rule the fine for not wearing a helmet was Rs. 135 and now it is Rs. 1,035. The fine for talking on cell phone was Rs. 530 and now it is Rs. 5,035, for not having a driving licence it was Rs. 1,035 and now it is Rs. 5.035 and for jumping red signal it was Rs. 135 and now it is Rs. 1,035.” Can a common man bear such penalties? the TDP leader questioned. Moreover, Mr. Jagan also intends to levy toll tax on state highways also, where the tax for 30 km could range from Rs. 27 for two-wheelers to Rs. 106 for lorries. “Once this is implemented, prices of vegetables, milk and other essential commodities will also increase and in the end the CM will be taxing the common man heavily,” Mr. Ayyanna Patrudu said.  Ration cards Talking about ration cards and Amma Vodi, he said, “During TDP regime we had given over 1.53 crore ration cards and the YSRCP after coming to power have withdrawn the cards for about 8.43 lakh people. In case of Amma Vodi, in the first year they had given money to 43 lakh people and in the second year it has been withdrawn for over 5 lakh people, under some pretext,” said Mr. Ayyanna.
22 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Surrender encroached lands, Vijaya Sai tells TDP leaders||YSRC MP Vijaya Sai Reddy on Tuesday asked the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) leaders to surrender encroached lands voluntarily. He said criminal cases will be filed against the land encroachers. He was speaking at the inauguration of the the YSR Cup Cricket Tournament at the Port Diamond Jubilee Stadium here on Monday. He alleged that TDP leaders encroached government lands, in Visakhapatnam. He said officials will come out with details of how much land was encroached. He said decades old issue of ‘pancha gramalu’ will be settled soon. He said only government land will be used for construction of Executive capital. No land from people will be acquired for the purpose, he added. District in-charge Minister Kurasala Kanna Babu asked officials to prepare plan to develop Visakhapatnam as sports capital Mr. Vijaya Sai along with Ministers Muttametti Srinivasa Rao lighted sports torch and participated in the sports march.Over 400 teams and 6,000 players are participating in the tournament.
22 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trade union helps physically-challenged man secure a job||Thanks to Coromandel Fertilisers Employees Union, B. Durga Rao, a physically-challenged man of Vadlapudi area in the city, secured a job in Coromandel International Limited (CIL). The youth, who will join duty on Tuesday, expressed his gratitude to the union for its efforts in helping him securing the job. On November 16, 2019, the employees union had arranged a programme for distribution of tricycles, wheel chairs, walking sticks and other aids to the differently-abled as part of its trade union social responsibility programme, according to National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled (NPRD) city secretary Koduru Appalanaidu. CIL officials had attended the programme as guests. CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao introduced Mr. Durga Rao, who came for a wheel chair, to the CIL Director. He told him that the young man had done MBA and was a brilliant student and, if given an opportunity, he would prove himself. The CIL Director promised to take the physically- challenged youth into company service. Mr. Durga Rao thanked Mr. Narasinga Rao, the employees union and the NPRD for their support.
22 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Visakha Coop. Bank eyes Rs. 6,500 crore business by FY21-end||The Visakhapatnam Co-operative Bank Limited, a multi-state cooperative bank in urban banking sector, operating in all 13 districts of the State with 46 branches and four branches in Hyderabad (Telangana), has plans to achieve Rs. 6,500 crore business by the end of the financial year 2020-21. The bank, which has completed 104 years of its existence, has introduced several welfare schemes for its members. These include health insurance for eligible members and their spouses, ex gratia of Rs. 50,000 to the family members for accidental death and cash incentives to children of members for excellence in their academics, according to a statement issued by the bank.  The number of members increased from 82,229 in 2018-19 to 87,863 in 2019-20, the share capital increased from Rs. 215.56 crore to Rs. 241.19 crore, deposits from Rs. 3,110.13 crore to Rs. 3,522.68 crore and advances from Rs. 2,139.39 crore to Rs. 2,378.36 crore.
22 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||34th PGDM batch begins at IIAM||The 34th batch of Post Graduate Diploma in Management (PGDM) at Integral Institute of Advanced Management (IIAM) began here at the college on Monday. The new academic year for the batch was inaugurated by Andhra University Registrar V. Krishna Mohan. Delivering the inaugural address, he spoke about the current trends in business and management. IIAM Director Vijaya Rudraraju explained the curriculum and the objective of conducting an orientation programme. M. R. Rao, Chairman of IIAM, gave an overview on management education and how B schools design their curriculum.
22 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delicate surgery performed||A new surgical technique was used for the elbow ligament reconstruction by senior orthopaedic surgeon Abdul D Khan at Apollo Hospital here. Dr. Khan said that a 30-year-old male presented with persistent left elbow pain since one year. He was treated with rest, analgesics, activity modification, brace and local steroid injection with no relief. He had an MRI scan done which showed rupture of the ulnar collateral ligament in the left elbow. The patient is recovering well. The patient and his family have expressed gratitude to Dr. Khan.
22 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman, girl found dead in Yeleru canal||A woman and a girl were found lifeless in Yeluru canal near Addam village under Anakapalle rural police station limits in the district. The police with the help of locals retrieved the bodies from the canal. The police are yet to ascertain the identity of the deceased. The police are suspecting that the deceased may belonged to one of the villages on the riverfront and they are verifying the missing people’s data .
22 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District sees 20 new COVID cases||The district recorded 20 new COVID-19 cases on Monday taking the total to 59,397, since the outbreak of the pandemic. There were no deaths in the last 24 hours, which keeps the total death tally to 518. Twenty-three persons who were infected with the coronavirus, have recovered, taking the total recoveries to 58,612. For the first time since the outbreak of the virus, the daily infection rate has been below the 20-mark in December, said District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar.
22 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoist bandh call in Agency evokes partial response||The bandh called by the banned CPI (Maoist) in Visakha agency, especially in the Andhra Odisha Border (AOB) region, was partial as most of the areas remained opened and business was normal. There was no untoward incident reported till late in the evening. The bandh was called by the Maoists against death of two Maoists at Singavaram forest area in alleged fake encounter on December 12. The Maoists claimed that the encounters were staged and as a protest called for the bandh. Except in Maoist strongholds in some interior parts of Pedabayalu, Munchingput, G.K. Veedhi and Chintapalli, business was as usual in all parts of the AOB. Shops remained open and even APSRTC buses were also seen plying. Buses ply as usual Except for some night halt buses , all buses of APSRTC plied as usual, said Chintapalli ASP Vidya Sagar Naidu. Security was stepped up across all sensitive locations.
22 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Law students have many career opportunities’||N.V. Badarinath, Presiding Officer, Debt Recovery Tribunal, Chennai, said that law students have enormous career opportunities. He was speaking at the three-day online training programme on “Career Opportunities in Law and upgradation of Soft Skills” organised by AU Dr B.R. Ambedkar College of Law here Monday. Dr Badrinath said that the students should be given training on soft skills to improve their performance. V. Krishnamohan, Registrar, of AU, S. Sumitra, Principal of the Law College, and others spoke.
22 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New Deputy Chairman of VPT assumes charge||Durgesh Kumar Dubey of 2006 IRTS batch took charge as Deputy Chairman of Visakhapatnam Port Trust on Monday. Prior to this, he worked in various capacities for North Central Railways.
22 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||25 kg ganja seized, two held||The Vizag city police seized over 25 kg dry ganja and arrested two persons when the duo was transporting the weed in a private bus near Gajuwaka in Vizag city. The police are suspecting that the duo procured the weed from Pedabayalu of Vizag Agency to transport to Hyderabad. A case has been registered and investigation is on.
22 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure benefits of Amma Vodi to all eligible: Telugu Nadu students||Telugu Nadu Students’ Federation (TNSF) Vizianagaram district president Pativada Tarakarama Naidu and Madugula Bhanuprakash on Monday asked the government to extend Amma Vodi scheme to all the eligible mothers. They said that many people were unable to submit relevant documents due to technical glitches.  ‘Parents forced to pay fee’ Mr. Naidu and Mr. Bhanu Prakash alleged that the applications of eligible mothers were not being processed quickly in many villages. They also alleged that the school managements were also not taking up the issue seriously and forcing parents to pay fee completely. Along with party senior leaders Aditi Gajapathi Raju and I.V.P. Raju, they submitted a memorandum to Joint Collector J. Venkata Rao at Collector's office.
22 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Blood donation marks Jagan’s birthday||At a time when blood banks have been facing acute shortage of the life-saving liquid since the outbreak of COVID-19, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s call for organisation of blood donation camps to mark his birthday on Monday, evoked good response as the people, particularly party activists, turned up at camps in large numbers to donate blood. Politicians generally take up several service activities, but rarely organise mega blood donation camps since they would require a lot of coordination with doctors, medical staff, donors and others. However, the call of the Chief Minister made public representatives to put efforts wholeheartedly to make blood donation camps a grand success. The activists of the YSR Congress Party and locals participated in blood donation camps organised in Bobbili, Parvatipuram, Kurupam, S. Kota of Vizianagaram district and Rajam, Palakonda, Palasa, Itchapuram and other constituencies of Srikakulm district. Bobbili MLA Sambangi Venkata China Appalanaidu expressed happiness over collection of 454 units of blood with the active participation of youngsters. “For the last one week, we have put additional efforts for mobilisation of a maximum number of youngsters for the blood donation camp. Fortunately, the response is overwhelming from rural areas too. The camp helps to save precious lives of patients who needed blood immediately,” said Mr. Appalanaidu. YSRCP MLC Penumatsa Suresh Babu organised a mega blood donation and medical camp in Moida village of Nellimarla. “Many poor patients could not go to hospitals due to COVID-19 threat. Now, the medical camp turned into a boon for them as highly qualified doctors conducted tests and referred serious cases to hospitals for further treatment,” said Dr. Suresh Babu. Partymen thanked The Sringavarapu Kota MLA thanked the party activists for roping in many college students in the service activities and blood donation camps organised in S. Kota, L. Kota, Kothavalasa and other places. “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy proved that he is different from others by giving a call for blood donation camps on the occasion of his birthday. We will use all important occasions for such noble programmes,” he added. AP Legislative Assembly Speaker Tammineni Sitaram inaugurated a blood donation camp in Amadalavalasa of Srikakulam district. Srikakulam MLA Dharmana Prasada Rao said that such service activities would make the party activists to move in right path in their political career.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Perfect setting||
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Popular spot||
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In solidarity||
22 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||COVID lockdown had little impact on crime in capital||Crime against women in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic year was a tad less in Hyderabad as compared to previous years, though the overall number of crimes did not show any significant signs of abatement. The number of cases registered under ‘outraging the modesty of women’ saw just a 2% decline with the police registering 438 cases this year compared to 448 in 2019. Similarly, rape cases showed a slight reduction of 6% in the city this year, which is 265 cases, as against 281 cases last year. Nineteen dowry deaths were reported this year compared to 22 in 2019. According to the data shared by Hyderabad city police, during the calendar year of 2020, as many as 1,043 cases of harassment were booked, which shows a reduction of 26% over 1,462 such cases last year. Presenting the details at the annual round up held at historic Osmania University Arts College on Monday, City Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar said on the whole, crime against women has come down by 19% with police registering 1,908 cases in 2020 as compared to 2,254 cases last year. A major part of the current year was under the shadow of lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic, which could be one of the reasons why high street crimes against women were significantly low. Mr. Kumar said the overall crime in the State capital has come down by 10% from the previous year with the biggest drop seen in crimes against children. This year, there was a 35% decrease as compared to 2019, followed by a 29% decline in non-grave bodily offences, 28% in non-grave property offences and 27% reduction in all property crime. He said that a total of 22,641 cases were registered in 2020, while 25,187 cases were registered in 2019. The Commissioner attributed the decline to their effective policing methods in tracking criminals, constant police patrolling in every nook and corner of the city and 3.61 lakh surveillance cameras. “There is a significant fall in occurrence of bodily and property offences like murders, rapes, dacoity, culpable homicide, robbery and chain snatchings,” he said, adding that the detection of crime in the city is high despite the fact there are vacancies of 34% in the Police Commissionerate. Comparing Hyderabad with global cities like New York and London, Mr. Kumar said the major focus would remain on prevention of crime by following the famous ‘Broken Windows Theory’, which states that visible signs of crime, anti-social behaviour, and civil disorder create an urban environment that encourages further crime and disorder, including serious crimes. He said that effective crime investigation has resulted in the conviction of 13 people for life in nine cases, while one was sentenced to 23 years of imprisonment and three people for 20 years of jail term. Patrol teams attended more than 2.02 lakh ‘Dial 100’ calls this year, which is at least 500 per day, and 1,627 history-sheeters were checked 26,511 times, he said. Appreciating the efforts of Task Force teams in detection of cases, Mr. Kumar said the teams played a crucial role in curbing hawala network, apprehending burglary and kidnapping gangs and seizure of smuggled goods, apart from nabbing drug peddlers. Declaring their road map for the coming year, the Hyderabad police chief said that they would set up a dedicated centre for detection of cyber crimes in each law and order zone to work under DCP (Detective Department). They will also start intelligent conversational chatbots to make their website interactive, he said, and added that they would also implement a computer-based inventory management system.
22 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New COVID mutation a ‘matter of concern’: CCMB chief||The new virus strain causing a more contagious form of COVID-19 infection in the United Kingdom and a few other European countries is yet to make its appearance in India, but certainly the mutation is a “matter of concern” and people should ensure it does not spread. This can be done by reducing “personal interactions, social distancing, wearing masks and maintaining personal hygiene”, insisted CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) Director Rakesh Mishra on Monday. "The new strain is very efficient when compared to other strains. It is a superior one in causing higher infectivity even when infectivity among the population is already high. It is definitely evolving faster and binding to the receptor more effectively, which is expected from any such variant of the virus. However, it does not appear to be clinically or medically more dangerous and there is no change in the symptoms," he said, in an exclusive interaction. Indians should be more cautious especially during the holiday season because as the virus is working overtime and the only way we can win is by preventing infection. We cannot afford to have the virus mutating and experimenting more in such a large and dense population like ours. The onus is on us to prevent the spread of a more virulent form of virus even though the latest mutation is not yet seen in the country. If we have not seen, it does not mean that it is not there," cautioned Dr. Mishra. More genome sequencing and testing is likely to get more insight into this latest mutation. "We have to keep monitoring, increase testing and sequencing. We are already the lowest in terms of testing when compared to many other countries with such huge case loads. For instance, we could make out that the predominant strain here was ‘A3i’ with 40% population affected and it soon came down and eventually disappeared as the ‘A2a’ clade of the virus became more prevalent," explained the director. Dr. Mishra was of the view that the 'opening up' has led to some kind of laxity and enhanced testing plus sequencing of the new COVID-19 cases should give an indication of any new mutations here. The silver lining is the new mutation does not seem to be much of a problem with the two new RNA bases vaccines made by Pfizer and Moderna though they are specific protein based. It definitely will not affect the upcoming vaccines from AstraZeneca and Bharat Biotech which are both based on inactivated virus. More pressing issues are how good is the data coming out of clinical trials and how long will the purported vaccine protect us,”he added.
22 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cyber crime touches new high||The COVID-19 pandemic has caused job losses, deaths, widespread health concerns and gutted businesses, but there’s was also another danger lurking. According to the Hyderabad city police, cyber crime has almost doubled in the last one year, and most of it can be attributed to the sudden transition of work from the security of office spaces to the vulnerability of working from home. Cases related to cyber crime went up from 1,393 registered last year to 2,456 in 2020, and with more 10 days left for this year to end, police said the number would increase. So far, they have received 7,100 petitions. Since March, cases of financial frauds, online gaming and stalking have seen an upward trend with an increase in the usage of the internet during the pandemic. Urging internet users to “think before you click”, Hyderabad Additional Commissioner of Police (Crimes and SIT) Shikha Goel said a majority of cases amounted to financial frauds, including One-Time Password and OLX frauds. “This year alone we have registered 634 cases pertaining to frauds on OLX marketspace,” she said. Jharkhand hub Stating that Jamtara, a small town in Jharkhand, is the hub of cyber crimes, Ms. Goel said cybercrime offenders there are giving sleepless nights to the law enforcement agencies across the country. She said that more than 60% of the cybercrimes were linked to Jamtara, which has become digital India’s underbelly. Online gaming, which is prohibited in both the Telugu States, increased drastically with many people, especially children, sitting at home. “More children are indulging in online gaming these days. Colour prediction games give instant monetary reward, and as greed increases, people go on playing more games, and finally, they end up losing their money. In some cases, people end their life,” she said. She said this year, the cyber crime police have arrested 259 fraudsters from 12 different States.  This year alone we have registered 634 cases pertaining to frauds on OLX marketspace. Shikha Goel, Hyderabad Addl. CP (Crimes and SIT)
22 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Decline in coronavirus cases continues in Telangana||There was a significant decline in the number of COVID-19 cases in the State with only 316 cases reported on Sunday while the number of recoveries was almost double at 612. Two deaths were reported during the day, taking the total number of casualties to 1,515, while the case fatality rate continued to be much lesser at 0.53% as against the national average of 1.5%. Recovery rate at 97.12% on the other hand was higher as compared with the national average of 95.5%. The number of active cases is 6,590, taking the total tally past 2.8 lakh. The number of individuals in home/institutional isolation is 4,467. Total recoveries at 2.73 lakh is inching closer to the 2.75 lakh mark, according to the bulletin released by the Health department. Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area continues to contribute the highest number of positive cases with 86 testing positive on Sunday while the neighbouring Rangareddy district registered 30 new cases and Medchal Malkajgiri district just 22 cases. Warangal Urban and Karimnagar districts reported 18 new cases each while cases were in double digits in Sangareddy (14), Khammam (13) and Bhadradri Kothagudem (12).   Conquering COVID  State recovery rate is 97.12% while national average is 95.5%  Number of active cases stood at 6,590 as on Sunday Total number of cases detected so far goes past 2.8 lakh
22 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Nitin Gadkari moots usage of surplus foodgrains for bio-fuels||Union Minister for Surface Transport, Medium & Small Scale Industries Nitin Gadkari suggested that State governments make use of the surplus foodgrains stock like rice and sugarcane to be used for making second generation bio-fuels to be mixed with the fossil fuels of petrol and diesel to generate more income to farmers and give boost to rural based industry. “Except for oilseeds where we are importing 70% of edible oil for consumption, we have 280 lakh tonnes of rice and 110 lakh tonnes of sugar. Ethanol can be made from biomass, sugarcane and molasses. If Telangana government can establish 15 distilleries to make ethanol from rice, it can create employment for the rural youth,” he pointed out, on Monday. In a virtual address, while dedicating six new national highway projects to TS and foundation stone laying for another eight projects of total of 765.663 km worth Rs. 13,169 crore, Mr. Gadkari pointed out that farmers can make fuel for all purposes like bio-compressed natural gas (CNG) from rice and corn. The petroleum ministry is ready to sign five-year power purchase guarantee agreements for mixing of ethanol with the fossil fuels as only 400 crore litres is being currently made available when the need is for 1,600 crore litres for mixing 20% to petrol and 10% to diesel, he said. Farmers’ welfare The Modi Government is committed towards the welfare of the farmers and in sustainable agriculture. Provision of good roads was another key feature as good connectivity provides more reach to take the agriculture produce and increases efficiency. About 59 road works of 1,918 km costing Rs. 17,617 crore was sanctioned in TS in the last six years and of this, 1,782 km has been sanctioned at a cost of Rs. 15,689 crore with almost all of the 33 districts connected to national highways. Peddapally district too will also be connected to the network soon, he said and urged for expediting land acquisition by the TS government. Nearly 1,400 km NH length was added under CRIF — Centre Road Infrastructure Fund with Rs. 2,436 crore sanctioned, of which Rs. 1,483 crore released and another Rs. 500 crore to be provided. Construction of 841 km roads worth Rs. 4,793 crore was completed and work on another 809 kms at Rs. 13,012 crore is on, he explained. The Minister said 13 major projects costing Rs. 8,957 crore for 328 km are proposed to be awarded, three major projects for 192 km worth Rs. 2,339 crore are under bidding, 21 NH works with total length of 1,422 km at a cost of Rs. 27,116 crore are under various stages of project report preparation — these works are likely to be completed by 2024-25. Greenfield works are: Surat, Ahmadnagar, Solapur, Kurnool, Chennai (75 km in TS) Suryapet - Khammam - Devarapalle (164 km) Indore - Hyderabad (136 km) with multiple wayside amenities to be developed to improve rider comfort, he added. Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy said Mr. Gadkari had brought about “revolutionary” changes in highway development and noted that the NH in Telangana is 3,910 km with lot of addition in recent years. The launch of cement road built between Yadadri to Warangal road (99 km - Rs. 890 crore) was sure to bring about a sea change in the corridor. Ring road TS Roads & Buildings Minister V. Prashanth Reddy said while 1,366 km was notified for NH, another 1,073 km needs to be done immediately. Development of 340 km of Regional Ring Road around the capital for which government is ready to share 50% of land cost, improving Nagpur-Hyderabad-Bengaluru and Pune-Hyderabad-Vijayawada highways need to be taken up. Union Minister of State for Road Transport and Highways V.K. Singh and others also spoke.
22 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Union Minister lauds TS mountaineer||Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijju congratulated mountaineer Amgoth Tukaram on his achievements so far including scaling the five highest mountain peaks across continents. The Minister invited the 21-year-old to his office in New Delhi on Monday, which also happened to be the birthday of the young city-based mountaineer, and advised him to continue to spread the message of environment protection. “I sincerely appreciate your courage and conviction against all odds to achieve such stupendous feats in adventure sports,” the Minister said. Mr Rijju also expressed confidence that TMr ukaram would continue to bring laurels to the country at the highest level and will be an inspiration for millions of youth across the country. For his part, Mr Tukaram was delighted. “This is one of the best birthdays I could have dreamt of. It was a wonderful experience and the Minister assuring complete support for my future endeavours is a great morale-booster as I dream to take on even bigger challenges,” he told The Hindu . “For someone coming from such a poor background (a panda from Ranga Reddy district), life has been full of challenges and these are the kind of gestures which keep me going,” Mr Tukaram added. For the record, the youngster scaled Mt Kosciuszko, the highest mountain peak in Australia, this March having already scaled the five of the seven toughest and highest peaks in the world in different continents.
22 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NMDC, MECL to collaborate||Iron ore miner NMDC has entered into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Mineral Exploration Corporation (MECL) to collaborate and conduct exploration in mutually agreed projects for iron ore, gold, coal, diamond and other minerals in various States. A release on Monday from NMDC said the coming together of the two premier, public sector Indian exploration agencies would pave the way for better synergies in mineral exploration and allied works. It will help establish resources/ reserves of various minerals / ores and their extraction while identifying unexplored mining areas. The move will support the Centre’s Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan and extend commitment towards mineral security of India. Research facility NMDC is presently producing about 35 million tonnes of iron ore annually from its fully mechanised mines in Bailadila, Chhattisgarh and Kumaraswamy mines in Karnataka. It produces diamonds from the Diamond Mining Project, Panna, Madhya Pradesh. The public sector major also has set up an established research and development Centre for the study of ore beneficiation and minerals processing. CMD Sumit Deb hoped that the venture accomplishes the mission of strategic and beneficial exploration successfully for both the companies and concentrate on high priority exploration areas while helping realise the overall objective of promoting domestic production of previously imported items to foster self-reliance. NMDC is also venturing into coal at Tokisud North Coal Mine and Rohne Coal Mine in Jharkhand. The release said MECL had been carrying out mineral exploration activities since 1972. MECL CMD Ranjit Rath said the company is well poised to augment and expedite exploration coverage for all mineral commodities pan India. Earlier, the MECL had conducted successful exploration for the NMDC in Shahpur East and Shahpur West Coal blocks in Madhya Pradesh.
22 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||More loanees lodge complaints||A large number of people thronged the cyber crime police station of Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda Commisiosnerates to report the alleged harassment and humiliation by app-based instant loan financial companies. With police’s swift action against such companies following the suicide by three people in Telangana created furore, more number of people are approaching the police to report the harassment of the loanees. Not only those who availed the loans, but also people who were constantly phoned by the customer care executives to inform them about the default by one of his contacts have lodged the complaints. “Apart from the borrowers, we also received complaints from individuals who were getting phone calls from the companies informing them about the loan amount defaulted by their friends or people whom they know,” police said. On Monday alone, Hyderabad Cyber Crime police received more than a dozen complaints, which are being verified before registering a case. Meanwhile, Cyberabad police who have already registered six cases against those online companies, booked one more on Monday.
22 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Tough task for TRS to pick Nagarjunasagar bypoll candidate||Local sentiment is likely to be the key issue in the candidate selection in the Nagarjuna Sagar by-poll, which the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) is desperate to win after two unsatisfactory performances in Dubbak by-poll and the GHMC elections. Despite rumours of senior Congress leader K. Jana Reddy being wooed by both the TRS and the BJP, it looks quite certain that he is likely to be the candidate from the Congress if he wishes to be. The TRS is looking for a candidate of his stature and a local candidate as the sentiment is gaining ground. In this backdrop the names of Legislative Council Chairman, Gutta Sukhender Reddy and TRS leder MC Koti Reddy, who was also the aspirant in 2018 Assembly elections, have cropped up. Mr. Koti Reddy is also the follower of Minister G. Jagadish Reddy and he is likely to pull strings in his favour if the need be. The US returned TRS supporter, Gaddampalli Ravinder Reddy is also staking claim and has been actively working in the constituency. Party is also considering a family member of late Nomula Narsimaiah, who represented the constituency till his death recently. The fresh experience of people rejecting candidate in Dubbaka is playing on party’s mind as the result proved people are not willing to accept a family member if they are not in active politics. “You can’t thrust anyone” is the argument heard quite loudly among the TRS cadre in the constituency. Sources said the party wants to go with a candidate whose stature is equal to Mr. Jana Reddy or a candidate from the same social group to give a tough fight. Mr. Jana Reddy has indicated to his well-wishers that he doesn’t have any intentions to switch parties at the fag end of his political career. There are rumours of TRS wooing Mr. Jana Reddy with Rajya Sabha nomination and ticket for his son. But none of the TRS leaders have confirmed it. A senior TRS leader, on condition of anonymity, said that there is a surging demand from the cadre that candidate should be a local unlike 2018 since the election is going to be tough for the ruling party on various counts. “A non-local will only add to the burden.” Whether Mr Sukhender Reddy is keen on taking Mr. Jana Reddy is a question that remains to be seen and he is said to have asked for sometime before taking a final call. He is already seeking the opinion of his followers on his candidature. Meanwhile, Mr. Koti Reddy is already on the job in the constituency expecting Chief Minister’s favour this time. Candidate selection cannot be delayed as the elections are likely to be held in February 2021 with the notification released in January. The Election Commission of India may notify Nagarjunasagar by-poll along with Tirupati Lok Sabha by-poll, which has to be completed before March, within the six-month period of its vacation.
22 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||DGP holds meet on human trafficking||Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy on Monday held a video conference with the police officials of neighbouring States on prevention of human trafficking. Top police officers of Anti Human Trafficking Units from Maharashtra, Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Chhattisgarh took part in the conference to discuss plans to curb human trafficking. Mr. Reddy said that several States have taken commendable steps to curb human trafficking and suggested to set up an inter-State working group for better coordination between the respective States. He said that cooperation of voluntary organisations on the prevention of trafficking should be sought. Addressing the officers, Mr. Reddy said that Telangana has achieved significant results through the DARPAN application, a unique facial recognition tool developed by State police, which came handy to identify 34 missing children from Telangana and other States. Success stories He said that similar success stories in different States should be passed on to other States. “Details of missing children and women in all States should be provided to neighbouring States for quick detection,” Mr. Reddy said. Additional DGP (Women Safety Wing) Swati Lakra informed the officers about the best policies in place on human trafficking prevention in force in other States.
22 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Distinction for two RPF personnel||Two Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel of South Central zone were awarded Railway Minister’s Medal for Bravery-2019. RPF assistant sub-inspector N. Guru Prasad, Lingampalli outpost, was awarded Rs. 1 lakh as part of Railway Minister’s ‘Mahila Ewan Bal Suraksha Padak’. Constable Vikul Kumar also received Rs. 1 lakh towards Railway Minister’s ‘Jeevan Raksha Padak’. Mr. Prasad has been active in rescuing/rehabilitating missing children over Bharat Nagar post jurisdiction of Secunderabad division of the zone. His proactive role has resulted in rescue of 21 runaway children from home in 2018 and 12 in 2019. He has conducted numerous awareness campaigns against child trafficking and ensured the safety of women commuters in MMTS trains. Mr. Kumar, on the other hand, while performing his duty at Hyderabad Railway station on Platform No.5, noticed a passenger slipping while trying to alight from a moving train and stuck between the platform and the train. He rushed to the rescue of the person by running along with the train, risking his own life. His swift and brave act saved the passenger’s life.
22 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||More biker deaths due to helmet-less riding||Half of the deaths in road accidents in the city this year could have been averted if bike riders and pillion riders had worn helmets, said Hyderabad Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) Anil Kumar on Monday. While COVID-19 lockdown slowed down traffic movement for a few months, overall numbers of road accidents and deaths thereof are anything but encouraging. About 226 persons lost their lives in 220 vehicle crashes in the last one year, and 119 of them weren’t wearing helmets, he said. There is no major dip in the road accident deaths as the city reported 237 deaths so far this year as against 271 in 2019. However, there was a major reduction in death of pedestrians in road accidents — down to 68 from 106 last year. Declaring 2021 as ‘Year of Traffic Awareness’, Mr. Kumar said that they would educate people on traffic rules and launch new initiatives to reach out to more people, especially schoolchildren. Amid coornavirus outbreak fear, drunk driving cases in the city also saw a sharp decline with police booking just 5,591 motorists this year, as against 29,756 in 2019. Earlier, Joint Commissioner of Police (Special Branch) Tarun Joshi said even in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, they verified 92,767 passport applications, and conducted at least 330 door-to-door verifications per day.
22 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||High Court order to stop special court trial||Telangana High Court on Monday passed an interim direction to keep in abeyance the trial of Additional District Judge S. Radhakrishnamurthy by the ACB special court. A bench of Justices M.S. Ramachandra Rao and T. Amarnath Goud passed the direction after hearing a writ petition filed by Radhakrishnamurthy. Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials arrested the petitioner in April of 2018 on charge of receiving Rs. 7 lakh bribe to grant bail to an accused facing charges under NDPS Act. The petitioner was then serving as Nampally Criminal Court Additional District Judge. ACB officials subsequently filed charge-sheet in the case. The petitioner’s counsel contended that ACB registered case against the judge following a complaint lodged by a lawyer. The ACB authorities did not seize any cash from the judge, the lawyer argued.
22 December 2020||KAKINADA,TELANGANA||ATM robbery case cracked||The East Godavari police on Monday arrested six persons, including a woman, in connection with stealing of Rs. 23.85 lakh in cash from an ATM by breaking open it at midnight of November 27. According to the police, the gang was led by P. Nagaraju, a technician of CC Camera surveillance system, who hatched a plan to loot cash from the Bank of India’s ATM with the support of S. Mahesh Lova Prasad, the security guard of the ATM. The duo also took the help of four others including P. Likhitha, wife of the prime accused Nagaraju. The other three accused were Ch. Rambabu, P. Durga Rao, and P. Balaji. The six belong to Uppalaguptam mandal in East Godavari district. The ATM, broken by the gang with the support of gas cutters, is located at Perooru village in the limits of Amalapuram police station. Speaking to newsmen here, Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi said: “The gang attempted in vain to break the ATM on November 26 night. However, they succeeded in their attempts the next day night. The stolen cash was recovered from the gang.” The bank authorities noticed the theft on November 29.
22 December 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Stone laid for four-laning of Suryapet-Khammam stretch||The foundation stone for the four-laning of the 59-km Suryapet-Khammam stretch of the National Highway 365BB was laid by Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari through a remote from New Delhi on Monday raising hopes of speedy completion of the long awaited highway expansion project. The highway project was approved at an estimated cost of Rs. 2,054 crore to widen the 59 km stretch of the NH 365BB to improve inter-State road connectivity and road safety besides giving a fillip to trade and commerce. Issues related to land acquisition in the initial phase last year and the coronavirus induced crisis from mid-March this year caused considerable delay in implementation of the highway project as planned earlier. According to sources, land to an extent of 281 acres of the total 284 acres of land required for the project in as many as eight villages of Khammam rural and Kusumanchi mandals has already been acquired and handed over to the executing agency by the district administration. An amount of around Rs. 40 crore had already been disbursed towards compensation to the land owners . Sources in the National Highways Authority of India said the four-laning of the Khammam-Suryapet stretch is expected to be completed by September 2022. Khammam MP Nama Nageswara Rao participated in the video conference organised by Mr Gadkari in connection with the laying of foundation stones of a slew of national highway development projects on Monday.
22 December 2020||M. RajeevHYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana govt. gets second instalment of Rs. 688 crore under Atmanirbhar Abhiyan||The State government appears to be comfortably placed in so far as crediting of amounts of Rs. 5,000 an acre into the accounts of little over 59 lakh farmers as part of the next instalment of its flagship Rythu Bandhu, the farmers’ investment support scheme. The government earmarked Rs. 12,000 crore for Rythu Bandhu in the current budget and released the first instalment of the Rythu Bandhu of over Rs. 6,000 crore during the current fiscal in June second week. There was uncertainty over the crediting of the second instalment in view of the precarious financial situation in the aftermath of the novel Coronavirus (Covid-19) which resulted in significant drop in revenues. The government subsequently accepted the Option-1 offered by the Central government under the Atmanirbhar Abhiyan to meet the estimated shortfall in the revenue on account of implementation of the GST. The State became eligible for receiving funds to the tune of Rs. 2,380 crore under the scheme according to which the Centre set up special borrowing window for raising loans to meet the shortfall on behalf of the States and Union Territories. Accordingly, the State received the second instalment of GST compensation shortfall amounting to Rs. 688 crore on Monday. The first instalment of Rs. 559 crore under the special borrowing window set up by the Central government was released on December 14. The release was the eighth instalment and the balance Rs. 1,133 crore is likely to be received in the next couple of weeks. The special window is in addition to the facility given to the State to raise Rs. 5,017 crore through open market borrowings. Simultaneously, the government opted for open market borrowings in the form of State Development Loans and started participating in the RBI auctions. The government has raised Rs. 6,000 crore so far in the form of SDLs starting during the four auctions conducted by the RBI starting December 1. The government had in fact notified SDLs to the tune of Rs. 4,500 crore, but availed additional borrowing of another Rs. 1,500 crore through the Green Shoe option. The Green Shoe option, according to official sources, enables the government to take more amount than that is put to auction and this indicates the investors’ interest in these securities.
22 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Believe in power of ideas: DST secretary||Professor Ashutosh Sharma, secretary, Department of Science and Technology (DST), called upon the scientists to believe in the power of ideas. As the Creative & Advanced Research based On Nanomaterials (CARBON) lab completed its 10th year at IIT Hyderabad, and to celebrate the occasion, the facility is organizing a webinar series along with other events such as international sci-art image competition, internship competition for undergraduates etc. The first webinar of the series was organised on December 20 on the theme, carbon materials and energy storage devices in which Prof. Sharma delivered the keynote address on “A date with carbon’. The two other distinguished speakers were Prof Marc Madou, Chancellor Professor, University of California, Irvine, and Dr. Tata N. Rao, Associate Director, ARCI, Hyderabad. Prof. Sharma made an elaborative presentation on development of carbon nanomaterials and highlighted their importance in almost every aspect of our life - be it in energy storage, air and water filtration, wearable and flexible electronics, composites or in healthcare to develop sensor diagnostics tools. He cited few examples of carbon micro and nano-fabrication from his own research work. He also emphasised the need of serendipity in research and suggested young researchers to believe in the “power of ideas.” He ended his talk on a high note about the potential of research in the area of carbon nano-materials and pointed out that there is still a lot to unearth when it comes to the potential of carbon as a material to explore and understand. Prof. Marc Madou presented his latest work on carbon origami, which is an art of folding polymer films to make a variety of complex and amazing structures with enhanced properties. He explained the deep science involved with origami. These self-assembled carbon origami structures may have potential applications in drug delivery, tissue scaffolds and also as potential tool for 3D printing, he said. Dr. Tata N. Rao in his talk presented the latest development of carbon nano-materials for energy storage devices, especially in the perspective of electric vehicles batteries and hybrid super capacitor system. He discussed about the latest technology ARCI has developed to produce biomass derived activated carbon and its application in super capacitor which is at par in performance with the commercial one. Dr. Tata emphasised on the indigenisation of the technology in this area and made a detailed presentation on ARCI future plan for pilot plant manufacturing and scale up of electrode materials for batteries and super capacitors. Dr. Chandra Shekhar Sharma, principal investigator of CARBON Lab, who himself is a leading researcher in this area, thanked all speakers for their wonderful insight on their research in carbon materials. He also made a small presentation on the various research activities, CARBON Lab is engaged in.
22 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||MCHRD regional centre inaugurated||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao called upon the employees to improve their skills to serve people better. Addressing a gathering after inaugurating the regional centre of Marri Channa Reddy Human Resources Development (MCRHRD) in Siddipet on Monday, Mr. Harish Rao said that this training centre will be useful to train employees to compete globally. Stating that this is the first regional centre established after formation of new districts, Mr. Harish Rao said that the best practices must be implemented here. MCRHRD director Haripreeth Singh said that Siddipet will transform as another Hyderabad and it will be next destination. Mr. Singh termed Mr. Harish Rao as a leader with vision. He said Siddipet has an inherent power and that is being proved time and again.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Historic backdrop||
22 December 2020||new delhi,||First deaths due to dengue and malaria||The Capital has reported one death each due to dengue and malaria so far this year, said a report released by the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Monday. The death due to malaria is the first in the city in over six years, it said. The sole dengue victim this year was a 12-year-old boy, a senior official said. Sources said the death took place a couple of months ago but the cause was ascertained later. Details of the malaria patient are not yet known. The SDMC compiles data on vector-borne diseases for the city, and the report stated that 1,062 cases of dengue had been recorded in Delhi till December 19.
22 December 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. police declare bounty for accused under new law||The police in Etah district of western Uttar Pradesh on Monday declared a bounty of Rs. 25,000 each on five persons accused under the State’s new ordinance against unlawful conversions. Etah case In Jalesar town of Etah, a Muslim youth and his family members were last week booked under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020 for allegedly coaxing a Hindu woman into elopement and coercing her to convert her religion for marriage. Etah police said they had arrested six persons in the case so far. “A reward of Rs. 25,000 each has been declared against five named accused who are absconding,” the police said. While the State police have not released any cumulative list of the total cases lodged and arrests made under the new ordinance, according to information gathered from various districts, the six arrests in Etah would take the total arrests made since November 27 when it was promulgated to 40. So far, 13 persons have been arrested in Sitapur, 10 in Mau, four in Gautam Buddha Nagar, two in Moradabad (both granted bail), and one each in Bareilly, Shahjahanpur, Bijnor, Kannauj and Hardoi, respectively. Stay on arrest Two persons accused of trying to convert a Hindu woman to their religion in Muzaffarnagar were given relief by the Allahabad High Court on last Friday after it ordered a stay on their arrest.
22 December 2020||Mumbai,||Metro land row: Pawar speaks to CM, Fadnavis||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar has spoken to Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis over the Kanjurmarg Metro car shed land dispute in Mumbai and may take up the issue with the Centre to resolve it, sources said on Monday. Mr. Thackeray on Sunday said he was open to a resolution of the land row through dialogue with the Centre and asserted it was not an “ego issue” for him. According to the sources, Mr. Pawar spoke to Mr. Thackeray and Mr. Fadnavis separately on Sunday. “The salt commissioner comes under the Central government. So, Mr. Pawar may also take up the issue with the Centre, seeking resolution,” a source said. The Bombay High Court last week stayed the order passed by the Mumbai suburban district Collector allotting 102 acres of salt pan land in Kanjurmarg for the construction of an integrated Metro car shed. The HC also restrained the authorities from carrying out any construction work at the said land. The Centre and the Shiv Sena-led Maharashtra government are locked in a tussle over ownership of the land earmarked by the State for constructing the Metro car shed which was earlier planned at Aarey colony, a green belt in Goregaon. The previous Fadnavis-led government had decided to construct the car shed for the Mumbai Metro line 3 at Aarey colony, despite opposition from environmentalists and activists to the vast tree-cutting for the project. The present MVA government, comprising the Sena, NCP and Congress, recently took a decision to shift the car shed from Aarey colony to Kanjurmarg.
22 December 2020||Mumbai,||Coastal road to be functional in July 2023, says BMC chief||The ambitious eight-lane coastal road being constructed in Mumbai to ease traffic woes would be functional in July 2023, BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Monday. The 29.2 km-long seaside road project has been undertaken by the Shiv Sena-led BMC to connect Marine Drive in south Mumbai to Borivali in north Mumbai. Sharing the status of the Rs. 12,721-crore project with reporters, Mr. Chahal said nearly 17% work had been completed so far. Started in October 2018, the project was targeted to be completed by 2022, but it got delayed due to litigations.
22 December 2020||Mumbai,||Varavara Rao to stay at Nanavati till Jan. 7||Jailed poet-activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links’ case, will continue to remain at Nanavati Hospital in Mumbai till January 7 next year, as the Bombay High Court on Monday extended his stay at the private medical facility. Mr. Rao (81) has been receiving treatment for various ailments at the private hospital since last month following the intervention of the High Court. A Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik extended his stay at Nanavati Hospital after adjourning the hearing on his bail plea, seeking release on medical grounds, till January 7. The Bench directed the Maharashtra government to submit a fresh medical report detailing Mr. Rao’s health condition on the next date of hearing. Mr. Rao’s lawyer, Anand Grover, also informed the court that the activist’s health condition was improving. Mr. Grover told the court that Mr. Rao was still being monitored by the hospital staff as his blood pressure continued to fluctuate and he was giddy most of the time. On the instructions from Mr. Rao’s daughter, Mr. Grover also told the HC that Mr. Rao’s family was “satisfied” with the treatment being provided to him at Nanavati Hospital. While the State government and the National Investigation Agency urged the court to transfer Mr. Rao from Nanavati Hospital to the Taloja prison hospital, or the State-run J J Hospital, the Bench said it could not do so without going through his present medical report.
22 December 2020||Nashik,||Nashik farmers to join, support ‘brothers from Punjab, Haryana’||Three years after a historic long march by thousands of farmers from Nashik to Mumbai, they gathered in the city again to embarked on yet another journey, this time to Delhi. Thousands of farmers from across Maharashtra gathered at Nashik’s Golf Club on Monday under the leadership of All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) and set off to Delhi to join and support farmers of Punjab and Haryana who are protesting the three recent farm laws passed by the Centre. “Last time we walked to Mumbai, raised our demands and won the battle. We are now heading to Delhi to join our brothers from Punjab and Haryana. We are not going to come back without winning this battle,” said Santosh Kamdi from Manor in Palghar district. Launching an attack against the Narendra Modi-led Central government and alleging that he was working for big corporates by bringing in farm laws, the farmers burned posters of industrialists before setting off to Delhi. The farmers, travelling in over 100 vehicles, will first go to Dhule and hold corner meetings at every town before entering Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday. “History has taught us that working class triumphs over the corrupt alliance of politicians and corporates. We are marching for our rightful demands. We stand in support of our protesting farmer brothers,” said K.K. Rajesh, Communist Party of India (Marxist) MP from Kerala. Hirabai Gavit, from Surgana in Nashik district, said she wants the Modi government to not act with arrogance. “When so many farmers are saying that the laws are not good, then he should listen. We are sending our men to demand what is good for us. Only farmers would know what is good for farmers,” she said. Farmers and agriculture labourers from Palghar, Nashik, Ahmednagar, Buldhana, Parbhani and other districts joined the march in vehicles hired in groups or through AIKS from their home towns. “We have been told that Delhi is very cold. We are farmers who work hard in summer, monsoon and winter. I don’t think Delhi winter will dampen our spirits,” said Ashok Yadav from Karad, in western Maharashtra. “We have asked all protesters to come equipped with warm clothes, ration and utensils to cook food. Once they reach Delhi, AIKS will take care of their food,” said Manik Awaghade, AIKS office bearer from Satara district. Dr. Ajit Nawale, head of State unit of AIKS, said this march is a first step to consolidate anger against corporate-friendly and anti-people policies of the Union government. “The people of Maharashtra are known to not bow in front of Delhi. We will not let the Centre destroy the lives of farmers and future of our country,” he said.
22 December 2020||NEE DELHI,||Police recover heroin worth over Rs. 20 crore||The Delhi Police Special Cell has busted an inter-State drug cartel and arrested two members of the group. The police recovered five kg of high-grade heroin worth over Rs. 20 crore from the duo. Alok Tripathi from Banda, Uttar Pradesh, and Mohd. Anwar Ali from Manipur are part of a gang involved in the supply of heroin in Delhi-National Capital Region and Uttar Pradesh, after procuring it from Manipur, said the police. The Manipur-based suppliers collect the raw material to prepare heroin from hilly areas near the international border of Manipur and Myanmar, the police added.
22 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Where do you get money for ads worth crores?’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday said if the BJP-ruled municipal corporations have no money to pay salaries to employees then from where do the civic bodies get the money for advertisements justifying the Rs. 2,500 crore “scam”. “On one hand, the BJP claims they do not have money to pay the employees of the civic bodies, but on the other hand, they are giving advertisements worth crores of rupees to the newspapers. Where is this money coming from? The BJP got completely exposed after massive corruption at the civic bodies and now they are using the taxpayers’ money to mislead the citizens of Delhi,” said AAP leader Durgesh Pathak. He alleged that the BJP has done so much corruption within the municipal corporations in the last 15 years of its rule, that the corporations have no money left. “Today, teachers, doctors, nurses, sweepers etc. working under the municipal corporation are protesting and even going on hunger strike to get their hard-earned salaries,” Mr. Pathak added. AAP Bihar in-charge Earlier in the day, the Aam Aadmi Party appointed Delhi MLA Sanjeev Jha as the party’s State in-charge of Bihar as well as in-charge of the AAP’s Delhi purvanchal organisation. Mr. Jha said he will work hard to strengthen the party in the State.
22 December 2020||New Delhi,||New COVID cases hit four-month low in Delhi||The city recorded 803 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours — lowest in more than four months — taking the total number of cases to 6,17,808, according to a health bulletin released by the government on Monday. The last time the number of new cases was less than this was on August 17 — 787. A total of 62,440 tests were done in the past 24 hours. Also, 27 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 10,304. Of the total cases, 5,98,249 people have recovered and there are 9,255 active cases. “Delhi witnessed the lowest positivity rate of 1.29% for the first time in eight months . Less than 1,000 COVID-19 positive cases after August 16. We still need to take precautions to stay safe,” tweeted Health Minister Satyendar Jain. The positivity of COVID-19 cases was on Monday was very less compared to the average daily positivity in November, which was 11.65%. The overall positivity till now was 7.86%, as per the bulletin. Out of the total 18,807 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 84.4% were vacant, as per the bulletin. There were 5,843 containment zones in the city on Monday. Earlier in the day, resident doctors of LNJP Hospital protested inside the premises, demanding the government to start non-COVID-19 treatment at the hospital in a phased manner. The hospital was converted into a COVID-19 treatment facility at the beginning of the outbreak. It is the largest Delhi government-run COVID-19 facility. “LNJP is the teaching hospital of Maulana Azad Medical College [MAMC] where student doctors are trained. Currently, the whole hospital is a COVID-19 facility. Because of this, academic activities have come to a standstill. So, there is no new training the student doctors get from the hospital, apart from COVID-19,” said president of the Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) of the hospital, Keshave Singh. As on Monday night, 91.4% of the 2,010 COVID-19 beds in the hospital were vacant, as per government data. “Currently, there is no training happening here...In the long run, the current batch of student doctors will lack the experience to treat patients apart from COVID-19,” Dr. Singh added. He said the RDA has been writing letters to the government, demanding the same and has even met the Health Minister. The RDA has announced a protest outside the office of the hospital’s medical director on Tuesday aswell.
22 December 2020||New Delhi,||High Court quashes FIR against man in rape case||The Delhi High Court has decided to quash an FIR lodged against a man for rape after the woman admitted that she had made false allegations and sought unconditional apology from the court. Justice Suresh Kumar Kait took the unconventional decision of converting the petition, which was originally filed by the man seeking anticipatory bail to that of quashing the FIR itself noting that “no useful purpose would be served in prosecuting petitioner [man] any further”. The court’s order came after the woman, who was present during the videoconferencing hearing of the man’s anticipatory plea, stated that due to misunderstanding, she made false allegations of rape, which culminated into the FIR. The court was informed that they remained friends for two years and had consensual physical relations with each other. However, they broke up in February, 2020 and the present FIR is registered on October 27. She said she does not want to pursue the case. Apex court says The Supreme Court has in several judgments ruled that FIR should not be quashed in case of a heinous offence. However, when the woman herself takes the initiative and states that “she made the complaint due to some misunderstanding and now wants to give quietus to the misunderstanding”, which arose between her and the man, “in my considered opinion, in such cases, there will be no purpose in continuing with the trial,” Justice Kait observed while quashing the FIR.
22 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||IIT-Delhi’s plant-based mock egg bags award||A team of scientists from IIT-Delhi won an innovation contest organised by the United Nation Development Programme (UNDP) Accelerator Lab-India for their innovation of a “plant-based mock egg”. The team secured the first prize at the Innovate4SDG contest that earned them a sum of $5,000 for their innovation which could help meet the protein needs of the diet specific, health conscious, vegan and vegetarian people. “The plant-based textured foods which resemble egg, fish and chicken have been developed with an aim to address the longstanding battle for malnutrition and clean protein food for people. The mock egg has been developed from very simple farm-based crop proteins, which not only looks and tastes like egg but also is very close in nutritional profile to a poultry egg,” said Kavya Dashora from the Centre for Rural Development and Technology who led the team. She added that the team has also developed the meat analogues for chicken and fish from plant sources using fruits and vegetables. The products were tested on various parameters, including appearance, taste, bite-size, texture, aroma, flavour, shelf life, nutritional profile and customer preference, the institute said.
22 December 2020||New DELHI,||Delhi’s air likely to deteriorate today: SAFAR||The air quality of Delhi and Noida was in the ‘very poor’ category on Monday and Gurugram’s in the ‘poor’ category, said the Central Pollution Control Board. The AQI of Delhi was 332 as per the CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 271 and 363, respectively. Delhi’s air quality is likely to deteriorate on Tuesday. Till Thursday “A sharp deterioration in ventilation condition is forecast for the next two days. Air Quality Index is forecast to deteriorate to higher end of ‘very poor’ category on December 22. The air quality is likely to stay in the high end of ‘very poor’ on December 23 and December 24 too,” read a statement by the government-run monitoring agency SAFAR. Though a gradual rise in minimum and maximum temperature is likely in Delhi, surface-level winds may slow down, SAFAR said. The surface-level winds were already “low” on Monday, which does not help in dispersion of pollutants. The effect of stubble burning on the city’s air quality was low, and mixing height, which is the height from the ground level up to which pollutants can be dispersed, was also “low”. This does not aid pollutants from getting dispersed easily.
22 December 2020||New Delhi,||L-G stresses need for higher testing, aggressive contact tracing||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal stressed the need for sustained efforts towards higher testing, aggressive contact tracing and strict compliance with COVID-19 guidelines here on Monday. Mr. Baijal made observations to this effect at a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) attended by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, Dr. V.K. Paul, AIIMS director Dr. Randeep Guleria and senior Delhi government officials at Raj Niwas.
22 December 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active COVID-19 cases dip below 60,000 mark||After witnessing a case surge for two days, Maharashtra reported a robust 6,053 recoveries on Monday as opposed to 2,834 fresh COVID-19 cases. As per the State Health Department figures, the active cases have dipped below the 60,000 mark to reach 59,469 while the total case tally stands at 18,99,352. However, the low case surge must be viewed in the context of a mere 38,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours. As many as 55 fatalities saw the death toll climb to 48,801. The cumulative recoveries now stand at 17,89,958 while the State’s recovery rate has risen incrementally to 94.24%. “Of a total 1,21,57,943 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,99,352 (case positivity rate of 15.62%) have returned positive with nearly 38,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the case fatality stood at 2.57%. Pune district reported nearly 400 new cases to take its total infections to 3,67,319 while five deaths saw its toll touch 7,687. According to the district administration, the active case figure is 8,826 while its recovery rate stands at 95.11%. Mumbai city recorded 463 new cases to take its total case tally to 2,87,313 of whom only 7,754 are active. As many as 12 fatalities saw the city’s death toll — following due reconciliation process — rise to 11,008. Nagpur district in Vidarbha registered nearly 350 fresh cases, taking the district’s total case number to 1,21,898 of whom 4,276 are active. Five deaths pushed the toll to 3,140. Western Maharashtra continued with its trend of low cases and fatalities: Satara added a single death as its toll went up to 1,737 while 71 new cases saw the total tally touch 53,945 of whom 1,078 are active. Neighbouring Sangli logged just 18 cases and one death as the district’s reported cases reached 49,923 of whom only 298 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,760. Kolhapur reported four cases and no deaths as its total case tally climbed to 49,002.
22 December 2020||Kathmandu,||Oli defends move to dissolve Parliament||Nepal’s embattled Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli on Monday defended his move to abruptly dissolve Parliament, saying he was forced to seek a fresh mandate through elections as the rift within the ruling Nepal Communist Party severely affected his government’s functioning. Mr. Oli on Sunday sprang a surprise on his rivals and got the President to dissolve Parliament, a controversial move amidst a prolonged tussle for power between him and former premier Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ within the ruling dispensation. In a special address to the nation, Mr. Oli said that he was forced to dissolve Parliament and announce mid-term elections after he learnt about a plan to move a vote of no-confidence against him. “I was forced to seek a fresh mandate through elections as attempts were made against my government, not to allow it to function properly,” he said while defending his decision to dissolve Parliament and announce dates for mid-term elections.  “The elected government was pushed to a corner and picketed against and was not allowed to work so I decided to dissolve the house,” he added. “Against the people's mandate and their will, national politics was dragged into an endless and goalless direction by creating controversy, making Parliament meaningless as the elected government could not receive its support but always faced opposition and dragged into the controversy.” He accused some of his own party leaders for forcing him to take this step. “When the Prime Minister of the majority government was not allowed to work, I did not want to indulge in unfair practices behind closed doors and reach a compromise with them,” he said. “This move could be seen as an abrupt step for now, but some of my party leaders should be held responsible for creating this situation who did not cooperate with my government.” Meanwhile, opponents of Mr. Oli turned to the Supreme Court on Monday to challenge the dissolution of Parliament and denounced the move as a “constitutional coup”. Seven Ministers stepped down after the dissolution, saying it was violation of the “popular mandate” given to them in a 2017 general election. Supreme Court (SC) Spokesman Bhadrakali Pokharel said three petitions against the dissolution were “in the process of being registered”. “Under the constitution, the Prime Minister has no prerogative to dissolve Parliament,” lawyer Dinesh Tripathi, who is one of the petitioners, told Reuters . “It's a constitutional coup. I'm seeking a stay order from the court.” (With inputs from Reuters)
22 December 2020||New Delhi,||What is behind PM Oli’s move to call for snap polls?||The year 2020 was planned as the ‘Visit Nepal Year’ by Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli. Supported by a good flow of remittances and robust forex reserves, Nepal was looking forward to make the most out of the year. It expected to capitalise on the tourism sector and planned to declare itself as a Himalayan power with a brand new global think tank meeting called ‘Sagarmatha Samvaad’. At the end, however, COVID-19 and a political crisis within the ruling Nepal Communist Party prompted Mr. Oli to take an unscripted path. Why did Prime Minister Oli dissolve Parliament when the House had two more years to serve? One of the main issues was the growing dissatisfaction over Mr. Oli’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, which drew relentless criticism from his party colleagues, especially from stalwart leaders in the central committee and the standing committee. Together, these committees work like the polit bureau of a typical communist party.  The COVID-19 factor One of the first to criticise the Nepal government’s handling of COVID-19 was Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’. Mr. Prachanda raised strong criticism of the government and mentioned the need to investigate reported irregularities in his Parliament speeches. He kept reminding the country of the need to have a wider discussion on COVID-19 even during the vote and discussion on the Kalapani dispute in Parliament. PM Oli hit back at his critics on the COVID-19 issue in his own style and cited the “southern border” of Nepal — a synonym for India — as the reason for the increasing COVID-19 count. His critics pointed at a hint of scandal in the health sector because of the government’s allegedly non-transparent purchases to deal with the pandemic requirements. Nepal is yet to zero in on a viable vaccine as a result of the disorder in this crucial matter. As COVID-19 infections increased in Nepal, Mr. Prachanda kept up his attack on the Prime Minister. Mr. Oli responded by resorting to diversionary tactics. He repeatedly raked up the ‘Indian hand’ issue, and even went to the extent of claiming that the existence of the “real” Ayodhya is inside Nepalese territory. Sensing an opportunity, the critics in the standing committee of the party, led by Mr. Prachanda and former Prime Minister Madhav Kumar Nepal, urged Mr. Oli to agree to the “one man, one post” formula. Under this, Prime Minister Oli would cease to be a co-chair of the party and give organisational control to the other co-chair, Mr. Prachanda. Both the leaders held around a dozen meetings on this issue, which, however, failed to reach any consensus. In the face of a continued deadlock, the standing committee, with its block of pro-Prachanda members, repeatedly summoned the PM to explain the government’s functioning, but Mr. Oli, on more than one occasion, skipped such consultations. Hunger for power “The breakdown in the political dialogue within the Nepal Communist Party is largely because of Mr. Oli’s hunger for power,” said Swarnim Wagle, who chairs the Kathmandu-based Institute for Integrated Development Studies. “It’s a suicidal move for PM Oli to call for election as there is no scope for such a move under the Constitution. At least eight writ petitions have been filed in the Supreme Court already and there is no way that he can win a case in the court.” At the end, Mr. Oli failed the test set up by powerful members within the party, such as Mr. Prachanda, which led to his lack of majority in the parliamentary party of the NCP. He has, therefore, acted to avert a no-confidence motion that was being mooted by some of his colleagues. Mr. Oli made the first move and has succeeded with help from the President. But for the success of his “coup”, he also requires support from the judiciary and parts of the NCP. The coming days will determine if Mr. Oli will pass the biggest test of his career.
22 December 2020||Beijing,||‘Let-up unlikely in Xinjiang crackdown, but focus shifting’||A Chinese Communist Party (CCP) official signalled on Monday that there would likely be no let-up in its crackdown in the remote Xinjiang region, but said the government’s focus is shifting more to addressing the roots of extremism. China’s policies in Xinjiang — home to the Uighurs and other predominantly Muslim ethnic groups — have become a major point of division with the U.S. and other Western nations over alleged human rights violations. “We cannot be complacent at this moment, because the threats are still out there,” Xu Guixiang, deputy director-general of the Xinjiang Communist Party publicity department, said in an interview with AP . Analysts say China has detained more than a million people in Xinjiang, forcing many to give up at least elements of their faith and traditions. Chinese officials tout the success of their effort to deradicalise the population and provide job training, saying the region has not had a terrorist attack in four years. Mr. Xu did not directly answer whether or not security measures would be relaxed but said that “four years free of terrorism does not mean there is no threat or danger at all”. He said the party is exploring ways to achieve sustained stability in multi-ethnic border areas such as Xinjiang.  Mr. Xu repeated the government’s vehement denial of forced labor, in which vocational training graduates are allegedly pressured to work in factories both in Xinjiang and elsewhere in China. He said that 117,000 people have gone to work in other parts of China since 2014 through programmes that have enabled them to develop skills and leave farms for higher-paying factory work.   Earlier Monday, Mr. Xu and other officials held a three-hour news conference in Beijing to refute persistent and mounting international criticism of the government’s actions in Xinjiang.
22 December 2020||Washington,||U.S. Congress agrees on $900 bn stimulus||U.S. lawmakers agreed on a nearly $900-billion COVID-19 relief package for millions of Americans on Sunday, in a deal that follows months of wrangling and which comes as the nation battles the world’s largest COVID-19 outbreak. The package includes aid for vaccine distribution and logistics, extra jobless benefits of $300 per week, and a new round of $600 stimulus checks — half the amount provided in checks distributed in March under the CARES Act. Months of partisan debate and finger-pointing, as well as last-minute negotiations, culminated in a deal lawmakers said they hoped to formally approve on Monday. Talks had taken place amid a highly contentious campaign for the U.S. presidency and incumbent President Donald Trump’s subsequent refusal to concede defeat to Democrat Joe Biden. “We’ve agreed to a package of nearly $900 billion. It is packed with targeted policies to help struggling Americans who have already waited too long,” Republican Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell said in a statement. Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senate minority leader Chuck Schumer confirmed an agreement had been reached on a deal that “delivers urgently needed funds to save the lives and livelihoods of the American people as the virus accelerates”. The agreement also contains $25 billion in housing aid to prevent evictions and nearly $100 billion to help schools and childcare facilities re-open, a statement from Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer said. “The House will move swiftly to pass this legislation immediately, so it can quickly be sent to the Senate and then to the President’s desk for his signature,” Mr. Schumer and Ms. Pelosi said in a statement.  In the wake of the deal, President-elect Joe Biden, who has promised to pass another cash injection when he takes office in January, welcomed the agreement, but said more will need to be done. “Immediately, starting in the new year, Congress will need to get to work on support for our COVID-19 plan, for support to struggling families, and investments in jobs and economic recovery,” Mr. Biden said in a statement.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||‘View military drills with Pak. objectively’||Amid increasing tensions with India, China on Monday asked India to “objectively” view the ongoing month-long military exercises being conducted by the Chinese and Pakistani air forces. Pakistan’s Chief of Army Staff, General Qamar Javed Bajwa, on Friday visited an air force base in the southeast of the country, in Sindh, to view the “Shaheen-IX” or Eagle-IX exercise, the ninth such exercise held between the Pakistan Air Force and the People’s Liberation Army Air Force since 2011. He said the manoeuvres would “improve combat capacity of both the air forces substantially and also enhance interoperability,” Pakistani media reported. China’s Foreign Ministry said on Monday the exercise was “a regular arrangement”. “As all-weather strategic cooperative partners, China and Pakistan have friendly exchange and cooperation in political, economic, military, security and a broad range of areas,” spokesperson Wang Wenbin said, when asked at a regular press briefing about whether the exercise reflected the two countries’ broader strategic posture towards India. “We are committed to jointly upholding peace and stability in the region. The cooperation project you mentioned is a regular arrangement between Chinese and Pakistani militaries that doesn’t target any third party,” he said. “We hope it will be viewed in an objective manner.” The drill taking place amid the COVID-19 pandemic showed “the profound friendship” between the two militaries, the Communist Party-run Global Times said earlier this month, when the Chinese Defence Ministry announced that the drills would carry on until the end of December. Fu Qianshao, a Chinese military aviation expert, told the newspaper “the confrontations between India-Pakistan and China-India will not affect the normal military exchanges between China and Pakistan”. "India’s frequent military exercises with other countries have given it little reason to question normal military exchanges among other countries,” he was quoted as saying. The Chinese Defence Ministry said the drills would “improve the actual combat training level of the two forces”, and did not reveal details about the aircraft involved. The previous exercise in 2019 involved 50 aircraft, according to Chinese state media.  We are committed to jointly upholding peace and stability in the region Wang Wenbin Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson
22 December 2020||Islamabad,||Pakistan signs $1.7 bn debt relief deal||Pakistan has secured a $1.7 billion debt relief agreement to help offset the financial headwinds sparked by the COVID-19 pandemic, officials said on Monday. The deal, following months of negotiations with creditors, will provide a moratorium on debt payments for large swathes of the current fiscal year and help ease the cash-strapped country’s massive financial obligations. “The Government of Pakistan has successfully negotiated and concluded rescheduling agreements with 19 bilateral creditors, including members of the Paris club,” said the Ministry of Economic Affairs.
22 December 2020||Diyarbakir,||Kurdish ex-MP sentenced to 22 years in jail||A Turkish court on Monday sentenced a prominent former Kurdish lawmaker, who had gone on a months-long hunger strike, to more than 22 years in jail on terror-related charges. Leyla Guven, an opposition Peoples’ Democratic Party deputy, who was stripped of her parliamentary immunity in June, was convicted of being a member of a terror group and disseminating terror propaganda for outlawed Kurdish militants. The 56-year-old gained international attention by launching a 200-day hunger strike in 2018 in a bid to end jailed Kurdish leader Abdullah Ocalan’s isolation by securing him access to his family and lawyers.  Her legal team told AFP it would appeal the verdict. The court ordered Ms. Guven’s immediate arrest.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Tamil Nadu politics after the matriarch, patriarch||The elections to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly next year will be the first since the passing of the State’s dominant political leaders of the past three decades — J.Jayalalithaa who led the All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) from 1989 to 2016, and M.Karunanidhi who led the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) from 1969 to 2018. Their passing potentially changes the political terrain. The AIADMK’s support, which depended crucially on charisma under the leadership of both M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa, is less sustainable as no credible successor has emerged. By contrast, the DMK’s support depended mainly on its ethnic and populist orientations rather than the perceived qualities of its leaders. Moreover, Karunanidhi groomed his son, M.K. Stalin as his successor over three decades. This makes the DMK’s prospects much brighter than the AIADMK’s in the forthcoming elections and over the coming decade. Electoral developments The results of the 2019 parliamentary elections and Assembly by-elections held since Jayalalithaa’s passing underline the DMK’s status as the electoral favourite. The United Progressive Alliance led by the DMK won 38 of the State’s 39 seats and 54.4% of the vote in the parliamentary elections, in contrast with the tally of the National Democratic Alliance led by the AIADMK of merely one seat and 30.7% of the vote (https://bit.ly/37Dfswb) In the Assembly by-elections since Jayalalithaa’s passing, the DMK won 13 seats, the AIADMK nine, and the AMMK one. The gap was much lower in the seats won by the Dravidian parties and their alliances in the civic body elections in December last year: District Panchayat Chairs: AIADMK: 13 (NDA: 14), DMK, UPA: 12; District Panchayat Councillors: AIADMK: 214 (NDA: 242), DMK: 243 (UPA: 267); Panchayat Union Chairs: AIADMK: 140 (NDA: 150), DMK: 125 (UPA: 133); Panchayat Union Councillors: AIADMK: 1,797 (NDA: 2,216), DMK: 2,110 (UPA: 2,365). The Assembly by-elections best indicate likely voter inclinations in the forthcoming elections. The DMK’s advantage in them is the more significant as the AIADMK was the incumbent in 22 of these 23 constituencies, the two alliances have not changed their main constituents since, and the NDA outpolled the UPA by a mere 1.0% (40.9% to 39.9%) even in the last Assembly elections of 2016 involving Jayalalithaa. Dravidianist impact The political future depends crucially on how parties engage changing social forces. To understand this, I outline how the Dravidian parties shaped party competition, civic life, and socio-economic policy in Tamil Nadu through their over half-century of rule. Among Asia’s most durable ethnic movements, the Dravidian movement initially claimed to represent non-Brahmin South Indians, primarily Tamil-speakers. The DMK’s leaders were born in underprivileged middle- and lower-middle-caste families — C.N. Annadurai, a Sengunthar (weaving caste) from a weaver-temple servant family, and Karunanidhi, an Isai Vellalar (musician-dancer-temple servant caste) from a middling farmer family. The Dravidar Kazhagam linked Dravidian identity mainly to the middle castes and the DMK with those primarily communicating in Tamil. The AIADMK associated itself closely with the lower strata and women and asserted Tamil politico-cultural specificity, while underemphasising ancestry and having leaders beyond the movement’s early ethnic visions; both MGR and Jayalalithaa belonged to upper castes, and MGR was a Malayalam-speaker. The Dravidian parties were also populist, distinguishing the popular community from elites based on caste, language, dialect and occupation. This helped them attract various plebeian groups, increase voter participation,and marginalise Indian nationalist parties far more than in other big States. They changed status relations and public culture much more than income and property distribution. The DMK built bridges with Brahmins, non-South Indians, and Indian nationalism by abandoning secession and opposing caste inequalities rather than Brahmins. It forsook anti-Malayali nativism which failed to contain early AIADMK growth. As Dravidianism did not seriously sharpen ethnic antagonisms, the AIADMK was the most popular party for the better part of the past five decades despite its leaders’ ancestry. Reservation, welfare Tamil Nadu has the highest educational and job reservations (69%), which helped the Other Backward Classes (OBCs) more than Dalits and Adivasis. The Dravidian parties raised the OBC quota from 25% to 50%, but also extended it to a further 27% of the population, including many better-off castes. By comparison, they raised the Scheduled Caste-Scheduled Tribe quota by less than a fifth, from 16% to 19%, below these groups’ population share of 21%. However, the introduction of a 1% ST tier and a 3% Arunthathiyar tier helped some lowest-status groups, and the two 10% tiers created for Most Backward Classes and denotified communities aided worse-off OBCs. Some Dravidianist welfare and development policies had more poorer beneficiaries even after the national and State governments embraced neoliberal reform. The mid-day meal scheme, later adopted nationally, particularly improved nutrition, health and education among the poorest. Along with high educational spending, it propelled primary school enrolment to the third highest level in India. High investments in primary health and widely distributed subsidised food grains, homestead land and housing, the rural employment programme, and women’s self-help groups extensively benefited the underprivileged. The Dravidian parties, however, distributed productive assets mainly to the upwardly mobile. Land ownership and tenurial reforms, and generous agrarian subsidies primarily aided middle-caste tenant farmers, not Dalits and Adivasis. Being closely associated with the middle castes,the Dravidianists did not impede anti-Dalit violence particularly in the southern and western plains. Mobility among middling and lower-middle strata, somewhat egalitarian welfare policies, and an emphasis on language policy gained the Dravidian parties more widespread and durable support than what other Indian caste-focused and language-based parties secured. Hindu nationalism Hindu nationalist parties have been weakest in Tamil Nadu, polling 3.2% at best in Assembly elections. This was because the DMK promoted non-Hindutvavadi norms — Tamil specificity based in middle-caste cultures, rather than Hindu homogeneity based on Sanskritic upper-caste norms — and built cooperative links between OBC Hindus and Muslims. Such networks impeded Hindutva growth and inter-religious violence, which were most limited in DMK strongholds in northern and central Tamil Nadu. As AIADMK leaders more readily accepted Hindu supremacism, Hindu nationalists gained more support and promoted more violence in AIADMK strongholds in the south and west. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) capitalised on the decline of more established parties through the past two decades in West Bengal, Manipur, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, and Assam. In Tamil Nadu, closer party-society engagement limited the space for new political forces more. The erosion of AIADMK support over the past four years has however increased opportunities for the BJP’s growth especially in the south and west, where Hindutva social organisations have grown since the 1980s. The BJP’s advances are likely to be more limited in the north and centre, where the DMK has retained more support and shaped popular sentiment in ways that still constrain inter-religious antagonisms somewhat. Other parties, civil society The Dravidian parties retreated from mobilising society from the late 1980s, while retaining a slightly diminished electoral dominance. Civil society mobilisation, which transcended Dravidianist visions especially thenceforth, is likely to do so even more hereafter. Many caste associations pressed to change caste policies and other associations opposed certain neo-liberal policies. Some of these initiatives led to the emergence of new parties that mobilised certain MBCs (Vanniyar), denotified communities (Mukkulathor), OBCs (Kongu Vellalar),and Dalits (Parayar, Pallar, Arunthathiyar), but polled no more than 8.1% of the vote although they influenced popular aspirations more. Other new parties, notably the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) gained support across caste boundaries, but did not poll over 8.4%. The AIADMK’s recent decline creates room for the growth of more such multi-ethnic and ethnic parties and movements. Narendra Subramanian is Professor of Political Science, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||The greatness of Srinivasa Ramanujan||“In small proportions we just beauties see; And in short measures life may perfect be” - ‘The Noble Nature,’ Ben Jonson  In April 1984, when he read the letter thanking him for contributing to a bronze bust in memory of the mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujan, Takashi Ono was moved to tears. The letter was from Janaki Ammal, Ramanujan’s wife. From first hearing about Ramanujan in Tokyo in 1955 from the mathematician Andre Weil and having Ramanujan as an inspiration and then to being one of the few mathematicians in the world to fulfil the wish of Janaki Ammal that a statue of her husband be made, life had come a full circle for Takashi. There was one more connection that Takashi had with Ramanujan: Takashi’s son Ken Ono made key contributions to ‘mock theta functions’ in early 2000s, a topic that Ramanujan had worked on in the last few months before his death in April 1920. In the mathematical community, it was no surprise that Ramanujan’s work was being expanded actively eight decades after his demise: many of Ramanujan’s findings anticipated research areas by many years. Research at a feverish pitch Ramanujan, born on December 22, 1887 was an autodidact who specialised in pure mathematics. While he excelled in mathematics, he neglected other subjects and could not complete his pre-university course. By 1908 he gave up studies, but not his research in mathematics. He struggled in poverty until in 1910, a benefactor, Ramachandra Rao, district collector of Nellore, provided him monthly allowance from his own pocket so that Ramanujan could pursue research. This would continue for a couple of years until Ramanujan managed to become a clerk at Madras Port Trust. He initiated contact with the British mathematician G.H. Hardy under whose insistence Ramanujan travelled to England in early 1914. His partnering with Hardy was productive: Ramanujan published more than 20 research papers between 1914 and 1919. During his stay, he was awarded a doctorate and made Fellow of Royal Society. When he returned to India in 1919, he was “...with a scientific standing and reputation such as no Indian has enjoyed before”. Unfortunately he lived only a year after his return succumbing to illness which was diagnosed then as tuberculosis but now revised as hepatic amoebiasis. However, in that one year, he continued his research at a feverish pitch. Until he left for England in 1914, Ramanujan recorded his mathematical results, mostly equations, in his notebooks. There were three such notebooks (preserved now). One more was added when Ramanujan returned to India. Together there were about 4,000 results. The results were the culmination of research backed by deep intuition and insights. However, Ramanujan did not record proofs of his results: that work would be taken up by future generations of mathematicians. Ramanujan’s work was in number theory, infinite series, analysis (theoretical underpinnings of calculus) and a few other areas in pure mathematics. Specifically, as G.H. Hardy wrote, these subjects were “...the applications of elliptic functions to the theory of numbers, the theory of continued fractions and... the theory of partitions”. A few significant contributions were multiple formulae to calculate pi with great accuracy to billions of digits (22/7 is only an approximation to pi), partition functions (a partition is a way to represent a positive integer — for example, 1+1+1+1 is a partition of 4, 1+3 is another partition of 4, and so on), modular forms and hypergeometric series (the terms in every consecutive pair in the series form rational functions). The importance of many of his works became apparent much later. One such was ‘Ramanujan conjecture’ which he published in 1916 and was proved in 1973 by Pierre Deligne. The conjecture inspired the development of theory of Galois representation that was employed in Andrew Wiles’ proof of Fermat’s last theorem published in 1995. In recent years, Ramanujan’s works and their extensions have found applications in signal processing to identify periodic information, akin to Fourier analysis. Mock theta functions have found applications in the study of black holes in astrophysics. But to look for applications of his works is exactly how not to appreciate Ramanujan. As G.N. Watson, a contemporary mathematician of Ramanujan in Cambridge said, “The study of Ramanujan’s works gives me a thrill which is indistinguishable from the thrill which I feel... when I see before me the... beauty of the four statues... which Michelangelo has set over the tombs of Guiliano de Medici and Lorenzo de Medici”. For Ramanujan, mathematics was art. Robert Kanigel, the celebrated biographer of Ramanujan, noted: “People will try to explain it in an easy way but I think they are unjustified in doing it. I think some people really are a few steps beyond where the rest of us live. We are forced to view those intellects, those artistic sensibilities, as a little bit mysterious or a little beyond what is the common realm.” For Ramanujan, his mathematics was an end in itself. In this he thought like G.H. Hardy who claimed in A Mathematician’s Apology , “A mathematician, like a painter or a poet, is a maker of patterns... The ‘seriousness’ of a mathematical theorem lies, not in its practical consequences, which are usually negligible, but in the significance of the mathematical ideas which it connects. We may say, roughly, that a mathematical idea is ‘significant’ if it can be connected, in a natural and illuminating way, with a large complex of other mathematical ideas.” How did Ramanujan develop his mathematical abilities? Here again we have to look to G.H. Hardy: “...with his memory, his patience and his power of calculation, he combined a power of generalisation, a feeling for form, a capacity for rapid modification of his hypothesis, that were often really startling, and made him, in his own peculiar field, without a rival in his day”. Power of intuition and insight Let’s remember that Ramanujan was always precocious in his mathematical talent. And by virtue of working alone on problems and theorems that were advanced for his age during adolescence, day after day, hour after hour, he developed an incredible power of intuition and insight. The problems he worked on were from a book by one Carr. This book was “a spark which`ignited the flame... [but] as the depth of Ramanujan’s discoveries deepened, Carr’s influence certainly waned,” the mathematician Bruce Berndt said. Ramanujan is remembered in many ways. His birthday (today is his 133rd birth anniversary) is celebrated as National Mathematics Day in India. The Ramanujan Journal publishes advancements in the areas that Ramanujan contributed to. His home in Kumbakonam in Tamil Nadu has been converted to a museum by SASTRA University. Ramanujan’s greatness is not that he was a poor man who travelled to England and did research. It is that he was prolific and that his works were diverse, original and transcended time; and all this while he surmounted many odds coming from indigence. Ramanujan’s works, especially to mathematicians, are of enduring elegance. The mathematician and physicist Freeman Dyson said, “Whenever I am angry or depressed, I pull down the Collected papers [of Ramanujan] from the shelf and take a quiet stroll in Ramanujan’s garden”. Varahasimhan is a history of science enthusiast based in Chennai
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Key steps to get this spectrum auction right||The Union Cabinet has cleared the much-awaited auction of radio spectrum in various bands for commercial mobile services. Following this decision of December 16, the auction that will use the well-proven methodology of Simultaneous Multiple Round Ascending (SMRA) Auction will be the seventh of its type and is being held four years after the last one. Based on the recommendation of the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India, the government is planning to auction spectrum in the sub GHz bands of 700, 800 and 900 MHz along with mid-band frequencies in bands of 1800, 2100, 2300, and 2500 MHz across the 22 Licensed Service Areas (LSAs) of the country. The total spectrum to be auctioned is about 2,251 MHz, compared to about 2,355 MHz put on the block in 2016. The cumulative reserve price — and hence the potential revenue accrual to the government at reserve prices — is about $50 billion. Total reserve price of spectrum put on auction in 2016 was about $90 billion while the realised value was just about one-tenth of that, with none of the 700 MHz spectrum band being sold. Hence, while the 2016 auction could be considered as a failure from the auctioneer’s point of view, will this auction scheduled in March 2021 be successful? There are a number of factors that determine the success of spectrum auction. First is the reserve price. Our research on a cross-country spectrum database shows that the reserve price significantly and positively correlated to the winning bid price. However, a higher reserve price also inhibits bidders from bidding for more spectrum blocks, resulting in lower amounts of spectrum sold. If the quantity effect is more than the price effect, then it results in reduced revenues for the government exchequer, as it happened in 2016. Factor of VoIP subscribers Second, the willingness to pay by the  telcos depends on their position vis-à-vis Over The Top (OTT) providers who are providing substitute goods such as Voice Over Internet Protocol (VoIP); and capturing a greater mind share of customers while remaining relatively invisible to government regulators. Our research indicates that the rise of VoIP subscribers could have a positive effect on winning bid prices. However, the erosion of the position of telcos vis-à-vis OTTs in the context of their relationship in the overall digital value network of devices, connectivity and apps, could result in a lower willingness to pay. Third, is the allocation of unlicensed spectrum for Wi-Fi. By off-loading mobile data, Wi-Fi supplements the carrier network and reduces the demand for mobile network capacity. A number of countries including the United States have unlicensed the V-band spectrum in 60 GHz — pencil beam band. Referred to as “wireless fibre”, the 60 GHz spectrum provides huge capacities in a limited area, ideally to be used for Wi-Fi and fixed wireless access. Wi-Fi 6 (a.k.a. IEEE 802.11 ax) that operates in the 2.4/5 GHz unlicensed band  requires  additional unlicensed spectrum allocation to provide Gigabit speeds. The more the unlicensed spectrum allocation, the lower will be the demand for licensed spectrum. Spectrum visibility Fourth, is the visibility of spectrum that will be up for auction, henceforth. While there is an indication by the government that the spectrum for 5G auction, namely 3.4-3.6 GHz, will be held in late 2021, the amount of spectrum that will be made available is not clear. There is still uncertainty about the release of 26 GHz by the Department of Space for mobile services. With this limited visibility, the bidders will be in a quandary whether to acquire the spectrum now, or wait for subsequent auctions. Further, some part of the current spectrum holding of all the operators is coming up for renewal in mid-2021, and hence there is additional pressure on them to retain them in the forthcoming auction. The reserve prices of different bands for the forthcoming auction as recommended by TRAI indicate that the average price per MHz per population (a common metric used for comparing spectrum prices) is around $3 for sub-GHz band and $1.70 for mid-band. These are comparable to only some of the higher winning bid prices in other countries. The right price Hence a word of caution. Higher reserve prices, though they increase spectrum prices, may leave again a swathe of spectrum blocks unsold as in the 2016 auction. This will indicate a failure of the auction. Spectrum is a perishable scarce resource. If it cannot be used, then its value is lost. When the whole country is adopting a new norm for Work from Home due to the COVID-19 crisis, it is important for the government to ensure that the spectrum put on the block is sold successfully. Hence, we recommend the following before the auction begins: A re-visit of reserve prices and lower it further, especially that of 700 MHz (even though it was re-estimated to be lower by TRAI) which is the “golden band” for covering the hinterlands of the country; Releasing more unlicensed spectrum in 2.4/5/60 GHz for proliferating Wi-Fi as a suitable complement to [the] carrier network; this will also augment the deployments of the Public Wi-Fi project which the cabinet approved recently; Provide visibility of future auctions, especially the quantum of spectrum that can be put on the block in 3.3/3.6/26/28 GHz; Now that OTT firms have been brought under regulation under the ambit of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, the government should release guidelines on how they will be regulated and what will be regulated so that the telcos and OTTs can join hands to provide superior services for the benefit of the consumers. Paul R. Milgrom and Robert B. Wilson, the Nobel Laureates this year in Economic Sciences pioneered the SMRA (partly with Preston McAfee) as a proven methodology for successful auctions. However, the methodology alone cannot guarantee a successful auction without the accompanying features mentioned above. V. Sridhar is Professor at IIIT Bangalore. Rohit Prasad is Professor at Management Development Institute. The writers acknowledge the research support by dot.econ and the IIM Ahmedabad Telecom Centre of Excellence for their work
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Lessons from Monash||One of the recommendations of the National Education Policy 2020 was to allow universities in the top 100 category of the World University Rankings to operate in India. Although this recommendation has generated a lot of discussion, one major gap is the inadequate focus on the potential role and suitability of international branch campuses (IBC) in the Indian environment. According to the Cross-Border Education Research Team (C-BERT), hosted at the State University of New York at Albany and Pennsylvania State University, an IBC is an “entity that is owned, at least in part, by a foreign higher education provider; operated in the name of the foreign education provider; and provides an entire academic program, substantially on site, leading to a degree awarded by the foreign education provider.” A general perception in India is that there is only a single model of IBC, i.e., a self-funded model in which foreign universities establish campuses on their own without any major support from the host country. However, studies show that there are various other models of IBCs such as those fully or partially funded by the host government, supported by private organisations, availing government facilities in designated hubs/zones, and functioning in collaboration with a local partner in the partner’s campus. There have been many success stories as well as failures of these models across different national contexts. India’s late mover advantage More than 300 IBCs are functioning in around 80 countries. According to data compiled by C-BERT’s Kevin Kinser and Jason E. Lane, a large number of these are operated by universities from the U.S., the U.K., Australia, France and Russia. Countries such as China, Malaysia, Qatar and Singapore host most of them. Interestingly, a few Indian private institutions also operate IBCs in countries such as Australia, Mauritius, Uzbekistan, Singapore, Nepal and Sri Lanka.  When considering the establishment of IBCs, it would be useful to review the experiences of not only the countries that have hosted them but also the top 100 universities that have ventured out of their home country to establish IBCs abroad. Such an approach would be helpful in mitigating potential risks. The lessons from the impact of Australia’s Monash University’s branch campus in South Africa from 2001 to 2019 is one such example which may prove useful. South Africa’s branch campus strategy over the past two decades has been focussed on a dual-track approach in which the IBCs were promoted in parallel with the pre-existing higher education system. The South African regulatory framework permits foreign universities to operate as private entities, legally registered as a company. Although IBCs in South Africa cannot use the ‘university’ tag, they can offer accredited degrees and diplomas. South Africa has three IBCs. Monash was the first to obtain registration in 2001 to operate an IBC in Johannesburg as ‘Monash South Africa (MSA)’. Monash is a public university, currently among the top 100 universities in the QS World University Ranking. It operates IBCs in China and Malaysia. The student population at MSA had increased to around 4,000 in 2018. While almost half of them were from South Africa, 40% of the remaining were from other African countries. According to a study by Ashley Gunter and Parvati Raghuram, Monash’s Australian main campus had invested approximately $130 million in its South Africa campus until it started operating as a joint venture with U.S.-based majority owner Laureate Education in 2013. Under this partnership agreement, Monash University sold 75% of its shares to Laureate. In 2018, Monash and Laureate jointly decided to transfer the ownership of the campus to Independent Institute of Education (IIE) South Africa, a subsidiary of the ADvTech group, a company listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. Monash South Africa is now called IIE-MSA. According to reports, the teach out process would be completed by the end of 2022. Facing up to ground realities These are some of the biggest lessons from Monash University’s South Africa experience. One, the public nature of a foreign university may not be reflected in its branch campus. Two, even a university that is among the top 100 could become a local private institution through mergers and acquisitions. Three, ensuring parity with the quality of programmes offered at the home campus would be a challenge. Four, domestic market demand influences course offerings, and there is dependence on contract academic staff. Finally, there are limitations in substituting existing institutions. The above experience illustrates the big gap between the state’s desired objectives and the actual impact on the ground. Therefore, reviewing the various delivery models existing in different national contexts may be helpful in the policy formulation process. Eldho Mathews is a researcher in higher education based in New Delhi
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Nepal in turmoil||Nepal Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli’s recommendation to dissolve Parliament, which has been duly approved by President Bidya Devi Bhandari, has pushed the young democracy into an unprecedented constitutional crisis and political turmoil. Mr. Oli, whose Nepal Communist Party with a near two-thirds majority in Parliament, took the drastic step as he came under increasing pressure from his own party to withdraw an ordinance his government issued last week. Both the opposition and other leaders within the ruling party alleged that the ordinance to amend the Constitutional Council Act would undermine the checks and balances in the system and empower the Prime Minister in making crucial appointments. Mr. Oli had reportedly agreed to withdraw the ordinance in a party meeting. But on Sunday, his Cabinet made the unexpected move to recommend a dissolution of Parliament. Elections will now be held in April-May 2021, a year ahead of schedule. Constitutional experts have challenged the legality of Mr. Oli’s decision. Nepal’s 2015 Constitution allows the dissolution of the House before its five-year term ends only if there is a hung assembly and no party manages to form a government. Since the President has cleared his recommendation, the issue will now be decided by the Supreme Court. When Mr. Oli’s Communist Party of Nepal (UML) and its alliance partners came to power in 2017 with a huge majority, many hoped that it would be a new beginning. Nepal was in a painful transition from a monarchy to a republican democracy. In less than a year, the CPN-UML and the Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist Centre), led by former Prime Minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal, merged to form the country’s largest communist force, the NCP. It was a historic opportunity for the NCP, especially for Mr. Oli, to steer the fledgling democracy out of its many crises. But the merger did not dissolve the fundamental differences between the NCP’s two factions. Mr. Oli’s authoritarian impulses and refusal to share power with the Maoist faction made matters worse. In recent months, there were calls from within the NCP for Mr. Oli to step down. When the party asked him to withdraw the amendment, it was clear that he had lost internal support. But instead of following the party line, Mr. Oli decided to sink his government. Given the seriousness of the crisis, a split cannot be ruled out. And if that happens, Nepal would be pushed back to political instability, at a time of multiple challenges, from a slowing economy to the coronavirus crisis. Mr. Oli could have gone down in history as a statesman. Instead, he has cut a sorry figure as Prime Minister, and his obsession with power risks unravelling the party he co-founded.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Virus variant||With nearly a dozen countries in Europe and elsewhere temporarily banning travel from the U.K. after a new variant of the novel coronavirus was found to be causing an increased number of new cases there, India too has followed suit — flights, with some exceptions, have been temporarily suspended from Tuesday night till December 31. On Saturday, the U.K. imposed strict restrictions in greater London and much of southeast England. The variant — VUI-202012/01 (the first ‘variant under investigation’ in December 2020) — has 23 mutations in all. Though a few of these are seen in the region of the virus that binds to the human receptor, a single mutation — N501Y — has been found to increase the binding affinity, making the variant more transmissible. On December 20, the COVID-19 Genomics UK Consortium, which identified the variant on September 20, said the variant has been “growing in frequency” since November 2020 and is “responsible for an increasing proportion of SARS-CoV-2 cases in the UK”. Based on modelling, it has been found to be 70% more transmissible but this is yet to be confirmed in lab experiments. The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control says that in a preliminary study, the variant has the potential to increase by over 0.4 the number of people a person can infect. There is no evidence as yet that it can cause any change in disease severity or increase the risk of reinfection. Though the N501Y and other mutations are found in the spike protein region of the virus, it is unlikely that the mutations would make the two COVID vaccines that have secured emergency use approval and the ones in final stages of testing less effective. This is because vaccines produce antibodies against many regions of the spike protein, and there is also the T-cell immunity that would come into play to clear the virus. However, as the virus accumulates more mutations, there is a possibility that vaccines might require minor tweaking. The emergence of the new variant underlines the compulsion to undertake surveillance following vaccination to track vaccine effectiveness and to look for the appearance of vaccine-escape mutants. SARS-CoV-2 being an RNA virus tends to have a higher mutation rate, but the presence of 23 mutations strongly suggests that the variant has not emerged through gradual accumulation of mutations. According to COG-UK, it is probably due to prolonged infection in a single patient, potentially with reduced immunocompetence. While a few cases caused by the new variant have been reported, the extent of international spread is unknown. Since far fewer SARS-CoV-2 genomes are sequenced at regular intervals in India, it is unclear if the variant is already present here. The emergence of the new variant with increased transmissibility is one more reason why non-pharmaceutical interventions should be strictly adhered to.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Humans are still core to Digital India||During the pandemic, we came to rely on various individuals to address our daily needs, even as more and more services went online. This transformation is underway in governance. During this time, eGovernments Foundation (eGov) and Aapti Institute came together to explore how digitally excluded communities engage with governance and learnt that even in ‘Digital India’, humans are significant in brokering trust between governments and citizens. These intermediaries often worked without any formal backing and role. However, this reality was not considered in the design of most e-governance programmes. Only a few States have built a cadre of individuals for last mile governance. Andhra Pradesh, for instance, rolled out a ward secretariat programme with over 16,000 ward secretaries and volunteers for delivering government services at citizens’ doorstep. Overcoming barriers Intermediaries help citizens overcome barriers to awareness (of availability of digital services and rights from the state) and ability, which includes the ability to navigate these solutions with trust. These barriers are worse for citizens who are marginalised, with the poor, women, the elderly, and caste and gender minorities being additionally disadvantaged. Intermediaries support individuals by placing complaints, directing them to the right authorities, and following up. In the words of one of the respondents, “these people help us see the government”. Intermediaries are crucial offline architectures that enable the state to do its work better. Offline intermediaries can be both political and apolitical, individuals or collectives with varying motivations to do this work. Apolitical social workers and community leaders do their work as service. Partisan political individuals see their work as constituency service to secure vote bases. Community-based organisations and NGOs see their work as allied to their core work. Our research tells us that leaning on intermediaries can unlock the capacity of the state to serve citizens. Indeed, they are a reality of everyday life for the average Indian, and incorporating this reality in design can be impactful. For instance, the study found that intermediaries struggled with indicating that they were placing a complaint for someone else, and with communicating the impact (for example, the number of houses affected by the problem). This design approach arises from the assumption that technology is for the individual. The reality is at odds with that belief. Extension of governance model Various types and forms of intermediation emerge based on regional, social, cultural and economic contexts. A ‘one size fits all’ approach will not work. It is crucial to think about leveraging the strengths of intermediaries. Equally, it is essential to pay attention to the varying incentives of intermediaries and not romanticise the benefits. We need to see intermediaries as crucial to the realisation of governance outcomes. In this sense, they are as fundamental to governance as delivery agents and drivers are to Swiggy and Uber. Seeing them as a natural extension of the governance model forces us to ask questions of how we can support them to serve citizens better. India has formalised intermediation in traditional markets (such as mutual funds) from which we can learn. In these areas, formal governance mechanisms, structured capacity building, widespread awareness campaigns, and process re-engineering enabled growth and usage. At a broader level, increasing digitisation of governance across domains including healthcare, financial inclusion, justice and social services is inevitable. We need to ensure that during this transition, we work with intermediaries to raise citizens’ awareness, build intermediaries’ skills and capabilities, and establish governance frameworks with suitable feedback loops. In doing so, we will be able to support the process of responsible, responsive and data-driven governance across domains. Sarayu Natarajan is the Founder of Aapti Institute and Gautham Ravichander is Head of Policy Initiatives at eGov Foundation
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||ISI building code||The Indian Standards Institution has brought out a national building code to unify and regulate the building regulations throughout the country for use by Government Departments, municipal bodies and other construction agencies [New Delhi, Dec. 21]. The adoption of the code which has been built on the four pillars of safety, namely structural safety, health safety, fire safety and public safety is expected to bring about not only the much-needed uniformity of construction but also the economy. The code contains regulations which can be immediately adopted or enacted for use by various departments. It lays down a set of minimum provisions designed to protect the safety of the public with regard to structural sufficiency, fire hazards and health aspects of the building. So long as these basic requirements are met, the choice of materials and methods of designs and construction is left to the architect and the engineer.
22 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Rising input costs drive four auto firms to bump up prices||Four automobile firms — Tata Motors, Mahindra & Mahindra (M&M), Isuzu Motors India and BMW Group India — on Monday announced an increase in prices of their products, passing on rising input costs to consumers. Industry analysts attributed this is to the sharp rise in prices of commodities that go into the manufacture of automobiles. “All input costs have gone up substantially. Be it steel, rubber [or] copper, all commodity prices have go up,” said Jinesh Gandhi, auto analyst, Motilal Oswal Financial Services. “The magnitude of the price hike is such that the auto companies do not have the capacity to absorb even half of it,” he added. The farm equipment sector of Mahindra & Mahindra said it would raise prices for its tractors across models effective January 1, citing the rise in commodity prices.. Tata Motors said there would be a price increase across its commercial vehicle range, effective January 1. “The steady rise in material and other input costs, impact of forex and transition to BS6 norms, have cumulatively escalated the cost of manufacturing vehicles,” it said in a statement.  Increasing by Rs. 10,000 Isuzu Motors India also announced an increase in the prices of its commercial pick-up range — D-MAX Regular Cab and D-MAX S-CAB — by approximately Rs. 10,000 with effect from January 1. BMW Group India said it would introduce the revised 2021 pricing for all BMW and MINI models effective January 4. Prices will increase by up to 2% across the portfolio, it said.
22 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Can’t stop Amazon from writing to regulators on FRL’||The Delhi High Court on Monday declined to restrain U.S.-based e-commerce major Amazon from writing to Indian statutory authorities such as the SEBI and CCI about an arbitral order against the assets sale deal between Future Retail Ltd. (FRL) and Reliance Retail. The high court said that though a prima facie case was made out by FRL for grant of interim injunction, “the balance of convenience lies both in favour of FRL and Amazon”. FRL, in its plea before the high court, had accused Amazon of interfering with its assets sale deal with Reliance by writing to various regulatory authorities about an order passed by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre on October 25, restraining FRL from taking any steps to transfer its retail assets. Amazon has 49% stake in Future Coupons Pvt. Ltd. (FCPL), which holds 9.82% in FRL. Justice Mukta Gupta opined that a combination of the shareholding agreements (SHA) of FRL and FCPL and the FCPL SSA (share subscription agreement), besides “creating protective rights in favour of Amazon for its investments, also transgress to ‘control’ over FRL requiring government approvals and in the absence thereof are contrary to FEMA FDI Rules”. Another reason for declining FRL’s plea, the high court said, was that both FRL and Amazon had already made their representations and counter representations with the statutory authorities/regulators and now it was for the latter to take a decision. FRL had stated in its plea that it was a listed company with more than three lakh shareholders and more than 25,000 employees, operating retail chains in more than 400 cities in every State of the country through digital platforms and also through about 1,534 physical stores across India. It said the pandemic had had a devastating impact on the Indian retail sector, including FRL, which is in serious economic peril. FRL’s financial condition was rapidly deteriorating with notices being received from banks, financial institutions, creditors, landlords and vendors, it added. FRL said that Reliance was acquiring the retail and wholesale business as also the logistics and warehousing business from the Future Group as going concerns on a slump sale basis for a lump sum aggregate consideration of Rs. 24,713 crore. The petition claimed the transaction would address the concerns of FRL’s creditors as Reliance would acquire not only FRL’s retail assets, but also its liabilities amounting to approximately Rs. 12,801 crore.
22 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Users want mobiles to be 5G ready: CMR study||5G readiness is one of the top three considerations amongst premium smartphone users (83%) in India, just behind battery life (84%) and smartphone brand imagery (84%), as per a study titled ‘The 5G Future Now.’ 5G has enabled explosive growth in video content creation, especially short-form videos, amongst consumers in China and Western Europe, according to the study from CMR. More than four in every five 5G smartphone users, in these geographies, are satisfied with overall 5G usage. Similar trends are expected in India, the study further showed. The research findings offer a compelling narrative around what 5G smartphones posit for the consumer and the early benefits that the users are seeing, according to CMR. “I believe that when 5G becomes available in India within the next two years, it will give a considerable thrust to the increasing trend of short-form video creation and sharing, amongst millennials,” said Prabhu Ram, head-industry intelligence group, CMR.
22 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Expedite infra projects for bidding, CII tells FM||The government must expedite the roll-out of infrastructure projects for bidding out to developers, even as it scales up capital spending allocations to pump-prime the economy, the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) suggested to Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday. “Consider bringing the projects, which are supposed to be auctioned in the next few years, to the coming year, as there are not many infrastructure projects in the pipeline ready for bidding,” the industry body pointed out, even as it made a pitch for targeting a higher fiscal deficit in 2021-22 and allocating 1% of GDP for public spending on infrastructure. The confederation’s recommendations were shared at a consultation held by the Minister with experts in the infrastructure and energy sectors, ahead of the Union Budget for 2021-22. “Government spending in infrastructure would crowd in private investments as firms win contracts and thereby initiate the process to generate demand,” the CII said. The association added that the government must notify the shelf-ready projects under the National Infrastructure Pipeline for implementation.
22 December 2020||ERODE,||Rayon fabric units shut as yarn prices surge||About 30,000 power loom units involved in producing rayon fabric stopped production for a week from Monday unable to cope with the rising prices of yarn.  These units functioning at Veerappanchatiram, Ashokapuram, Manickampalayam, Rasampalayam and Chithode were involved in purchasing rayon yarn from companies at Pallipalayam for producing and selling the fabric in north India. According to B. Kandavel, coordinator, Tamil Nadu Federation of Power Loom Association, the price of yarn that stood at Rs. 150 a kg during Diwali rose to Rs. 176 this week. He said frequent and erratic increases in yarn prices were hindering the execution of orders on account of the heavy losses they were incurring. “We incur a loss of over Rs. 5 per metre,” said Mr. Kandavel. About 24 lakh metre of rayon fabric is produced daily in the units in which over 50,000 workers are employed. The work halt would result in a production loss of Rs. 40 crore, said members of Erode Vhisaithari Urimayalargal Sangam.
22 December 2020||New Delhi,||GDP growth likely to turn positive in Q3: NCAER||Having witnessed a contraction in the first half of the current financial year, India’s GDP growth is likely to turn positive at 0.1% in the October-December quarter, economic think-tank NCAER said. The NCAER, in its mid-year review of the Indian economy, also forecast 2% growth in the fourth-quarter (January-March 2021). The overall contraction in the current fiscal is likely to be contained at 7.3%. India’s economy contracted by 23.9% in the first quarter of the current fiscal on the account of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The contraction narrowed to 7.5% in the second quarter. “The sharp recovery of GDP in Q2, the bowstring effect, was a welcome surprise. We have accordingly revised our forecast of annual contraction to (-) 7.3%. The revised growth forecasts for Q3 and Q4 are 0.1% and 2% respectively,” the NCAER said in its mid-year economic review.
22 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||NephroPlus wins $100-mn Uzbek project||Dialysis service provider NephroPlus has won a project worth about $100 million to build and operate a comprehensive dialysis programme in Uzbekistan. The firm said the project was awarded through a competitive international bidding process and expected to generate a top-line of Rs. 750-800 crore over the project term. NephroPlus and Uzbekistan’s Ministry of Health would be signing a pact for the 10- year project. NephroPlus will construct, equip, train personnel and operate four dialysis centres in Tashkent, Karakalpakstan and Khorezm region with an aim to deliver dialysis services to over 1,100 patients.
22 December 2020||COIMBATORE,||‘New e-auction system for tea from January’||The Tea Board of India plans to roll out a new electronic tea auction mechanism in Coimbatore and Coonoor next month. Executive Director of Tea Board of India, Coonoor, M. Balaji, told The Hindu that the new system was on trial for three months now and four mock sessions were held, apart from a series of training programmes. The feedback from the participants was incorporated wherever feasible. “The system will be rolled out maybe in the first week of January. Initially, it will be in Coonoor and Coimbatore,” Mr. Balaji said. “When the system stabilises, it will be rolled out pan India,” he added.
22 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre releases Rs. 6,000 crore in GST dues||The Centre on Monday released another Rs. 6,000 crore to States in lieu of their GST compensation dues, taking the total amount transferred to States to Rs. 48,000 crore so far this year. A total of Rs. 1.10 lakh crore is due to States under this plan and the Centre had been releasing these funds to States on a weekly basis since late October. “The amount released this week was the eighth instalment of such funds provided to the States. The amount has been borrowed this week at an interest rate of 4.1902%,” the Finance Ministry said in a statement on Monday.
22 December 2020||Mumbai,||Canada’s PSP, US’ DFC, Axis Bank invest USD 107 mn in NIIF’s master fund||The National Investment and Infrastructure Fund (NIIF) on Monday announced a $107 million investment into its ‘master fund’ from Canada’s PSP Investments, US International Development Finance Corporation and Axis Bank. After the new commitment, the overall size of the ‘master fund’ has touched $2.34 billion and NIIF announced the final close of the master fund.PTI
22 December 2020||Kozhikode,||Sreesanth still has the fire in him, says Tinu Yohannan||Tinu Yohannan is a happy coach. “It is indeed great to see the boys after a gap of nearly a year,” he told The Hindu over phone from Alappuzha, where Kerala's probables for the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 tournament assembled for a 10-day camp on Monday. That isn't the only reason the Kerala coach is happy about. He is glad that S. Sreesanth, on a comeback trail after serving a seven-year-ban for alleged spot-fixing, has joined the squad. “It was nice to see that he still has the fire in him,” said Tinu, who was the only player from Kerala to play Test cricket until Sreesanth came along. “He looks fit and we will be able to assess him better after we play a practice match among the probables here.” He added Sreesanth’s presence in the squad would be an inspiration to the players. “He comes to this team with an experience of 27 Tests, 53 ODIs and 10 T20Is,” he said. “He has also been part of two World-Cup winning squads.” Confident of doing well Tinu is confident that his boys would do well in the T20 tournament to be held next month. Kerala is placed in a tough group, which also includes Mumbai, Delhi, Haryana and Puducherry. The matches will be held in Chennai. “We cannot afford to take any team, even Puducherry, lightly. Anything can happen in a T20 match,” he said. He said Kerala was a pleasant mix of youth and experience. “We have established players like Sanju Samson, Robin Uthappa, Jalaj Saxena, Basil Thampi and Sreesanth, along with some promising youngsters like Rohan Kunnummal and N.P. Basil,” he said. “All the players are delighted that they could be back together on a cricket ground.” He said he had been in touch with the players during the past several months when the training was impacted by the coronavirus. “I was able to monitor their progress through the district associations,” he said. “It seems everyone has been able to maintain their fitness well.”  He looks fit and we will be able to assess him better after we play a practice match among the probables here
22 December 2020||Adelaide,||‘Rahul should replace Shaw as opener’||Legendary Indian batsman Sunil Gavaskar wants K.L. Rahul to open in place of an out-of-form Prithvi Shaw and the promising Shubman Gill to play in middle-order during the second Test against Australia at the MCG from December 26. “First, maybe Rahul should replace Prithvi Shaw as an opener. At No. 5 or No. 6, Shubman Gill should come in. His form has been good. Things can change if we start well,” said Gavaskar on the possible changes in the line-up. He did caution that if India doesn’t stay positive, a 4-0 drubbing might be on the cards. Stay positive “India have to believe that they can come back in the remainder of the Test series. If India don’t find the positivity, then a 4-0 series loss can happen. But if they have positivity, why not? It can happen (comeback),” Gavaskar said. “India should start the Melbourne Test well, it's necessary for them to step onto the ground with a lot of positivity. Australia's weak point is their batting,” he said. The Indian team management will also be keenly monitoring Ravindra Jadeja’s progress. If fit, the allrounder could walk into the playing XI in place of Hanuma Vihari. Jadeja, who suffered a concussion during the first T20I, also suffered a hamstring injury which ruled him out of the first Test. Should Jadeja be declared fit, the axe will fall on Vihari, not because of his low scores in the Adelaide Test, but purely based on the best combination that Ajinkya Rahane and Ravi Shastri can put on the field. The Indian team had a scheduled practice session at the Adelaide Oval on Monday but due to steady rain, it had to be cancelled. With skipper Virat Kohli set to leave for India on Tuesday and the squad travelling to Melbourne, the skipper apparently had a chat with his team on the way forward. Rohit in quarantine Senior batsman Rohit Sharma can start training from January 3 ahead of the Sydney Test. He is currently in quarantine in a two-room apartment in Sydney. Cricket Australia has already flown David Warner and Sean Abbott from Sydney to Melbourne due to restrictions imposed by the New South Wales government in the wake of another surge of COVD-19 cases. The BCCI, at the moment, can’t shift Rohit in the middle of the quarantine.
22 December 2020||MUMBAI,||IPL 2021 likely to remain an eight-team event||The Board of Control for Cricket in India’s (BCCI’s) Annual General Meeting (AGM) on December 24 is set to approve the addition of two new teams to the Indian Premier League, but IPL 2021 may still be an eight-team tournament, with the familiar round-robin league followed by the Playoffs. “Approval on inclusion of 2 (two) new teams to the Indian Premier League,” states one of the 23 points on the agenda of the AGM, to be held in Ahmedabad on Thursday. The Hindu understands that the proposal will be passed unanimously on the floor of the meeting, but the “office-bearers will be authorised to chalk out the nitty-gritty”. “Once the addition of the two new teams is approved in principle, the office-bearers will figure out whether it’s feasible to add two new teams right away,” revealed an insider. “At the moment, they have been advised that eight teams should be persisted with for IPL 2021. Once the market improves, the teams can be added for IPL 2022.” It is learnt that the BCCI hierarchy is all but convinced about waiting till IPL 2022 for a ten-team tournament. Considering the challenging economic situation, primarily due to the pandemic, the Board is unlikely to get the best deal either from prospective bidders or the broadcaster. Besides, the inclusion of two new teams will lead to an overhaul of all the existing teams — a logistical and tactical nightmare for the BCCI executives and IPL franchises to pull off at short notice. A couple of franchise officials confirmed that despite “not having any say in decision-making”, they have been informally told to be ready for IPL 2021 with “the same format”.  AGM set to approve the addition of two teams, but BCCI may wait till 2022 to debut new format
22 December 2020||Madrid,||Real level on points with Atletico||Karim Benzema scored the opening goal and created two others as Real Madrid won 3-1 at Eibar on Sunday to move level on points with Atletico at the top of LaLiga. Benzema and Luka Modric scored inside the first 13 minutes to put Zinedine Zidane’s men on their way to a fourth straight league win, with Lucas Vazquez scoring a late third after Garcia Kike pulled one back for Eibar. Real sits behind Atletico on goal difference, but has the better head-to-head record, which is how level teams are split at the end of the season. Diego Simeone’s Atletico has two games in hand, though. United demolishes Leeds In the Premier League, Manchester United demolished Leeds 6-2 in the first league meeting between the sides for 16 years to bolster its title aspirations. Scott McTominay and Bruno Fernandes scored twice as United’s counter-attacking threat tore apart Marcelo Bielsa’s attacking approach. Red Devils moved to third, five points behind leader Liverpool with a game in hand. The much-anticipated clash lacked the fervour of a full Old Trafford in the stands, but more than delivered on the field.  Important results:   LaLiga: Eibar 1 (Kike 28) lost to Real Madrid 3 (Benzema 6, Modric 13, Vazquez 90+2).   Premier League: Manchester United 6 (McTominay 2, 3, Fernandes 20, 70-pen, Lindelof 37, James 66) bt Leeds 2 (Cooper 41, Dallas 73); West Brom 0 lost to Aston Villa 3 (El Ghazi 5, 87-pen, Traore 84).   Serie A: Atalanta 4 (Zapata 59, Gosens 70, Muriel 72, Ilicic 85) bt Roma 1 (Dzeko 3).   Lazio 2 (Immobile 9, Alberto 56) bt Napoli 0.
22 December 2020||Chennai,||Hazlewood — simply devastating!||Richard Hadlee’s eyes swept around the charming Hagley Oval where New Zealand was gradually asserting itself over India in the second Test earlier this year. The Kiwi pace bowling legend was following the action from his seat in the pavilion, his gaze picking out little, not-so-obvious elements from the middle. Surprise pick And his mind was ticking too. He had been posed a question by The Hindu , on who he thought was the finest contemporary paceman. Hadlee’s reply was as straight as his bowling was. And his pick — Josh Hazlewood — could have surprised many. After all, there were more high-profile names around. The great Hadlee’s reasoning was simple. “I love his simplicity,” he said. Hadlee observed: “He is tall, runs in straight, good action and hits the stumps. Line and length, good pace, good variations.” The Kiwi legend added, “He makes the batsman play, he is on or around the off-stump, and moves it both ways.” The attributes Hadlee mentioned sounded simple but required a vital quality — control. To attain this, Hazlewood must have toiled countless hours at the nets. On the third day of the first Test, when he blew away much of the Indian batting with a stunning five for eight, all these elements were on view. He attained accuracy from his first delivery. He ran in smoothly, delivered from slightly wide of the stumps, hit the good length area on the off-stump — this meant the batsman had to play the delivery — and got the ball to straighten or move slightly away. His height and high-arm action fetched bounce, even from the good length area. And the edges flew thick and fast. The Indian batsmen, lacking footwork, were caught at the crease but Hazlewood’s length was such that they were in two minds — whether to play forward or back. By then, the pacey deliveries had found the nick. Complete bowler The 29-year-old Hazlewood is a complete bowler; he swings and seams it both ways, has accuracy and speed, and can hustle batsmen with short-pitched stuff. Not surprisingly another man who keeps it simple, the formidable former Aussie pace predator Glenn McGrath said: “Hazlewood reminds me of myself. He bowls a mean off-stump line, doesn’t give away anything, builds pressure, can bowl in partnerships.” Hazlewood keeps it simple with laser-guided precision. And the results are devastating.  He makes the batsman play, he is on or around the off-stump, and moves it both ways Hadlee
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Williams’ super strike seals it for ATKMB||David Williams shrugged off his indifferent form this season with a peach of a goal to give ATK Mohun Bagan (ATKMB) a 1-0 win over Bengaluru FC (BFC) at the Fatorda Stadium in Goa on Monday. The Australian’s decisive strike came just after the after the half-hour mark when he expertly controlled defensive midfielder Carl McHugh’s long ball before cutting in and creaming one into the top-right corner from just outside the penalty box. It was Williams’ eighth ISL goal – four of which have come against BFC – and the first ATKMB has scored in the opening 45 minutes this campaign. The Kolkata side is now joint-top with Mumbai City FC on 16 points from seven games, while BFC, after its first defeat, remain third on 12 points. But for Williams’ wonder-strike, it was game of half-chances. BFC’s attempts in the opening period came via a Erik Paartalu header off a long ball from custodian Gurpreet Sandhu and a Sunil Chhetri left-footer from distance. At the other end, Gurpreet was called into action twice, saving a weak shot from Manvir Singh before intercepting a squared ball from the right wing. ATKMB’s high press continued to unsettle BFC in the second half. Manvir’s was a lively presence, with his acceleration from the right flank no match for Rahul Bheke. On 51 minutes, Williams came close again, with the ball missing the bar by inches after Roy Krishna teed him up for a fierce long-ranger. BFC did manage to disrupt ATKMB’s attacking patterns but showed very little enterprise of its own. Young Suresh Wangjam, whose drive and pace from midfield has propelled BFC for much of this season, started on the bench and his side sorely missed him. After being introduced at the break, he almost provided an assist but Cleiton Silva sent his cut-back wide from close range on 73 minutes. ATKMB then bolted the door and there was little BFC could do to break it open.  The result:   ATK Mohun Bagan 1 (Williams 33) bt Bengaluru FC 0.   Tuesday’s match: Odisha FC vs NEUFC, 7.30 p.m .
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Ahamed declared champion||TVS Racing’s K.Y. Ahamed from Chennai was declared the rider champion in the premier Pro-Stock 301-400cc category of the MRF MMSC FMSCI Indian National Motorcycle Racing Championship (INMRC) 2020. The result was withheld on Sunday due to a protest questioning the legality of a part (radiator) used in Ahamed’s motorcycle. The Race Direction, following the scrutiny of the vehicle, turned down the protest, declaring the part (radiator) legal and that the modification was in line with prescribed technical regulations. Ahamed finished with a tally of 121 points in the championship, five ahead of Bengaluru’s Anish Damodar Shetty (Race Concepts).  The 2020 National champions:   Pro-Stock 301-400cc: Rider: K.Y. Ahamed (Chennai, TVS Racing). Team: TVS Racing. Manufacturer: TVS.   Pro-Stock 165cc Open: Rider: Jagan Kumar (Chennai, TVS Racing). Team: TVS Racing. Manufacturer: TVS. Novice (Stock 165cc): Rider: Mohan Babu (Chennai, Privateer). Team: Sparks Racing. Manufacturer: Yamaha Girls (Stock 165cc): Rider: Anne Jennifer (Chennai, Sparks Racing). Team: Gusto Racing. Manufacturer: Yamaha.   One-make Championship: TVS Open: Abhishek Vasudev (Bengaluru); Novice: Navaneeth Kumar (Puducherry); Girls: Jagruti Kiran Penkar (Kalyan); Media: Zaran Mody.   Idemitsu Honda India Talent Cup: Open (NSF 250R): Sarthak Chavan (Pune); Novice (CBR 150R): Shyam Sundar (Chennai) .
22 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||India Open to be the last Olympic-qualifying event||The twice-cancelled $400,000 India Open will be held here from May 11 to 16, 2021, and will be the final Olympic-qualifying event. As per the tournament-schedule released by the Badminton World Federation on Monday, points earned from 17 tournaments — commencing with the Swiss Open (March 2-7) and culminating with the India Open — will help players stake claim for a berth in the Tokyo Olympics. The All England Open (March 17-21) and Malaysia Masters (April 6-11) will, however, not be part of the Olympic qualifying cycle, popularly known as the ‘Race to Tokyo’. Olympic qualification will be based on the ‘Race to Tokyo’ rankings published on May 18. These will also be used to determine Olympics seedings. Meanwhile, an Indian team comprising P.V. Sindhu, Saina Nehwal, B. Sai Praneeth, K. Srikanth, Satwiksairaj Rankireddy, Chirag Shetty, Ashwini Ponnappa and N. Sikki Reddy will travel to Bangkok for back-to-back million-dollar Thailand Opens, from January 12-17 and January 19-24. Though the BWF World Tour Finals will follow from January 27-31, the chance of an Indian participant looks remote. Only Srikanth, placed eighth in the BWF World Tour rankings, has some chance to cement his place in the eight-player draw. Defending champion Sindhu is ranked 22nd — five behind Saina Nehwal — and looks unlikely to make the cut. Till last season, the defending champion enjoyed an automatic entry into the next edition of the Finals. However, in October, a change in BWF regulations forced Sindhu to search for World Tour points, in order to be among the top-eight ranked players.
22 December 2020||Chennai,||Rahil decides to retire from State cricket||A steady left-arm spinner who can run through line-ups on pitches offering turn, Rahil Shah has retired from State cricket in all formats. A dependable bowler for Tamil Nadu, the 35-year-old Rahil finished with 112 wickets in 33 First Class games at 26.04. The accuracy in his bowling meant he was effective in the shorter formats as well. Rahil, who played for Uttarakhand last season said: “It was a tough decision. But as the eldest son, I need to look after my family after the passing away of my father. We have our business.” However, Rahil will continue to play for India Cements in the TNCA first division league and also take part in the TNPL. Looking back at his career, Rahil rated his seven-wicket innings haul against Mumbai in the Ranji Trophy game at Chepauk as his most memorable performance. He added, “I also remember turning up for Board President’s XI against the touring Australians at the M.A. Chidambaram Stadium in 2016-17. Efficient Rahil was a quiet, efficient performer. On turning tracks, this spinner was a winner.  Rahil finished with 112 wickets in 33 First Class games at 26.04
22 December 2020||Naples (USA),||Ramkumar wins title||Ramkumar Ramanathan continued to have a fruitful time at his training base in Florida, as he won the $25,000 UTR Pro tennis event here. Ramkumar defeated Cristian Rodriguez Sanchez of Mexico 6-2, 6-0 in the final to emerge victorious in his third successive tournament in the circuit. In six matches, Ramkumar dropped one set, to Alexander Bernard. He beat compatriot Aditya Vashistha, a student in New York, in the quarterfinals. Ramkumar has been training at the Sanchez Casal Academy in Florida after completing his schedule in the professional circuit.   The results:   Final: Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Cristian Rodriguez Sanchez (Ita) 6-2, 6-0.   Semifinals: Ramkumar bt Dusty Boyer (USA) 6-3, 6-4; Quarterfinals: Ramkumar bt Aditya Vashistha 6-1, 6-2.   League: Ramkumar bt Logan Zapp (USA) 6-1, 6-2; bt Gabrielius Guzauskas 6-3, 6-2; bt Alexander Bernard 7-6(4), 3-6, 6-1 .
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Meaningful quest||As individual life time is brief and the things to be learnt inexhaustible, scriptures reiterate that one should be selective in choosing to learn only what is really worthwhile and meaningful. Just as the swan sifts the milk from water, and the bees target only the honey from flowers, the wise seek what is most beneficial, the highest truth, pointed out Asuri Sri Madhavachariar in a discourse. There are sastras that oppose the Vedas and these have to be ignored. Again, the Karma Kanda section in the Vedas dealing with yagas and yagnas as means for the accomplishment of worldly desires or for attainment of swarga loka, etc, can be ignored. These are impermanent and short lived. But sastras also say that for a jivatma, to be aware of God and to worship Him is a grace that is derived from one’s past good deeds or samskaras. Each one’s desire and outlook of life is under the influence of inbuilt impressions or vasanas in association with the gunas and the impact of individual karma. Prompted by these forces, the jivatma seeks the help of God or other divinities as shown in the scriptures. In the Gita, the Lord classifies the jivatmas who propitiate Him on the basis of their desires, worldly and spiritual. Some seek him for wealth, some for relief from the sufferings of samsara, some wish to attain jnana while only a very few desire moksha. Even when some seek other deities with faith for fulfilment of their specific desires, the Lord who is the indweller and prime force in those deities grants their desires. The Lord says He grants even such prayers that seek only fleeting joy and satisfaction only to strengthen the jivatma’s faith in sastras. Perhaps with time the jivatma would realise the worthlessness of worldly goals and seek the highest Purushartha, moksha, which He alone can grant.
22 December 2020||KOLKATA,||Tennis action resumes||Farid Alam, Simon Chakraborty, Arya Bhattacharya and Anant Arora qualified for the men’s main draw of the Calcutta hard court tennis tournament at the Calcutta South Club here on Monday. Reigning champion Abhinansu Borthakur and India No. 16 Yubarani Banerjee will vie for honours in their respective categories. The tournament marks the resumption of tennis in the State after eight months. Competitions are being conducted in only six events, instead of the usual 18, due to the pandemic.
22 December 2020||Lausanne,||Indian men will end 2020 in fourth place||The Indian men’s and women’s hockey teams will finish 2020 in fourth and ninth positions, respectively, after a major part of the year was disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The International Hockey Federation (FIH) on Monday confirmed that the Belgium men’s team and the Netherlands’ women will finish the year at the top of the world rankings. In January, the world body introduced its new match-based model for calculation of world rankings, with the FIH Hockey Pro League matches that were played in early part of the year seeing regular fluctuations in standings before the outbreak of the global health crisis brought all sporting activities to a grinding halt in March. According to a statement issued by the FIH, the “brief but wonderful return” of the competition between September and November saw further exchanges of points between the men’s and women’s national teams of Belgium, Germany, Netherlands and Great Britain. Belgium men on top In the men’s FIH world rankings, reigning world and European champion Belgium (2496.88 points) sits at the top, ahead of 2019 FIH Hockey Pro League winner Australia (2385.70), the Netherlands (2257.96) and India (2063.78). Olympic champion Argentina (1967.39) is in fifth, followed by Germany (1944.34), England (1743.77), New Zealand (1575.00), Spain (1559.32) and Canada (1417.37). Among women, the Netherlands (2631.99 points) is at the top followed by Argentina (2174.61). Germany (2054.28) occupies the third spot, climbing up a place following its FIH Hockey Pro League result against Belgium in September. Australia (2012.89) will finish the year in fourth, with England (1952.74) and New Zealand (1818.98) occupying fifth and sixth spots respectively. Spain (1802.13), Ireland (1583.09), India (1543.00) and China (1521.00) complete the top-10 list. Dynamic system The FIH moved away from the previous tournament-based rankings system to a dynamic, match-based method where opposing teams exchange points in official, FIH sanctioned games. The number of points exchanged depends on the result of the match, the relative ranking of the teams and the importance of the match.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Platinum the best||Platinum CC cruised past BLD by seven wickets in the final of the SSCA Cup recently.  The scores (final): BLD 80 in 17.2 overs (Sanjay 27, S. Chandran 3/11, Prabhaker 3/17) lost to Platinum CC 81/3 in 16.4 overs (Gowravsharma 45 n.o.).   Special awards: Best batsman: D. Balasubramaiam (203 runs, Peppy Inns CC); Best bowler: P. Rocky (9 wickets, Platinum); Man-of-the-final: Gowravsharma (Platinum); Man-of-the-series: Prasad (200 runs and 5 wickets, Aces 11) .    South Madras Cricket Academy will conduct the SMCA Champions Trophy from the first week of January. The tournament is open to corporates, institutions and private clubs. Entries close on Dec. 27. For details, contact 98843 02787 / 22231215.   The Aram T30 under-14 inter-academy league cricket tournament will begin on December 28 at Kabilan Grounds, Perumbakkam. For details, call Raju at 98402 91022.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Haryana CA takes title||Haryana Cricket Academy (HCA) retained the 30th all-India Om Nath Sood ctitle after stopping Lal Bahadur Shastri Club by four runs in an exciting finish. After Sumeet Verma (107) and Devender Lohchab helped HCA reach 232 for six in 40 overs, Tejas Dahiya smashed a 24-ball 64 to almost pull off a dream win for Shastri Club, but was out off the last ball of the match.  The scores: HCA 232/6 in 40 overs (Sumeet Verma 107, Devender Lohchab 65, Vikas Dixit 3/24) bt L.B. Shastri Club 228/9 in 40 overs (Tejas Dahiya 64, Priyansh Arya 39, Sumit Chikara 38) .    Karan Sharma (101), Ravi Thakur (91) and Harshit Sethi (5/16) set up Noida Wonder’s 38-run victory over Swami Shradhanand College in the first Choudhary Shyam Singh memorial tournament.  The scores: Noida Wonder 233/5 in 20 overs (Karan Sharma 101, Ravi Thakur 91) bt Swami Shradhananad College 195 in 18.3 overs (Anuj Rawat 44, Arjunn Rapria 41, Ankush Vains 38, Harshit Sethi 5/16, Ayush Jemwal 4/34) .    Mohammad Taif (56 n.o.) and Aryan Vashisht (3/18) helped Sonnet Club beat host Bal Bhawan School, Dwarka, by 86 runs in the Bal Bhawan (u-15) Premier League.  The scores: Sonnet Club 151 in 39.5 overs (Mohd. Taif 56 n.o.) bt Bal Bhawan 65 in 22.3 overs (Aryan Vashisht 3/18) .    Saksham Negi (104) and Amir Khan (3/24) were the stars of Telefunken Club’s 232-run triumph over GRM Academy in the Airliner Winter Cup tournament.  The scores: Telefunken Club 305/5 in 40 overs (Saksham Negi 104, Chinmay Vashisht 91) bt GRM Academy 73 in 22 overs (Amir Khan 3/24) .    Zihaan Rawal (6/7) wrecked Cricket Academy of Prasad and helped Maulana Azad score an eight-wicket win in B. R. Sharma tournament.  The scores: Cricket Academy Of Prasad 48 in 17.4 overs (Zihaan Rawal 6/7) lost to Maulana Azad Club 52/2 in 9.2 overs .    Unbeaten centuries from Adarsh Srivastava and Vaibhav Sharma laid the foundation of Golden Hawks’ 210-run triumph over G. K. Club in the first Tripathi Premier League.  The scores: Golden Hawks 276/5 in 35 overs (Adarsh Srivastava 119 n.o., Vaibhav Sharma 117 n.o.) bt GK Club 66 in 24 overs (Milind Tandon 4/25) .    Sanskar Bhati (121) and Harshit Tyagi (53) scripted Sunshine Academy’s 60-run win over R.P. Academy in the Raghav memorial tournament.  The scores: Sunshine Academy 220/2 in 30 overs (Sanskar Bhati 121, Harshit Tyagi 53) bt R. P. Academy 160/5 in 30 overs (Rahul Sharma 34, Manish Kumar 32) .
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Uthappa does it for Vijaya||Robin Uthappa’s99 was the highlight of Vijaya CC’s 128-run win over Dooravani Cricketers (1) in the KSCA T20 Super League.  The scores: Vijaya 221/2 in 20 overs (Robin Uthappa 99, Sri Krishna 51, S. Shivaraj 63 n.o.) bt Dooravani Cricketers (1) 93/7 in 20 overs (Goutham Reddy 48).   Jawahar SC (2) 138/5 in 20 overs (Pareexith Okkunda 28, Rohith Sundar 30, S. Chaitanya 36 n.o.) lost to Vultures 139/5 in 19.5 overs (K.L. Shrijith 57, Pavan Deshpande 34 n.o., Anirudh Rao 3/21).   Jawans 141/9 in 20 overs (Nishith Raj 52) lost to The B–angalore Cricketers 142/2 in 19.1 overs (Aryan Srivastav 44, R. Akshay 65 n.o.).   Sir Syed Cricketers 128/6 in 20 overs (B.A. Mohith 56 n.o.) bt Jupiter CA 90 in 16.5 overs (Kranthi Kumar 4/10).   Jawahar SC (1) 145/9 in 20 overs (A.P. Aslam 34, Kishore 3/13) bt Chintamani SA 79 in 14.5 overs (Shimon Luiz 3/21, B.M. Shreyas 4/16).   Cambridge 124 in 19.5 overs (Mohammed Taha 45, Mohammed Jawad 46, V. Vyshak 3/23, Shreesha Achar 4/11) lost to Social Cricketers 125/4 in 18 overs (V. Vyshak 48 n.o., Prithviraj 32 n.o., Adithyan 3/24).   BUCC (1) 133/9 in 20 overs (Sharath Srinivas 46, Samarth Srinivas 31, Abhilash 3/22) lost to Swastic Union (1) 134/5 in 19.3 overs (Shreyas Gopal 42, Pranav Bhatia 3/18).   FUCC (1) 133/7 in 20 overs (B.U. Shivakumar 41, Mithun Bhat 29, K. Shashindra 25) lost to Mount Joy 134/9 in 20 overs (Sharan Gouda 30, Arun Monnappa 53, Anil 3/33, Rishi Bopanna 3/27).
22 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram:,||O.T. Anilkumar wins title||O.T. Anilkumar (Kozhikode) won the A. Sasidharan Memorial online Chess tournament organised by Chess Kerala here on Monday. Anil Kumar logged 8.5 points in the nine-round tournament. John Veny Akkarakkaran (7.5 points) and M.C. Sujithkar (7.5) came second and third.  The final standings:   1. O.T. Anilkumar (8.5 points), 2. John Veny Akkarakkaran (7.5), 3. M.C. Sujithkar (7.5), 4. Adhithya Pradeep (7.5), 5. P.V. Gireesh (7).   6. Jinan Jomon (7), 7. Niranjan J. Warrier (7), 8. Vaibav Kalpaka (7), 9. K.A. Unas (7), 10. V.N. Raghuraj (7).      The Ernakulam district table tennis championships will be held at the Island Club, Narakkal, on December 26 and 27. The championships is being organised by Table Tennis Association of Kerala (TTAK). Interested players should register their names before December 24. Competitions will be held in singles events only in cadet, sub-junior, junior, youth, men and women categories. For more information, contact Glodyson Correa (ph: 94474 00250 email glodyson@gmail.com).
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Anirudh Singh named Hyderabad coach||Hyderabad Cricket Association Apex Council has appointed former Ranji opener Anirudh Singh as the chief coach of the Hyderabad team that will take part in the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy T20 cricket championship to be held from January 10. Zakir Hussain, another former Hyderabad Ranji cricketer, will be Anirudh’s deputy while former Ranji opener Shashank Nag is the fielding coach.. The 40-year-old Anirudh played for Hyderabad in 47 First Class games scoring 2490 runs with 13 fifties and three centuries between 2001-10. And 55-year-old Zakir played 24 First Class games scoring 1608 runs with six centuries and four fifties between 1988 and 2005. “This is only an ad hoc arrangement only for the Mushtaq Ali Trophy. A decision regarding naming a full-time coach will be taken later on,” a source in the HCA told The Hindu . A T20 selection panel comprising J. Shivaji Yadav, Ahmed Quadri and Abhinav Kumar was also named on an ad hoc basis. According to the HCA Constitution, it is the General Body which has to nominate a full-fledged Cricket Advisory Committee which in turn will have to name the selection panels for various grades, including the Ranji Trophy and the support staff. However, in the wake of pandemic restrictions, HCA is not able to convene the AGM which was originally scheduled for this month end, but put off with the police directing both the president and the secretary to submit a joint request to host the same.   G-9 won the under-22 title in the FIBA 3x3 basketball tournament defeating NPA Basketball Club 18-16 in the final on Monday. In the u-16 category, Grizzlies and Future Kids School emerged winners in the boys’ and girls’ sections respectively. Peter Santosh Divakar, FIBA referee and chairman Technical Commission, Telangana Basketball Association, and S. Hanumanth Rao, joint secretary, Telangana Basketball Association, distributed the prizes.  The results (finals):   Men: U-22: G-9 bt NPA Basketball Club 18-16. Boys: U-16: Grizzlies bt AVR 1209.   Girls: U-16: The Future Kids School bt St. Joseph’s Public School 13-10 .
22 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Friday’s races advanced to Thursday||The Stewards of the Madras Race Club have advanced the eighth day’s races scheduled to be held on Friday (Dec. 25) to Thursday (Dec. 24) due to administrative reasons.
22 December 2020||BENGALURU,||Races advanced||The stewards of the Bangalore Turf Club have decided to advance the ninth day (Saturday) December 26 races to (Friday) December 25, 2020.
22 December 2020||ISLAMABAD,||Babar, Imam to miss first Test||Pakistan’s all-format captain Babar Azam and opening batsman Imam-ul-Haq have been ruled out of the first Test against New Zealand with thumb injuries. Pakistan has named uncapped 24-year-old batsman Imran Butt in its 15-member squad for the first Test beginning at Mount Maunganui on December 26.AP
22 December 2020||LONDON,||England hires Kallis as batting consultant for SL tour||South African legend Jacques Kallis will be the batting consultant for England during its tour of Sri Lanka, the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) announced on Monday. The 45-year-old is third on the all-time list of Test run-scorers with 13,289. He also claimed 292 wickets. Kallis coached Kolkata Knight Riders in the IPL and worked with the South Africa team, but was not part of the set-up for England’s recent coronavirus-disrupted tour.AFP
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 09:27 IST,||Sudoku - December 22, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Uncovering reality||Kannada filmmaker Indrajit Lankesh’s upcoming film, a biopic on actor Shakeela bearing the same name, is having a theatrical release on December 25 in five languages, including Tamil. Starring Richa Chadha in the titular role, alongside Pankaj Tripathi, the film tracks the rise and fall of an actor who gained the status of a controversial personality for appearing in ‘B-grade’ films, before she made the transition to mainstream cinema by playing bit part character roles. Edited excerpts from an interview with Indrajit Lankesh: Shakeela’s is a controversial subject to make a biopic out of... There were a lot of raised eyebrows when I announced I was making a film on Shakeela. People asked me ‘Why her? Why [a film] on an adult star?’. However, when I interacted with Shakeela before and during filming, I could see the pain in her. Even after acting in 250-odd films, she lives in the same one room house in a dingy neighbourhood of Chennai. What interested me was this girl, entering cinema as she did from a poor, minority background, walking into the male-dominated Malayalam film industry during the ‘90s and making adult films the trend of the time... her films were dubbed in Sinhalese, Mandarin and other foreign languages. She had a rags to riches and back to rags story. For any filmmaker, that is interesting. I wanted to know what really happened. What part of the story do you think will resonate with the audience?  Most people coming up in life, especially women, would connect to the part of their life where they were harassed... at workplaces... you know, when they are a little successful and they are cornered or pushed in the business. That is the story I have said in the film. There are comparisons being drawn to The Dirty Picture ...  Both films are based on actors’ lives. The similarity may be the inclusion of ‘picture-in-picture’ scenes because films are an integral part of both subjects’ lives. The Dirty Picture is a hit film; I loved it and Vidya Balan deserved the National Award for her performance. But there were a few cinematic liberties applied. In Shakeela , I have not taken much liberty and tried to stick to her life story as much as possible. Did you draw from Shakeela’s autobiography for the film’s screenplay?  No, I did not. It was easier because Shakeela is active and she provided a lot of information about herself. I have watched her films as part of my research and I recorded interviews with her on camera for my material. She is someone who talks without filters about her personal life, successes and failures. So that helped me a lot. The challenge was deciding what information to take and what not to. I have given space for audience imagination, but at the same time I have tried not to hurt anybody else. You have two powerhouse performers in Richa Chadha and Pankaj Tripathi in the cast...  I made it a point to not cast a lookalike while searching for the main character. Because lookalike will only work for the first 10 minutes, the remaining two hours is about performance. Richa is an educated actor, she never goes over the top and understands the nuances of her character sketch. As a director, I felt she has a lot of layers to her acting, and she has done justice to the role. With Pankaj, I’m a huge fan. I have heard him say in a few interviews that he wanted the role of a Superstar, and now he gets to play one in my film (smiles).
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Straight outta Dharavi||Never had Tony Sebastian imagined himself rapping his way out of a Mumbai police station. But that’s what life had planned for him, back in 2013. “I was coming back from a performance and the cops picked me and my friend up because of our appearance. To prove that I’m an artiste, I had to rap in front of the cops at the thana (police station),” he recalls. Tony, aka Stony Psycho of the Dharavi rap crew Dopeadelicz, revisualises this experience in his song, ‘Ai shapath saheb me navto’, a catchy rage rap number against police bullying. The song, released as a single, has crossed 11 million views to become one of the most liked songs of the crew’s upcoming album, Mapulz . Releasing on December 27, Mapulz (from the Tamil slang, ‘Mapul’, meaning homie) is a 10-track album, of which four singles are already out. The tracks have been worked on by a host of producers, from California-based Sean Jean to Mumbai’s Captain Fuse. The crew has been going experimental with the tracks. ‘Daddy’s Daughter’ by Rajesh Radhakrishnan aka Dope Daddy, the other arm of Dopeadelicz, is a softer melodic piece dedicated to his six-year-old daughter. “People generally have a stereotypical gangsta image of hip hop; I want to change that,” says Rajesh. Meanwhile, ‘Wake Up’, shot in Chennai and Mamallapuram, opens with a sample of ‘Suprabhatam’. “We always try to keep an Indian element to our music, whether it be using instruments like the sitar, veena, or shehnai, or Bollywood and Kollywood samples. And still, at the end of it, it has to sound international,” says Tony. Origins of multilingual rap Giving their music a unique, cross-cultural, pan Indian sound has been possible because of the crew’s diverse backgrounds. Though Tony belongs to a village near Tirunelveli, he grew up in Dharavi. “My father came to Dharavi looking for better work, and we settled here. Dharavi is a big place with a lot of Tamil population. I met Rajesh in college; he’s part Malayali. We shared the same interest in hip hop and music,” says Tony. Between the two of them, they were fluent in Hindi, English, Marathi, Tamil and Malayalam. A collaboration between them and Agnel Avinash Benson, aka Ben Z, led to the creation of this genre of multilingual rap in 2012. The crew often raps about what it was like growing up in Dharavi, coupled with their own personal South Indian culture. “My roots are down South, so I can’t forget my identity. But at the same time, I also want to connect with the people around me who speak Marathi and Hindi. Though I’m most comfortable writing verses in Tamil, I choose the language according to the issue we are talking about, and whom we want to reach,” adds Tony. The song ‘Mumbai City’ from Mapulz is Rajesh’s Tamil rap love letter to the city and its grind life. In a detailed blog for Red Bull, Karan Amin, the crew’s manager, writes about the different spots in the city which saw the crew evolve: from railway tracks and tea shops on 60 Feet Road, where they would sit and write, to the ‘Dope Compound’, an area near Tony’s house, home to multiple cyphers. “Earlier on, police would come by to chase us away from here, but our ‘Gangsta Grannies’ always had our back. They would drive the police away so we could chill here,” writes Karan. “We knew our music was serious business when I got a call from [composer] Ram Sampath in 2015 to appear on Coke Studio, for ‘Rangabati’,” says Tony. As recognition snowballed, Dopeadelicz eventually worked with the film industry as well, most notably for Rajinikanth’s Kaala and Zoya Akhtar’s Gully Boy . Paying it forward Wanting to give back to the hip hop scene, the crew founded ‘Dharavi United’, a group with 7Bantaiz and Enimiez. “We started mentoring the new generation of rappers on how to produce tracks, shoot music videos, and market themselves. We are more like brothers than crewmates,” he says. Wherever Dopeadelicz would perform, they would make sure Dharavi United got some stage space as well. The group also contributed to Mapulz ’ final multilingual track, Cypher. They are now working on another album, ‘Straight Outta Dharavi’, in an ode to Crompton, California. This collaboration with the new school rappers extends to Tamil Nadu as well. “We are working together on some tracks right now. So in 2021, you will see a major Mumbai-Chennai collab between OG hip hoppers from both cities,” says Tony.
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Defying all odds||Anna Katharina Valayil is on fire. The indie singer-lyricist-composer has defied all stereotypes in her new single, ‘Flames’. “It is about a woman who knows what she wants and is unabashed about her physicality. She is on the dance floor, burning with passion, asking her man to join her. She doesn’t want him to feel embarrassed about people’s reactions. They are in love and she is calling out to him to give into the moment they will cherish and experience for a long time,” says Anna. The song, an electro/retro pop number, in Anna’s voice has a groovy feel to it with her ‘uber glamorous’ look adding to the its flavour. The musician, who got her big break in the music industry with the number ‘Appangal embadum’ from Ustad Hotel , showcases her ethnicity, mood and style in three get-ups, one of which reminds you of the slinky, shimmering, cabaret costumes of yesteryear heroines. “These women were ahead of their time with their beauty and attitude. I am a body positive person. I pay a lot of attention to style, I love fashion and enjoy dressing up for myself. It is my sister, Becky Valayil, who takes care of the styling,” she says. Anna admits that she was a bundle of nerves prior to the release of the video. “I was like ‘Have I gone too far?’ All it took to allay my fears was my husband who told me that was a lovely video. Sometimes, it needs just that one person to believe in you. He has always pushed the artiste in me. In fact, there is a small reflection of how he sees me in the song!” she adds. It is the second song from her album, Tribemama Marykali , which is also the moniker for her artistic side. “I read a quote that said: ‘Your vibe attracts your tribe’. Most musicians on the streets see God as a vibe. I am a spiritual person and I know that music brings people together. So I decided to be a Tribemama, a mama who brings people together with her music. I am also a mother [to two girls],” she explains. Both videos were directed by her manager, Nikhil Vijayan, and shot at her apartment in Kottayam during lockdown. Indie music scene is on a revival mode and Anna adds that she has always rooted for the original, irrespective of language. She has been writing and composing songs in Malayalam and English. “When you do covers, you are putting so much effort and time into something that has already been done. The excuse being, ‘that is what the people want’. But that is a safe game. Instead, if all of us create something new and give that piece of ourselves to people they will definitely take it.” Anna is enthused about how many musicians from Kerala are coming forward with original productions. “The day after I released ‘Flames’, Sooraj Santhosh came out with ‘Banarasiya’, which had a totally different flavour. Then, we had a hip hop festival recently. It’s all happening in Kerala and I feel proud of that,” she adds.  Fact file Brought up in Nigeria till her fifth grade, Anna was exposed to different genres of music from childhood, thanks to her father. She loved listening to Bob Marley, Peter Tosh, Fela Kuti and the like. Madonna and Beyonce have also influenced her. After finishing her schooling and graduation in Kerala, she did her post graduation in media studies from Australia where she also trained to be a private pilot. She sang jingles before getting the break in movies. She has sung in Ee Adutha Kalathu , Ustad Hotel, ABCD, 5 Sundarikal, Laila O Laila and Charlie . She has also written the lyrics for films such as ABCD (‘Johny mone’), Bangalore Days ( ‘Ente kannil’ and ‘I want to fly’) and Laila O Laila .
22 December 2020||December 22 2020 00:00 IST,||Playtime with the lion-tailed macaque||Around 5,000 children living close to the Western Ghats in Karnataka have a new book to read and learn from. The picture-story book Will You Play With Me? featuring endangered wild animals of the Western Ghats has been created solely to distibute among children of the region to create understanding and empathy towards animals. The bilingual book (in Kannada and English) came together when Krithi K Karanth, chief conservation scientist and director of the Centre for Wildlife Studies, and Raghava KK, an artist, received grants from National Geographic to create a book on the endangered wildlife species in the Western Ghats. They collaborated with Kokaachi, an independent storytelling studio based in Kochi, to bring out the book. The interactive book contains pull-out masks of lion-tailed macaque, elephant, and tiger, says Tina Thomas, co-founder of Kokaachi. Other animals featuredare dholes, gliding frogs, langurs, gaur and hornbills. The story by Netra Srikanth was adapted by Tina, which was then translated to Kannada by K Ullas Karanth, a conservation zoologist. The animals are illustrated by Raghava and the scenery, typography and publication design are by illustrator Prabha Mallya. The book is shaped like an accordion, which will make it interesting to the students, observes Tina. “We created a storyline around these animals and when the children pull the masks out, a second story is revealed. The masks enable the children to take on the persona of the animals,” says Tina. “Though the children live close to the Western Ghats, not many are aware of species endemic to the region. The book would serve to pique their interest in them,” says Tina. Which is why the first edition, published by Kokaachi, was distributed for free to 5,000 children. The second edition has gone to print. The creators plan on including other languages such as Malayalam, Tamil and Marathi to benefit more children.
22 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Gehlot asks Centre to give free vaccine to all||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Monday urged the NDA government at the Centre to make an “explicit announcement” that the COVID-19 vaccine will be given free of cost to all the citizens. The Centre’s proclamation would remove misgivings about the vaccine’s availability and price, and build confidence among the public, he said. Mr. Gehlot said large sections of population in the country were unable to pay the price of the vaccine because of serious financial impact of the epidemic. “Each citizen should get free vaccine... Like all other vaccinations, this too should be universal and free,” he said at a meeting held here to review the COVID-19 situation in the State. While asking the officials to make robust preparations for vaccination, Mr. Gehlot said the frontline warriors in the medical sector and essential services should get priority. With the micro-planning, the government would focus on making Rajasthan a model State in vaccine management on the lines of its effective COVID-19 management, he said. The Chief Minister called upon the people to celebrate New Year’s eve at home and avoid bursting firecrackers and mass gatherings in view of the pandemic. He said the State government had decided to impose Diwali-like restrictions for the New Year and strictly implement the COVID-19 guidelines issued by the Supreme Court for all the States.  ‘Celebrate inside homes’ “The public health is of paramount importance. People should celebrate New Year with their families inside their homes,” Mr. Gehlot said. He also gave instructions to the officials to identify as many vaccination centres as possible and ensure proper coordination till the block level.
22 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||‘Haryana farmers’ participation in protest rising’||The participation of Haryana farmers has been growing in the ongoing agitation against the agricultural laws, but they are contributing more in terms of supplying food and other essential items to the protesters, according to former Union Steel Minister and senior BJP leader Chaudhary Birender Singh. Last week, he had come out in support of the farmers agitation by holding a sit-in at Haryana’s Jhajjar district. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Singh said Punjab was among the top three States in terms of individual land holdings, farmers were resourceful and had a high level of awareness and were thus taking the lead in the ongoing farmers’ agitation. “But the participation of Haryana people has also been growing. On account of Haryana’s proximity to Delhi, the farmers in the State are participating in a different way in the agitation and providing food, milk, vegetables and lodgings to the protesters. Besides, sit-ins are also being held in the State,” said the 74-year-old leader. Strong resentment He claimed that there was strong resentment among the farmers in the State and they felt that their existence was at stake. “The farmers of Haryana and Punjab have benefited a lot from the Minimum Support Price scheme. Farmers deep inside feel that these legislations could end it. And they seem determined to not let this happen.” The resentment among the farmers was bound to have short-term and long-term political repercussions, if an amicable solution was not found. “People may still be less angry with the Bharatiya Janata Party in Haryana, but they are more angry with the Jannayak Janta Party, which claims to be a farmers’ party exclusively,” quipped Mr. Singh. Holding sit-ins at district headquarters across the State under the aegis of “Chhotu Ram Vichar Manch”, Mr. Singh, a grandson of eminent peasantry leader Chhotu Ram, said they also had plans to take out a yatra to galvanise support for the cause by creating awareness among the peasantry who were not aware of the agitation. He added that speaking for the farmers could not be termed “anti-party”. SYL issue On the allegations of anti-national elements and foreign powers being behind the movement and most recently the issue of Sutlej Yamuna Link canal raised by the Haryana government, Mr. Singh said he did not give much “credence” to such things and these tactics would not cause any distraction. “The farmers in Hayana and Punjab have awareness. People in Haryana have protested against the BJP leaders holding sit-ins on SYL issue. They cannot tolerate this. They feel that their existence as farmers was in jeopardy, and all this talk about water can be left for discussion later,” said Mr. Singh, who also held the portfolio of Rural Development during the first tenure of Modi government. Dais sharing He remarked that the agitation was led by the farmer unions and the “good thing” was that the political leaders were not allowed to share its platform. He said he was for amicable resolution to the matter, but the “lack of mutual trust” had led to a deadlock. “This impasse can end only with the restoration of mutual trust and confidence. I am not sure that efforts must be going on behind the curtains to end the stalemate. The farmers also know that the agitation cannot go on endlessly,” said Mr. Singh.
22 December 2020||Patna,||In ‘dry’ Bihar, policemen take vow not to consume alcohol||In ‘dry’ Bihar, policemen of all ranks took a vow on Monday not to consume alcohol and to work to ensure successful prohibition in the State. Nearly 80,000 policemen across the State, from the Director General of Police to constables, gathered in uniform at their places of work to take the pledge. The policemen also affixed their signature on a form affirming their vow. They declared that they would be liable for legal action if they were found to be involved in any liquor-related activity. Director-General of Police S.K. Singhal too took the vow along with other senior police officials at the police headquarters in Patna. Stringent law Bihar policemen had taken the same vow earlier in 2016, 2018 and 2019 too. The NDA government in the State had made prohibition a stringent law in April 2016 with a minimum jail term of 10 years for violators. Since then action has been taken against 430 policemen under the law and as many as 36 of them have either been suspended or are facing departmental and administrative inquiries. Prohibition has been an issue close to Chief Minister Nitish Kumar’s political agenda. However, the latest survey report of National Family Health had said that people in Bihar still consumed alcohol (15.5%) more than States like Maharashtra and Jammu and Kashmir did. Illegal liquor, many believed, is easily available across the State at prices two to three times the actual price of a bottle.  Over 2 lakh arrested So far, over 2 lakh people, mostly from poor and marginalised classes, have been arrested under the new law and over 30 lakh litres of alcohol confiscated. In November 2019, the Patna High Court had pulled up the State government for clogging the courts with over two lakh cases related to liquor ban.
22 December 2020||Patna,||Prepare for midterm election in Bihar in 2021, says Tejashwi||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav on Monday declared that there would be a mid-term Assembly election in Bihar in 2021, and warned of stern action within the party at a review meeting. “You all should be prepared for mid-term Assembly election in the State in 2021. The party will also take stern action against those who damaged the prospects of the official RJD candidates contesting the recently concluded Assembly polls in the State,” Mr. Yadav said while addressing party leaders in a review meeting at the RJD headquarters in Patna. He also announced that the RJD would organise a “ dhanyabad yatra ” (Thanksgiving journey) after January 14 or Makar Sankranti, for those who voted for the party and made it the single largest party in the Assembly. Mr. Yadav blamed sabotage from within or outside for the defeat of RJD candidates in the election. “We lost polls not due to rival candidates but because of bhitarghat (sabotage from within),” he said. Though some party leaders have blamed alliance partner, the Congress, for its poor performance in the polls which prevented the mahagathbandhan (grand alliance) from coming to power, Mr. Yadav refrained from attacking the Congress. Seeks suggestions The RJD leader called for suggestions and advise in writing from the candidates to prepare the party for future. Some party leaders like Ritu Jaiswal, who had contested from the Parihar constituency in Sitamarhi district, blamed the local administration for their defeat. “I and over a dozen RJD candidates were defeated by the local administration. We were leading and winning the polls but at the last minute were suddenly informed that we had been defeated,” Ms. Jaiswal said. A senior party leader and former State Minister, Abdul Bari Siddiqui, slammed the RJD’s polling agents at booths for the defeat of candidates like him.
22 December 2020||MOKLAWAS (JODHPUR),||New irrigation model to help desert villagers||A new model of minor irrigation through sub-surface porous vessels (SSPV) being developed here is set to benefit the farmers with small land holdings in the villages of the Thar desert. Experiments have indicated a higher yield of farm produce and improvement in the nutrient value of soil after the installation of frustum-shaped vessels at the mounds formed on land. The initiative, supported by Indian Institute of Technology-Delhi's Rural Technology Action Group, was taken up earlier this year, after the COVID-19 lockdown was announced, to address the issues of non-availability of food material, malnutrition among children and the villagers’ inability to earn livelihood in the cities. The model has effectively modified watering by pitchers and competes with drip irrigation. At the small Moklawas village in Jodhpur district, the vegetable farming through SSPV has started on the campus of ‘Arna Jharna’, which functions as the desert museum showcasing the arid landscape. The local villagers have created heaped piles of earth and are growing vegetables such as brinjal, tomato, spinach and lady’s fingers with the new model. A SSPV is made of location-specific clay and sawdust, mixed in a proportion to suit the desert sand, press-formed to the frustum shape and baked at a temperature of 750-800 degree Celsius with the addition of a carbon layer in its structure. A team of local potters has been identified in Jodhpur for manufacturing the vessels in the open-hearth furnaces at their households. Jodhpur-based Rupayan Sansthan, entrusted with the task of knowledge dissemination of the irrigation model, has obtained technical assistance from the experts of IIT-Jodhpur for manufacturing the vessels with the porosity required for different locations to suit the farming of vegetables and fruits. The SSPVs, with the storage of 8 to 9 litres of water, supplies it to a radius of land measuring 1.25 metres.
22 December 2020||Ghaziabad,||SIO flays decision to invite Modi for AMU centenary celebration||The Aligarh Muslim University unit of the Student Islamic Organisation (SIO) has condemned the decision to invite Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the centenary celebration of the university on Tuesday. In an unsigned press statement, the SIO said it had “profound disagreement with Narendra Modi’s idea of India” and the political ideology of Hindutva that he represented. It said the organisation was among the first to raise the issue of his response to “the Gujarat pogrom of 2002.” The letter further said the AMU deserved protection as a minority institute under Article 30 of the Constitution but the Narendra Modi government is at the “forefront in taking away this constitutional right from our university.” It underlined the statements of the U.P. Chief Minister and Aligarh MP Satish Gautam who had questioned the minority status of the AMU in the past. The letter alleged that the Modi government attempted to “seize our citizenship” through Citizenship Amendment Act and criticised the government for not taking action against the police after “a planned crackdown on December 15 and 16” in AMU and Jamia Millia Islamia. It also reminded him of “the systematic attack on our university in the name of a portrait”. The SIO also took the Vice-Chancellor to task for not addressing the concerns of the students during the pandemic and appealed to the Prime Minister to hold him responsible for his failures. It said Mr. Modi had many a time stated that criticism was like a treasure that he would cherish. “Hence we would like to apprise him of the situation in AMU, caused majorly by the actions of his government and the V-C who has been placed by it.”
22 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Content of farmers’ newsletter causes friction||Trolley Times, a newsletter which was published with much fanfare on Saturday as ‘farmers’ own newspaper’ has come into the limelight after the farmer leaders said that they are deliberating on whether they align with the content published in the bi-weekly newsletter. Avtar Singh Mehma, State Press Secretary of Krantikari Kisan Union Punjab, said there is a meeting scheduled on Tuesday to discuss the matter. “We don’t know what the paper is all about. We have not read it and we don’t know who is publishing it. We are yet to take a decision on whether we are aligned with them or not,” said Mr. Mehma. Jasdeep Singh, one of the editors ofTrolley Times, said they are aware of the opinion of the leaders. “It’s not necessary for them to align with us but we are aligned with them. They have just said that we are not their official voice and it’s correct. We are a group of youngsters who have got together to bring out stories of the protest,” he said. Gurdeep Dhaliwal, designer and contributing editor, said the next edition is being published on Tuesday wherein they have written whatTrolley Timesis all about. “It is just to clarify what the newsletter is because it received a lot of attention. We don’t want to damage anything. We want to help the protest,” he said. Mr. Gurdeep said the intention is to make the voice from the main stage reach the end. “The protest site is stretched about 15 km. We thought that stories from the front and whatever is being said on the stage should reach the last person at the end and for people to know how the protest is progressing in order to bring everyone on the same page. That’s the intent,” he said.
22 December 2020||Chandigarh,||Farmer attempts to kill self near Singhu border||A 65-year-old Punjab farmer protesting against the Centre’s agriculture laws tried to kill himself by taking some poisonous substance near the Delhi’s Singhu border on Monday, a police officer said. Niranjan Singh, who hails from Punjab’s Tarn Taran, was admitted to Rohtak’s PGIMS and his condition is stated to be stable, the officer said. The farmer left a note behind, which is being verified by the police. “We are in the process of recording his statement,” the officer said when asked about the reason behind the suicide attempt. The incident comes close on the heels of a Sikh preacher, Sant Ram Singh, allegedly committing suicide near the Singhu border last week as he was “unable to bear the pain of the farmers”. On Saturday, a 22-year-old farmer was allegedly found dead in Punjab’s Bathinda after returning from a protest site near the Delhi border. Farmers are protesting against the Centre’s three contentious laws enacted in September this year. The government has projected the laws as major reforms in the agriculture sector that will remove middlemen and allow farmers to sell their produce.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)
22 December 2020||Shillong,||First entry-exit point for visitors in Meghalaya||The first-ever entry-exit point for visitors and tourists in Meghalaya was on Monday inaugurated by Deputy Chief Minister Prestone Tynsong at Umling in Ri-Bhoi district, an official said. The move comes at a time when the Northeastern State is witnessing protests by civil organisations demanding swift implementation of Inner Line Permit (ILP) to check influx of illegal immigrants into the State. Its inauguration also coincided with the reopening of the State for tourists after a gap of nine months due to the pandemic. The official said, all visitors to the hill state are mandated to register themselves at the facilitation centre through a dedicated app of the Meghalaya Tourism. Visitors will have to upload his or her photo identity on the app and provide the complete tour itinerary besides showing proof of confirmed booking (in hotel/ guest house/ homestay) for the first two nights at least, an official of the tourism department said. “Governor Satya Pal Malik had okayed the setting up of the facilitation centre which will be functional from today,” political department secretary C.V.D. Diengdoh said.  e-invitation If the tourist is staying as a guest of any family or friend in the State, then the individual will have to declare the full address and contact details of the family or friend and complete itinerary for an e-invite. Once the process is completed, the visitors will receive the e-invite which will have to be shown at the entry checkpoint along with a COVID-19 negative certificate.
22 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU begins admissions under second special cut-off list||Admissions to merit-based undergraduate courses in Delhi University, under the second special cut-off list, began on Monday and applicants will be able to apply till Tuesday 5 p.m. While colleges are required to approve eligible applications by December 24, the last date of payment under this list is December 26. Under the second special cut-off list, economics (Hons) at Kirori Mal College has been pegged at 95.5% while BA (Hons) English and History (Hons) are at 96% and 97%, respectively. At Lady Shri Ram College for Women, the cut-off for BA History (Hons) has been set at 97.25% while English (Hons.) at Ramjas College has an asking score of 91%. Admissions to most courses across colleges have closed, barring a few to which applicants who did not take admission under the previous cut-off lists can apply.
22 December 2020||New Delhi,||2 held for firing at woman for rejecting marriage proposal||A 23-year-old man and his friend were arrested for allegedly firing at a woman who refused to marry the former, in Delhi’s Mohan Garden, the police said on Monday. The accused had met the woman on TikTok about 10 months ago. The accused have been identified as Karan, a resident of Sonipat, and his friend Praveen (22), a resident of Panipat, Haryana. On Friday, the police received information that a woman has been shot at by the accused, a senior officer said. The woman is undergoing treatment, they said. “On Saturday, following a tip-off, the police laid a trap at Goyla Dairy Road near Shyam Kunj Colony in Goyla village and apprehended both the accused persons,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said. The accused confessed that they had shot at the woman in her house when she refused to marry Karan, the police said.  Karan is married and has two children. However, he did not tell the woman about this. Three months ago, when the woman came to know about his marriage, she started ignoring him. Her family members then started looking for a suitable match for her. Karan did not want the victim to marry any other man and made a plan to eliminate her. He stole a bike from Mohan Garden and used a fake number plate, the DCP said. He procured a countrymade pistol and ammunition from his accomplice Praveen. On Friday, the accused entered the victim’s house and fired at her from point-blank range with the intention to kill her. He then fled from the spot, the police said. The pistol, three live cartridges, one empty cartridge and one stolen bike used in the offence were recovered from their possession, they added.
22 December 2020||New Delhi,||BJP to instal LED screens in all 272 Delhi wards||The BJP on Monday said they will instal LED screens across the 272 municipal wards here and target bringing 500 to 1,000 people to each for Prime Minister’s dialogue with farmers via videoconference on December 25. The party also began the door-to-door distribution of the Centre’s letter on the Farm Laws to farmers here on Monday. BJP workers led by Leader of Opposition Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, the convener of the initiative in the city, distributed a copy of the letter written by Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar regarding the laws in south Delhi’s Tajpur village. “There are several programmes which are being carried out by the party’s leaders. The programme will conclude with the PM’s address on December 25 where he will directly converse with farmers,” Mr. Bidhuri added.
22 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sisodia gives 230 phones to students||Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday distributed 230 smartphones to the students of Sarvodaya co-ed Secondary Vidyalaya in Rohini. The Minister said that through the efforts of school’s principal Awadhesh Kumar Jha and vice-principal Bharti Kalra, 230 smartphones were collected for the students in need. The smartphones were distributed to the students from Class 9 to Class 12. Mr. Sisodia said this was a symbol of the collective goodness of people coming together in such dire times. “The pandemic has had the worst impact on education Though nobody thought studies could be shifted online, our teachers stepped up despite not being trained for it,” he said.
22 December 2020||Seoni,||Five killed in M.P. accident||Five members of a family were killed and three others were injured on Monday evening when the car they were travelling in rammed into a oil tanker parked at a toll plaza. The victims, including three women, hailed from Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh.
22 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||IYC protests against new farm Acts||The Indian Youth Congress on Monday protested at Krishi Bhavan against the Centre’s new farm Acts and said that the government was humiliating the farmers with words like “Khalistani” and “anti-national”. IYC national president B.V. Srinivas said, “In the last 25 days, more than 25 farmers have been martyred in this movement. There are constant deaths of farmers and the Prime Minister is busy organising events but not listening to the farmers.” He added that the Centre should not underestimate the strength of farmers.
22 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||People pen letter in blood to PM Modi||A group of people who donated blood at the mobile van put up at Delhi-Haryana’s Singhu border wrote a letter in their own blood and plan to send it to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, they said. At least two Ludhiana-based blood banks were set up by at Singhu border on Monday where people donated blood and also wrote a few letters on which — Take back the black laws — is written. “We’ll send these letters to PM Narendra Modi by post or have it delivered in person,” said Taranjeet Singh Nimana from Ludhiana.
