23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amid military talks, reports of Chinese build-up at Pangong||As the second round of talks at the Corps Commander-level were held on Monday to resolve differences on the disputed India-China boundary, there were reports of a Chinese troop build-up at Pangong Tso in eastern Ladakh. The meeting, which began around 11.30 a.m., continued late into the night. The first round of Corps Commander talks on June 6 resulted in an important understanding for limited disengagement, but the consensus was breached after Indian troops were attacked on June 15 during the “de-escalation” process, resulting in the death of 20 soldiers, including a Colonel. Monday’s meeting was held at Moldo on the Chinese side opposite Chushul, a defence source said. The Indian side was led by Lieutenant General Harinder Singh, General Officer Commanding of the Leh-based 14 Corps, and the Chinese side by Major General Liu Lin, Commander of the South Xinjiang Military District. Five locations The talks are aimed at reducing tensions, continuing the disengagement agreed earlier and restoring the status quo ante prior to May 5 along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). On June 6, both sides mutually identified five locations of conflict — Patrolling Point (PP) 14, 15, 17A, North bank of Pangong Tso and Chushul. Though tensions escalated at Galwan last week, the Pangong Tso area remains the most contentious issue. According to satellite images made available on Twitter by Nathan Ruser, researcher at the Australian Strategic Policy Institute, an independent think tank based in Canberra, China, which has moved up to Finger 4 since the beginning of the stand-off in May, has now undertaken a major build-up between Finger 4 and Finger 8 and also on the ridge lines overlooking Finger 4. India holds the mountain spurs till Finger 4, while its claim is till Finger 8. Defence sources had stated that Pangong Tso would take time to resolve and would be taken up at the Corps Commander level. Spokesperson of China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs Zhao Lijian declined to respond to comments of Union Minister Gen. V.K. Singh (retd.) that China had lost more than 40 soldiers in the Galwan incident. “I have no information to release on that,” Mr. Zhao said in response to questions. China and India were in communication with each other to resolve the situation on the ground through diplomatic and military channels, he added.
23 June 2020||MANGALURU,||Safety of SSLC students is govt. responsibility, says Minister||Dakshina Kannada district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari on Monday said that the State government will take responsibility of the safety of each and every student writing the SSLC examinations in the State from June 25. He said that all arrangements are in place for the smooth conduct of the examination. Speaking at a review meeting here, Mr. Poojari said that students need not fear to give their examinations and the State government was prepared to run bus services even if there was only one student to ferry. Besides 95 examination centres in Dakshina Kannada, 19 additional centres had been identified. As many as 30,835 students will write the examination in 1,585 halls. Buses were being arranged for 367 students appearing for the examination from the border areas, while arrangements have been made for 1,318 students who have registered in Dakshina Kannada, but would be writing the papers in other districts. Every examination centre would get four volunteers from Bharat Scouts and Guides as well as two staff each from the Health and Police departments. Jurisdictional local bodies would undertake the task of sanitising the examination centres. MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat president Meenakshi Shanthigod, Mayor Diwakar, MLAs Sanjeev Matandur, Rajesh Naik, D. Vedavyas Kamath, U.T. Khader and Umanath Kotian, MLC S.L. Boje Gowda, Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh and Deputy Director of Public Instruction Malleswamy and others were present. Prohibitory orders Meanwhile, the Deputy Commissioner has clamped prohibitory orders under Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure in an area of 200 m radius of 95 SSLC examination centres. The orders will be in force between June 25 and July 4. Movement of general public in this area would be prohibited while shops providing photocopying services would have to remain shut before one hour and during the examination time in the area.  ‘Buses will be run even if there is only one student to be ferried to the exam centre’  As many as 30,835 students will write the examination in 1,585 halls in Dakshina Kannada  ‘Each centre will be provided four volunteers from Bharat Scouts and Guides as well as two staff each from the Health and Police departments’
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennai Corporation must keep students’ belongings safe, says Anna university||Anna University’s students affairs and hostel in-charge, P. Hariharan, has written to the residential students of College of Engineering, Guindy, putting the onus of safety of their belongings in the hostel on the Greater Chennai Corporation. The official, in a reply to students’ mails, said they must ensure that the GCC has made proper and safe arrangements. “You are requested to wait till you hear from the authorities of the Corporation of Chennai. You are advised to act always keeping your health and safety as first priority,” the Dean said. Mr. Hariharan said the civic body is responsible for the safe transport of the students’ belongings and that the university will not take any responsibility for their travel to and from the campus. He assured students that their personal belongings, including their academic materials, notes, books from the hostels, “are still in the same way as left” by them. He assured them that the administration understood the importance and the value of their personal belongings, which included original mark sheets, certificates, academic materials, innovations, projects and other papers. Mr. Hariharan explained that the request to vacate the hostel rooms came from the Corporation. The spaces would be re-purposed for quarantine purposes of COVID-19 patients. “All logistics including reaching out to the students, arranging travel permits, transportation from place of residence to campus and their return transportation together with baggage containing personal belongings is the complete responsibility of the Chennai Corporation in accordance with their commitment to our V-C. Anna University has no role in this exercise,” he wrote. Proper logistics Further, “When Corporation officials make contact and ask you to collect your belongings, please ensure they have made all necessary arrangements prior to your departure. In the event the logistic-arrangement is not up to the mark and to your satisfaction, please do not undertake the journey, since your safety and health is most important to us,” the mail to students said. The university forwarded a copy of the reply to the Deputy Commissioner of the Corporation “for necessary satisfactory arrangements” as according to the university officials, “This planning on the part of the Authorities of the Corporation of Chennai is very crucial, and binding.” The Dean, who is also the warden of the hostels, said students could “come in person or depute a guardian or authorise anyone, through whom you can send the room keys.” Students were expected to inform the hostel office of any change in their address and contact details. The Greater Chennai Corporation’s Commissioner G. Prakash gave an ultimatum to Anna University to vacate and hand over all hostels by June 20 for converting them into COVID-19 Care Centres, citing rules under the Disaster Management Act. Students opposed the move. The university maintained that it would not trespass into the students’ hostel rooms since that would be an offence.
23 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CM’s attack on Mullappally galvanises Cong. into action||The Congress has attempted to outpace Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s propaganda advantage by seeking to spotlight his “abrasive and authoritarian” style of functioning and “abandonment” of expatriates seeking to return home from pandemic ravaged Gulf nations by insisting that they produce COVID-19 negative certification at the port of departure. United Democratic Front (UDF) convener Benny Behanan has announced sit-in demonstrations in Assembly constituencies across the State on June 25 to highlight the emotive issue of “preventing” expatriates from fleeing the pandemic in the Gulf. Mr. Vijayan’s stinging attack on Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran appeared to have galvanised the party into action against the government. The run-up to the local body elections in mid-October has given impetus to its political moves. Chennithala’s charge Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Monday joined Indian Union Muslim League legislators in a protest in front of the Secretariat to highlight the plight of Non-Resident Keralites “disowned” by the government. Mr. Vijayan had denied expatriates their birthright to return to their homeland. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy attacked the government for making COVID-19 free medical certification mandatory for expatriates seeking to return home from the Gulf. Mr. Ramachandran, who faced harsh criticism from Mr. Vijayan for having alluded to Health Minister K.K. Shylaja as “Nipah princess and COVID queen”, has accused her of nepotism by appointing an “ill-qualified CPI(M) fellow traveller” as chairperson of the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights. Former KPCC president V.M. Sudheeran has criticised the government’s decision to purchase Cheruvally Estate from a private entity as a multi-crore land scam. The Congress has also raised the removal of sand from the Pampa as an attempt to enrich the CPI(M)’s coffers. The war of words between the two fronts are likely to intensify in the coming days.
23 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||With 443 new cases, COVID tally zooms past 9,000||The State for the third consecutive day reported five deaths on Monday, taking the toll to 111. During the past four days, 19 deaths have occurred in various districts. During the past 24 hours, as many as 443 new COVID-19 cases emerged, taking the tally to 9,372, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. Nearly 3,000 of those were reported in the past week.  4,826 active cases With the recovery of 128 more patients, the number of recoveries went up to 4,435 but the number of active cases is consistently growing. At present, there are 4,826 active cases which are 51% of the total. Of the total cases, 7,451 are of locals and 1,584 are of people from other States and 337 are of those from other countries. Krishna, Kurnool, Anantapur, West Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts reported one death each. Meanwhile, Anantapur district is seeing a rapid increase in the number of cases. Reaching a total of 870 cases with 70 new cases, the district’s tally has doubled in the past 10 days. East Godavari district is witnessing a similar tend with its cases doubling in the past 11 days to 619, including 64 new ones. They are followed by Kurnool (60 new cases), West Godavari (54), Kadapa (42), Guntur (34), Chittoor (29), Krishna (15), Prakasam (7), Nellore (6), Vizianagaram (6) and Visakhapatnam (5). Also, 44 persons from other States and seven from other countries tested positive. The district tallies of local cases are as follows: Kurnool (1,354), Krishna (1,063), Anantapur (870), Guntur (802), East Godavari (619), West Godavari (604), Chittoor (591), Nellore (477), Kadapa (430), Visakhapatnam (305), Prakasam (187), Vizianagaram (90) and Srikakulam (59). The State tested 16, 704 samples during the past 24 hours and so far over 6.9 lakh persons have been tested. In other words, 1.3% of the total 5.34 crore people have been tested so far.
23 June 2020||GUNTUR,||Every family in State will be tested within 90 days: Jagan||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday said every family in the State would be tested for COVID-19 in the next 90 days. Mr. Jagan, at a review meeting on COVID-19, asked Medical and Health Department officials to ramp up testing and said a massive awareness campaign should be launched to encourage people to get themselves tested voluntarily at the nearest health centre. Each village/ward secretariat and health centres where testing facilities are available should have a hoarding displaying details of the symptoms associated with COVID. The Chief Minister said 104 ambulances could be used during testing. Each vehicle should also be fitted with cold chain facility to transport nasal and oral swabs to the nearest laboratory. Target groups The officials said they were testing 24,000 samples per day and priority was being given to those above 65 years and those suffering from diabetes and other long-term diseases. In the next phase, people living in containment and high-risk zones would be tested. Random testing was being done at shopping malls, industries, temples and market yards. “We can overcome this crisis only by having a comprehensive testing strategy at the base level. Every mandal should have a 104 vehicle and the team of ANMs, ASHA workers and volunteers should work at the ground level. Local protocols and standard operating procedures should be followed while dealing with COVID-affected persons.” Besides giving extensive publicity on the symptoms and precautions, efforts should be made to start urban health clinics immediately, Mr. Jagan said.
23 June 2020||Pune,||State adds 3,721 cases, tally crosses 1.35 lakh||Maharashtra recorded yet another big increase of 3,721 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking its total case tally to 1,35,796. Another 113 deaths pushed its total death toll to 6,283. Of these, 62 fatalities were reported in the last two days while the remaining 51 were from an earlier period, said State Health Department officials. Of the total cases, 61,793 are active, while 67,706 patients have recovered so far, with 1,962 patients discharged on Monday. With 1,098 new cases, Mumbai’s total case tally has reached 67,586, of which 29,720 are active cases. With 20 more fatalities, the city’s death toll has risen to 3,737. Eleven more deaths took Pune district’s death toll to 612, while four were reported from Aurangabad district to take its fatality count to 178. State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said Maharashtra’s recovery rate currently stands at 49.86% and case fatality rate at 4.63%. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane district reported 306 new COVID-19 cases to take its tally to 10,367. Navi Mumbai reported a similarly big surge of more than 137 new cases, as its tally reached 5,923. Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar witnessed sharp spikes of 114 and 147 new cases respectively to take their total figures to 2,510 and 2,970. Pune district’s case tally, as per State Health department figures, has shot up to 16,474 with the district reporting more than 550 new cases. Of these, 7,071 are active, while 8,791 patients have been discharged so far. Elsewhere, Nashik district reported 109 fresh cases, with Nashik city reporting 96 of these. In some measure of relief, Malegaon reported only a single new case in the last 24 hours. The district’s total tally stands at 2,871, of which 1,185 are active. A total 160 fatalities have been reported from Nashik till date. In Aurangabad, 164 new cases took the district’s total case tally to 3,564. “Till date, of a total 7,87,419 laboratory samples, 1,35,796 (17.24%) have been tested positive with around 14,000 samples across the State tested today,” Dr. Awate said. He said at present, 6,01,182 people across the State are in home quarantine and 26,910 in institutional quarantine.
23 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||138 new cases, majority imported||Kerala reported 138 new cases of COVID-19 and 88 recoveries on Monday, keeping the number of active cases in hospitals at 1,540. While a good number of recoveries and subsequent discharges are helping the Health Department manage its hospital bed requirements now, the situation can change rapidly in the coming days as the epidemic progresses. When disease transmission intensifies, an exponential increase in hospital admissions can overwhelm the public health system. Local transmission On Monday too, except for four cases which were a result of local transmission through contact with known/unknown sources, 134 cases are imported cases of infection brought into the State by people who have returned from abroad and other States. Concern in capital The fact that one of the cases of local transmission was detected in a security guard at the Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapauram, has sent the hospital and the district health administration into a tizzy as it is highly likely that he contracted the disease from within the hospital, possibly from one among the innumerable visitors to the hospital. It is the second time that people managing the front office at the MCH are contracting COVID-19, possibly from within the hospital. Two weeks ago, it was a nursing assistant manning the COVID outpatient registration counter here who had contracted the disease. 1,747 recover The cumulative number of persons who have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 ever since the outbreak began is 3,310, of whom 1,747 have recovered. The total number of people put under surveillance and quarantine by the State is 1,47,351, of whom, 2,126 with mild symptoms are isolated in hospitals. 112 hotspots As on Monday, the number of hotspots in Kerala is 112. Meanwhile, media bulletins issued by the Tamil Nadu State Health Department on its website show that in the past two days alone, 25 persons from Kerala who crossed the border have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. In fact, between May 19 and June 22, the number of persons from Kerala who tested positive in Tamil Nadu is 76. The State government has, however, claimed that it has no official information. Yet, the fact remains that these persons had contracted the disease from within Kerala, from unknown sources and were asymptomatic till they got tested in Tamil Nadu.  The total number of people put under surveillance and quarantine by the State is 1,47,351
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBSE to seek SC directive on exams||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) will inform the Supreme Court of its position on the pending Board examinations on Tuesday, and let the court take a final call on cancellation, according to senior officials at the Human Resource Development Ministry. The SC is hearing a plea by a group of parents of CBSE students who want the exams to be cancelled because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Last week, the CBSE counsel said the Board was in the process of taking a decision and would apprise the court of it at the next hearing on June 23. “The matter is in the court. The CBSE will communicate its position to the court in a closed cover, and then the court will decide,” a senior official told The Hindu . The CBSE is likely to offer an alternative assessment methodology in lieu of examinations, such as using internal assessment scores, or the average marks from already completed papers. Another possibility could be to allow students who wish to write the examination and improve their scores, to do so at a later date. CISCE deadline Also on Monday, the Bombay High Court extended the deadline for the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) to declare its alternative methodology to June 25, after which students can make an informed choice on whether to write the exams that begin on July 1. The CBSE’s annual board examinations were suspended mid-way in March, leaving Class 12 students with pending papers. Class 12 students in northeast Delhi have more pending papers, as their exams had been previously disrupted by violence in the area. The pending examinations had been rescheduled to be held in the first two weeks of July, with CBSE increasing the number of centres from 3,000 to over 13,000 to allow for minimal travel and maximum social distancing. “In March, we had thought July would be a safe time to hold exams. But the situation has only gotten worse, and it is changing everyday,” said a senior Ministry official, downplaying the chance of further postponement of the examinations. Several State governments have also communicated their unwillingness to risk the health of students and staff by conducting the examination.
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||17 inmates test positive days after first COVID-19 death in Mandoli jail||As many as 17 of 29 inmates lodged in the barrack where one prisoner died of COVID-19 in Mandoli jail last week have tested positive for the infection, an official said on Monday. Kanwar Singh, 62, who was lodged in Central Jail number 14, Mandoli, died in his sleep on June 15. His COVID-19 test came out positive on Saturday. The report prompted the jail authorities to conduct COVID-19 test on the 29 other inmates sharing the barrack with Singh, officials said. Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said all the 17 inmates who tested positive have been shifted to a separate barrack and their health is being closely monitored by the jail doctor. As of now, the health of all the infected inmates is stable, he said. The 12 inmates who tested negative have also been quarantined, he said. Till now, 40 inmates in Delhi prisons have tested positive for the novel coronavirus and 16 of them have recovered. Singh, who was sentenced to life term in a 2016 murder case, is the only COVID-19 fatality so far. Among the 46 prison staff who tested positive for the virus, 12 have recovered so far, said jail officials. In the wake of the increase in COVID-19 cases in prisons, the jail staff and inmates have been asked to take all necessary precautions and follow social distancing to contain the spread of the infection.
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Parliament project returned for finer detailing||The Centre’s proposal to construct a Parliament building in time for Independence Day in 2022 was not approved by the Delhi Urban Art Commission (DUAC) at a meeting earlier in June, according to sources involved in the approval process. The project, which was cleared by an expert appraisal committee of the Union Environment and Forests Ministry and the Central Vista Committee in April, was brought before the DUAC on June 5. The panel sent it back, asking the Central Public Works Department for additional details, the sources said. In a written response to The Hindu on Monday, HCP Design, Planning and Management, the CPWD’s consultant for the larger Central Vista redevelopment project that includes the construction of a new Parliament, said the DUAC had requested for additional data to complete the application. Formed by an Act of Parliament in 1973, the DUAC is meant to advise the Centre on matters of preservation, development and maintenance of the aesthetic quality of the capital’s urban and environmental design. ‘No impact on timelines’ “At present, the DUAC has requested additional details on provisions for landscape, parking, day-lighting and ventilation. Information on the same is being collated and will be submitted to the DUAC,” an HCP statement said. Asked if the project was still on schedule, HCP said: “There is no impact on the timelines.” Though the project was considered over 15 days ago, the minutes of the meeting are yet to be uploaded on the DUAC website, which as on Monday evening only showed minutes of meetings that took place till May 29. Minutes of at least two meetings since then, including the one discussing the Parliament project, have not been uploaded yet, unlike the usual practice. Multiple calls and messages to DUAC secretary Ruby Kaushal on Monday on reasons for the delay were not answered.
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Flyers anxious over requirement of e-pass||Do you need an e-pass to travel to Chennai airport during the lockdown? This question continues to weigh on air passengers’ minds, despite the authorities having clarified that a boarding pass or a ticket will do. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said that the State government had already communicated to them that passengers just need to keep their ticket or boarding pass handy. “Departing passengers don’t require an e-pass from the Tamil Nadu government,” an official said. Yet, social media platforms are abuzz with queries from passengers residing in various parts of the city. Swetha S., a resident of Chennai said, “I have to go to the airport to pick up a family friend. The return journey may not be a problem as the passenger will be with me. But I’m worried if I will be asked to show an e-pass while getting to the airport.” One of the reasons for the prevailing anxiety is that some passengers have been finding it difficult to get a cab. Among them is Nirnoy Nimesh, who tweeted that a private cab company had backed out at the last minute. “I had booked a cab from your website for dropping at Chennai Airport on 20Jun. My pickup time was 1:15 PM and at the last moment I was asked for epass by your company. And cab didn't arrive till 2PM, I had to make my own arrangements and travel,” his tweet read. Hardships on return Taxi drivers said they were facing difficulties while returning from the airport, and that there had been instances where they had been fined. Murugan S. (name changed) said that he had dropped a passenger from Madhavaram at the airport, and while on the way back, he was stopped at Koyambedu. “Though I showed them a copy of the ticket, the authorities refused to let me go. They have taken my vehicle now. The government had said we were allowed to take passengers to the airport. What did I do wrong?” he asked.
23 June 2020||Vijayapura,||COVID-19 positive woman delivered of twins||In a heart warming news in the time of a pandemic, a COVID-19 positive woman was delivered of twin girls here on Monday. A team of doctors at the district government hospital ensured normal delivery of the twins. Their mother has been identified as P-8,789. Giving this information, District Surgeon Sharanappa Katti said that the team of doctors led by Manpreetkour Tehriya was monitoring the health of the woman. After the delivery, both the woman and the babies are doing fine. While one baby weighs 2 kg, the other weighs 2.1 kg. Meanwhile, Dr. Tehriya said that the woman was suffering from anaemia so she required extra medical attention. She said that the woman developed labour pain in the morning after which, the doctor and her team successfully carried out the normal delivery.
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Over 17,000 booked for violating ban orders in Chennai||The police booked 17,865 cases against violators so far for venturing out on roads in violation of prohibitory orders during the current complete lockdown. Despite this, over 5,000 vehicles were seized from violators roaming the roads on Sunday and Monday. The State announced a complete lockdown in the city, Tiruvallur, Chengalpattu and Kancheepuram districts from June 19, allowing certain essential services, to prevent spread of COVID-19. On Sunday, the curbs were tightened further, allowing only medical services and milk supply. Police have been constantly monitoring the movement of the public by intensifying beat patrol and bike patrol sector-wise in areas with narrow streets. Police sources said 7,261 cases were booked for flouting rules and roaming in public places without valid reasons on Monday. As many 5,378 vehicles seized from the violators. Altogether 16,043 vehicles were seized since the first day of lockdown. Likewise, police have booked 7,524 persons for failing to wear masks from Friday and of them, 4,007 were booked on Monday.
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Big screen set to reopen in Srinagar||Nearly three decades after almost all cinema halls closed down in Srinagar, a two-storeyed multiplex (within a five-storey commercial complex) has received the go-ahead to screen films and is likely to start operations by next March. Speaking to The Hindu , Vijay Dhar of the Taksal group and the owner of the now defunct Broadway cinema hall said his company had got the No Objection Certificate for running a multiplex theatre, and it was an attempt to address the youth of the Valley. The multiplex is to come up at Sonwar on the land owned by Mr. Dhar and his sons.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana records 872 COVID cases||Monday saw a huge surge in COVID-19 cases in Telangana as 872 more swab samples tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 8,674. While the tally on Saturday stood at 546, it was 730 on Sunday, which indicates the spike in COVID-19 cases. Seven more COVID patients died on Monday taking the toll to 217.
23 June 2020||UDUPI,||15-year-old girl saves sinking woman||The presence of mind of a 15-year-old girl helped save the life of a woman who was in a car that was sinking in the Chowlikere Lake in Barkur village on June 21. The person driving the car, Santosh Shetty (38), was found unconscious. Namana and her parents who were witness to the accident rushed to the spot and raised an alarm. People nearby also came running to the lake and they managed to drag the car out of the lake and pulled the woman, Shwetha (23), who too was unconscious, out of it. Namana immediately provided resuscitation to Shwetha. Namana, a student of Class 10 of Little Rock Indian School, Brahmavar, said that after hearing a loud sound, she saw that a car had fallen in the lake and overturned. Some people jumped into the lake and pulled the car to the banks of the lake. Then Shwetha was pulled out of the car and Namana provided CPR which she had learnt during her NCC training to help save Shwetha. Shwetha was later shifted to a private hospital in Manipal for treatment. Santosh Shetty was declared brought dead by doctors in a private hospital in Brahmavar. The video of this incident has since gone viral on the social media.
23 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Strict steps for sealed areas||Concerned over the steep rise in COVID-19 cases, the State government on Monday decided to scale up the geographical jurisdiction of areas that will be sealed, by including the entire road on which the premises of the person testing positive is located. It will be implemented in Bengaluru, Ballari, Yadgir, and Kalaburagi, among other districts that have recorded a surge in cases. Areas in five wards in Bengaluru will be sealed accordingly. “As the first step, the lockdown will be implemented strictly in clusters, which reported more number of cases, especially in K.R. Market and the surrounding areas of Siddapura and Kalasipalyam. The virus should be contained without affecting economic activities in Bengaluru, which has resumed recently,” Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said. Revenue Minister R. Ashok said that places such as Chickpet and Chamarajpet areas in Bengaluru will be closed for a fortnight. Meanwhile, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar stayed away from the meetings after his father tested positive for the virus.
23 June 2020||Mumbai,||Aaditya opposes mine auction near tiger reserve||Maharashtra Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray on Monday asked the Union government not to go ahead with the proposed auction of coal mine blocks near the Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve. “I have written to the Union Minister [for Environment, Forest and Climate Change] Prakash Javadekar ji on the issue of the proposed auction of a mine site near Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve, opposing the auction. We cannot have such destruction of our wildlife corridors,” said Mr. Thackeray. He said the auction has been scrapped after evaluation twice before, once in 1999 and then around 2011. “Then why once again must we waste time and energy over a futile process when we know that it will destroy the wildlife corridor of Tadoba and Andhari?” he asked. The Sena leader recalled that former Union minister and Congress leader Jairam Ramesh, almost a decade ago, had stopped this destruction. “He had got the area surveyed and reports suggest that the mine site is not suitable at all,” he said. Last week, 41 coal blocks were notified by the Centre for auction. As per the objections, the Bander coal block in the vicinity of the tiger reserve is likely to impact a few hundred acres of the forest. It also falls on the route used by tigers to travel from the sanctuary in Chandrapur to Wardha and Amravati.  [Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh] had got the area surveyed and reports suggest that the mine site is not suitable at all Aaditya Thackeray Maharashtra Environment Minister
23 June 2020||Mumbai,||‘MoUs with Chinese firms kept on hold’||Maharashtra Industries Minister Subhash Desai on Monday said the status quo has been maintained on Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) signed with Chinese companies. He said that since there are no directions from the Centre to not accept investment from China, the projects had been kept on hold and not cancelled. “The MoUs signed on June 15, 2020, between the Industries Department of Maharashtra and three Chinese companies have been placed on hold (as-is-where-is) by the Maharashtra government,” said Mr. Desai. “Status quo will be maintained on the MoUs for the moment. This does not mean that they have been rescinded or cancelled. Further developments are awaited.” The three companies — Hengli, PMI Electro Mobility Solutions, and Great Wall Motors — have committed to investments of Rs. 250 crore, Rs. 1,000 crore and Rs. 3,770 crore, respectively, in Phase II Talegaon industrial belt in Pune.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||In a spot||
23 June 2020||Kochi,||Submit SOP for chartered flights, HC tells Centre||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Monday directed the Central government to produce the files relating to the standard operating procedure (SOP) issued by the Union Ministry of Civil Aviation for operating chartered flights to bring back expatriates. The Bench passed the directive on a public interest litigation challenging a government order requiring those travelling back on chartered flights to have COVID-19 negative certificate. When the petition came up for hearing, counsel for the Central government submitted that the chartered flights had to be operated in accordance with the SOP issued by the Centre as well as the State government. The State government had submitted it was insisting on COVID-19 test for those returning by chartered flights from Gulf counties on the basis of the SOP issued by the Civil Aviation Ministry. The government argued that it issued the directive as there was every possibility of transmission of the disease during flight. There would be heightened chances for transmission of COVID-19 during the four to six-hour-long flights when COVID-free and COVID-afflicted persons travel together.  The court posted the petition for further hearing on June 29.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Party time||
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Udumalpet murder: prime accused acquitted||The Madras High Court on Monday acquitted B. Chinnasamy, the prime accused in the sensational 2016 Udumalpet Shankar murder case, of all charges and set aside the death sentence awarded to him by a trial court in December 2017. Mr. Chinnasamy, who belongs to a Thevar sect, had been accused of hiring contract killers to murder V. Shankar, an engineering student from a Scheduled Caste community, after the latter married his daughter C. Kowsalya. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and M. Nirmal Kumar ordered his release forthwith and the return of any amount paid by him as fine. They also confirmed the acquittal of his wife, C. Annalakshmi, and her brother, P. Pandidurai. The court also commuted to life imprisonment the death sentences that had been awarded to five of the accused. It ordered that they should be made to undergo imprisonment for a minimum period of 25 years, without any remission whatsoever.
23 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||HC stays Ayyanna’s arrest||The High Court on Monday issued orders staying the arrest of former Minister Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu in the Nirbhaya case booked against him for allegedly using foul language against Narsipatnam Municipal Commissioner K. Krishnaveni. Justice T. Rajani ordered that Mr. Patrudu be not detained until further orders during the hearing into a quash petition filed by him. Mr. Patrudu has been accused of making objectionable remarks on the Commissioner when a wordy duel ensued between them over the removal of a portrait of the TDP leader’s grandfather.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||India to attend trilateral meet with China||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar will take part in the Russia-India-China trilateral on Tuesday, in an indication that New Delhi is prepared to press on with diplomatic moves with Beijing despite the LAC face-off. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi will also attend. Officials in Moscow and Delhi underlined that “no bilateral issues” would be discussed.page 9
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Manmohan cautions PM on remarks||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh has urged PM Narendra Modi to be “mindful” of the implications his remarks will have on national security and not allow them to vindicate China’s position. Speaking for the first time after the Galwan clashes, he said, “Truth cannot be suppressed by having pliant allies spout comforting but false statements”.page 9
23 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Revenue collection: State falls short of target||The State government has collected Rs. 43,332.45 crore as against the target of Rs. 55,243 crore revenue collection for the financial year 2019-2020. Deputy Chief Minister (Excise and Commercial Taxes) K. Narayana Swamy on Monday said that Rs. 22,430.38 crore was collected towards GST and petroleum products. The liquor and professional tax collections were Rs. 10,403.84 crore, he said. The collections in the South Indian states and Maharashtra registered a negative growth between - 3% to -10%. Though the economic slowdown has impacted the entire country, the Commercial Taxes Department in Andhra Pradesh registered better results. During the year 2018-2019, the collection of VAT on liquor was Rs. 10,915.69 crore. The collections were Rs. 10,403.84 crore during the YSR Congress rule, he said. The revenue collection improved by 0.65% compared to the financial year 2018-19. The collections were Rs. 43,053.92 crore during 2018-19. During the current financial year, the target was Rs. 8,319.44 crore for the months April and May. The collections stood at Rs. 2,874.85 crore. The collections fell steeply due to lockdown and coronavirus. The GST officials were asked to conduct surprise checks. Following which 940 checks were conducted and Rs. 92 crore was collected, he added.
23 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Navy sailor electrocuted||In a tragic incident on board INS Rajput , naval sailor Rahul Jangir suffered an electrical shock while on duty at the Visakhapatnam naval base on Sunday evening. Despite first aid on the ship and efforts to revive him at INHS Kalyani , he succumbed on Sunday night. The mortal remains of the 19-year-old will be flown to his hometown in Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan, where he will be laid to rest with full military honours. An inquiry has been ordered by the Navy.
23 June 2020||KALABURAGI,||Third COVID-19 death in Ballari||A 62-year-old woman (P-7,732) from Adoni in Andhra Pradesh who was shifted to the Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences in Ballari, a COVID-19 designated hospital, on June 17, after she complained of fever, cough and breathlessness, died at 5.15 a.m. on Monday. A media bulletin noted that the patient was a diabetic. The patient showed some recovery. However, her health started deteriorating on Sunday leading to multi-organ failure, including kidney injury. Uncontrolled diabetes, bilateral pneumonia with acute renal failure with septicaemic shock with COVID-19 positive was said to be the cause of death. With this, COVID-19 fatalities in the district rose to three. The district thus far reported 442 cases, including the deaths and 112 people discharged after recovery. There were 327 active cases as on Monday.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||CM hands over relief to Col. Santosh’s family||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday visited the Suryapet residence of Col. B. Santosh Babu, slain in the Indo-China border skirmishes, to pay his condolences to the family. He handed over a cheque for Rs. 4 crore to the Colonel’s widow Santoshi and another cheque for Rs. 1 crore to his parents.
23 June 2020||Bengaluru,||BBP witnesses only a fraction of usual footfall||Starting off with only a fraction of its usual footfall, the Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP), one of the city’s best known and loved destinations, saw a fall in visitor numbers in the second weekend. However, it picked up on Monday, the park’s officials said.
23 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Relief for students in containment zones||Class 10 students in containment zones will now be allowed to write the SSLC examination, but will be assigned separate classrooms at their centres. Earlier, it had been decided that they would instead appear for the supplementary exam as fresh candidates.
23 June 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Ban on online classes may lead to chaos’||The High Court on Monday said the government needs to find a solution immediately to the issues that have cropped up because of the “blanket” ban on online classes from preschool to Class 5. It pointed out that a blanket ban could lead to a “chaotic situation”.
23 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,||COVID patient mistakenly discharged on third day||Tension prevailed along the 4th Street of Tooveypuram in Thoothukudi on Monday evening after a 60-year-old male COVID – 19 positive patient was mistakenly discharged from the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital on the third day of his admission.
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 2,909 new COVID-19 cases||As many as 2,909 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the Capital in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 62,655, said a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Also, 58 more deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 2,233.
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Residents of sealed zone attack volunteers||Civil defence volunteers and home guards deployed at a containment zone in west Delhi’s Naraina were allegedly attacked by a group of residents after a quarrel over delivery of “non-vegetarian” food items, said an officer on Monday. A civil defence staff was injured and a resident has been arrested.
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||Duo held in connection with Delhi riots gets bail||A Delhi court has granted bail to two persons arrested for their alleged involvement in the north-east Delhi riots, noting that there was “hardly any connection” between the CCTV footage and the incident cited in the FIR. The accused, Habib Ahmed and Irfan, were granted bail under separate orders.
23 June 2020||Kalaburagi,||Govt. cautioned against shutdown of JSW plant||Taking serious exceptions to the demand by a few individuals to completely shut down the JSW Steel Plant at Toranagal in Ballari district, where COVID-19 was spreading alarmingly, Ballari District Chamber of Commerce and Industry, a body of industrialists and traders, has cautioned the State government against complete closure of the plant. In a June 20 letter to Heavy and Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, BDCCI president V. Ravikumar held that a complete closure would have an adverse impact on around two lakh people dependent on the steel plant.
23 June 2020||Dharwad,||22 private hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients||Following a State government’s order regarding involving private hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients, a total of 22 private hospitals have been enlisted for this purpose in Hubballi-Dharwad. According to officials, this decision has been taken following a surge in COVID-19 positive cases. The district has reported 202 COVID-19 positive cases till date. All these days, the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi was the only designated hospital in the twin cities to offer treatment to COVID-19 patients.
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,||2,710 fresh cases reported in Tamil Nadu||It was another all-time high for Tamil Nadu as it reported 2,710 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday. Of this, Chennai accounted for 1,487 cases. Monday’s numbers took the State’s overall tally past 60,000, while its recovery rate was nearly 55% and mortality rate 1.27%.
23 June 2020||Chennai,||After Chennai, now lockdown in Madurai||After Chennai, the State government has announced an intensified lockdown from June 24 to 30 in the Madurai Corporation limits, Paravai town panchayat and village panchayats in Madurai East, Madurai West and Tiruppar-ankundram blocks owing to the rising COVID-19 cases.
23 June 2020||Chennai,||Opt for aggressive testing, Collectors told||In view of the spurt in influenza-like illness and severe acute respiratory infection in some districts, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam on Monday asked all District Collectors to follow a strategy of “aggressive and focused testing” for early detection of COVID-19 cases.
23 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Telangana sees surge, adds 872 cases in a day||The death toll from COVID-19 rose by seven in Telangana and by five in Andhra Pradesh on Monday. Andhra Pradesh, for the third-day consecutive day, reported five deaths taking the toll to 111. As of Monday, 443 new COVID-19 cases were detected, with a tally of 9,372, a Health Department bulletin said. Nearly 3,000 of those were reported in the past week. With 28 more patients recovering, that metric went up to 4,435 cases, but active cases grew. There were 4,826 active patients. Krishna, Kurnool, Anantapur, West Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts reported one death each. Anantapur district saw a rapid rise in cases. It reaching 870 with 70 new cases, and the district tally doubled in 10 days. COVID-19 had spread in East Godavari similarly and cases doubled in 11 days to 619 including 64 new ones. Cases in Telangana surged on Monday as 872 more samples tested positive, taking the case total to 8,674. Seven more patients died taking the toll to 217. State Health Minister Eatala Rajender said tests could be scaled up depending on the situation. In Kerala Kerala reported 138 new cases and 88 recoveries on Monday, active cases in hospitals being 1,540.  Except for four cases of local transmission, 134 were imported — people who had returned from abroad and other States. One case of local transmission in a security guard at the Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapauram, raised apprehensions of infection from a visitor. Tamil Nadu Health Department said that in the past two days, 25 persons from Kerala who crossed the border had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. T.N.’s tally over 60,000 Tamil Nadu reported 2,710 new cases of COVID-19 on Monday, its overall tally going past 60,000, while its recovery rate stood at nearly 55% and mortality rate at 1.27%. The State had a total of 62,087 COVID-19 positive cases of which 27,178 were active cases. Another 1,358 persons were discharged and 37 succumbed to the infection. The total discharged cases were 34,112, while the toll rose to 794. The spike in cases continued in many districts. In fact, there were new cases in all 37 districts. Of the total 2,652 indigenous cases, 1,165 were from the districts apart from Chennai. The State capital accounted for 1,487 fresh cases, taking its overall case count to 42,752. It accounted for 623 deaths in all. Madurai was witnessing a rise in cases over the past few days and registered a sharp increase with 153 testing positive. Tiruvannamalai followed with 130. While Tiruvallur had 120 cases, Chengalpattu recorded 126. There were 50 cases in Cuddalore, 56 in Kancheepuram, 52 in Ranipet, 57 in Thoothukudi and 51 in Tiruchi. Apart from these indigenous cases, 58 who had returned from other countries and abroad also tested positive. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said as per an epidemiological survey, the case doubling rate was 15-16 days now. “The doubling time was six to seven days in April and May. This proves that our strategy of aggressive testing, early diagnosis and proper treatment is right, and we are on the right path,” he said. Meanwhile, one more private laboratory - Endocare Diagnostic Centre, K.K. Nagar, Madurai, was approved for COVID-19 testing. As of now, there are 46 government testing facilities and 41 private laboratories.  (With inputs from Hyderabad Thiruvananthapuram, and Chennai bureaus)
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||Manmohan cautions Modi on statements on national security||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on Monday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to be “mindful” of the implications his statements will have on national security and not allow them to vindicate Chinese position. Speaking for the first time on the India-China face-off in Ladakh’s Galwan Valley, Dr. Singh said, “Disinformation is no substitute for diplomacy or decisive leadership. And the truth cannot be suppressed by having pliant allies spout comforting but false statements.” In a statement, he urged all organs of the government to work together to prevent the situation from further escalating. Dr. Singh lauded the efforts of the Indian Army and the soldiers who lost their lives.  The government must ensure justice for Col. Santosh Babu and the jawans who sacrificed their lives protecting the borders. “To do any less would be a historic betrayal of the people’s faith,” he said. Though Dr. Singh did not mention any specific comment by Mr. Modi, his reference was to the Prime Minister’s statement at the June 19 all-party meeting that “no one was inside Indian territory and no post was occupied by anyone”. Subsequently, the Prime Minister’s Office clarified that Mr. Modi had specifically talked about the area where Chinese and Indian troops clashed and how, because of the brave act of the Army, the Chinese attempt was foiled. Referring to the clashes in the Galwan Valley, Dr. Singh said the government should not allow the supreme sacrifice of the 20 soldiers to go in vain. ‘Historic crossroads’ “At this moment, we stand at historic crossroads. Our government’s decisions and actions will have serious bearings on how the future generations perceive us. Those who lead us bear the weight of a solemn duty. And in our democracy, that responsibility rests with the office of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister must always be mindful of the implications of his words and declarations on our Nation’s security as also strategic and territorial interests,” he stated. Dr. Singh accused China of “brazenly and illegally seeking to claim parts of Indian territory such as Galwan Valley and Pangong Tso lake” and committing multiple incursions between April and now. “We cannot and will not be cowed down by threats and intimidation nor permit a compromise with our territorial integrity. The Prime Minister cannot allow them to use his words as a vindication of their position and must ensure that all organs of the government work together to tackle this crisis and prevent it from escalating further.” Right now, India “must stand together as a nation and be united in our response to this brazen threat”, he added.  The Prime Minister cannot allow them to use his words as a vindication of their position and must ensure that all organs of the government work together to tackle this crisis Manmohan Singh Former PM
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Puri Rath Yatra gets conditional nod||The Supreme Court on Monday lifted its June 18 ban on the conduct of Puri Jagannath Rath Yatra after ensuring a complete lack of public attendance for the festival to avoid spread of infection amid the pandemic. A virtual court Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde ordered “strict curfew” in the city of Puri from Monday night (June 22) onwards till the entire duration of the festival. All entry points to the city would also remain closed during this period. The festival is scheduled to begin from June 23. “During the period of curfew, no one would be allowed to come out of their houses or their places of residence, such as, hotels, lodging houses, etc. To start with, the curfew shall begin tonight at 8 p.m.,” the Supreme Court ordered. The court said the Jagannath Puri temple administration and the State government, in consultation with the Centre, were entirely responsible for the safe conduct of the festival in line with COVID-19 guidelines. “We take note of the fact that the State of Odisha has a good record of having controlled the pandemic with a very little loss of life. We see no reason why the same attitude of care and caution should not be applied to the Rath Yatra,” the court said. Short notice The court had stopped the Yatra for this year to avoid public gathering and risk of infection. The Bench was assembled in short notice during court vacation on Monday after the Centre made an urgent mentioning along with over a dozen other applicants seeking a recall of the injunction order. “We are informed that in the 18th-19th century, a Yatra of this kind was responsible for the spread of cholera and plague ‘like wild fire’. We say this in order to remind the authorities concerned that the situation can become dangerous if the rules of caution are ignored,” the court cautioned the applicants. The Bench explained it opted for an injunction on June 18 when informed that a festival without public attendance was “well-nigh impossible”. The court indicated that an application by Gajapati Maharaj of Puri, the chairman of the Puri Jagannath temple administration, proposing to hold the festival “in a limited way without public attendance” has now changed its mind. “If it is possible to ensure that there is no public attendance, we see no reason why the Rath Yatra cannot be conducted safely ,” the court said. The 11 conditions include that only those who have been tested COVID-19 negative would be allowed to pull the chariots and participate in the rituals. It said only “bare minimum number of people” would be allowed to participate in the rituals and Yatra. The court directed that 500 people who have cleared the COVID-19 test would be allowed to pull each chariot. There should be a one-hour gap between two chariots. Visual media would be allowed to install cameras at vantage points. The “primary responsibility” to conduct the festival lies with the committee in-charge of the Puri Jagannath temple administration. Both the temple management and the State should consult the Centre on the safety norms.
23 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Mizoram quake wrecks buildings, roads||Prime Minister Narendra Modi assured Mizoram Chief Minister Zoramthanga of all help after an earthquake of magnitude 5.3 damaged several residential buildings, churches and roads in Champhai district of Mizoram on Monday. The earthquake, whose epicentre was at Zokhawthar on the India-Myanmar border, shook the State at 4.10 a.m. The tremors were felt in other parts of the State and Manipur besides Myanmar. Third quake in a week This was the third quake in Mizoram within a week. The State experienced a 4.6-magnitude quake on June 18 followed by another of 5.1 magnitude on June 21 evening. Mr. Zoramthanga said there were no reports of casualties. “Two earthquakes rocked #Mizoram within a span of 12 hours. Damage assessment undertaken by MLA concerned and district administration. Fortunately, no casualties reported so far. Thanking the Hon’ble Prime Minister and Hon’ble Home Minister for their assurance of support,” he tweeted. Mr. Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah had called up Mr. Zoramthanga in the morning and took stock of the situation. “Spoke to the Chief Minister of Mizoram, Shri @ZoramthangaCM Ji on the situation in the wake of the earthquake there. Assured all possible support from the Centre,” Mr. Modi tweeted. ‘Praying for safety’ “I have spoken to Shri @ZoramthangaCM ji, Chief Minister of Mizoram, to review the situation after the quake. I assured him all possible support from the Central government. Praying for everyone’s safety and well-being,” tweeted Mr. Shah. District officials said residential houses, church buildings, community halls, historical structures, the immigration checkpost building at Zokhawthar and a school were partially damaged. Some roads have also developed cracks.
23 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha fast-tracks Rath Yatra preparation||The Odisha government imposed a 41-hour-long shutdown in Puri town for conducting Rath Yatra which was allowed by Supreme Court on Monday. It prohibited entry of all passenger trains and buses into the pilgrim town where this year’s Rath Yatra will be held with strict restrictions on Tuesday. “It was felt that restriction of movement of all buses and passenger trains to the district of Puri is required in view of smooth conduct of the festival to be held in Puri commencing from Tuesday in view of the COVID-19 pandemic,” said Special Relief Commissioner P. K. Jena, issuing the order ahead of the annual festival. “Now, therefore, in exercise of the powers conferred under Section 24 (a) and (b) of Disaster Management Act, 2005, the State Executive Committee (SEC), [I] do hereby order that no passenger train and private or public buses other than those carrying personnel of government, police vehicles and emergency vehicles shall be allowed entry into the jurisdiction of Puri district during the period from 9 p.m. on Monday to 2 p.m. on Wednesday,” the SRC said. The preparation for Rath Yatra has been fast-tracked. After a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik, Chief Secretary Asit Tripathy and Director General of Police Abhay were directed to camp at Puri so that the festival passes off smoothly. About 50 platoons of police have been deployed to prevent entry of people to Grand Road where chariots will be towed. Traditional servitors were being tested for COVID-19. Only those who test negative would be allowed to tow three chariots, which have been placed before the 12th century Shree Jagannath Temple in Puri, on Monday. “The State government and temple administration are fully ready for Rath Yatra. The chariot decoration and preliminary rituals have been completed. All other routine rituals are going on smoothly,” said the Chief Minister. “The whole world is passing through a difficult situation due to COVID-19 pandemic. Under these circumstances, it is a challenge for us to conduct Rath Yatra. We have to be very cautious from the time of Rath Yatra to return of deities to their abode. I hope all involved in Rath Yatra follow COVID-19 guideline scrupulously. We have to give equal importance to both tradition as well as public health. We have to show how rituals can be followed by maintaining social distance and discipline,” he said. CM thanks SC, Centre Mr. Patnaik earlier conveyed his gratitude to Supreme Court for granting permission to conduct annual Rath Yatra and thanked the Central government for its cooperation. Idols of three deities will be taken out from the temple in a procession called Pahandi around 7 a.m.. Puri’s titular king Dibyasingha Deb will perform the customary sweeping of the wooden floor of the chariots around 11.30 a.m. and the chariots will be pulled around 12 noon.
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pranab to open online summit for IAS aspirants||Unacademy, in association with The Hindu , is organising an online summit for civil services aspirants from June 26 to 28. The idea behind the summit is to motivate aspirants to achieve by giving them an opportunity to interact with people of eminence from the fields of politics, public administration, cinema and sports. The online summit will be inaugurated by former President Pranab Mukherjee on June 26. The summit will host some of the accomplished speakers in the country — Dr. Shashi Tharoor, MP, on the role of the bureaucracy, Jairam Ramesh, economist and MP, on the post COVID-19 Indian economy, former cricketerKapil Dev on leading a historic team, and Dr. Kiran Bedi, IPS (retd.), Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry, on testing civil services’ aspirants and others. Anyone, who is keen on cracking the civil services, can register for the summit, which is free and open to all aspirants. To register, please click onhttps://unacademy.com/upscsummit2020.
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jaishankar to attend China-Russia trilateral||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar will take part in the Russia-India-China trilateral on Tuesday, in an indicator that New Delhi is prepared to press on with diplomatic moves with Beijing despite last Monday’s clashes between Indian and Chinese troops at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) that left at least 20 Indian soldiers dead. The meeting that will be held via videoconference around 1.30 p.m. will include Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and will be hosted by Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov. The three leaders were originally scheduled to meet on March 22 in Sochi, but the annual meeting had to be put off due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The RIC meeting coincides with Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s visit to Moscow to attend Russia’s Victory Day parade, and for high-level meetings. The Indian and Chinese militaries have both sent contingents for the parade, but officials ruled out a meeting between Mr. Singh and any Chinese official in Moscow. Officials in Moscow and Delhi have also underlined that “no bilateral issues” would be discussed during the videoconference. “The three Ministers are expected to discuss the current situation of the pandemic and the challenges of global security, financial stability and RIC cooperation in that context. This is going to be a trilateral meeting,” MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said, when asked last Thursday. Moscow’s push However, the fact that the meeting is going ahead, despite heightened tensions at the LAC, is seen as an indicator that the government is willing to put aside the bilateral issues with China for the moment. A push behind the scenes from Russia is also understood to have ensured that the meeting, convened as a special session of the RIC grouping to “commemorate the 75th anniversary of the victory in the second world war over Nazism and creation of the United Nations”, is going ahead. In past conflicts with China, including during the stand-offs on the Depsang plains in 2013 and at the Doklam plateau in 2017, high-level meetings had only taken place after the situation at the LAC had been fully resolved. According to experts, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s statement on Friday, denying that there had been any transgressions by Chinese troops on Indian territory leads to speculation that India is now looking at diplomatic options to resolve the current crisis.
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Peak demand for Shramik Specials over’||The peak demand period for Shramik Special trains has ended and the Railways presently have demand for only 15 such trains from various States, Railway Board Member (Traffic) P.S. Mishra said on Monday. The Railways was also in the process of sending letters to the Chief Secretaries of all States to assess the demand for such trains and these trains would be run till there was demand from the States, he said. “We have got demand for 15 more trains for today...When Shramik Special was started, we even ran 269 trains a day. That peak period has ended. We ran three trains on Sunday. Today, we might run six-seven such trains,” he said during a media interaction. The Railways have till now run 4,436 Shramik trains, ferrying over 62 lakh passengers. Last week, they ran about 100 such trains, with just three trains being operated on Sunday. There were no pending dues for the Shramik Specials and payments had been made by all the States. “....all the States have paid; in some cases, the receiving States paid and in some sending States. There is no pendency of payment,” he said in reply to a query. Asked about running more special passenger trains, he said a decision would be taken in consultation with the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA). “The trains we have started till now have been done in consultation with the MHA. Going forwards also, we will consult them before more trains are added. The assessment and dialogue happens almost on a weekly basis.” The Railways are currently running 230 special passenger trains with a cumulative occupancy of 73%. COVID coaches In a statement, the Railways said 59 patients were admitted in COVID care coaches in Uttar Pradesh. “On June 20, 2020, 42 suspected patients were admitted in COVID coaches deployed at Mau Junction in Varanasi division and 17 patients were admitted on 21st June, 2020. Eight patients have already been discharged,” it stated.
23 June 2020||Srinagar,||Kashmiri art turns to virtual fairs||In a first, scores of Kashmir Valley artisans and carpet sellers are mulling over participation in virtual or online fairs to tide over the slump in the sales caused by the lockdown imposed to contain the COVID-19 pandemic. Officials said handicrafts and handloom businesses were facing tough challenges in showcasing their products and services to potential buyers. “Virtual fairs will provide a great opportunity to sell handmade products made by the finest craftsmen from Jammu and Kashmir. Online trade shows seem to be the only viable solution available to both seller and buyer to understand each other’s requirements and keep business going,” a spokesperson of Kashmir’s Handicrafts and Handloom Department (HHD) said. The Kashmir HHD is encouraging exporters and businessmen from J&K to participate in the virtual fairs being organised by the Export Promotion Council for Handicrafts (EPCH) and the Carpet Export Promotion Council (CEPC) in July and August this year. In 2019-20, J&K exported handicrafts worth Rs. 935.25 crore. “It generated sizeable foreign exchange,” the official said. An official said the EPCH is using technology that will make buying and selling a pleasurable experience in the age of social distancing. “It’s inviting overseas buyers representing chain stores, retailers and e-commerce businesses to connect to the exquisite range of handmade products being offered by exporters from all over the country,” the official said. The CEPC aims to restart online business in handmade carpets. “It will be a first-of-its-kind initiative to bridge the gap between markets,” the official said. ‘A good idea’ The Kashmir HHD has assured stakeholders of all support in the two virtual fairs. “It is a good idea. We need to try all platforms to keep the business going,” said Neyaz Ahmad, a carpet seller in Srinagar. Kashmir Chamber of Commerce and Industry president Sheikh Ashiq said, “Over 50,000 workers in carpet and handicraft industries have no work. Since August 5, 2019 all sectors in J&K have been witnessing a slump. COVID-19 only amplified it.”
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||One lakh vacancies in Central Armed Police Forces||More than 6,000 positions are lying vacant in the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP), the primary force deployed along the 3,488 km China border, according to a Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) submission before a Parliamentary panel in January. In 2014, after the Modi government came to power, the then Home Minister Rajnath Singh on October 23, 2014, announced that 54 new border outposts had been sanctioned along the China border. The new BOPs would have required an additional 12 battalions or approximately 12,000 personnel. Mr. Singh again announced at the ITBP’s raising day parade in 2017 that 50 new posts had been sanctioned. A senior government official said the 54 BOPs, meant primarily for Arunachal Pradesh, were yet to come up. However, on October 23 last year, Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy said that “since (the year) 2014, 23 new BOPs have been constructed” along the China border. According to a Parliamentary Standing Committee report tabled in the Rajya Sabha on March 3, the sanctioned strength of ITBP is 89,567. As on January 1, the total number of ITBP personnel stood at 83,337, the report said. Overall, there were a total of 1,03,367, that is, 11% vacancies in the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) comprising the ITBP, the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), the Border Security Force (BSF), the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB), the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and the Assam Rifles. In the ITBP, as many as 6,230 positions, or 7% posts, are vacant. ITBP Director General S. S. Deswal told a press conference on October 23 last year that recruitment of 12 posts filling up 842 vacancies had been completed in the last nine months and 7,535 personnel were recruited. “The recruitments were done mostly against retirements, voluntary retirements and deaths. The force as such has not expanded in all these years,” explained the official.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Soldier killed in Pakistan firing along LOC in Rajouri||An Army soldier was killed in fresh ceasefire violation by the Pakistan Army along the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri on Monday. An official said the soldier was hit during the firing from across the LoC in Kalal area of Nowshera sector. “It was around 5:30 a.m. that Pakistan initiated unprovoked ceasefire violation in Nowshera Sector, Rajouri. There was heavy mortar shelling and firing from small arms at the border posts,” an Army official said. “Own troops responded strongly to the enemy fire. In the incident, Havildar Dipak Karki was critically injured and later succumbed to his injuries,” the Army said in a statement. A Jammu-based Army spokesman said Pakistan violated ceasefire also in Krishna Ghati and Nowshera Sectors. “The Indian Army retaliated befittingly,” the spokesman said. Gunfight in Anantnag Meanwhile, a gunfight broke out between militants and the security forces in south Kashmir’s Anantnag on Monday. The gunfight, according to the Army, erupted during a search operation in a forest in Verinag area. “The hiding militants opened fire. The firefight continued for two hours,” a police official said. An operation was on till late Monday evening in the area to neutralise the militants.
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. cautions against self-medication||The Union Health Ministry on Monday urged people to be cautious about drug abuse and self-medication and underlined that COVID-19, which is caused by a virus and not bacteria, does not respond to antibiotics. “There is currently no cure for COVID-19 and if you have symptoms the best idea is to call a doctor and go by a trained professional advise,” the Health Ministry said. The Ministry added that in the last 24 hours the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had tested 1,43,267 samples, while the total number of samples tested so far is 69,50,493. The Ministry reiterated that ensuring hand hygiene, not touching the face, keeping a physical distance of at least one metre from other people and calling one’s health care provider in case any symptoms are detected, are the pillars of the community fight against COVID-19. The Ministry said only “COVID-appropriate behaviour” will safeguard the community from the pandemic. Masks and exercise The World Health Organisation (WHO) in an advisory has said that “people should not wear masks when exercising as masks may reduce the ability to breathe comfortably.” “Sweat can make the mask become wet more quickly which makes it difficult to breathe and promotes the growth of micro-organisms. The important preventive measure during exercise is to maintain physical distance of at least one metre from others,” the Organisation said. The WHO added that while prolonged use of medical masks can be uncomfortable, it does not lead to carbon dioxide intoxication nor oxygen deficiency. “While wearing a medical mask, make sure it fits properly and that it is tight enough to allow you to breathe normally. Do not re-use a disposable mask and always change it as soon as it gets damp,’’ it said. Speaking about footwear hygiene, the WHO noted that the likelihood of COVID-19 being spread on shoes and infecting individuals is very low. “But as a precautionary measure, particularly in homes where infants and small children crawl or play on floors, consider leaving your shoes at the entrance of your home. This will help prevent contact with dirt or any waste that could be carried on the soles of shoes.”
23 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||For first time since 1565, a Kamakhya festival sans fair||Ambubachi, the festival marking the annual ‘menstruation’ of the presiding Goddess, began at the Kamakhya temple on June 22 without mendicants, hermits and devotees for the first time in almost 500 years. Many places of worship in Assam had opened after the State government went on ‘unlock’ mode from June 3. But the Kamakhya temple administration decided to keep the premises locked in view of the spike in COVID-19 positive cases in the State, primarily Guwahati. The local administration declare 129 localities as containment zones. Till June 21, Assam had recorded 5,586 positive cases, with 2,170 of them active, nine dead and three migrated to other States. The rest have been discharged. “We decided not to risk community transmission of the novel coronavirus by allowing large-scale gathering during Ambubachi Mela, as in previous years. Our priests are conducting the rituals behind locked gates. Only assigned priests and security personnel are being let in,” head priest Mohit Sarma said. The rituals began at 7:53 a.m. on Monday and would end at 8:16 a.m. on June 25, after which the door of the sanctum sanctorum would be opened without the start of the ‘menstruation’-ending fair, he said.
23 June 2020||JAIPUR,||Help the needy, Rajasthan HC tells FCI||A Division Bench of the Rajasthan High Court has issued notices to the National Disaster Management Authority and the Food Corporation of India (FCI), asking them to extend the maximum possible benefit to the poor and needy people in the State during the COVID-19 pandemic without waiting for further directions from the court. Two law students in Rajasthan had brought to the attention of the High Court, through a public interest litigation petition, the issue of the FCI not providing sufficient quantity of foodgrains to the destitute and the underprivileged. The students said the number of beneficiaries had increased exponentially after the data collection in 2013. Petitioners Himakshi Alaria and Harsh Kumar pointed out that migrant labourers, daily wage earners, people excluded from the purview of social security pensions and those not covered in the National Food Security Act (NFSA) were important contributors to the change of demography in the State. None of them was getting any food assistance from FCI, they said. The food stocks being disbursed by the FCI in Rajasthan amounted to 2.23 metric tonnes for a total of 4.46 crore beneficiaries, calculated on the basis of the 2011 Census and data collection in 2013. But the State government had data showing the number of NFSA beneficiaries to be 5 crore. “This clearly establishes a shortage for 54 lakh beneficiaries,” the petition stated. The Bench posted the matter for further hearing on July 13, while directing the Centre and its authorities to take urgent action if the assertion of the petitioners was found correct.
23 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||BSNL seeks further cut in contract labour||As part of its ongoing series of austerity measures, the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) is aiming to further cut down on contract labourers and reduce expenditure. As per a communication from the corporate office on June 19, all the circles have been asked to take “preventive measures” to curtail expenditure on contract labours. The letter also includes a list of regions which were spending more on engaging contract labour. As per the list, Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Kannur, Kollam, Alappuzha, Kottayam, Kozhikode and Thrissur are having higher expenditure contract works or higher engagement of contract labour. Review Chief General Manager of the circle has been asked to review each of these regions and take steps to curtail expenditure. According to leaders of the BSNL Employees Union (BSNLEU), these moves are a continuation of its policies to outsource its outdoor work including maintenance and new connections, following the mass retirement of staff earlier this year. In Kerala, 4,596 out of the 9,381 employees had opted for the Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS). The number of contract staff was also progressively reduced from more than 8,000 to around 5,000 now, by reduction in retirement age from 60 to 58 to 55 now. “The 1,300 odd telephone exchanges in Kerala were combined into 211 clusters, out of which external work in around 195 clusters have already been outsourced. Many of our contract staff will become jobless with this. Some of them have been accommodated under the various contractors taking up the work, but many still remain outside,” says C. Santosh Kumar, Circle Secretary, BSNLEU. Meanwhile, the trade unions have called for a nationwide dharna on June 26, as the Rs. 69,000 crore revival package announced by the Central government is yet to see the light of the day. Only the VRS package, to reduce the workforce by 79,000, has been implemented. The 4G spectrum, awarded to private players in 2016, or the financial package is yet to be provided to BSNL. 4G services The union leaders say that all the private players have been providing 4G services for years now, but only the public sector telecom company has not been allowed to provide 4G services till date, which had led to erosion of customers.
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||Bangladesh rejects criticism of China deal||Bangladesh Foreign Minister A.K. Abdul Momen on Monday said that Indian commentators who described the zero-tariff bilateral agreement for 97% of exports to China as “charity” for “least developed” Bangladesh are revealing their “narrow-mindedness”. This was the Minister’s second comment in two days after certain Indian publications said China was using the deal to get Bangladesh on its side as tension with India simmers along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) near Ladakh. In a set of comments made to a leading online publication, the senior Minister in Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina’s government said that the remarks from sections of the Indian media were “entirely unacceptable”. “News outlets that have used such words have renounced ethical journalism,” Mr. Momen was quoted as saying in Bengali in jagonews24.com. ‘Not welcome’ On Sunday, the Minister had said the portrayal of Bangladesh in a demeaning manner in certain sections of Indian media was “not welcome”. He indicated that Dhaka has taken serious note of the negative Indian media reports on Bangladesh and said, “It appears they [the government] are very upset.” However, he said that Bangladesh would not take it up at an official level despite a social media uproar in the country over the use of the term “ khoyraati ” (charity) in the reports. “We don’t think there is a need to protest [officially] on these news reports,” said Mr. Momen when asked by presspersons about further action on the matter. However, trade is only one part of Bangladesh-China ties. Both sides have also intensified cooperation in the field of health in recent months. On Monday, a delegation of top-level doctors from China’s National Health Commission, who spent a fortnight assisting the government of Bangladesh in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic, attended an event held in their honour at Dhaka’s Hazrat Shahjalal International Airport of Dhaka. The health- and trade-related cooperation was boosted after the May 20 telephone call between Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and Chinese President Xi Jinping. President Xi described China as the “truest” friend of Bangladesh during the interaction. The June 19 Bangladesh-Beijing trade announcement drew Indian attention, especially as it came against the backdrop of heightened tensions between India and China over the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana CM hands over relief to Col. Santosh Babu’s family||Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday visited the Suryapet residence of Col. B. Santosh Babu, slain in the Indo-China border skirmishes, to pay his condolences to the family. The CM, accompanied by Ministers Jagadish Reddy and V. Prashanth Reddy and Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, first paid floral tributes to a portrait of Col. Santosh Babu. Later, he spoke to the late Army officer’s wife Santoshi, parents Manjula and Upender, and sister Sruthi, and consoled them. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao also interacted with Col. Santosh Babu’s children Abhigna and Anirudh Teja. He handed over a cheque for Rs. 4 crore to Ms. Santoshi and another cheque for Rs. 1 crore to the parents of Santosh Babu. He also handed over an appointment letter for a Group I officer’s post to Ms. Santoshi and a land document for a 711 square yards house site in Banjara Hills to her. “Santosh Babu sacrificed his life for the security of the nation. His death deeply saddened me,” Mr. Rao said.
23 June 2020||PALAKKAD,||Film project on Malabar hero sets off hate campaign||The announcement of a big-budget film telling the story of Variyamkunnath Kunhahamed Haji, a 1921 Malabar Rebellion hero who was shot dead by the British police at Kottakkunnu, Malappuram, has set off a hate campaign against the proposed film and its crew. Actor Prithviraj announced on Monday that he would portray Variyamkunnath in the film, to be directed by Ashique Abu and Muhsin Parari. The film will be timed to coincide with the centenary of the Malabar Rebellion next year. Right-wing radicals kicked off a social media campaign soon after. They launched a blistering attack on the Prithviraj-Ashique Abu team, describing Ashique Abu as a ‘Muslim terror sponsor’. Some social media posts threatened the crew that their film would never be allowed to be shot if they went about portraying Variyamkunnath as a Muslim hero against the British. Extensive study “For long, there have been attempts to give a communal colour to the Malabar Rebellion of 1921 by the right-wing radicals. There is nothing new about it. But with the Sangh forces in power, the virulence of their hatred has increased manifold,” Mr. Parari told The Hindu . He said they decided to take up the project after an extensive study of history. “We have examined innumerable documents within and outside the country relating to the 1921 Mapila revolt. Our film will be on the basis of recorded history, and not on the basis of the lies that some vested groups spread,” he said. Mr. Parari said that everyone in society had an important role to play in setting the land’s legacy straight, as the country was undergoing total saffronisation and communal polarisation.  ‘Not anti-Hindu’ I.V. Sasi’s film titled 1921 on the Malabar Rebellion was a big hit in 1988. Scripted by T. Damodaran, the Rs. 120 crore film portrayed Variyamkunnath, among other characters, as a Mapila leader in the fight against the British. “Variyamkunnath has done many good things. We have enough and more proof to establish that he was not anti-Hindu,” said Mangalam Gopinath, veteran Congress leader, at Manjeri. “He [Variyamkunnath] stood up against an empire that ruled a quarter of the world,” Mr. Prithviraj said in a social media post on Monday. “Etched out his own country with an army that waged a never before war against the British. Though history was burned and buried, the legend lived on. The legend of a leader, a soldier, a patriot. A film on the man who became the face of the 1921 Malabar revolution.”
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Unhappy with IMD, Kerala ropes in private forecasters||For the first time, a State government will be funding private weather companies for alerts and warnings about extreme climate events, moving away from the India Meteorological Department. An order by Kerala’s Disaster Management Department issued on June 19, and viewed by The Hindu , authorises the release of Rs. 95 lakh to three private companies — Skymet Private Ltd, Earth Networks and IBM Weather Company — to use “ensemble predictions to improve extreme weather alert services in the State”. The devastating floods of 2019 have heightened concerns about the state of extreme-weather preparedness in Kerala. The order states that these services would be part of a 1 year pilot project. The government’s decision builds on an earlier order from April 30, where it said it was dissatisfied with the IMD. The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority reviewed the State's preparedness in terms of weather prediction and the IMD’s preparedness. The IMD, that order reads, had promised to put up 15 Automatic Weather Stations (AWS) before the monsoon. “Unfortunately no new AWS has come up and the near time data streaming is minimal to nil,” the order said. A senior official associated with the IMD told The Hindu on condition of anonymity that the Department was unable to accede to the Kerala government’s requirement because of disagreements over the location of the AWS. Disagreement with State After cyclone Ockhi of 2017, the IMD, as part of improving the State's weather warning capabilities, committed to installing 100 AWS. However, these could only be installed as per a pre-defined IMD protocol. “They wanted us to install them in certain places and we couldn't do that. Moreover, there are three Doppler Weather Radars and already a strong forecast mechanism in the State,” the official said.
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP president lashes out at former PM||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Monday said former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s statement on the Ladakh stand-off was “mere wordplay” and accused the Congress of questioning and demoralising the armed forces. “Former Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh’s statement is mere wordplay. Sadly, the conduct and actions of top leaders of the Congress party will not make any Indian believe such statements. Remember, this is the same INC that questions and demoralises our armed forces,” he said. The UPA government under Dr. Singh had “presided over 600 incidents of incursions between 2010-2013”, he said. India “fully trusts and supports” Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “130 crore Indians have seen his administrative experience in some of the most testing times, particularly how he has always put the well-being of the nation over and above everything else,” Mr. Nadda said in a series of tweets. While Dr. Singh “rightly calls for unity” in the face of the crisis at the border, “again strong words on paper fall flat when we see exactly who is vitiating the atmosphere of unity. Hope Dr. Singh is able to prevail upon his own party,” he said. It was the Congress that “helplessly surrendered 43,000 km of Indian territory to the Chinese”, he alleged “During the UPA years we saw abject strategic and territorial surrender without a fight,” he said.
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Big screen set to reopen after three decades in Srinagar||Nearly three decades after almost all cinema halls closed down in Srinagar, a two-storeyed multiplex (within a five-storey commercial complex) has received the go-ahead to screen films this month and is likely to start operations by next March. Speaking to The Hindu , Vijay Dhar of the Taksal group and the owner of the now defunct Broadway cinema hall, said his company had got the NOC (No Objection Certificate) for running a multiplex theatre, and it was an attempt to address the youth of the Valley. “Former Governor Satya Pal Malik had told me that there should be cinemas and entertainment centres for the youth in Srinagar and there was an acute lack of these facilities. It started from there,” he said. The multiplex is to come up at Sonwar on land owned by Mr. Vijay Dhar and his sons, Vikas and Vishal Dhar. Mr. Vijay Dhar, a resident of Srinagar, is the son of the legendary D.P. Dhar, who is considered one of the chief architects of India’s intervention in the liberation of Bangladesh. Mr. Vijay Dhar runs the Delhi Public School (DPS) in the city. His family owned Broadway, along with many other cinemas in the city, shut down after threats from terrorists. According to reports, it opened briefly in the mid-1990s but shut down again. Security issues are still key as security forces have been mounting one operation after another to close in on terror groups. “It is an issue, but more for the government to think about,” said Mr. Vijay Dhar. “I feel that since the 1990s we haven’t done anything to address the youth of J&K. There is a major change in terms of what they are exposed to in the world and what other young people have access to, we must consider that. A short time ago, at DPS, we held music festival ‘Shireen’, inviting 180 schools and the finale was attended by 9,000 people, in a city like Srinagar. So there is definitely a desire for music, cinema, arts and sports,” he said. Camps for troops Many cinema halls in the 1990s had been converted to camps for the paramilitary troops and continue to be so till now. One of the few holdouts was Neelam cinema, a single screen theatre that ran films sporadically till the early 2000s. Speaking to The Hindu , Altaf Ahmad, partner in the company that owns Neelam cinema, said his family had tried to run the cinema again in 1999, “but it ran only for 1-1.5 years”, and that they shut it down. On the prospects of the multiplex, he said that prospects of a cinema working again in Srinagar faced the same challenges that theatres did across the world, which was the rise of the streaming channels and OTT platforms. He, however, noted that “there will be a novelty value to the big screen in Srinagar again, so let’s see.” Security threats and insurgency put paid to cinema theatres in a city, which was the site of many film shoots and a cinema loving public. A polity still grappling with the implications of the dilution of Article 370 and 35A, the return of the cinema hall is a piquant development.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana HC questions Railways’ reluctance to add 1 compartment||Expressing dissatisfaction over South Central Railway’s refusal to attach a bogie to a train for transporting stranded migrant labourers from Hyderabad to Bihar, Telangana High Court on Monday summoned its Divisional Railway Manager to appear before it. The bench headed by Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy was hearing a batch of PIL pleas on the plight of outstation workers in Telangana. During the hearing, lawyer Vasudha Nagaraj, the petitioner’s counsel, said there were only 47 workers from Bihar in a shelter in Secunderabad waiting for transportation to their State. The revenue authorities were ready to book railway tickets in emergency quota but the railway authorities were not giving more than 30 tickets in emergency quota in each train. In that case, a single bogie which can accommodate 72 passengers should be sufficient for shifting all the workers from Bihar stranded here, the bench said. But the SCR counsel Pushpinder Kaur replied that not more than a specific number of bogies can be attached to a train. The CJ wondered why cannot a single bogie for stranded migrant labourers be attached to a train and asked Ms. Kaur, “Where was the bar in the law not to attach an additional bogie to a train?” When the SCR counsel said a train cannot have more than 24 bogies, the CJ sought to know why it should not have one more. “Why this stubborn attitude?” the CJ asked. The SCR counsel informed the bench that so far there was no specific request from the State government on the matter. “I will request the DRM on behalf of the workers to attach a single bogie. Let the DRM be present tomorrow (Tuesday),” the CJ said. Earlier, the bench told Advocate General B.S. Prasad that the State government officials filed a report stating that there was no space in Manoranjan Complex in Secunderabad to provide accommodation to migrant workers. “The HC Registry officials clearly filed pictures of the building showing that there was over 80,000 square-foot space in that complex. This shows the district Collector did not visit the building. This is misplaced information,” the CJ said.
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||Why is China praising Modi, asks Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday asked why China was praising Prime Minister Narendra Modi after killing Indian soldiers and “taking away India’s land”. The Congress took to Twitter and posted a news report published in The Hindu that mentioned how Chinese media praised Mr. Modi’s statement at Friday’s all-party meeting and how it would pave the way for de-escalation. “China killed our soldiers. China took our land. Then, why is China praising Mr. Modi during this conflict,” asked Mr. Gandhi. In a separate tweet, Mr. Gandhi commented on Dr. Manmohan Singh’s advice to Mr. Modi. “An important advice from the former Prime Minister. I hope the Prime Minister will pay heed to it for the sake of the country,” he said in Hindi. The Congress also hit back at BJP president J.P. Nadda who accused Dr. Singh of presiding over “600 incursions between 2010 and 2013”. “Dear Sh. Nadda, Pl show the courage to ask Modi Govt about-: 1. 2,264 Chinese transgressions since 2015. 2. Martyrdom of 471 jawans & 253 civilians in J&K alone, highest in 30 years. 3. 3,289 ceasefire violations by Pak in 2019 alone, highest in 16 years, up from 583 in 2014,” chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said. “Stop compromising on ‘National Security’ & India’s ‘Territorial Integrity’. This would be the biggest disservice to our Armed Forces & our 20 martyrs.”
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||MPs’ panel looking into Aarogya Setu||After several failed attempts to organise a meeting, both online and offline, the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Information and Technology has started working on the various questions of privacy and data security of the government-run Aarogya Setu app, which was launched during the COVID-19 pandemic. Speaking to The Hindu , Chairperson of the committee Shashi Tharoor said the committee’s work “must and will” continue, even though the panel members can’t meet in person or via videoconference. “Due to restrictions on movement and various other functional challenges, the physical occurrence of committee meetings is proving to be a challenge. Despite that, its work must and will continue, as there are a host of critical matters that need to be addressed,” he said. Forwarding questions For now, the committee is forwarding all the questions raised by the members on the Aarogya Setu app to the government and other stakeholders concerned. These replies are then circulated amongst the members for further deliberations. Mr. Tharoor refused to delve into details about the deliberations but sources indicated that the committee will also look into the legality of the government’s mandatory imposition of the app on various categories of persons. “Despite the considerable challenges the current situation imposes on us as elected representatives, we will continue to carry out our duties of parliamentary oversight of the government, by providing a constructive check and balance to the working and functioning of the various Ministries under our jurisdiction,” he said. Budget session The Budget Session ended abruptly hurrying through the debates on the Finance Bill on March 23. Since then no department related standing committee has met. Mr. Tharoor, on April 20, announced on Twitter that the panel would meet via videoconference. He was later informed by Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla’s office that videoconferences cannot be used as a medium to hold parliamentary panel meetings till the rules are approved by both the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha since it violates the confidentiality clause. After much to and fro, a meeting was called for June 10 at the Parliament complex but it had to be deferred to June 17. On both days, the committee could not meet because of varied quarantine rules and travel restrictions for out of State travellers since most of the members are in their respective constituencies.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||HC notices to Centre, State over objectionable content on Twitter||Telangana High Court on Monday issued notices to Central and State governments in a PIL petition seeking direction to them to ensure social media giant Twitter stopped trending of posts linking religion to coronavirus pandemic. A division bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy directed Advocate General B.S. Prasad and Assistant Solicitor General N. Rajeshwar Rao to file counter affidavits in four weeks. A lawyer Khaja Aijazuddin filed the plea stating that some individuals were posting content on Twitter connecting Islam with COVID-19. Using the hashtags like #Islamiccoronavirusjihad, #Coronajihad, #Tablighijamat, #Nizamuddidnin and TablighiJamatVirus, posts were placed on Twitter, the lawyer stated. These ‘Islamophobic’ posts were not only hurting religious sentiments of Muslims but also had potential to disturb communal harmony in the country, he contended. The petitioner requested the court to instruct the governments to ensure along with the Twitter all other online and social media platforms do not circulate any content connecting religion with coronavirus pandemic. He also pleaded that criminal cases be registered against all persons posting such content online. Mr. Aijazuddin told the court that he had sent representations through email to the Central and State governments, along with Twitter, requesting them to act against persons trying to create trouble by posting such objectionable content. ‘Waive power bills’ The bench had also issued notices to the State government, Electricity Regulatory Commission and Power Distribution Companies in two PIL pleas seeking to waive off power bills of all domestic consumers for the months of March, April and May. The petitioners contended that the electricity bills were inflated. They claimed that the bills charged exorbitant amounts from the consumers without any justification.
23 June 2020||GUWAHATI/ IMPHAL,||Himanta hints at ‘architectural change’ to save Manipur govt.||Assam Finance and Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma, who is also the convener of the North East Democratic Alliance (NEDA), said there would be an “architectural change” for resolving the political crisis in Manipur. NEDA is a Bharatiya Janata Party-fronted forum of major regional parties in the northeast. Marathon meeting Mr. Sarma and Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma had taken a special flight to the Manipur capital Imphal on Sunday and had a marathon discussion with the four National People’s Party (NPP) lawmakers who pulled out of the BJP-led alliance along with five others, including three of BJP, on June 17. This had reduced the Nongthombam Biren Singh government to a minority two days ahead of the Rajya Sabha election. However, the BJP managed to win the sole seat from the State . Mr. Sangma is the national president of the NPP. Their discussion with the NPP lawmakers and other key players in the alliance went on for nine hours before they caught the flight back at 10 p.m. The NPP lawmakers saw them off but returned to the hotel where the Opposition Congress MLAs are camping, raising speculations that the talks had failed.  Byelections likely Mr. Sarma told mediapersons in Guwahati on Monday, “I think you will see a good result in the next two-three days. After the RS polls, many people were disqualified. Manipur will go for byelections. So basically, the architecture will be a bit different but more or less, we are continuing with the principle of friendship and the spirit of NEDA and NDA,” he said, declining to elaborate. The NPP’s Manipur unit had earlier said Mr. Biren was making it difficult for their MLAs to remain in the alliance. The Governor on Monday summoned the Chief Minister to reportedly discuss the political crisis in the context of the Congress demanding a special Assembly session for the trial of strength.
23 June 2020||KOCHI,||Post-surgery, Kerala infant remains critical||An infant who suffered serious head injury after being allegedly assaulted by her father underwent surgery at the Kolencherry Medical College on Monday. The surgical procedure for removing a blood clot from the brain started around 9 a.m. and was completed around 1.30 p.m. Since then the infant, 54-days-old at the time of the incident, has been moved to the neuro Intensive Care Unit on oxygen support and her condition remains critical, a medical bulletin said. A clear idea of her condition will be known in the next 24 to 48 hours. The incident in which her father slapped her took place on Thursday night. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja on Monday said the Department of Women and Child Development would bear the medical expenses. The Angamaly police have registered a case against the father, Shaiju Thomas, 40, of Kannur. Inspector T.K. Josy said the baby used to sleep through the day and remain awake at night. On the fateful day, when she started crying, Thomas, who was quarrelling with his wife, slapped the baby and threw her on to the bed.
23 June 2020||hyderabad,||‘Clarification on info graph data’||Hours after releasing a graphic that projected ‘risk of community transmission’ at a stunning 122% for Telangana, the makers of the info graph issued a clarification about the data. The graphic became viral triggering fear and anxiety in the city and State. Delhi’s community transmission was projected at an even higher 143%. The clarification issued by India in Pixels on Monday evening stated: “The formula is only a rough metric comparing quarantined to positive cases, it is not a prediction. The data is based on Aarogya Setu app which is self reported and it assumes the figures to be correct.” The formula factored non-quarantined people as spreaders of the disease. The app data accessed at 10 p.m. on Monday by this reporter showed 7,802 confirmed cases and 2,933 people in quarantine. In reality, there were 8,677 positive cases in TS from the time the State recorded its first case on March 2. As per the State Health Ministry data, 4,452 persons were under treatment and 4,005 persons have been discharged. In the clarification, the info graph makers say: “If there is any takeaway here, it should be that Telangana and Delhi need to increase the number of quarantined people compared to other states like Kerala and Odisha.”
23 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,||Kerala Catholic priest found dead in well||A 55-year-old Catholic priest, who went missing from Ayarkunnam on Sunday, was found dead inside a well near his parish here on Monday. The deceased was identified as George Ettuparayil, a native of Edathuva in Alappuzha. He was the vicar of St.Thomas Church at Punnathura near here. The priest, who had been staying at a house adjacent to the parish, reportedly went missing on Sunday afternoon. The body was spotted in the well on Monday morning during a search operation carried out by the police and Fire and Rescue Services personnel. Several members of the parish and priests from the Changanassery Archdiocese were present. The body was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam, for postmortem examination. Fr. George had taken charge of the parish in February this year after returning from abroad. Initial probe Preliminary investigations suggested that the deceased had been under immense mental pressure over a fire accident at a storeroom near the parish about three weeks ago. As many as four persons had sustained severe burns in the accident. The police recovered the cellphone used by the deceased, which was in silent mode. The CCTV cameras on the church premises were switched off. Cause of death R. Sreekumar, Deputy Superintendent of Police, said investigations so far pointed to the death as a wilful act by the priest. “A preliminary medical examination confirmed drowning as the cause of death. Statements collected from parish members and priests suggested that he had been suffering from severe depression following the burns sustained by the parish members,” the official said.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Reports of Chinese build-up at Pangong||Spokesperson of China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs Zhao Lijian declined to respond to comments of Union Minister Gen. V.K. Singh (retd.) that China had lost more than 40 soldiers in the Galwan incident. “I have no information to release on that,” Mr. Zhao said in response to questions. China and India were in communication with each other to resolve the situation on the ground through diplomatic and military channels, he added. Separately, in the national capital, the Phase-II of the Army Commanders Conference got under way. The biannual conference was postponed in April due to the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequently the first phase was held from May 27 to 29. “ACC-20 is being conducted on June 22-23 to review the operational situation on both the Northern and Western Fronts,” the Army said on Twitter.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||CBSE to seek SC directive on pending exams||The CBSE’s annual board examinations were suspended mid-way in March, leaving Class 12 students with pending papers. Class 12 students in northeast Delhi have more pending papers, as their exams had been previously disrupted by violence in the area. The pending examinations had been rescheduled to be held in the first two weeks of July, with CBSE increasing the number of centres from 3,000 to over 13,000 to allow for minimal travel and maximum social distancing. “In March, we had thought July would be a safe time to hold exams. But the situation has only gotten worse, and it is changing everyday,” said a senior Ministry official, downplaying the chance of further postponement of the examinations, given the uncertainty of the course of the pandemic. Several State governments, including Delhi and Maharashtra, have also communicated their unwillingness to risk the health of students and staff by conducting the examination.  The HRD Ministry has been hesitant to announce a complete cancellation of board examinations because of the fall-out on professional entrance examinations such as JEE and NEET, needed for admission to engineering and medical courses, which had also been rescheduled for the second half of July. Already, a section of students has been calling for those examinations to be cancelled as well. HRD Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank has been holding consultations with the National Testing Agency, which conducts these entrance exams, as well as with the University Grants Commission and the All India Council for Technical Education. With regard to the Class 10 and 12 examinations conducted by the Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), students have been given an option to either write their pending examinations physically or opt for alternative grading. On Monday, the Bombay High Court extended the deadline for the Council to declare its alternative methodology till June 25, after which students can make an informed choice on whether or not to write the examinations which begin on July 1. Several students have said their schools have already forced them to choose. The court also directed the Union and State government to apprise the court on their stand on conducting the examinations as per the revised schedule. A senior HRD Ministry official said it has been made clear that the Centre does not administer the CISCE, which is an autonomous body. The Bombay High Court is hearing a parent’s petition to cancel the ICSE and ISC examinations, and a number of similar-minded parents have joined the plea. On Monday, other parents intervened to say some students are willing to write the pending papers, having put in hard work to prepare, and that any decision taken by the State or by the Council to cancel the examinations would be detrimental to their interest. There is a pending proceeding before the SC on the same issue. The matter is scheduled to be heard on June 24.
23 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||Mob beats man to death in Deoband||A person in Saharanpur district’s Deoband in Uttar Pradesh died of injuries after being allegedly beaten up brutally by a mob in a village, police said on Monday. While 11 persons have been booked for his murder, the police also filed an attempt to murder case against the deceased, alleging that before being assaulted by the mob he had attacked a boy in the village twice on his neck with a sickle. Saharanpur police claimed that the deceased, identified as Israr, was mentally unstable. A video showing a man lying on the ground while a mob assaults him was shared on social media. According to the Saharanpur police, Israr hit a boy in the village Imliya with a sickle on June 18 and fled with the victim’s motorcycle. When he reached Dehra village, he allegedly attacked another boy. Upon seeing the boy, villagers surrounded Israr and thrashed him badly, said Station House Officer Deoband Y.D. Sharma. Police admitted Israr to a hospital where he died during treatment. “Some people are trying to label it a case of mob-lynching, but the situation was not so. It was action-reaction,” Mr. Sharma said. A case was lodged against 11 persons. According to Israr’s brother Gulfam, his brother was beaten up without any reason.
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||Extend distribution of free foodgrains: Sonia||Congress President Sonia Gandhi on Monday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and sought to extend the distribution of monthly free foodgrains to vulnerable sections of the population till September. In a letter to Mr. Modi, Ms. Gandhi said the government should extend schemes that provided monthly free ration of 5 kg of food grains per person to migrant workers who were not covered under any Central scheme or the public distribution system (PDS), as well as those who are covered under Antodaya Anna Yojana and as Priority Households under the National Food Security Act, 2005. “The Union government must consider extending the provision of free food grains for a further period of three months, that is, July to September 2020. Many State governments have asked for the same. Furthermore, since a significant number of poor households continue to be excluded from the PDS system, temporary ration cards must be issued to all such households,” she said.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Parliament plan returned for finer detailing||As on Monday evening, the website only showed minutes of meetings that took place till May 29. Minutes of at least two meetings since then, including the one discussing the Parliament project, have not been uploaded yet, unlike the usual practice. Multiple calls and messages to DUAC secretary Ruby Kaushal on Monday on reasons for the delay were not answered. Sources in the DUAC also said the offices had been shut last week as an employee had tested positive for COVID-19.  Sanitisation The office was reopened on Monday after being sanitised. The proposal of the CPWD, which operates under the Union Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry, is to construct a triangular Parliament building in the 10.5-acre plot adjacent to the existing heritage structure built in the 1920s. The project is estimated to cost Rs. 922 crore, according to the CPWD's application for environmental clearance. New office buildings While the new Parliament building is the first of the Central Vista revamp projects to get under way, the CPWD has proposed constructing 10 new office buildings for all Ministries along the Central Vista by 2024, new residences for the Prime Minister and Vice-President near South and North Block and a Prime Minister's Office. The Parliament building as well North and South Blocks are proposed to be re-purposed as museums.
23 June 2020||GUDIVADA (KRISHNA DT.),||Police station inaugurated||Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Venkateswara Rao and Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu inaugurated the One Town police station here on Monday. According to the SP, the new station will have CC cameras, control room, traffic control room, records and retiring rooms, reception and other facilities. DSP N. Satyanandam and others were present.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Means for salvation||Sastras explain that unless one is rid of all karma, there is no salvation. So, one desirous of salvation has no short cut except to strive to bring about nil balance in his karma account. This appears to be a distant dream since none can refrain from actions and each action, physical or mental, is linked to consequences that have to be faced. But there is the path of ‘saranagati’ also known as ‘prapatti’ in the Vaishnava tradition that is a sure means to salvation for the Mumukshu. Prapatti is devotion and self surrender to God and depends on the implicit and absolute faith one places in the Lord’s compassionate grace and His boundless protective power, pointed out Sri Asuri Madhavachariar in a discourse. The only merit on the part of the mumukshu is his Maha vishwasa. One may have committed even the most heinous crimes in the past; one may not have led a morally virtuous life. When no individual effort can erase the burden of karma that is always attached to every jivatma, there is hope to get absolved of all sins great or small when one seeks His feet in all humility. The long list of sanchita karma, along with the prarabdha and agami stands as a formidable hurdle. But the act of prapatti not only makes him eligible for moksha by releasing him from the effects of sanchita karma but also takes care of the prarabdha karma that has to be exhausted. This gets cancelled in due course by His grace and His subtle ways of chastisement. As the prapanna continues to lead the rest of his life as ordained by the sastras, such as performance of Nitya and Naimittika karmas etc., he becomes aware of his own inadequacies against the enormity of God’s grace. He strives to become really deserving of the Lord’s grace that has shaped his spiritual life and awareness.
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||Left parties slam govt. on fuel price hike||The five Left parties, in a joint statement, criticised the government for the sharp hike in fuel prices and demanded that the Central Excise Duty be reduced to provide relief to the people. They said thegovernment had embarked upon the merciless destruction of people’s livelihoods, which have already been severely assaulted both by the pandemic and the “mismanaged nationwide lockdown”.
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Quarantine norms for pilots eased||The DGCA on Monday eased quarantine norms for pilots and cabin crew and dispensed with the need for the entire crew to be sent on a mandatory 14-day quarantine in case anyone aboard a flight tested positive for COVID-19. Instead, airlines can conduct a risk assessment and take a decision accordingly. “The risk assessment for the crew shall be done by the airline’s doctor and the crew shall be advised for testing as per the ICMR guidelines,” said a circular.
23 June 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Ex-Gujarat CM Vaghela quits NCP||Senior leader and former Gujarat Chief Minister Shankarsinh Vaghela resigned on Monday from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). In a video message after his resignation, he expressed his displeasure at party MLA Kandhal Jadeja cross-voting in the June 19 Rajya Sabha polls for four seats. “Lone NCP MLA’s act of defying the party whip to vote for the BJP in the Rajya Sabha polls has disappointed me,” he said. The NCP has issued a show cause notice to Mr. Jadeja for defying party whip to vote for the Congress. Mr. Vaghela, in his letter to Sharad Pawar, said he had been unhappy with the NCP since his removal as president of the Gujarat unit a week before the Rajya Sabha elections.
23 June 2020||Kolkata,||Rath Yatra in Kolkata cancelled||The Rath Yatra procession of ISKCON (International Society of Krishna Consciousness) organised in Kolkata has been cancelled, and the rituals will be held on its temple premises in the city. “At ISKCON Kolkata, we had to cancel the procession as it attracts over 15 lakh people during the nine days festivities and we don’t have dedicated area where people’s entry/exit can be controlled,” it said in a statement. The organisation also said it has “decided to conduct all rituals inside our temple premises at ISKCON”. Radharaman Das, vice president of ISKCON, Kolkata, said, “The ceremony will be live telecast on the ISKCON Kolkata (official) Facebook and YouTube channels from 8.30 a.m. on June 23”.
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||NHRC notice to U.P. after 57 girls infected||The National Human Rights Commission on Monday issued notices to the Uttar Pradesh government and the police over media reports of 57 girls at a state-run shelter home in Kanpur testing positive for COVID-19. The NHRC noted that five of the affected girls were pregnant and one HIV-positive.  Negligence cited “Reportedly, the girls were exhibiting symptoms of COVID-19 for some time but there was delay in taking them to hospital for tests. The commission has observed that the contents of the media report, if true, are enough to prima facie believe that the public servants have failed to provide safeguard to the victim girls and, apparently, were negligent in protecting their right to life, liberty and dignity in the custody of the State,” the NHRC said in a statement. The NHRC issued notices to the Chief Secretary and the Director General of Police, asking for reports, including on the action taken in the matter, within four weeks. “The State government is expected to order an inquiry into the matter by an independent agency. It is also expected to review the health status of the female inmates lodged in shelter homes across the State and issue suitable directives that such incidents do not recur in future,” the NHRC said.
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With 2,710 new cases, tally past 60,000||Tamil Nadu on Monday recorded a new high with 2,710 new cases of COVID-19. This took the State’s tally past 60,000, while its recovery rate stood at nearly 55%, and mortality rate at 1.27%. The State’s tally stood at 62,087*, of which 27,178 were active cases. Another 1,358 persons were discharged and 37 persons succumbed to the infection. With this, the total number of persons discharged stood at 34,112, while the toll increased to 794. The spike in cases continued in many districts across the State. In fact, there were new cases in all 37 districts. Of the total 2,652 indigenous cases, 1,165 were from districts other than Chennai. The State capital accounted for 1,487 of the fresh cases, taking its tally to 42,752. Its toll touched 623. Madurai, that has been witnessing a rise in COVID-19 cases for the past few days, registered a sharp increase with 153 new cases. Tiruvannamalai followed with 130 cases. While Tiruvallur had 120 cases, Chengalpattu recorded 126 cases. There were 50 cases in Cuddalore, 56 in Kancheepuram, 52 in Ranipet, 57 in Thoothukudi and 51 in Tiruchi. Apart from the indigenous cases, 58 returnees from other States and abroad also tested positive. Doubling rate Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said that as per an epidemiological survey, the case doubling rate now was 15-16 days. “The doubling time was six to seven days in April and May. This proves that our strategy of aggressive testing, early diagnosis and proper treatment is right, and we are on the right path,” he said. He pointed out that the lockdown in Chennai was aimed at breaking the chain of transmission. “We are conducting fever camps in Chennai through 253 mobile medical units. A total of 530 camps are being held in a day, and about 30,000 persons are being screened. This is aimed at slowing down disease transmission,” he said. A total of 14,814 doctors, staff nurses and paramedical personnel were appointed. Stating that COVID-19 was a “biological calamity”, the Minister said that even the World Health Organisation, the Indian Council of Medical Research, the Union Health Ministry and other global experts were struggling to determine its spread and peak. He said that convalescent plasma therapy was being successfully carried out at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. The Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation had procured life-saving drugs like tocilizumab and remdesivir, that was being distributed to government medical college hospitals in Chennai and other districts, he said. Tamil Nadu was testing more than many other State in the country like Maharashtra and Rajasthan, he said. The State had so far tested 9,19,204 samples. After testing over 30,000 samples in the last two days, the number of samples tested today stood at 26,592. Among the 37 fatalities — 30 in government and seven in private hospitals — two persons were aged 33. A woman with bronchial asthma died at a private hospital due to COVID-19 pneumonia and cardiopulmonary arrest on June 22. A man with systemic hypertension died at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital due to bronchopneumonia and respiratory arrest. One more private laboratory — Endocare Diagnostic Centre, K.K. Nagar, Madurai — has been approved for COVID-19 testing. As of now, there are 46 government testing facilities and 41 private laboratories in the State.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BharatNet tender: Centre convenes virtual meet||The Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry has convened a video-conference meeting on June 23, 2020, to discuss the serious allegations levelled by Arappor Iyakkam, an anti-corruption body, in the Rs. 1,950-crore BharatNet tender floated by the Tamil Nadu Fibernet Corporation Limited (TANFINET). Advising the TANFINET to extend the date for submission of bids in the tender, the DPIIT said its Additional Secretary would chair the video-conference to discuss the grievances flagged by Arappor Iyakkam, Chennai, Telecom Equipment and Services Export Promotion Council (TEPC), New Delhi, and Tejas Networks Limited, Bengaluru. Besides the complainants, the Secretary, Department of Telecommunications, New Delhi, Additional Chief Secretary (Information Technology), Government of Tamil Nadu, Chennai, Managing Director, TANFINET, Chennai, were among others who would participate in the virtual meet. Urgent report Last month, the DPIIT had calling for an urgent report on the allegations levelled by Arappor Iyakkam. The alleged irregularities pertained to violations in the tender conditions by increasing the turnover, experience and tweaking configuration of routers to suit two specific companies and thereby eliminating competition by the issue of a corrigendum to the tender floated by TANFINET and the IT Department on April 15, 2020. The DPIIT later requested the Additional Chief Secretary to advice TANFINET “not to hasten” the opening of tenders without its clearance. “Though the Centre restrained the government from finalising and opening tenders pending disposal of the complaint, which also meant that the tenders should be kept open for more bidders to participate, the State violated the advisory by closing options for submissions and removed the tender from the website on June 12, 2020,” Jayaram Venkatesan, convenor, Arappor Iyakkam, said on Monday. “We flagged the issued with the DPIIT, which asked the State authorities to extend the submission dates,” he contended. Mr. Venkatesan said Arappor Iyakkam had also sought action against officials responsible for the “arbitrary” and “massive” changes in the tender conditions to favour certain companies. “We have already made out points clear to the DPIIT and the State has also been advised to submit their version before the video-conferencing. The meeting has been convened online in view of the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown conditions,” Mr. Venkatesan added.
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Do aggressive testing, Chief Secretary tells Collectors||Taking a dim view of the “spurt” in influenza-like illness (ILI) and severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) cases in some districts, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam on Monday asked all District Collectors to follow a strategy of “aggressive and focussed testing” for achieving early detection of COVID-19 cases. Calling upon the Collectors to step up surveillance and conduct fever camps, the Chief Secretary, in a circular, said that in such districts, the “geo-spatial spread” in habitations or streets should be studied to contain emerging clusters effectively by imposing “severe restrictions on movement”. The Collectors should also analyse the source of cases, on a daily basis to work out “appropriate intervention strategies”, the circular said. Affected streets or habitations with comparatively more ILI cases can be completely screened. “The strategy should be to test all persons with symptoms, without any omission,” Mr. Shanmugam underscored, adding that “persons should be tested even if they have just one or two symptoms” such as fever, cough, sore throat or difficulty in breathing. If COVID-19 cases are on the rise in slums or other congested areas, “high risk” families can be shifted to quarantine centres. The district administration should focus on “effective contact tracing, containment areas and quarantine management” as key strategies to control the disease, he said. ‘Early detection’ On bringing down the fatality rate, Mr. Shanmugam emphasised the importance of “early detection and early admission to hospitals”. Focussed testing should also cover the elderly and those with co-morbidities “who are at high risk”. Collectors must “continuously review” the existing health infrastructure in three verticals — COVID-19 hospitals (for severe cases), health centres (moderate cases) and care centres (mild and asymptomatic cases) — and ramp it up, if necessary. They should also ensure that the number of asymptomatic patients in hospitals is reduced for facilitating the admission of seriously-ill or co-morbid cases. On the definition of a “containment area”, the Chief Secretary made it clear that it should have “three or more households with positive cases”. There should be “strict perimeter control” with proper supply of essentials through volunteers to the households concerned. Mandatory wearing of face masks should be ensured and violators should be penalised.
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 ambulance fleet increased to 80 in Chennai||The 108 ambulance network has increased its COVID-19-dedicated fleet from 50 to 80 to cater to patients in Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) limits. Across the State, the network operates 223 ambulances, exclusively for COVID-19. “As the COVID-19 case load increased in Chennai, we increased the number of ambulances deployed exclusively for COVID-19 patients to 80. There has also been an increase in the number of trips by these ambulances. Each ambulance now makes six to seven trips a day. On an average, seven patients are transported a day, per ambulance,” said M. Selvakumar, State head of operations, GVK EMRI, that operates the network. Exclusive call centre The number of COVID-19-related call flows to the 108’s Emergency Response Centre also increased, he said, adding: “In a bid to decongest, the Health Department decided to launch an exclusive 24x7 call centre for COVID-19 for GCC areas (044-40067108). The helpline has been receiving 500-600 calls a day. Health inspectors, after pooling details of patients in a particular area, contact the call centre. So, when they call the helpline, each health inspector will cover at least 30 patients.” The call centre was launched not just to decongest the call flow, but also to enable timely access to ambulances in Chennai, he added. Mr. Selvakumar said that all these ambulances had separate manpower, that included ambulance pilots and emergency medical technicians.
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bill calculation not arbitrary, Tangedco tells High Court||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) on Monday denied the charge of having followed an “arbitrary and unjust” method for calculating power charges to be paid by domestic consumers during the COVID-19 lockdown, when meter readings in individual households could not be recorded by its staff. Justices R. Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy were told that “there were about 1.75 crore domestic consumers of electricity in the State. If every such consumer begins to calculate their bill for energy usage by applying permutations and combinations to suit their convenience, it will be impossible to arrive at any solution”. The submission was made in reply to a public interest litigation petition filed by advocate M.L. Ravi of Desiya Makkal Katchi. The litigant had claimed that the methodology adopted by Tangedco would lead to collection of higher charges from those who generally use less than 500 units of power, bi-monthly, compared to those who use more than that. However, the counter filed through Additional Advocate General P.H. Arvindh Pandian stated that only a rational approach, common to all, had been adopted. The court was also told that a lockdown to fight COVID-19 was never contemplated and as such there was no exact provision in the Tamil Nadu Electricity Supply Code of 2004 to apply to the present situation. Therefore, the method followed by Tangedco could not be termed as irrational or violative of any provision, it asserted. Though the litigant had come up with a calculation to claim how the method had led to him reportedly paying higher charges and had also suggested an alternative method, the latter might end up counter productive to other consumers, the corporation added. After taking the counter on file, the judges adjourned the case to next Monday for further hearing.  A lockdown was never contemplated and there is no provision in Tamil Nadu Electricity Supply Code , 2004, to apply to present situation P.H. Arvindh Pandian Additional Advocate General
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Prime accused was not present at the scene’||The Madras High Court on Monday acquitted the prime accused B. Chinnasamy from the 2016 Udumalpet Shankar murder case because of prosecution’s “failure to prove the charge of criminal conspiracy” by listing out a chain of events that could lead to the inevitable conclusion of guilt, besides establishing each and every circumstance in the chain. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and M. Nirmal Kumar pointed out that the prime accused was not present at the scene of occurrence when a gang hacked engineering student V. Shankar, belonging to a Scheduled Caste, to death on March 13, 2016 and also attempted to murder his wife Kowsalya belonging to a Most Backward Community. The prosecution had to first prove the charge of criminal conspiracy against Mr. Chinnasamy before he could be punished for murdering his son-in-law and attempting to murder his daughter because of the inter-caste marriage. Though it was the prosecution’s case that he had hired contract killers, the charge of conspiracy stood disproved, the court said. It pointed out that the police had succeeded in proving only one of the circumstances in the chain and it was related to the fact that the assailants and the prime accused were in contact over phone between February 6, 2016 and March 6, 2016. This circumstance had been proved through phone call records and by examining the telecommunication officials. However, none of the other circumstances in the chain were proved, the Bench said and pointed out that testimonies of the owners of a lodge, where the prime accused had reportedly made arrangements for the stay of the assailants, did not in any way advance the case of the prosecution, since they were not able to produce sufficient oral and documentary evidence. “Therefore, the prosecution was unable to prove that it was A1 who made arrangements for A5 to A8 to stay in the lodge owned by PW (prosecution witness) 14 and PW15,” the judges said. They also stated that the evidence of two other witnesses, who claimed to have seen the prime accused conspire along with the assailants, was “highly doubtful.” Though it was also the prosecution’s claim that the prime accused had withdrawn Rs. 80,000 from a joint bank account held by him and his wife from March 12 and 14, 2016 and of it, Rs. 50,000 was recovered from two of the assailants, the Bench said, the police had failed to prove that it was none but Mr. Chinnasamy who withdrew the money and paid the assailants. The judges said that the police had failed to obtain CCTV footage from the ATMs and hence it would be difficult to accept the theory of the police, especially when it was their own case that the prime accused was an agriculturist and also the owner of a tourist cab. As far as the five assailants were concerned, the judges concluded that they were guilty because of their fatal overt acts.
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Can UPHCs within Greater Chennai Corporation limits offer testing?||Here are two scenarios, starkly juxtaposed. One, residents of Mogappair seek the establishment of a COVID-19 testing facility at the Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) centre run by Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) near Veeramamunivar Park. For testing, residents of Mogappair East, Mogappair West, Padi Kuppam and Collector Nagar head to a special government-run health unit near Ambattur taluk office, with some of them having to travel 8 km. Two, on the outskirts of Chennai, in a couple of areas that come under the Chengalpattu district administration, testing is carried out at two Upgraded-Primary Health Centres (UPHC), one at Poondi Bazaar in Tambaram; and the other at Medavakkam. At the Medavakkam UPHC, on an average, around 80 residents are said to be undergoing testing every day. The samples are sent to the Kings Institute in Guindy, with residents informed of the results in two days. The Medavakkam example may give fresh impetus to the question, one that is already being asked by residents from certain parts of Chennai, besides Mogappair: “Why not COVID-19 testing at select UPHCs within GCC limits? Residents from the extended areas of Corporation, including Ambattur, Manali and Porur seem to be particularly batting for the idea. Residents underline lack of readily available transport — except where residents have their own — as a challenge in reaching the testing centres. Street-wise testing These residents also point out that street-wise testing carried out in the locality a few weeks ago was far from effective as some streets were bypassed. At present, Corporation enumerators go door to door and check on residents for symptoms. In addition, fever camps are organised in every zone. One such camp was recently held in Ambattur Old Town (OT) and this was what S. Suresh, secretary, Thiruvengada Nagar Residents Welfare Association, had to say about it: “We are not in favour of such mass testing at public places like parks as social distancing norms can be flouted. Door-to-door screening and testing on a regular basis will be an effective way.” Two considerations GCC has 140 Urban Primary Health Centres in its 15 zones covering all the 200 wards. Officials point out that the option of not having testing at UPHCs was governed by two considerations — having a testing facility at UPHCs may deter many residents from using these centres for the regular services; and lack of adequate space in most UPHCs. “We have a separate testing area on the premises for the purpose of testing. The availability of cold storage facilities to keep samples is a factor. The Medavakkam UPHC has such facilities,” said Dr. Rajesh, Medical Officer, UPHC, Medavakkam.
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cooperative bank disburses Rs. 187 cr. in gold loans during lockdown||The Tamil Nadu State Apex Co-Operative Bank Limited has so far disbursed Rs. 187 crore to 20,000 people in Chennai during the lockdown period, under its loan against gold scheme. “We launched the scheme with a lower interest rate during the lockdown period and a lot of people availed of it to manage their liquidity problems,” a senior bank official said. Under the scheme, the gold was valued at 10% more than in the usual gold schemes, or in other words the gold was valued at Rs. 3,300 per gram, compared to Rs. 3,000 per gram in regular schemes. The loan attracts an interest of 6% per annum, when compared to 9.5% in regular schemes. The minimum amount that can be borrowed is Rs. 25,000 and the maximum is Rs. 1lakh with a repayment period of three months and an additional grace period of three months. The scheme attracts a processing fee of 1% plus GST. For a Rs. 50,000 loan it will be Rs. 590 (1% on 50,000 plus 18% GST). The Prime Minister accidental insurance scheme with cover of Rs. 2 lakh would be offered free for borrowers under the scheme. The bank claims that it is the cheapest loan scheme available in the market.  We launched the scheme with a lower interest rate and people have availed of it to manage their liquidity problems Senior Bank Official
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen want Kissan cards to be issued soon||Fishermen have urged banks to speed up the process of issuing Kissan Credit Cards (KCC) that will enable them to withdraw loan amounts for repairing nets and boats. The KCC was extended to fishermen and those in animal husbandry so that they too could avail of small loans for running day-to-day business. M.E. Raghupathi, a boat owner and community leader in Kasimedu, said it had been several months since application forms were collected but banks were yet to process them. “Many owners do not have any money on hand and no bank will lend them money to restart their businesses,” he said. Nanjil Ravi of Akhila Indhiya Meenavar Sangam said fishermen were waiting for the KCCs so that they can buy diesel for their trips after the lockdown. Fisheries Department officials said 35,000-odd applications were collected and submitted to various banks. “But only 50 cards have been issued so far and 440 cards are under process. We have raised the issue with the banks and the Department of Financial Sevices. We hope there is progress in the coming month,” an official said.
23 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Failure to prove conspiracy led to acquittal in murder case||The Madras High Court on Monday acquitted the prime accused B. Chinnasamy from the 2016 Udumalpet Shankar murder case because of prosecution’s "failure to prove the charge of criminal conspiracy" by listing out a chain of events that could lead to the inevitable conclusion of guilt besides establishing each and every circumstance in the chain. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and M. Nirmal Kumar pointed out that the prime accused was not present at the scene of occurrence when a gang hacked engineering student V. Shankar, belonging to a Scheduled Caste, to death on March 13, 2016 and also attempted to murder his wife Kowsalya belonging to a Most Backward Community. The prosecution had to first prove the charge of criminal conspiracy against Mr. Chinnasamy before he could be punished for murdering his son-in-law and attempting to murder his daughter because of the inter-caste marriage. Though it was the prosecution’s case that he hired contract killers, the charge of conspiracy stood disproved, the court said. It pointed out that the police had succeeded in proving only one of the circumstances in the chain and it was related to the fact that the assailants and the prime accused were in contact over phone between February 6, 2016 and March 6, 2016. This circumstance had been proved through phone call records and by examining the telecommunication officials. However, none of the other circumstances in the chain were proved, the Bench said and pointed out that testimonies of the owners of a lodge, where the prime accused had reportedly made arrangements for the stay of the assailants, did not in any way advance the case of the prosecution since they were not able to produce sufficient oral and documentary evidence. “Therefore, the prosecution was unable to prove that it was A1 who made arrangements for A5 to A8 to stay in the lodge owned by PW (prosecution witness) 14 and PW15,” the judges said. They also stated that the evidence of two other witnesses, who claimed to have seen the prime accused conspire along with the assailants, was “highly doubtful.” Though it was also the prosecution’s claim that the prime accused had withdrawn Rs. 80,000 from a joint bank account held by him and his wife from March 12 and 14, 2016 and Rs. 50,000 of it was recovered from two of the assailants, the Bench said, the police had failed to prove that it was none but Mr. Chinnasamy who withdrew the money and paid the assailants. The judges said the police had failed to obtain CCTV footage from the ATMs and hence it would be difficult to accept the theory of the police especially when it was their own case that the prime accused was an agriculturist and also the owner of a tourist cab. As far as the five assailants were concerned, the judges concluded that they were guilty because of their fatal overt acts.
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||June power bill to use previous month’s cycle||A large section of domestic consumers of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) will be billed as per the previous month cycle (PMC) due to the complete lockdown being imposed from June 19 to 30. Tangedco has asked its section officials to adopt PMC for low tension and low tension commercial consumers for the second half of June. Domestic consumers were already directed to pay as per PMC for April and May. Tangedco had also provided a model working sheet for arriving at the average bi-monthly consumption for April and June billing periods and for deducting the PMC payment made in April once the assessors began meter reading from June 1. A senior Tangedco official, confirming the adoption of PMC for the full lockdown period from June 19 to 30, said that PMC was used for billing in April and May due to the lockdown. Though door-to-door assessment of electricity meters began on June 1, the announcement of the full lockdown from June 19 had made the electricity board return to PMC for billing. Domestic consumers falling under the June billing cycle will have to pay as per PMC, for the second time. Model working sheet The official said that a model working sheet for calculating the billing amount had been issued and this would be used for calculating the electricity charges when meter reading begins in August. As per the model calculator, the assessors would take the meter reading in August and calculate the average units consumed for three bi-monthly periods (six months, from March to August). Based on the total assessed amounts, the two PMC payments made for April and June would be subtracted and the net payable amount would be arrived at.
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||New monitoring officers||The Tamil Nadu government on Monday appointed two senior IAS officers as monitoring officers for Madurai and Ramanathapuram districts to oversee preventive measures being undertaken to arrest the spread of COVID-19. B. Chandra Mohan, secretary, BC, MBC and Minorities Department, has been appointed as monitoring officer for Madurai, in place of Dharmendra Pratap Yadav, secretary, Transport Department. Mr. Yadav has been made the monitoring officer for Ramanathapuram district.
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘More rain for north T.N. around June 25-26’||Parts of north Tamil Nadu may experience an increased rainfall activity later this week. A cyclonic circulation expected to develop over the Bay of Bengal is likely to bring rains over north Tamil Nadu, including Chennai, around June 25 and June 26. According to the Meteorological Department, there is a possibility for scattered rainfall (wherein up to 50% of the weather stations in a region report rain) during June 25 and 26. However, the department predicts largely dry weather over most parts of the State for the next two days. During the past 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Monday, many weather stations recordedrainfall. Valparai and Solaiyarin Coimbatore district received 6 cm of rain. Several places in Chennai and outskirts too reported thundershowers, including Nungambakkam and Madhavaram. While Tiruvallur and Poonamallee recorded 3 cm of rainfall, Perambur received 2 cm. Automatic rain gauges in Ayanavaram, Red Hills, Sriperumbudur and Chennai DGP office too recorded 1 cm of rain. Officials noted the information provided by the State government, including Perambur and Ayanavaram, were also incorporated in the Meteorological department’sdata. N. Puviarasan, director, Area Cyclone Warning Centre, said strong westerlies and convective activity, would bring rain at one or two places over districts along western ghats for the next two days. Chennai too may get light rains during late evening or nights till Wednesday.
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Central ordinance forces State to re-examine contract farming law||The Tamil Nadu government, which recently enacted a pioneering law on contract farming, is taking a re-look at the legislation in the wake of an ordinance promulgated by the Central government on the subject. The State Agriculture Department, which is in the process of getting rules scrutinised by the Law Department for the 2019 Act, is willing to wait for the Central government to come out with rules for its ordinance. Upon studying the Centre’s rules, a decision may be taken as to whether to drop the State law or modify it, an official in the know said. Incidentally, while it is an established constitutional principle that a Central law on a given subject prevails over a State legislation, the State Law Department has held that the latter — the Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Act of 2019 — can still remain in force. As per the opinion rendered by the Law Department subsequent to the Centre’s promulgation of the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, the two laws can co-exist. In this case, not only did the State law come into being after obtaining the assent of President Ram Nath Kovind, but it was also studied by the Centre. Broadly, the State law and the Central ordinance have the same objective – promotion of contract farming. The former, according to the State government, has more agriculturist-friendly provisions than the latter. Nonetheless, the Agriculture Department has chosen to wait for the Centre to come out with its rules.
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC judgment on honour killing disappointing||Many political parties and activists have expressed disappointment over Madras High Court’s judgment on Monday acquitting the prime accused B. Chinnasamy and two others in the honour killing of V. Shankar in Udumalpet in 2016. Expressing disappointment over the judgment, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) leader Thol. Thirumavalavan blamed the government for not conducting the case properly. K. Balakrishnan, State secretary, Communist Party of India (Marxist) said that he feared whether the judgment would indirectly embolden the occurrence of more such honour killings in the future. “It is shocking that only the henchmen have been convicted and not Kowsalya’s father,” he said. Puthiya Tamilagam party founder K. Krishnasamy said it appeared as if a murder that happened in broad daylight had been rewarded. In a statement on Monday, Dr. Krishnasamy said: “We will organize protests against AIADMK government which has handled this case with ulterior motive and has been responsible for this wrong judgment across Tamil Nadu.” Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan blamed the State government for the verdict. “Caste killings are symbols of toxins that have steeped into our society. The State government has a duty to ensure that accused are punished. If the government is incapable of proving its case against A1 (prime accused) in a murder that shook Tamil Nadu, whose fault is it?” he asked on social media. Justice K. Chandru, retired Judge of Madras High Court, said that while he was extremely disappointed to hear the acquittal, particularly of Chinnasamy, he was yet to go through the judgment in detail to comment further. A. Kathir, executive director of Madurai-based non-governmental organisation Evidence, which played a role during the hearing of the case in the lower court in support of Kowsalya, said he was concerned that the judgment may set a wrong precedent. “If everyone in Kowsalya’s family has been acquitted, what was the motive for the henchmen to kill Shankar,” he asked. He, however, expressed confidence that the Supreme Court would convict all the accused. “We are planning to implead in the case,” he said. Wider ramifications K. Samuel Raj of Tamil Nadu Untouchability Eradication Front said that the judgment would have wider ramifications on the society, which was witnessing an increase in caste-motivated atrocities. Alleging that the incompetency of the prosecution often resulted in such verdicts, he said that the judgment must also be seen in the context of Tamil Nadu government releasing the convicts in Melavalavu massacre of six Dalits on good conduct last year. “This shows the message the government wants to send and its intent towards eradicating caste atrocities,” he said. Stating that Tamil Nadu government’s announcement that it would go on appeal in the Supreme Court was a relief, Mr. Thirumavalavan urged the government to make sincere efforts to get all the accused convicted.
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Aid distributed to over 6 lakh ration cardholders in Chennai||The State government on Monday distributed cash aid of Rs. 1,000 to 28.01% of the rice ration cardholders in the five Civil Supplies districts — Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram, North Chennai, South Chennai and Tiruvallur — where a “complete lockdown” is in place to control the spread of COVID-19. “There are 2,320 ration shops in these districts and they serve 22,62,168 cardholders. On Monday alone, 6,33,548 cardholders were given the money,” sources in the secretariat told The Hindu . “Workers of the rations shops visited directly to the houses of ration cardholders and distributed the money. Since the Chief Minister was very particular about ensuring that the money reached the people in time, officials are paying extra attention to the issue,” said Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar. Asked about complaints that in some places cardholders were asked to visit the ration shops and physical distancing norms were thrown to the winds, Mr Udhayakumar said when the government received information about this, it immediately directed the officials to follow the direction of the government. “There are 15 senior officials in-charge of the 15 zones in Chennai and they set things right immediately. The Corporation is also closely monitoring the situation,” he further said. Mr. Udhayakumar said the objective of the government was to cover all the beneficiaries before the lockdown is lifted. Asked whether similar financial assistance would be extended to Madurai and other areas where also a week's "complete lockdown" would take effect from June 24, he said the government order for it was yet to be issued.
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A murder that shook T.N.||The daylight murder of Shankar in public glare in Udumalpet was among the most horrific caste killings in Tamil Nadu. The trial court had awarded death sentence to six accused, life term to one and five years of imprisonment to one more accused in the case. While all the convicts had come on appeal to the High Court, the State too appealed against the acquittal of three more accused including Ms. Annalakshmi, Mr. Pandidurai and one of the alleged hitmen Prasanna alias V. Prasanna Kumar. The Division Bench led by Justice Sathyanarayanan dismissed the State appeal and allowed the appeal preferred by Mr. Chinnasamy on the ground that neither the charge of criminal conspiracy nor that of murder stood proved against him. Since he was still in prison, he was ordered to be released forthwith. Appeals preferred by two members of the gang K. Dhanraj alias Tamil alias Stephen Dhanraj and M. Manikandan were also allowed and their life as well as five years of sentences respectively were set aside. As far as five other assailants P. Jagatheesan (Mr. Chinnasamy's friend), M. Manikandan, P. Selvakumar, P. Kalaithamilvaanan alias Tamil alias Kalai and M. Mathan alias Michael were concerned, the High Court commuted their death sentences to life imprisonment with a mandate that they would remain in jail for a minimum period of 25 years. They were also ordered to be released forthwith.  Since Chinnasamy was still in prison, he was ordered to be released forthwith
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC to await SC decision on quota for OBCs in medical seats||The Madras High Court on Monday adjourned to July 9 a batch of cases filed by many political parties in the State seeking 50% reservation for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) in All India quota medical seats in non-central institutions. Justices R. Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy took the decision since the Centre reported to the court that the Supreme Court was slated to hear a related case (Saloni Kumar versus Director General of Health Services), pending since 2015, on July 8. Senior counsel P. Wilson, representing the DMK, argued that the Supreme Court had not passed any interim orders in Saloni Kumar’s case, which had also been filed seeking quota for OBCs, and hence there was no legal impediment to reserve seats forthwith. He pointed out that the Centre had admitted the possibility of providing reservations for OBCs in seats surrendered by the State governments to All India quota seats but was unnecessarily waiting for the Supreme Court verdict in Saloni Kumar’s case. He also insisted that 50% of seats should be reserved for OBCs in Tamil Nadu and not just 27% as it was being followed by the Centre. Senior Counsel G. Masilamani and AR.L. Sundaresan, representing PMK and AIADMK respectively, also made similar submissions. Since the State government too had filed a writ petition seeking 50% reservations for OBCs, Advocate General Vijay Narayan told the court that before 1986, all seats in State government medical colleges were filled up only by local residents of respective States.
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM has tested negative, says Minister||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami tested negative for COVID-19 on Monday, according to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. “The government is transparent and is not hiding any information,” he said. Noting that the safety of front line workers was the priority for the government, he said that a small percentage of them had tested positive. Referring to R. Jayanthi, dean of the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, who went on medical leave, the Minister said that the dean too had tested positive for COVID-19. “The dean has been working in COVID-19 management for the last three months, knowing that there were chances of being infected. In such circumstances, doctors testing positive isolate themselves, get treated and return to work. Their efforts should be appreciated,” he said.
23 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin urges CM to follow SC order||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday urged Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to follow directions issued by the three-member bench of the Supreme Court on tackling COVID-19 and save the people of Tamil Nadu from the pandemic. In a statement in Chennai, he alleged that the Chief Minister had thrown up his hands and “left the responsibility [of tackling COVID-19] to God”. Recalling the court order for maintaining transparency when it came to prevention and treatment of COVID-19, Mr. Stalin said that the order had come as a solace to the people of Tamil Nadu, who were constantly living in fear. Mr. Palaniswami should now follow the order of the Supreme Court, he added. He said that besides asking the government to fix cameras in hospitals, the court had said that one family member of the patient should be allowed to stay in a separate place in the hospital.
23 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. deploys 200 vehicles to create awareness on coronavirus||Coimbatore City and Rural police have registered 11 cases on Monday against persons who had violated COVID-19 quarantine and were found in public, said Collector K. Rajamani. The district administration had directed all local bodies, Revenue Department officials and others to stringently enforce COVID-19 safety guidelines as it wanted to bring down the disease spread. Fine collected Thus far, the administration had collected Rs. 11 lakh in fine – Rs. 8.5 lakh by the Coimbatore Corporation and the rest by other local bodies. In the days to come, fine levying would increase as the administration wanted to send out the message that the safety guidelines were meant to be taken seriously. Mr. Rajamani said in a day or two, the administration would establish a separate facility for persons who tested COVID-19 positive but showed no symptoms. It did not want to take them to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital and had asked the Health Department to depute a special medical team to treat such persons. The administration was also looking creating more institutional quarantine facility to meet any emergency. To further intensify its battle against the spread of COVID-19, the administration was looking at treating areas that reported more than one positive case as a special category to impose restriction on movement of people and test all those possible in the affected person’s neighbourhood. And, as part of those measures, the administration had also asked the Health Department to increase the number of samples lifted every day, he said and added that at present the number of samples lifted in a day was around 2,000. As a part of the awareness creation exercise, the administration would deploy around 200 vehicles with public address system to inform people the ‘dos and donts’. It would deploy 100 of the vehicles in the city and the rest in municipalities, town panchayats and peri-urban panchayats. In addition to that the administration had asked the Corporation to form flying squads to check violations. In a day or two, the Corporation would form 20 such teams. As for the district borders, the Collector said he had ordered additional manpower to be deployed at all check posts and samples to be lifted right there. This was the right time for the district administration to take such measures because the number of people arriving from Chennai and its neighbouring districts was almost nil in the last few days.
23 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Shops shut early in Coimbatore||Members of more than 20 trade associations in Coimbatore downed shutters at around 5 p.m. on Monday as a precautionary measure against the spread of COVID-19. Traders of vegetables and food items who have shops in Raja Street and nearby areas have decided to close business by 5 p.m. According to TK Market Vegetable Traders Association president M. Rajendran, vegetable and fruit traders downed shutters by 2.30 p.m. and grocery stores by 5 p.m. Coimbatore Malligai Merchants Association president Prabhakaran said that the number of people visiting bazaar area to buy grocery items was increasing. If shops were open till 9 p.m., customers keep coming till then. On Monday, most of them closed the shops by 5.30 p.m., he said. Joint secretary of the Federation of Trade Associations - Coimbatore, S. Natarajan, said that 14 trade associations, mainly dealing with industrial products, electronics, and furniture, have decided to close early. The shops located mainly on Nanjappa Road, Uppilipalayam area, Kattoor, Ganapathy, Mettupalayam Road, and Oppanakara Street will be open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. for 15 days to reduce overcrowding. This is a voluntary decision by the traders. Except for textile shops, large stores, and supermarkets, almost all the traders have decided to close early, sources in the trade said. Almost 90 % of jewellery shops also closed early. Customers are coming from other cities and staff come by bus from different places. It is better to be cautious and not to allow the situation to get worse, according to Coimbatore Jewellers Association. In Tiruppur district, the Federation of Tamil Nadu Vanigar Associations has decided that from Tuesday all shops will function only between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m.
23 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Five shops sealed in Coimbatore city||Coimbatore Corporation has so far sealed five shops, formed flying squads to identify and act against those violating COVID-19 safety guidelines and has planned to impose stringent containment measures.  Physical distancing norms According to sources, the Corporation on Sunday and Monday sealed four shops in the West Zone for violating the safety guidelines. At three shops near Flower Market, the owners illegally sold flowers even after the Corporation had forbidden them from doing so to ensure maintenance of physical distancing norms. The officials also shut an ice cream parlour at Edayarpalayam for violations. A paan shop at RS Puram was sealed on Monday after it was found that the owner had a role in customers spitting near the shop’s precinct. The Corporation’s action in the last two days followed the steps it had taken last week to prevent hawkers near Flower Market from selling fruits, vegetables and other goods by barricading the road margins. The sources also said that to closely monitor the Flower Market area, the Corporation had joined hands with the Coimbatore City Police constituting five squads of five members each to monitor the Market, Mecrikar Street, Siva Shanmugam Road, Mahaliamman Kovil Street and Langarkana Street. The Corporation also deployed vehicles with public address system to warn the hawkers and caution the public there on the safety measures to be taken to avoid contracting COVID-19. Cordoned off Consequent upon the action sealing the Cross Cut Road showroom of a jewellery chain on June 20, the Corporation barricaded the Gandhipuram 3rd, 4th and 11th Cross streets as the jewellery showroom management had accommodated in lodges there the employees it had illegally transported from Chennai. The Corporation had already barricaded a few places in the city after a few persons from the areas had reported COVID-19 positive – R.G. Pudur, Peelamedu, Udayampalayam, Kavundampalayam among others. The sources also said that the Corporation had would soon deploy flying squads across the 100 wards to check COVID-19 safety violations.. The squads would have personnel from the engineering and health wings. They would rush to violation spots and immediately act against the violators. The Corporation also seemed to be contemplating a re-look at containment measures in that it wanted to cordon off a street or a part of a street or an area instead of a house where positive cases were reported, the sources added.
23 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Ailing elephant dies near Anaikatti||An ailing male elephant that was found on forest fringes near Jambukandi at Anaikatti, around 30 km from Coimbatore, died on Monday. Veterinarians, who performed the autopsy, said that the nine-year-old elephant died of the infection of an injury it had on the left upper jaw, presumably suffered in a fight with another tusker. The elephant died around 5 a.m. after struggling for two days. The veterinary team of the Forest Department led by A. Sugumar was treating the animal since Saturday morning. The carcass was autopsied by two veterinarians from outside namely veterinary assistant surgeons Prabhu and Prabhakaran from Vadavalli and Anaikatti Government veterinary dispensaries in the presence of Dr. Sugumar. Senior officials of the Forest Department, the joint director of Animal Husbandry Department, Coimbatore, two veterinarians from Animal Disease Intelligence Unit and representatives from non-Governmental organisations were also present. District Forest Officer D.Venkatesh said that the injury on the left upper jaw of the elephant was 15 cm deep which it could have suffered in a fight with another tusker. Dr. Sugumar said that the injury could have been ten days old and it was filled with pus formed due to infection. The animal was not able to take feed because of it, he said. The carcass was buried in a forest area after the post-mortem.
23 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||SI caught on camera beating minor boy in public||A Sub-Inspector of police attached to Rathinapuri police station in Coimbatore has courted controversy for beating up a minor boy in public following an argument over his parents running a makeshift eatery past the permitted time during the COVID-19 lockdown. The SI, K. Chellamani, beat the boy after the latter tried to snatch the key of the police officer’s two-wheeler. The incident took place on Sastri Street at Rathinapuri on June 17. The boy’s parents run an eatery at the place. Mr. Chellamani, who was on a patrol in the area, asked the couple to wind up the business of their pushcart as he found it functiming after 8 p.m. The couple and the policeman picked up an argument and the boy allegedly recorded a video of the same on a mobile phone. The officer took away the mobile phone from the boy. As the SI was about to sit on the two-wheeler, the boy tried to snatch its key. The officer then beat the boy with hands while another man in plain clothes beat him with a cane. The boy’s shirt was torn and he was taken to the station alone in a police vehicle. At the station, the police reportedly contacted the headmaster of the boy’s school and enquired about his conduct. V.P. Sarathi, an advocate, charged that the SI's act was unwarranted. “The Code of Criminal Procedure states that no woman or boy aged below 16 should be called to a police station for questioning. Even if the boy had committed a grave offence, the officer should have handled him in a humane way,” he said. Coimbatore City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan said that the SI had on previous occasions too advised the couple not to run the eatery during late hours since a lockdown was in force. The officer would have fallen down from the two-wheeler when the boy snatched the key, he said. “The police did not register a case against the boy considering his age and future. In fact the family was happy that no action was taken against the boy,” he said. The police registered a case against the boy’s father for causing nuisance in the public.
23 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||118 Indians return from Kenya||As many as 118 Indians returned to India on a special repatriation flight from Nairobi to Coimbatore on Monday. The 118 expatriates, who reached here, included six children and two infants. The special non-stop flight operated by Kenya Airways landed at Coimbatore international airport at 4.25 p.m. The passengers hailed from various parts of the country, said sources at the airport. As per COVID-19 management protocol for international passengers, swab samples of all the passengers were collected on arrival. They were made to stay in paid quarantine in various hotels in Coimbatore. The paid quarantine will continue for seven days. After seven days, those who test negative will be allowed to go to their homes and continue home quarantine for seven more days.
23 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Private bus operations reduced across Coimbatore district||Following the seizure of a private bus for overcrowding at Karumathampatti check-post on Saturday, the private bus operators reduced services across the district on Monday. According to Coimbatore District Bus Owners Association (South) president V. Duraikannan, less than 30 town and mofussil private buses were operated across the district on Monday, as opposed to over 150 buses that started operating from June 10. The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC), Coimbatore Division, operates around 250 buses for the public in the district in a day. During an inspection at Karumathampatti checkpost on Saturday, Mr. Rajamani ordered the seizure of a private bus plying between Tiruppur to Coimbatore for ferrying passengers in excess and asked the police to register cases against the driver and conductor. Crackdown on private buses that violate the directions of State government to curb the spread of COVID-19 will intensify in the district, he said. Admitting that many private bus operators did not enforce the personal distancing norms, Mr. Duraikannan alleged that private buses were unable to compete with the TNSTC buses. An official from TNSTC Coimbatore Division said that 30 additional buses were operated in town and mofussil routes in Coimbatore district as “peak hour service” to ensure that fewer passengers are ferried per bus. However, he claimed that the number of passengers travelling in TNSTC buses has declined since June 1. A total of 12 Motor Vehicle Inspectors in Coimbatore Corporation limits are inspecting TNSTC and private buses for overcrowding, said a Transport Department official.
23 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Revenue officials seal department store||Revenue Department officials with support from the Podanur Police on Monday sealed a department store on Podanur-Kurichi Road after it found the store management violating the COVID-19 safety guidelines. A team led by Madukkarai tahsildar S. Saranya sealed the shop on Monday evening after the officials found at least 250-plus customers in store, which was housed in a two-storey building. On all the three floors, the officials found the shop crowded. The store management had not placed sanitiser in front of the store, had switched on the air conditioner and did not ask customers to maintain physical distance. That the store had been violating the guidelines despite the officials and police warning them in the last couple of days led the officials to shut and seal the shop, the sources added. Podanur police officials said based on a complaint from a Revenue Department officer, they had registered a case invoking provisions of the Indian Penal Code and Epidemic Diseases Act.
23 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vehicles seized||The Coimbatore District (Rural) Police on Monday seized 54 vehicles, including 24 vehicles commuted by people without e-pass to enter the district. The checking was strengthened after the police and the Revenue Department received information that people from other districts and States were entering the district without e-pass. Coimbatore Rural Superintendent of Police Sujit Kumar distributed protective gears to police personnel deployed for vehicle checks.
23 June 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Panic on bus as couple tests positive||Panic gripped passengers aboard a bus in Cuddalore district on Monday, as the vehicle was stopped by the authorities to disembark a couple who had tested positive for COVID-19. The pair, whose swab samples were collected at the Cuddalore Government Hospital two days ago, had boarded a Vadalur-bound Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) bus at Panruti, along with around 30 other passengers. When the bus reached Kadampuliyur around 12.15 p.m., the husband received a call from the hospital authorities, who sought to know his whereabouts as his house had been found locked. On being informed that he was aboard a bus, the authorities asked him to hand over his mobile phone to the conductor and informed him that he and his wife had tested positive for COVID-19. The bus crew was asked to stop the vehicle and wait for a team of health officials, who were on their way to pick up the couple and get them admitted to the government hospital. According to an official, the COVID-19-positive man panicked on learning about his test result and screamed. “This created a flutter and spread panic among his co-passengers, who rushed out of the vehicle and ran helter-skelter,” the official said. At the time, there were around 15 passengers on the bus, as the others had disembarked en route. The bus driver and conductor also alighted from the vehicle in a hurry. Health officials then took the couple to the hospital in an ambulance. The bus was taken to a depot after disinfection. Health Department officials are now tracing the passengers who had travelled on the bus for testing.  The bus crew was asked to stop the vehicle and wait for a team of health officials, who were on their way
23 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Shops function till 2 p.m. in Erode||Except for corporate houses, industries and textile processing units, most of the shops and commercial establishments downed shutters by 2 p.m. in the district here on Monday. The Federation of All Traders and Industry Associations of Erode District (FATIA) had on June 20 requested its members to ensure functioning of shops and establishments between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m. from June 22 to 30 to support the government in the fight against COVID-19. FATIA has 87 associations and most of its members closed their shops at 2 p.m. on Monday. Textile showrooms and textile processing units and non-members of the federation however continued to operate as usual. In the city, shops in Eswaran Kovil Street, Kongalamman Kovil Street, TVS Street, Brindha Street were closed by 2 p.m. In rural areas, most of the shops continued to operate throughout the day. Many hotels in the city were offering parcel services while hotels in rural areas allowed dine-in services. FATIA general secretary C. Balakrishnan told The Hindu that one-third of the shops in the city were closed leading to significant drop in movement of people on the city roads.  Salem Staff Reporter adds  Namakkal Collector K.Megraj said that non-essential trade shops in the district should be closed by 5 p.m until June 30 as part of COVID-19 preventive measures. “Instead of 8 p.m., all shops should close by 5 p.m. Dine-in facilities in hotels would continue until any changes announced by State government and hotels would function till 9 p.m. The new timings will be followed till June 30,” he said. In Dharmapuri, trade bodies have consented with the district administration to operate shops between 6 a.m and 2 p.m In Salem, the members of Salem Nagara Annaithu Vanigargalin Sangam informed the district administration that shops operating under the association would be closed by 4 p.m. between June 24 and 30.
23 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Youth arrested for attempt to break ATM||A 21-year-old youth, who attempted to break open the Automated Teller Machine (ATM) of a private bank on Perundurai Road, was arrested by the police here on Monday. The ATM is located at the Sangu Nagar Junction and has no security guard. At 12.30 a.m., a youth entered the room and attempted to break open the cash chest. However, his attempt failed. Since Suresh (39), manager of the branch to which the ATM is attached, received an alert message, he alerted the district police control room and the Erode South Police arrived at the centre and nabbed the youth. The centre was closed immediately. He was identified as T. Karthick of Thindal Valliyammai Nagar, a car driver. Based on a complaint from the manager, the police registered a case and arrested Karthick.
23 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Jackfruits left to perish as demand dips in Bargur hills||Though jackfruits grown in Bargur hills have good demand, in the absence of organised marketing and due to restriction in vehicle movement, many of the small and marginal farmers have failed to harvest the fruit leaving it to rot in the trees. There are 33 hamlets in the hills where vegetables, pulses, jackfruits and tamarinds are widely cultivated and harvested regularly. Each farmer has at least one of two jackfruit trees in their small holdings where the fruit, usually harvested in June and July, are sold roadside at Thamaraikarai and at Bargur and purchased by tourists. Also, vehicle users, who pass through Bargur to reach Kollegal in Karnataka, purchase the fruit that provides an income to the farmers. Since vehicle movement is restricted at the Tamil Nadu – Karnataka border at Kargaegandi, there are no buyers for our fruits, said H. Madhan of Eratti. He said that the average yield per tree is 30 to 80 fruits and he sold a fruit for Rs. 20 to Rs. 80 last year. “We cannot take it to Anthiyur or other places and hence we sell it at a meager price”, he added. Another farmer E. Anthesh said that since there are no buyers in the current season, they have left the fruit in the tree without harvesting. “Earlier, a few tourists used to purchase jackfruit from us. But now, no one has turned up so far”, he said and added that over 20 fruits have fallen from the tree so far. P. Alagesan, Senior Scientist and Head, ICAR Krishi Vigyan Kendra – MYRADA, Gobichettipalayam said that in the absence of organised marketing and failing to explore value added products, jackfruits grown in Bargur hills, that has good demand, are left to rot in the trees. “If marketed properly, each farmer can earn at least Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 8,000 per tree during the season”, he said and added that members of Surabi Milk and Agri Products Producers’ Group, a Farmers Producers’ Organisation (FPO) has been asked to explore the possibility of procuring jackfruits in bulk and marketing it directly in the plains. Also, dry fruit, jam, chips and jam can be made from the jackfruit for which farmers need to be trained, he added.
23 June 2020||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||Karaikal tightens vigil at border check-posts||The Karaikal district administration has intensified measures to regulate movement of vehicles at the entry points in the wake of the gradual increase in COVID-19 positive cases causing consternation among residents. While additional police personnel have been posted in the border check-posts, over 25 “porous” entry points where there used to be unrestricted entry of people without passes have been identified and sealed. Revenue and police departments have undertaken joint measures to prevent movement of people at Karaimedu road, Padutharkollai village, Veerapandy Nagar, and many other porous entry points. Personnel have been posted at some of the porous entry points, and in other locations trenches have been dug to prevent movement of two-wheelers. Volunteers have also been roped in to prevent entry of people into Karaikal at the porous points, Superintendent of Police, Karaikal North, Raghunayagam, said. Intensified checking was visible at Mela Vanjore, Nandalaru and other border check-posts. Except for goods vehicles, permitted vehicles and medical emergency, the rest of the vehicles coming in without valid e-passes were turned away. Out of Puducherry's three enclaves, Karaikal is the most affected by COVID-19 infection. There are seven active cases in Karaikal, compared to just one in Yanam and none in Mahe. Three patients were treated and discharged in Karaikal, as per official figures. Calling for rigid measures, the president of Karaikal unit of India Against Corruption C. Anandkumar said the free movement of people at the porous entry points would cause disastrous consequences. The police department must not let out the identity of locals passing on information about strangers in residential localities, Prof. Anandkumar emphasised and called for starting of two COVID-19 testing centres in Karaikal, one at JIPMER Hospital and the other at the Government Hospital. There was now no transparency in the way the tests of samples lifted from patients were being conducted at Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital and at the JIPMER Hospital in Puducherry, he said, and emphasised on auditing of deaths of elderly people.  Lockdown to be stringent The district administration has taken steps for intensification of the lockdown measures. Citing the measures discussed at a meeting convened by the State Disaster Management Authority, District Collector Arjun Sharma said all shops and establishments, including liquor shops and petrol pumps, will function from 6 a.m. to 2 p.m. only, with effect from June 23. The timing for milk booths is 6 a.m. to 6 p.m., and medical shops are permitted to function without any restrictions. The restriction, was, however, not applicable to industrial, agricultural, fishing activities, government offices and hospitals. Dine in restaurants will be permitted only till 2 p.m. Restaurants are permitted to operate till 6 p.m. for take aways only. The beach in Karaikal will be kept closed for 10 days from June 23, he said. The Collector appealed to people above 65 years of age, those with co-morbidities, pregnant women, and children below 10 years of age to remain at home, except for meeting essential requirements and for health purposes. Any person violating these regulations will be liable to be punished under provisions of Sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005; Epidemic Act, 1897; besides legal action under Section 188 of the IPC and other legal provisions as applicable, the Collector warned.
23 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||As cases rise, two more facilities being readied||With 216 COVID-19 cases having been recorded in three days between June 18 and June 20, Government Rajaji Hospital authorities feel their bed capacity limit will be reached soon if the trend continues. There are 309 patients in the COVID-19 speciality wing of the hospital. Apart from housing patients who tested positive for novel coronavirus, the hospital also accommodates COVID-19 suspects. The bed capacity is 500. The hospital plans to increase the bed capacity to 600 soon. “If we get 50 positive cases each day, the bed capacity will be exhausted soon as there are only a few discharges. For backup, we also have 150 beds at Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine in Thoppur out of which 80 are occupied now. We need to plan ahead as the number of cases are just beginning to rise at a quick rate,” a source said. Collector T. G. Vinay said the bed strength at the Thoppur hospital would be increased to 250. They are also planning to convert two quarantine facilities - the Madurai Kamaraj University guest house and the Tamil Nadu Agricultural College campus - into COVID-19 treatment facilities. “Each has 400 beds but require mattresses. We have decided to keep these two facilities ready,” he said They would not have oxygen lines but portable oxygen cannisters will be available for use during emergencies. “The Railway Hospital and the taluk hospitals in Melur, Tirupparankundram and Usilampatti also have beds for COVID-19 treatment,” he said.
23 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court transfers probe into illegal property sale to CB-CID||Taking a serious view of attempts being made to usurp properties of a man with special needs, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has transferred the investigation in the case to the CB-CID. It came to light that apart from family members, at least four advocates have been involved in the conspiracy to usurp the properties of the man. The court was hearing anticipatory bail and bail petitions of the accused in the case. Some of the accused were arrested based on the complaint filed by the man’s paternal aunt. She lodged a complaint with Madurai police after learning that her nephew was being cheated by those who were taking care of him. The man with special needs was born to one Vasanthakumar and his first wife. Following the demise of his wife, Vasanthakumar married Rajeshwari, a widow with two children, Senthilkumar and Meena. Vasanthakumar transferred the properties in his name to Rajeshwari and his son through his first wife. However, in quick succession, Vasanthakumar and Rajeswari passed away. Senthilkumar and Meena then started taking care of the man with special needs, though they were living separately with their own families after marriage. Then four advocates – Sulaiman Basha, Purushothaman, Muthukumar and Gopinath – joined the duo. The guardians of the man and the advocates conspired to sell the properties in his name. A legal heir certificate was made excluding the man with special needs and most of the properties were sold. The matter exploded after Senthilkumar tried to get a lion’s share of the properties and Meena started opposing it. The man with special needs is currently under the care of Meena and her husband. They have claimed to be innocent. Taking up the petitions for hearing, the court dismissed them and ordered a CB-CID probe in the case. It was also said that the four advocates had also purchased the properties. Justice P.N. Prakash observed that considering the gravity of the offence and the fact that the properties sold were located in Chennai and Madurai, the CB-CID should probe the case. An officer in the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police should be appointed as the investigating officer, the court said.
23 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Class 10 and 11 answer scripts being collected||The School Education Department has started collecting quarterly and half-yearly answer scripts of Class 10 and Class 11 students from schools across the district on Monday. Chief Educational Officer R. Swaminathan said that schools were allotted separate slots for submitting the answer sheets for the next one week to ensure that personal distancing norms were followed. One school was allotted in each of Melur, Tirumangalam, Madurai city and Usilampatti for the submission of answer sheets. With the cancellation of Class 10 board examinations, 80% marks would be awarded to the students based on their performance in quarterly and half-yearly examinations and their attendance would be taken into account for awarding the remaining 20% marks. Mr. Swaminathan said that all schools have been instructed to submit the answer scripts and the progress reports of the students. There will be a three-level evaluation to ensure that there is no discrepancy in awarding marks for the students, he said. “The scores submitted by the school teachers will be recorded in one column. It will be evaluated by mark verification officers. At the final level, it will again be verified by a scrutiny officer, who will post the mark on the online portal,”Mr. Swaminathan said. In case schools were unable to submit answer scripts, they were asked to submit their mark registers, he added.
23 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||After Chennai, Madurai’s turn for lockdown||Days after a complete lockdown was imposed in Chennai and parts of its surrounding districts, the State government has announced an intensified lockdown from June 24 to 30 in Madurai Corporation limits, Paravai town panchayat and village panchayats in Madurai East, Madurai West and Tirupparankundram blocks, in the wake of the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the district. Only essential services like medical shops, pharmaceutical shops, hearse vehicle services and ambulances will be allowed to function. On June 28 (Sunday), all shops, including grocery stores, will remain shut in these areas and only milk supply and medical stores/services will be allowed. A government order, issued on Monday, said that Madurai Collector T.G. Vinay had insisted on restricting movement to contain the spread of COVID-19. The areas under lockdown are densely populated and have houses in close proximity, according to the G.O. Grocery shops, vegetable shops, including mobile vegetable shops, and petrol bunks will be allowed to function only between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m. Residents must avoid using private transportation, and instead visit their nearest shops, according to the order. Vehicles carrying goods can ply. The movement of LPG cylinders and petroleum products will be permitted without any hindrance. Prepaid autos, taxis and personal vehicles will be allowed to ply only for medical emergencies and for dropping/picking up passengers to and from the airport and the railway station. Residents can collect takeaways from restaurants between 6 a.m. and 8 p.m. Ration shops will function from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m., except those in COVID-19 containment zones. Staff working in ration shops in containment zones will have to deliver commodities and government relief material, door-to-door. Amma canteens will be functional too. Banks will be allowed to function only from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., with minimal staff. State government and Central government staff of essential services only need to come to office, the order said. Judiciary, courts and media can function as well. Persons with e-passes from these stipulated areas can only travel in case of marriages, funerals or medical emergencies after submitting documents. No activities, including the sale of commodities, can take place in the containment zone, according to the order.
23 June 2020||MADURAI/THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 positive cases in Madurai district go up by 157, touch 849||A total of 157 people – 153 of them indigenous – tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai on Monday, making it the biggest single day rise so far in the district’s tally, which touched 849. Collector T.G. Vinay said 52 of the fresh cases had influenza-like illnesses (ILI). The cases included 13 frontline workers, 34 primary and secondary contacts of positive cases, and a pregnant woman. Only five of them had travel history. Ten cases are likely to be cross-notified to other districts and one has been notified from another district. There are 452 active cases in the district now. Thoothukudi recorded its highest single day spike of 62 positive cases, including 57 indigenous cases, that took the district’s total count to 639. The district now has 244 active cases. Strong rumours are doing rounds that the district would soon go under complete lockdown for a fortnight. In Tenkasi district, 20 more fresh cases – all indigenous – were reported to take its tally to 261 and the number of active cases to 153. Tirunelveli added five more cases and its tally rose to 644 and the number of active cases to 212. A 61-year-old patient from Kodeeswaran Nagar here, who was admitted to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital on June 17, breathed his last on Monday. Ten fresh cases were reported in Kanniyakumari. Eight of the cases were indigenous cases. The district’s tally is 178, which included 78 active cases. Theni Theni recorded 36 new cases – a new high in a single day rise – that took the tally to 236. Six among them had returned to Bodi from Chennai, and the others were from Periyakulam, Theni, Uthamapalayam, Madurai, Thenkarai and Gudalur. The number of active cases is 105. Seven new cases – all imported – were reported in Dindigul. The total number of cases touched 312. In Sivaganga, 28 persons tested positive, taking the tally to 103. Ramanathapuram reported 19 new cases, which took its total count to 318. Though officials are creating awareness of maintaining social distance, markets were crowded in Ramanathapuram, Keelakarai and Paramakudi.  Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district registered five more positive cases on Monday. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district stands at 208 and the number of active cases at 68.
23 June 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Shrimp farms stare at loss due to disruption in supply chain||Hundreds of shrimp farms in Nagapattinam district are staring at substantial losses due to the uncertainties in the export market caused by COVID-19 lockdown. Despite the fact that frozen farmed shrimp accounts for close to seventy percent of the total earnings of Rs. 46,500 crore of seafood export for the country, the shrimp farms in the district are still reeling under the impact of the disruption caused to the supply chain due to the lockdown. However, some signs of the shrimp farms resuming activities on a gradual scale are visible, according to senior officials. “The chances for fish farms to suffer extensive losses are low since they get the costly feed on credit in lieu of procurement rights. There is still unmet demand for export of shrimps to China and other countries,” Amal Raj Xavier, Joint Director of Fisheries, Nagapattinam, said. Aquaculture is being carried out in about 2,000 hectares in the district. Shrimps are cultured for a duration of 120 to 150 days until they gain good weight. For achieving a production level of four to five tonnes per hectare, the farms are required to use seven to eight tonnes of feed, which costs around Rs. 70 per kilogram. In most cases, the companies that provide the feed on credit procures the produce, he said. The shrimps fetch the highest price of Rs. 400 upwards per kilogram in the local market when each weigh 33 grams. One kilogram must contain 33 shrimps. The selling price gets lower correspondingly with the lesser growth, a manager of a shrimp farm explained. The main fear is that prolonged dullness in the export market would force them to scale down production. Unlike in the case of fish, which have to be sold or processed within a limited time, the shrimp growers have the flexibility of planning their harvest schedule. The lockdown has indeed caused an impact. Nevertheless, there is considerable scope for cutting down losses owing to the flexibility factor, officials explain.
23 June 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Testing centre at Perambalur||The Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital will soon be able to conduct COVID-19 tests on its own as an RT-PCR laboratory to test for the virus has been set up at the hospital. The facility will be functional within 10 days, official sources said. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Tamil Nadu government has sought to expand the number of testing facilities in the State, and the unit at Perambalur is the latest addition. In a Real-time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT PCR) laboratory test, nasopharyngeal swabs are collected from a suspected patients’ nose and throat. District Collector V. Santha inspected the works on Monday and saw the workings of the facility, including testing and analysis of the test data. The facility will reduce the burden on other centres, especially as Perambalur is one among the districts with the highest rate of testing. Ms. Santha said that since the district was receiving a large number of travellers from other districts, Perambalur needed a centre to be able to test them quickly. “This way, the tests will be done rapidly and burden on testing centres in Tiruchi and a few other centres will be reduced,” she said. The unit will be inaugurated after approval is received from the Indian Council of Medical Research, New Delhi, she added.
23 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||With rising cases, Puducherry has 137 containment zones||With the rising incidence of COVID-19 in the Union Territory, the number of containment zones have increased rapidly in the region. The number of COVID-19 containment zones have gone up to 137, majority of them during the last three weeks, in Puducherry. The cumulative number of cases which stood at 74 till June 1, increased to 383 as on June 22 in the Union Territory. The infection, which was earlier restricted to rural pockets and semi urban areas, has now rapidly spread to town in the last three weeks prompting authorities to declare several residential areas as containment zones. In the last two days, several residential areas under revenue villages Karuvadikuppam, Reddiarapalayam, Thattanchavady and Saram have been declared containment zones. Movement of people, vehicles and public transport had been restricted in these places with government supplying essential items to those residing in the areas. “All roads connecting the containment zones have been guarded by the police with clear entry and exit points. We have contained movement of people within 10 to 50 m of the residence of the person diagnosed with the virus. The rapid spread in the town is a real matter of concern,” said a senior official in the Health Department.
23 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||17 new cases in Union Territory||Puducherry reported 17 new COVID-19 admissions on Monday taking the number of active cases to 226 in the Union Territory. At present, there are 168 patients at IGMCRI and 50 at Jipmer, seven in Karaikal 7 and one in Yanam. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said that the health department had pushed for a three-week phase of restrictions after reviewing the spike in cases in the past fortnight at the disaster management committee meeting. Restrict operations The health department also wants hotels to shut operations, including takeways, at 2 p.m. “We have recommended this after taking stock of the situation on the first couple of days,” he said. The cluster of 40 COVID-19 patients from a mask manufacturing unit was a result of negligence of the management, Mr. Rao said. He favoured penal action against such offenders. The toll stands at eight deaths, while the total number of active cases is 226, with a cumulative total of 383 cases and 149 discharged.
23 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Parallel meetings at Raj Nivas disturb pandemic work: Minister||Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao on Monday accused Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi of “disturbing the team work” of the administration in tackling the COVID-19 pandemic by holding “parallel meetings” with officials at the Raj Nivas. “By holding parallel meetings and issuing instructions to officers, the L-G is only disturbing the team work of the officials. Besides, the decisions at these meetings were being taken without taking into confidence the Chief Minister and other Ministers concerned,” Mr. Rao said. Objection for survey According to the Minister, an objection was also raised against the instructions of Bedi for a survey of PDS beneficiaries at a meeting of the State Disaster Management Authority held under the chairmanship of Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Sunday. “The Chief Minister immediately issued an order that no such survey of beneficiaries of PDS and of fishermen families should be conducted during the pandemic,” the Health Minister said.
23 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Jipmer expands OP services across specialties||Jipmer has expanded out-patient services across specialties by adding additional telephone lines. The services can be accessed through the following numbers. The numbers will be active for registration on working days, Monday to Friday from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. and Saturday from 9 a.m. to noon. The speciality and the telephone numbers are as follows: General Medicine (6384403761 6384403762), General Surgery (6384403763 6384403764), Cardiology (6384400741), Cardiothoracic Surgery (6384400742), Medical and Surgical Gastroenterology (6384400743 6384400744), Nephrology and Urology (6384400745 6384400746), Neurology and Neurosurgery (6384400747 6384400748), Stoma – Ostomy Clinic (9787244989), Orthopaedics, and Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (6384400749 6384400750); Medical Oncology and Radiation Oncology (6384400751 6384400752): Surgical Oncology (9787244996); Obstetrics and Gynaecology (6384400753 6384400754); ENT (6384400756); Ophthalmology (6384400755); Dermatology (6384400757); Neonatology, Paediatrics (6384400759 6384400760); Clinical Immunology (9787245034); Endocrinology (9787245094); Pulmonary Medicine (9787245082); Psychiatry (9787245020 9787245021); Dentistry (9787245024); Plastic Surgery (9787244988) and Paediatric Surgery (9787244983).
23 June 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||‘Provide information about people entering Pudukottai’||The Pudukottai district administration has appealed to the public to inform the District Control Room on the telephone number 04322-222207 functioning round-the-clock or contact 1077 to convey information regarding entry of any persons into the district either from other States or districts. Forty-two persons hailing from other districts have been quarantined so far based on information given by the public to the District Control Room. Based on the test results, they would either be sent for treatment or allowed to be in home quarantine. E-pass District Collector P. Uma Maheswari said in an official release on Monday that information about persons entering Pudukottai district from other districts with e-pass were being obtained and such persons were being screened at the check-posts and monitored. The e-pass was being issued within the stipulated rules for three reasons : death, emergency medical treatment and marriage. Village Administrative Officers of 497 village panchayats and 200 revenue villages had been deployed to monitor those entering Pudukottai district through other routes without obtaining e-pass. Information about people coming from other districts was being compiled every day and a daily report sent to the State Health Department through the district administration, Collector Uma Maheswari said. She said a total number of 1,200 beds and 34 ventilators were kept ready in the district for COVID-19 treatment adding that the number of government and private buildings had been compiled in this regard. Round-the-clock vigil was being maintained at the 13 check-posts established at the district border to monitor those coming from other States and other districts into Pudukottai. During the course of such checks as many as 882 persons were sent for quarantine at the designated places and were subjected to screening for COVID-19, the Collector further said. Meeting with traders Meanwhile, Ms. Uma Maheswari held a meeting with the representatives of traders associations at the District Collectorate here on Monday and asked them not to sell any products to those who failed to wear a face mask. The Collector also asked the traders to ensure personal distancing at their respective establishments and insist their employees and public to wear a face mask. District Collector P. Uma Maheswari warned that licence of those shops found violating the guidelines prescribed by the State government relating to COVID-19 would be withdrawn and also action would be initiated against the owners of the shop under the Public Health Act.
23 June 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||19 boxes of ganja seized||A Pudukottai police team on Monday found 19 boxes containing ganja inside a car that was found abandoned near Santhaipettai here. Acting on information, the team from Pudukottai Town station noticed the car parked near a school compound at around 3 p.m. The team checked the vehicle and found 19 boxes containing ganja inside. A man who was standing nearby with a two-wheeler was questioned by the team, The man, the sources said, had Rs. 90,000 cash in his possession. Another person who had parked his car nearby was also taken for questioning. Sources said the car and the two persons would be handed over to the NIB-CID Sivaganga unit for further legal action.
23 June 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 awareness held for court staff||The District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) and Sarada Krishna Homoeopathic Medical College Hospital, Kanniyakumari, jointly organised an awareness programme on COVID-19 to the staff of the district court via video-conferencing, here on Monday. Chairman of DLSA and Principal District Judge R. Shanmuga Sundaram chaired the event and delivered the welcome address. College Principal N.V. Suganthan and Professor V. Sathish Kumar spoke on the safety precautions that the staff had to follow in the wake of spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The hospital also sponsored for arsenicum album 30, a homeopathy drug, for 1,000 staff across the district to boost their immunity. DLSA Secretary S. Thangaraj proposed a vote of thanks.
23 June 2020||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Body of missing fisherman recovered||The body of one of the four fishermen who were missing since June 13 was recovered from the seashore close to Kollukadu in Thanjavur district on Sunday evening. Fishermen from Rameswaram, Pamban, Thangachimadam and other hamlets ventured into the sea on June 13 after almost 90 days due to COVID-19 and subsequent lockdown. Though the governments announced that the fishing activity can commence from June 1, the influence of Amphan cyclone had hit the anchored boats here and many boats were damaged. Hence, after carrying out repairs, the fishermen left for fishing from June 13. Under such circumstances, four persons, Regin Baskar, Malarvannan, Sesu and Austin Sujinder who had gone for fishing in a mechanised boat from here, went missing. While other fishermen, who returned to the shore on June 14 realised that these four persons had not returned, immediately alerted the Coast Guard and Indian Navy and a few local fishermen who went in search of the missing persons. Three days ago, one of the missing persons identified as Sesu (60) was spotted hanging on a floatable in the sea by the Pudukottai fishermen near Kottaipattinam following which the man was rescued and admitted to the Government Hospital. Two days ago, the Kollukadu fishermen spotted two bodies while returning to shore after fishing. Again on Sunday, they found another body near the shore. The families were in a state of shock, as they were hopeful that the fishermen would be saved and brought homes as one among them turned up alive. Samam Makkal Iyakkam founder president C.J. Rajan in a press release appealed to the Central and State governments to release Rs. 20 lakh solatium to the legal heirs of the three fishermen who had died and sought jobs to the kith and kin. The woes of fishermen were aplenty that they had to be redressed, which alone would instill confidence in the community, he noted and stressed the Central government to establish an exclusive ministry for fisheries.
23 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem court resumes physical hearings||The Salem district court on Monday resumed hearing cases in open courts with restrictions. According to court authorities, physical hearings were not conducted in courts here following lockdown. Only important cases were taken up for hearing through video conferencing. From Monday, physical hearings had begun after taking safety measures on the court premises. Temperature of visitors to the court including lawyers were checked at the gates. There were about 22 courts in the district court complex and each court would hear only five cases a day ensuring physical distancing and other health guidelines. Timing of the hearing was intimated in advance to lawyers and they had been advised to inform the courts in advance if they would not be able to appear for the case, the authorities said. The court administration had arranged two boxes on its premises for filing fresh suits. Separate boxes had been arranged for civil and criminal suits and lawyers, and police officials had been advised to drop case documents in the box. The boxes were placed between 10.30 a.m. and 12.30 p.m. and the case documents were taken up for scrutiny the next day. All advocates had been advised to wear masks inside the court premises.
23 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Krishnagiri toll gate will be shifted to Chinnar, says MP||Krishnagiri Member of Parliament A.Chellakumar said here on Monday that efforts were on to shift Krishnagiri toll gate to Chinnar at Rs. 80 crore. “It has been a long-standing demand of people of Krishnagiri to shift the toll plaza from the existing place since the public have been forced to pay toll charges even to visit the Collectorate, office of Superintendent of Police and other important offices here,” Mr. Chellakumar told presspersons. He added that he raised the issue in Parliament and after several rounds of deliberations with Union Minister for Highways Nitin Gadkari, Highways officials and concessioner here, they agreed to shift the toll booth to another place. Mr. Chellakumar said that he requested the District Collector to identify an alternative land immediately. Land identified Mr. Chellakumar said the land was identified in Chinnar here and he had requested the respective authorities to construct toll booth with 18 lanes instead of 24 lanes according to norms. He added that the authorities were expected to submit the building map to the Collector and if accepted, the toll booth would be constructed with 18 lanes and no private land would be required for the purpose. He added that the authorities had proposed a cost of approximately Rs. 80 crore for constructing the toll booth.
23 June 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Smart City works inspected||Salem Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh reviewed the works being carried out under the Smart Cities Mission along the banks of Thirumanimutharu river recently. Officials said, over 1.5 km. of the banks of Thirumanimutharu had been classified into six zones and the area was being redeveloped at Rs. 18.8 crore under the Smart Cities Mission. Mr. Sadheesh spected the construction of a foot bridge connecting Mettukan Street and Atruoram market across the river. The bridge is two metre wide and 30 metre long, the officials said.
23 June 2020||salem,TAMIL NADU||Class 10 marks verification camp begins in Salem||A verification camp to check marks of Class 10 students according to guidelines issued by the State government began here on Monday. Teams appointed According to officials from School Education Department, a camp has been set up at each of the five education districts. Teams have been appointed in accordance with number of schools in each district. Progress reports T. Ganesh Moorthy, Chief Education Officer, said that in terms of education districts, 23 teams had been deployed in Salem, eight in Sankagiri, six in Mettur, eight in Attur and 12 teams in Salem rural. Each team included two teachers and an administrative staff and they would verify consolidated marks register and progress reports of students. The attendance particulars of students had been collected earlier, Mr. Ganesh Moorthy added. An explanation would be sought from schools which could not produce the answer scripts. The calculation of marks would happen later. Class 11 students According to officials, in Class 10, over 45,000 students are studying in the district in 532 schools here. Marks of about 36,000 Class 11 students would also be verified.
23 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||24 test positive in Salem||Twenty-four persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Salem on Monday. According to officials, 23 were indigenous cases and one was imported case. In Namakkal, a 40-year-old woman who had returned from Delhi tested positive for the disease. The patient is undergoing treatment at Namakkal Government Medical College Hospital.  Erode Staff Reporter adds  Two persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Erode district on Monday. Health officials said that a 56-year-old man of Kuppipalam in Valayakarar Street, and a 26-year-old native of Kodumudi, who had returned from Tiruvallur district recently, tested positive for COVID-19. Both were admitted to the isolation ward on Monday. Ten persons are undergoing treatment and the total number of cases reported in the district stands at 83. People living in 3,282 houses across the district have been quarantined, officials added.
23 June 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Two rifles, 120 rounds seized from car||Two rifles and 120 rounds were seized from a car in which five persons were travelling from Madurai to Sivaganga. Initial inquiries revealed that they were from Madurai and as the statements were contradictory, the team decided to conduct a discreet probe and also search the vehicle, which was intercepted at the check-post here on Sunday night. The police recovered two rifles and suspected that the inmates had shot some wild animals in a reserve forest in the region. Though the details were not known, the police handed them over to the forest officials for an inquiry as the inmates produced licence for the two weapons. A senior police officer said that they would await the inquiry to be completed by the forest officials.
23 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Villagers take up the fight against COVID-19; close shops for a fortnight||Residents of Marungulam have convinced traders in Marungulam Junction to shut their shops for a fortnight from Sunday in order to prevent spreading of COVID-19 virus in Marungulam and surrounding villages. The plea to shut the shops were put forth by the villagers to the owners of around 100 shops functioning in the junction following a COVID-19 positive case reported in a nearby village since Marungulam Junction serves as an important market for the people of Marungulam and 19 other villages situated around Marungulam. Messages pleading with the villagers to stay indoors and not move out their houses for the next 15 days was aired through the public address system. This was fitted on autorickshaws that went around the village, sources said. A plea to close the TASMAC outlet functioning at Marungulam for a fortnight was also made by the villagers to the District Administration.
23 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Protest against sand mining||A protest demonstration against sand mining on the Coleroon riverbed at Thiruchennampoondi was held on Monday. The demonstrators, who assembled on the riverbed, raised slogans urging the State to withdraw permission granted to mine sand from the riverbed. Allowing mining activity would only result in further depletion of the groundwater table, they alleged.
23 June 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Leakage in sewer pipeline raises concern||Leakage in sewer pipeline passing over the Grand Anicut canal near the Vandikara Street, Thanjavur, has caused concern among the people. Thanjavur MLA, T.K.G.Neelamegam inspected the leakage on the pipeline, which has resulted in sewerage mixing with the water released for irrigation in the canal on Sunday. He urged the Thanjavur Corporation officials to arrest the leakage. Meanwhile, Corporation officials have initiated necessary steps to arrest the leakage. The pipeline carries sewerage to the treatment plant located near Samudhram Lake.
23 June 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Murder accused arrested||Four special teams of the Theni police together solved a murder case and recovered cash amounting to Rs. 22 lakh, which was allegedly stolen from a victim, and the key accused was arrested, said Superintendent of Police Sai Saran Tejaswi, on Monday. Two days ago, the police received a complaint that Arunkumar (34) son of Alagarsami of Penniquick Nagar here, who was working as a marketing manager with a private automobile showroom in Allinagaram, was missing. He had last left his office in the forenoon three days ago to go to the bank to withdraw Rs. 22 lakh in cash on instructions from his employer. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Tejaswi said that Arunkumar was found dead on the Theni-Periakulam highway and according to the initial inquiry, the cash was missing. There was absolutely no clue, as the body was lying on the highway and his phone was found near his two-wheeler. Tracking the calls received and made from the victim’s mobile phone, the police teams zeroed in on the suspects. As many as 20 people were grilled in the last 48 hours and finally, the police obtained clinching evidence of some known people's hand in the crime, the SP said and added that the accused who was caught, confessed to having the cash, which has been fully recovered.
23 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||COVID patient mistakenly discharged on third day||Tension prevailed along the 4th Street of Tooveypuram here on Monday evening after a 60-year-old male COVID – 19 positive patient was mistakenly discharged from the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital on the third day of his admission. After the old man tested positive on Saturday, he was admitted to the treatment ward of Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. When he got down from the autorickshaw at 4 p.m. on Monday after being discharged from the hospital on the third day itself, the residents of 4th street of Tooveypuram were bewildered on seeing the old man back in their midst. “Even as the barricades erected at both the entrances of our street are still intact and the police are still guarding the barricades to check the entry of outsiders, the infected man has returned. This is really a disturbing development,” said one of the residents. While some of the residents contacted the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital authorities over the phone to know if he was actually discharged from the hospital or he had escaped from the ward, others informed the Corporation officials about the COVID -19 positive patient’s presence in their area. On coming to know about the incident, Collector Sandeep Nanduri alerted the Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital authorities to check the mess and the Corporation officials too rushed to the residence of the patient to take him back to the hospital. “It’s an absolute mess caused by similarity of names of two patients. The hospital authorities could have been a bit cautious while discharging the patients,” said a senior Corporation official. Tension subsided after the 108 Emergency Ambulance took the patient back to Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital around 6.15 p.m. Now, the Corporation officials are on the lookout for the autorickshaw driver who took the patient from the hospital to his house.
23 June 2020||Tiruavrur,TAMIL NADU||Water reaches Koraiyar tail-end area||Water for irrigation released from the Grand Anicut on June 16 has reached the regulator across the river Koraiyar at Jambhavanodai in Muthupettai taluk two days ago. Disclosing this in a press release, Food Minister R. Kamaraj said that this year the water released from Grand Anicut has reached the Koraiyar river tail-end in a record time of four days. In the past, it would take 10 or more days for the water released from Grand Anicut to reach the Jambhavanodai regulator. The desilting of the waterway in the recent past had made it possible for the water to reach the tail-end area within four days, the Minister said while opening the sluice at the regulator to release water into the Colony Irrigation Canal on the occasion.
23 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Labour woes hit construction of new barrage across Kollidam||Acute labour shortage has hit the construction of a new barrage across the Kollidam at Mukkombu. The construction work, being undertaken at an estimate of Rs. 387.60 crore, began in June 2019. The new regulator is being constructed 75 metres away from the damaged structure on the downstream of the riverbed. L&T, which bagged the contract, began raising piles in August. After two months of brisk work, the northeast monsoon and subsequent discharge of surplus water into the Kollidam from Mukkombu for about one and half months. The work, which again resumed in November, gathered momentum from December. The Public Works Department (PWD) officials of River Conservation Division, Tiruchi, who oversee the project, had laid a roadmap for completing “below the ground level” work within May as the period from January to May was considered ideal for carrying out construction. As planned, the work made rapid progress until the third week of March. But, the lockdown from March 23 again put the brakes on the works. Though the work resumed after a gap of about 45 days after the State government announced relaxation on lockdown measures, the exodus of migrant workers including skilled workers is reported to have slowed down the progress of work. Before the lockdown, it is learnt that nearly 210 workers had been engaged for the project. Close to 90% of them were migrant workers. About 120 workers employed at Mukkombu project have returned to their native States. Only about 70 workers preferred to stay back at the project site, resulting in delay in the progress of work. To make up for the shortage of workers, the contractors engaged labourers available in rural areas of Tiruchi district but they were unable to accelerate the pace of work. R. Baskar, Executive Engineer, PWD, WRO, Tiruchi, told The Hindu that migrant workers, who had gone home, had expressed interest to return back to the project site. Efforts are on to bring them back, he said. A site engineer said that e-pass had been applied for 40 migrant workers. They would be flown to the State as early as possible. As far as the progress of work, Mr. Baskar said that about 40% of work had been completed. Of the 484 piles, 382 had been erected. Eighteen piers had been raised out of 55 piers. Fabrication of gates and hoist platforms had been completed. Out of 1,650 meters, the diaphragm wall had been constructed for a length of 850 meters.
23 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Five care centres for asymptomatic patients||The district administration is getting ready COVID-19 care centres to monitor asymptomatic patients and those with mild symptoms of the novel coronavirus. Campuses of five educational institutions are being readied with as many as 325 beds at various locations in the city for the purpose. S. Sivasubramanian, City Corporation Commissioner told The Hindu that Corporation Middle Schools in Senthaneerpuram, Woraiyur, Pappakurichi, Dr. Rajan Corporation Middle School in Srirangam and the Khajamalai Campus of Bharathidasan University have been identified and workers of the Tiruchi City Corporation have begun cleaning and arranging bedding and other facilities at the locations. Schools in Senthaneerpuram, Woraiyur and Pappakurichi, will each have 50 beds. The Dr. Rajan Corporation Middle School will have 25 beds and the Khajamalai Campus of Bharathidasan University will have 10 beds. “The schools and the university campus have necessary facilities including rest rooms and adequate ventilation. The beds are being arranged and work will be completed tomorrow,” Mr. Sivasubramanian said. Officials said that only positive patients with co-morbid conditions and health complications will be sent to the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, which is a designated COVID-19 hospital with 640 beds. The neighbouring districts of Ariyalur, Perambalur and Pudukottai have already been informed to only send patients with co-morbidity or those over the age of 50, a senior health official said. Three private hospitals in the city are also ready with COVID-19 isolation wards in case the need arises, he said. Officials have been instructed to remain cautious as cases of COVID-19 is on the rise. Collector S. Sivarasu inspected the care centre being established at the Khajamalai campus of the Bharathidasan University.
23 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Construction activities pick up, but with decline in productivity||While construction activities have picked up in and around the city after relaxation of lockdown restrictions, builders are concerned about fall in current productivity levels of the workers due to reduction in working hours, and rise in wages. Earlier, the labourers used to work from around 9.30 a.m. to 6 p.m., with one hour of lunch break in between. But now, they come at 10 a.m. and wind up at 5 p.m. with the same one hour of lunch break in between. The daily wages for masons and workers has risen substantially from Rs. 700 to Rs. 800. The men workers have to be paid increased daily wage of Rs. 600 per person and for the women workers, the present wage is Rs. 450 per person. “The construction activities could pick up fast since the builders in Tiruchi region were not overdependent on migrant labourers, unlike in some other districts. But, the departure of a segment of migrant labourers in the construction industry has meant local workforce setting terms from a position of strength,” according to S. Anand, proprietor of Jeyam Builders. The masons and the workers know full well that the builders would have no other go than to incur the additional expenditure on account of the increased wages due to the time overrun for finishing the projects at hand that had got delayed due to the intensified COVID-19 lockdown during April-May, the builders say. Not many have the idea of taking up new projects at this point of time. “My priority is to complete the work within the earliest possible time. I would also be giving a try for completing the work under contract system so that the masons and workers will not be particular on the duration and rather be keen on early completion of work,” Murali, a builder in Ariyamangalam area said. Increase in bus fare The reasoning for demand for higher wages given by the construction workers who come from villages in the surroundings is the increase in bus fares for public transport operated in limited numbers. “As buses are limited, we must reach home before darkness falls,” Sumathi, a construction labourer belonging to Suriyur village said. Realising that enforcing the earlier work timings is not practical at this juncture, some of the builders are understood to have told the construction labourers that they would have to curtail their lunch time to half an hour.
23 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Temple EO arrested on bribe charge||Officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC) on Monday arrested the executive officer of Sri Madanagopala Swamy Temple in Perambalur on the charge of demanding and receiving bribe from a temporary priest of the shrine. Acting on a complaint lodged by the temporary priest Chakkravarthy, the investigating agency officials laid a trap and caught the executive officer Mani when he allegedly obtained the bribe amount from the priest. According to DVAC sources, Mani had demanded Rs. 40,000 as bribe from Mr. Chakkravarthy to regularise his services and forwarded a list in this connection to the government. He is also alleged to have demanded Rs. 20,000 as first installment. A trap was laid and the executive officer was caught when he obtained the bribe amount of Rs. 20,000 from Chakkravarthy at his office. The DVAC also arrested Pughazendhi, a temporary writer at the office, to whom the bribe money was allegedly handed over by the executive officer.
23 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||More than 50,000 cases booked for violation of prohibitory orders||The number of cases booked against those found violating the prohibitory orders across Tiruchi Range comprising five districts and in Tiruchi City limits has crossed 50,000 till date ever since the lockdown was clamped in late March. More than 50,000 vehicles were confiscated till date during daily drives conducted by the law enforcers across Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Ariyalur, Karur and Perambalur districts besides those separately seized by the Tiruchi City Police in its jurisdiction. Police sources said Tiruchi Rural was on top in respect of cases booked for violation of section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure with the figure exceeding a little over 20,500 from March 25 to June 20. Pudukottai district was second with the number of cases booked being 8,718 followed by Karur district where 7,088 cases were registered. The number of cases booked in Perambalur and Ariyalur districts were 5,607 and 5,960 respectively. Cases booked by the Tiruchi City Police in its jurisdiction separately were 2,910. Two-wheelers accounted for maximum number among the vehicles seized by police teams. Police statistics reveal that as many as 53,816 two-wheelers were seized including 17,220 by the Tiruchi Rural Police and 9,265 by the Tiruchi City Police. Alongside enforcing prohibitory orders, the police have been carrying out awareness drive in the wake of steady rise in COVID-19 positive cases in Tiruchi. The City Police has come out with an audio message urging the general public not to venture out of their respective home unless it was for some emergency purpose, says Commissioner of Police V. Varadharaju. The audio message also appeals to the public to wear mask while venturing out and maintain personal distancing.Mr.Varadharaju said nearly 25 per cent of the City Police strength was being kept as a standby. All police stations falling within the limits of Tiruchi City Police were being disinfected every day. Foot operated sanitiser units had been provided at police stations and face shields to all policemen attached to city police limits, Mr. Varadharaju added. Police sources say a vast majority of vehicles seized for flouting prohibitory orders had been released after obtaining a written undertaking from its respective owner. The number of seized vehicles released so far was over 40,000.
23 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Use technology to explore possibilities, Smriti Irani tells Karur textile exporters||Union Textiles Minister Smriti Irani on Monday assured handloom textile exporters of Karur that the Centre would support all sections of the textile industry in finding solutions to surmount challenges. “We have faced challenges time and again. The government wants to partner with you to find solutions for every issue,” she said during an online interaction with handloom textile exporters of Karur here on Monday. Referring to certain issues raised by the exporters, Ms.Irani urged them to be specific so that she can help find solutions or follow up with the Ministries concerned. Responding to an issued flagged by an industry representatives, Ms. Irani urged the exporters to come up with a base paper detailing specific problems faced by the exporters, country-wise so that holistic and long-term solutions could be found. The industry representative had observed that small exporters were trying to find buyers in the United States and Europe but face a lot of certification and compliance issues. “The process is very expensive, which small exporters cannot afford,” he said. To a plea for establishing a design development centre and fashion institute in Karur, Ms.Irani urged the industry to explore ways to collaborate with the nearest National Institute of Fashion Technology, by going digital. “It is time to look at new possibilities, leveraging technology,” she observed. Convention centre Responding to request for support to establish a convention centre in Karur, Ms.Irani suggested that the industry in South India could come together to create such a facility. The Karur handlooms home textiles and made-ups exporters are free to form any organisation of their own, she said while responding to a complaint that Karur exporters voice often went unheard. “We will engage with all sections of the textile industry,” she assured. When her support was sought in exploring possibilities for supplying to the Defence sector, she urged the industry representatives to identify specific products. She also requested the industry to identify the skill-level that would be required for its workforce, especially in comparison to their competitors from other countries, when a suggestion was aired to set up a skill development centre in the town to train unskilled workers. ‘Atlas’ M. Nachimuthu, president, Karur Exporters Association, said the Karur handloom home textile and made-ups industry has evolved into a modern textile cluster, with over 750 MSME units, from being just a cottage industry. Exports from Karur, mostly to the USA and Europe, was valued at Rs. 5000 crore a year. The integrated textile park was among the best and accounted for exports worth around Rs. 600 crore, he said and called for the Centre’s support to the industry so that the town could move to the “next level”.  Exports from Karur, mostly to the USA and Europe, was valued at Rs. 5000 crore a year. The integrated textile park was among the best and accounted for exports worth around Rs. 600 crore ‘Atlas’ M. Nachimuthu President, Karur Exporters Association
23 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Farmers stage protest, seek release of water in canals||Members of the Desiya Thennidia Nadigal Innaippu Vivasayigal Sangam staged a demonstration by dumping vegetables in front of the Collector’s office in the city on Monday to press for their charter of demands and to protest against the poor field price for farm produce. The association, among other things, demanded waiver of all crop loans and sanction of fresh loans, increase in the minimum support price for paddy and sugarcane, release of water in all irrigation canals in Tiruchi district and removal of encroachments from the canals. The protesters were led by the association president, P. Ayyakannu. Meanwhile, a section of farmers led by Puliyur A.Nagarajan presented a petition to the Chief Engineer, Public Works Department, Tiruchi Region, claimed that banana crop raised on thousands of acres were in danger of withering due to the summer heat.
23 June 2020||Tiruchi/Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees a big jump with 150 testing positive||The central region saw a big jump in COVID-19 cases with 150 persons testing positive on Monday. Of the 150, Tiruchi had the highest number – 51, while Thanjavur had 36 cases, Nagapattinam had 17, Pudukottai had 16, Tiruvarur had 13, Ariyalur had 12, Karur had four and Perambalur had one COVID-19 case. In Tiruchi a majority of the 51 patients who tested positive were from existing containment zones. “Nadu Guzili Street has at least four more new cases, Kottapattu has a few too, Tiruverumbur, Muttharasanallur are a few other locations. Vellivadi too, has at least five cases,” a senior official at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital said. Including the addition of today’s cases, the total number of positive cases reported in Tiruchi district so far stood at 310. Twenty-four positive persons were discharged from the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Monday. In Nagapattinam, 13 of the 17 patients who tested positive returned from Chennai and its surrounding districts. The ten men were aged – 27, 38, 35, 33, 45, 50, 28, 39, 23 and 10, while two women where aged 24 and 23. Of the other four, three including one woman returned from Kerala while one patient had no travel history. In Thanjavur, 36 persons tested positive on Monday, taking the total number of COVID-19 positive cases reported in Thanjavur district so far beyond 300. The number of positive cases in the district started increasing after easing of lockdown regulations. The arrival of persons from other districts too had also contributed to the steady increase of COVID-19 positive cases which had peaked on Sunday with 49 persons testing positive for the virus. Currently, 177 persons are undergoing treatment in the district. In Tiruvarur the total number of coronavirus positive cases increased to 231 with the addition of 13 patients on Monday. While no death was reported in the district, 105 persons have been treated and discharged so far. In Ariyalur, a dozen patients, including 10 men and two women, tested positive for the viral infection. Two women who returned from Chennai and two men who returned from Kerala and a 42-year-old man who had been working in Maharashtra were among those who tested positive. In Pudukottai, all patients had travelled from Chennai and its surrounding districts. The patients have been admitted to the Ranee’s Government Hospital and are undergoing treatment for the viral infection. In Karur, four patients – three who returned from Karnataka and one who travelled from Chennai – tested positive for the viral infection. This increases the total number of cases in the district to 119. A sole patient who tested positive in Perambalur returned to the district from Chennai. The patient has been admitted to the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital where they are undergoing treatment.
23 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 scare: ISRO Propulsion Research Complex closed for a day||The functioning of Indian Space Research Organisation’s Propulsion Research Complex (IPRC) at Mahendragiri in the district was affected on Monday after the facility was closed for the day for disinfection as an engineer working there tested positive for COVID–19. The 28-year-old engineer in the technical section tested positive on Sunday, and was admitted to Kanniyakumari District Government Medical College Hospital at Asaripallam as he is living in Nagercoil. “After he tested positive four of his friends in the section have been quarantined and samples have been lifted from them. All 23 others in the section are to be screened. CCTV footages collected in the IPRC complex are analysed to ascertain the places they visited in recent past so that those areas can also be disinfected,” said sources in the IPRC, where over 700 persons and 250-odd Central Industrial Security Force personnel are working, along with 1,000-odd contract workers. A meeting of IPRC officials was organised on Monday. “The IPRC is expected to resume its operations from Tuesday after mandatory clearance is given by the Department of Public Health,” the sources added. However, Department of Public Health doctors said, “Intensive disinfection in the suspected areas for 4 or 5 days alone will be effective.” Meanwhile, testing of samples at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TVMCH) lab is paralysed after two technicians and a doctor tested positive.
23 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Demonstration condemning murder case verdict today||Condemning the Madras High Court’s verdict on Monday that set aside the death penalty for the prime accused in the 2016 Udumalpet Shankar murder case, Tamil Nadu Untouchability Eradication Front (TNUEF) called for a demonstration outside the Tiruppur District Collectorate on Tuesday. In a statement, the TNUEF termed the verdict “shocking” and “worrying” as the High Court set aside the December 2017 verdict of Tiruppur trial court that awarded death sentence to six accused, including to the prime accused B. Chinnasamy. “The [trial court] verdict was awarded in a short span of time for a caste killing,” the statement noted. The anti-caste organisation, affiliated to the CPI(M), urged the State government to appeal against the Madras High Court verdict in the Supreme Court “at the earliest with relevant and strong evidences.” C. Nandagopal, district secretary of TNUEF, said that members from “Periyarist, Marxist and anti-caste organisations” will participate in the demonstration in Tiruppur on Tuesday. Only around 20 persons will participate in a bid to ensure personal distancing and avoid overcrowding outside the Collectorate, he said.
23 June 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||CUTN not to conduct even-semester exams||Students appearing for their final semester examination (April-May 2020) except for M.Phil/Ph.D. at the Central University of Tamil Nadu (CUTN), Tiruvarur, can now breathe easy as the University has decided to adopt the continuous internal assessment (CIA) and the cumulative grade point average (CGPA) to assess their performance instead of conducting examinations. In a notification issued to this effect, the Controller of Examinations, CUTN, has said that the decision not to conduct the April-May 2020 semester examinations was taken in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. As a contingent measure, the performance of the students of all programmes (except M.Phil/Ph.D.) who are supposed to appear for their even-semester examinations this year will be assessed based on the CIA during the semester and CGPA earned till the previous semester considering the subjects cleared by them. While 60% weightage will be given for the CIA, 40% weightage will be given for the CGPA earned till the previous semester for theory courses. For practical courses, cent percent weightage will be given to the CIA of the current semester and there will be no examinations, the notification added. The modality will be applicable to backlog/arrear papers of the final year students of all programmes also. The same method will be followed for backlog/arrear papers of third-semester of all P.G programmes, the ninth semester of all Integrated Programmes and the private candidates who have completed their programme during earlier years and registered for arrear papers. A decision on whether to conduct the supplementary examinations or not for other students will be intimated at later date, the notification added.
23 June 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Father’s acquittal an injustice: Kowsalya||Reacting to theMadras High Court’s verdictacquitting her father in the murder of her husband Shankar, Ms. Kowsalya dubbed it an “injustice”. She vowed to appeal in the Supreme Court to overturn the acquittal of her father and the commuting of death sentences of a few other accused in the case. Addressing reporters near her residence in Coonoor on Monday, Ms. Kowsalya said that though she respected the court, the verdict was an injustice. “This is not justice for Shankar’s life, because if Annalakshmi (her mother) and Chinnasamy are not guilty, then Shankar should have been alive right now and he should have been with me,” she said. “We will not rest till Shankar gets justice, and I will continue the fight for as long as I am alive,” she said. Ms. Kowsalya also added that she was unable to keep tabs on the progress of the case when it was being heard in the Madras High Court. “When the case was being heard in the High Court, I could not keep up to date about what was happening in the case, as we could not employ our lawyer to fight the case. So the government lawyer was handling the case,” she said.
23 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Concern over spike in number of positive cases in the Nilgiris||The Nilgiris district administration has stated that the spike in the number of COVID-19 cases since last week was a source of “concern”. Officials said that till last Monday, there was not a single infection in the Nilgiris for 36 days. But since last Monday, 16 people have tested positive in the district. All of those who tested positive are returnees from other states and districts as well as their primary and secondary contacts. District Collector J.Innocent Divya told the reporters that the district administration had anticipated an increase in the number of cases due to easing of travel restrictions, but the doubling rate of the virus was a source of concern. She said that a meeting, chaired by monitoring officer for Nilgiris district Supriya Sahu, will be held on Tuesday to come up with measures to slow the spread of the pandemic in the Nilgiris. Till date, more than 12,500 swab samples have been lifted from people.  Ms. Divya urged the residents and village vigilance committees to alert the district administration on helpline 1077, if they notice tourists or people from outside the Nilgiris staying in cottages, hotels and resorts.
23 June 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Private schools demand fees amidst lockdown, say parents in Virudhunagar||Complaints of many private schools forcing parents to pay fees for 2020-21 academic year amidst COVID-19 lockdown are pouring in Virudhunagar district. Parents complain that they are getting frequent phone calls and SMS from the schools asking them to pay fees. However, parents claim that they were not in a position to pay the fees due to job loss they had faced/facing during the lockdown. “When a majority of the people was facing problem in finding food for family members, how would they be able to pay the fees now,” asked one of the parents. “When the Government itself does not know as to when the schools could be reopened, why are the schools pressuring parents. The very promotion of online classes by schools is not to facilitate education, but only to collect fees,” a parent alleged. The schools were compelling the parents to pay tuition fees, uniform fees, book fees and also fees for boarding facilities, charged K. Samayan, president of Students’ Federation of India, Virudhunagar district. “How come the schools insist on the students to pay the fees for food when the schools have not been reopened? This is one classic example of how the schools are armtwisting the parents,” he added. However, Virudhunagar Chief Educational Officer, M.K.C. Subashini, said that the office had not received any written complaint so far. “People only call us over phone and complain about the fees issue. We have called those school authorities and warned them,” she said. A circular citing the Government Order that prohibits collection of school fees during lockdown has been issued to all schools. Even reminders have been served to them. “But we cannot act merely on phone calls. If we get a written complaint, we will act upon them against the schools,” she said. Mr. Samayan was not ready to buy the claim of the schools that they need to collect fees to pay salary for the teachers. “Private schools are collecting hefty fees, but pay only a paltry sum as salary to the teachers. Citing teachers’ salary payment is only a lame excuse to collect money from parents,” he alleged.
23 June 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Jail official booked for turning up drunk to duty||Virudhunagar District Jail Superintendent Vadivel has been booked for turning up to duty reportedly in an intoxicated mood. Based on a complaint from the Assistant Jailor, Ramkumar, the Virudhunagar west police have booked him under Section 294 (b) of Indian Penal Code for using abusive language against his colleagues and under Section 166 of IPC for public servant disobeying law, with intent to causing injury to others and under the provisions of Tamil Nadu Prohibition Act for having consumed liquor while on duty. The police said that during the routine communication for giving the daily situation report to the Deputy Inspector General (Prisons) Madurai, D. Pazhani, the official had created some ruckus, following which the DIG inspected the prison immediately. After the police complaint had been registered, a departmental enquiry was initiated, sources added.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Consider giving face shield to police personnel in State’||With a rise in number of COVID-19 positive cases among police personnel in Tamil Nadu, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday asked the State government to examine the feasibility of providing face shields to all police personnel in the State. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi observed that the court cannot turn a Nelson’s eye to the fact that the police personnel in the State were getting affected by COVID-19 and something had to be done to protect their lives. The court was hearing a batch of public interest litigation petitions that sought a direction to the State government to provide adequate personal protective equipment to non-medical frontline workers such as police and sanitary workers. During the course of the hearing, counsel for the respective Corporations that come under the Jurisdiction of the High Court Bench submitted that a monitoring mechanism was in place to ensure that conservancy workers used protective gear during work. ‘Approach DLSAs’ Taking cognisance of the submissions, the court said public spirited persons can approach the District Legal Services Authorities if they find sanitary workers working without protective gear. Based on such complaints, the DLSAs can take up the issue with the authorities concerned in order to ensure compliance, the court said.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||17 more test positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district reported 17 COVID-19 cases, including eight air passengers, on Monday. While five air passengers arrived by IndiGo flight from Delhi on Sunday, three had arrived by SpiceJet from Chennai on the same day, said officials with the Health Department. Of the five persons from Delhi, four were residents of Nanjundapuram and one was from Kurumbapalayam. The three air passengers from Chennai were identified as a woman from Kamatchipuram near Ondipudur and two persons from Church Street at Edayarpalayam. Four cases were reported from Gandhipuram - three from fourth street and one person from sixth street. Three persons from Kasthuripalayam who tested positive for the disease on Monday were contacts of a COVID-19 patient. Close contact of a patient from Ramanathapuram and a 10-year-old boy who came from Chennai also tested positive for the disease. Meanwhile, authorities of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital said that a 77-year-old man who was admitted to the hospital on Saturday died of pneumonia. Four persons were discharged from the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital after treatment on Monday. The office of the Deputy Director of Health Services at Race Course in Coimbatore was fumigated on Monday, reportedly after a woman employee who had gone to Chennai for a training programme tested positive for COVID-19. The woman had also violated home quarantine restrictions. Swab samples of more than 100 persons who work in various sections at the office complex were taken for test. However, Health Department did not give an official confirmation whether the woman employee tested positive for COVID-19. Tiruppur A nine-month-old girl and her father from Tiruppur were reported to have tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. The 35-year-old man, his wife and their daughter, residents of Kangeyam Road in Tiruppur Corporation limits, left for Old Washermanpet in Chennai during March prior to the announcement of the nationwide lockdown. On June 18, the family travelled to Dindigul via train and their swab samples were lifted at Dindigul Junction on the same day, according to Health Department sources. Two days later, the father and the child tested positive for COVID-19. Both were admitted to Dindigul Government Hospital, sources said. Out of the four persons who tested positive on Sunday, three were cross-notified to Chennai. As of Monday, there are six active cases in Tiruppur district. Udhagamandalam Two more people with a travel history to Chennai tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris on Monday. A 25-year-old woman resident of the military quarters in Alandur, Chennai, tested for COVID-19 at the border checkpost in the Nilgiris. A 51-year-old man, residing in Sriperumbudur for the last six months, tested positive in Chennai. He belongs to Melur in Coonoor. He is under treatment in Chennai. With the latest infections, the total number of active cases in the Nilgiris has risen to 17. A total of 14 others have recovered.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Check dam to be built across the Vaigai at Arapalayam||A check dam is to be constructed across the Vaigai at Arapalayam to recharge groundwater level in the surrounding areas. Public Works Department Executive Engineer (Periyar-Vaigai Basin) T. Subramanian said here on Monday that the Chief Minister had made an announcement for the construction of the check dam. It would be constructed at a cost of Rs. 12 crore. He said the Government Order was awaited to start construction. “Due to over-exploitation, the groundwater level has drastically reduced in the city. Hence, the construction of this check dam at Arapalayam will help recharge borewells and wells in the surrounding areas,” said a PWD official. The check dam will be constructed between the bridge connecting Arapalayam with Aruldosspuram and the Kamarajar bridge. The dam can store water up to seven million cubic feet (mcft), he added. According to ‘Water Watch,’ a monthly magazine released by Centre for Urban Water Resources of Dhan Foundation, a headwork was commissioned at Arapalayam and protected drinking water was supplied from as early as 1892. However, the headwork was decommissioned later because the river was contaminated due to sewage inflow. "A structure similar to a check dam was constructed at Arapalayam for supplying drinking water. However, it remained redundant for many decades now,” said the PWD official. Five proposals, including the Arapalayam structure, were sent by the department for construction of check dams and bed dams across the Vaigai. Two check dams had been constructed between Raja Mill Road and Kuruvikaran Salai. Two other bed dams would be constructed to divert water for Paravai and Madakulam tanks, he said.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||After Chennai, Madurai’s turn for lockdown||Residents can collect takeaways from restaurants between 6 a.m. and 8 p.m. Customers can place orders over phone, but delivery persons must possess identity cards from their organisations. Ration shops will function from 8 a.m. to 2 p.m., except those in COVID-19 containment zones. Staff working in ration shops in containment zones will have to deliver commodities and government relief material, door-to-door. Amma canteens will be functional too. Banks will be allowed to function only from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., with minimal staff. Construction where labourers are on site can continue too. State and Central government staff of essential services only need to come to office. Courts and media can function as well. Persons with e-passes from these areas can only travel in case of marriages, funerals or medical emergencies after submitting documents. No activities, including the sale of commodities, can take place in the containment zone, according to the order.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||SP awards man who installed CCTV camera at his residence||Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger recently congratulated a resident of Soliyankadu here and awarded him with a certificate and memento for installing CCTV camera at his residence as it came in handy in the investigation of a murder case. According to the police, M. Shantha, an AIADMK functionary, was found murdered on May 20 near her residence at Panamarathupatti while she was on her way to pick up her daughter-in-law from a petrol pump. As part of investigation, the Mallur police collected visuals recorded on the camera installed at the residence of Parthasarathi in Sholaiyangadu and it helped them to arrest the accused Ramesh. Salem Police advised public to install CCTV cameras on their premises as a security measure.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A walk for water||
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Alagiri hits out at State BJP’s bank loan initiative||Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri on Monday, lashed out at Bharathiya Janata Party’s Tamil Nadu unit, for its initiative to help people get bank loans, under various schemes instituted by the Centre, and warned of legal action, if it was not stopped. In a statement, he said the BJP thinks that by doing this they can establish themselves in the State, but this won’t succeed. Mr. Alagiri asked that if other political parties started similar initiatives, would the banks accept it, and would loans be disbursed. He also said that banks would show bias in disbursing loans, and this might lead to a lot of wrong doings. Mr. Alagiri pointed out that when former Finance Minister P. Chidambaram launched the education loan scheme, it benefited all, and the State unit did not start any initiative like the BJP was doing. The senior Congress leader said that the BJP Tamil Nadu unit’s action is strongly condemnable.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Patient put to inconvenience||A railway employee, who was tested positive for COVID-19, was put to inconvenience while being admitted for COVID-19 treatment on Friday. The locopilot had volunteered to quarantine himself after he developed fever two days back, as a precautionary measure. Swab test was conducted and the result was communicated to him over his mobile phone by GRH authorities, one of his colleagues said. The official had asked him to get himself admitted to the COVID-19 isolation facility at Thoppur. After he conveyed the message to the railway hospital in the morning, a ‘108’ ambulance shifted him with a letter from the hospital about his health condition. However, the ambulance took him to the GRH where he was questioned as to why he had come there instead of Thoppur. By then the ambulance had left the GRH. After waiting for nearly two hours, the ambulance returned and took him to Thoppur.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fishing in calm waters||
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Give response to plea: HC||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday sought a response from the Centre and State governments in a petition filed by a Siddha doctor who wanted his herbal concoction to be tested to see if it could be a cure for COVID-19. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi sought a response from the Centre and State and adjourned the hearing in the case to June 23. The petition was filed by S. Subramanian, a Siddha doctor from Madurai. The petitioner said that he had prepared a herbal concoction, a mixture of 66 herbs in the form of a powder and the preparation could be used as a cure for COVID-19. This mixture could be taken twice a day after mixing it with hot water. By taking the mixture regularly, immunity would increase, he said. He said that he had approached the Ministry of AYUSH with a request to conduct a study of the mixture called ‘IMPRO.’ However, with no response, he filed the petition before the court.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects Mettur water works||Collector S.A. Raman inspected the Mettur surplus water scheme works here recently. Under the Rs. 565-crore project, 100 lakes in four Assembly constituencies here would be filled with surplus water from Mettur dam. Officials said surplus water would be taken through canal to main pump house in Thippampatti and 10 motors with 940 horse power would pump the water to M. Kallipatti lake through pipelines. Water would be taken to 23 lakes from M. Kallipatti lake. Similarly, water would be taken to 33 water bodies by pumping water using six motors with 1,080 horse power from Thippampatti pump house to Nangavalli lake.
23 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||AYUSH doctors urge govt. to regularise their services||AYUSH doctors working in rural areas as frontline workers in the COVID-19 battle have urged the State government to recognise them by regularising their services. These doctors, who have degrees in Ayurveda, Homeopathy, Siddha and Unani, have been working on contract basis in primary healthcare centres in villages for 10 to 14 years now. They said they have no job security and other allowances or benefits. Of the 657 AYUSH doctors on government duty, most are in village clinics. Some are deputed to taluk and district hospitals too. “After the recent reshuffling of doctors, 456 are working in village clinics, 124 in taluk hospitals, and 18 in district hospitals. Now, over 90% of us are on COVID-19 duty,” said Harsha Patil, an AYUSH doctor. “The State government is oblivious to our existence. It does not know that AYUSH doctors are managing village clinics. It has no plan for our welfare. There has been no response to our repeated pleas to successive governments.” “Some of our colleagues approached the High Court seeking directions to the State to regularise our services. The High Court directed regularisation of AYUSH doctors in the case of Dr. Vaishali vs. AYUSH Directorate, 2016. But even after four years, the government is yet to implement the order,” Dr. Patil said. S. Ravi Kumar, another doctor, pointed out the inequality in remuneration. “We started with consolidated salaries of Rs. 5,000 about 14 years ago. Now we get a consolidated salary of Rs. 19,404. This is several times lower than what an allopathic medicine graduate gets, while the responsibilities we share are the same,” he said. Surekha Kudchi, a doctor at a village PHC, said it is the AYUSH doctor who screens patients in flu clinics, goes door to door in medical surveillance teams, and on other COVID-19 duties. “We will be forced to quit and take up private practice if our services are not regularised.”
23 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sealing of areas to be scaled up in four districts across State||The State government on Monday decided to implement lockdown locally by sealing the entire street and adjacent streets where COVID-19 positive cases are reported, across the State where the rate of spread of the pandemic is high. The seal down of areas will be implemented in Bengaluru, Ballari, Yadgir, and Kalaburagi among others, where cases are on a rise. In Bengaluru, containment zones will be created in wards that have seen a spike in cases in the recent weeks. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has given his consent. The seal down, which will be for 10 days, will be extended to other areas which have reported more cases. Incidentally, the government, which earlier demarcated containment areas within local wards, had scaled them down to a few buildings where COVID-19 cases were reported. The decision to bring back the seal down rules was taken on Monday at a high-level meeting chaired by Mr. Yediyurappa, in which Deputy Chief Minister C. N. Ashwath Narayan, Revenue Minister R. Ashok, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai, and Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar participated. The meeting was convened to contain the rapid spread of positive cases in the State. Fever clinics will be set up in all wards to prevent the contagion spreading in hospitals, Mr. Yediyurappa said. The Chief Minister also directed the officials to maintain hygiene and provide other basic amenities to people who have been quarantined in social welfare hostels and other government institutions. Meanwhile, Mr. Ashok said that in the light of complaints over poor hygiene and inadequate supply of water in institutional quarantine infrastructure at hostels run by the Social Welfare Department, the authorities have been asked to address the issues quickly.
23 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Students in containment zones also can write SSLC exam||Class 10 students in containment zones will now be allowed to write the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examination, but will be assigned separate classrooms at their centres. Earlier, it had been decided that students in containment zones would not be allowed to write the June-July exam and would instead appear for the supplementary exam as fresh candidates. However, Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) has decided against this in the backdrop of the rising number of containment zones in Bengaluru and in other parts ofthe State. Sources in the KSEEB said that if exam centres were located in containment zones, they would be shifted outside of it. “The Deputy Directors of Public Instruction have been asked to identify such centres. We will also keep buses ready outside these centres so that if students turn up at their old exam centre in the containment zone, they can board the bus, which will ferry them to the new centre,” an official said. More than 8.4 lakh students have registered for the exam, which will begin on June 25 and end on July 4. Students will have to undergo thermal screening, wear masks, use sanitisers, and practice social distancing at the exam centres. Parents anxious The decision to allow students from containment zones to appear for the exam has not gone down well with families whose houses are in “safe areas”. Many fear it will increase their risk of contracting COVID-19. Rakesh S., a parent, said, “Even if students in containment zones are made to sit in a separate classroom, our children may come in contact with them outside the exam hall or before entering these classrooms. We are extremely worried about the health of our children.” For students in Goa The KSEEB has decided to have two exam centres in Goa for the benefit of 57 students. In the past, the students would come to Karwar to write the exam. “Both the schools are Kannada-medium ones on the Goa border. The two centres will be located at Zuarinagar and Mangor Hill. The decision has been taken as the number of COVID-19 cases is on the rise. We don’t want them [the students] to travel several kilometres to write the exam,” an official said. However, students from Kasaragod will be provided transportation to the exam centres located in Karnataka.     Exam centres Those in containment zones will be shifted Students will be notified Buses will be on standby at the old centres to ferry students who report there
23 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBP witnesses only a fraction of usual footfall||Starting off with only a fraction of its usual footfall, the Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP), one of the city’s best known and loved destinations, saw a fall in visitor numbers in the second weekend. However, it picked up on Monday, the park’s officials said. According to information shared by the BBP, compared to the first weekend since opening, when 509 and 624 people visited the park on Saturday and Sunday, respectively, the recent second weekend saw the numbers drop to 440 and 330, respectively. Incidentally, these are just a small percentage of the actual pre-COVID-19 numbers that the park is used to — around 2,000 during the weekdays and around 5,000 during weekends depending on the season. Among the reasons being cited that could have impacted these numbers are the increasing number of COVID-19 cases in Bengaluru, monsoon, and Sunday’s solar eclipse. “Areas are being sealed and people do not have the confidence to step out. But on Monday, we had 224 visitors compared to the earlier two Mondays with 103 and 219. So it is too early to draw any conclusion as external factors like weather and eclipse played roles,” said Vanashree Vipin Singh, Executive Director, BBP. The focus is also not on footfall at present as the park authorities are paying more attention to COVID-related protocols of functioning, she added. “We have brought in a slew of measures, including temperature checks, online booking and social distancing. We have also got an assessment conducted from the Health Department to understand what improvements we can make and are awaiting the report,” she added. With the focus also on zoonotic diseases, the park authorities have started enforcing existing rules more strictly, including not allowing visitors to feed animals.
23 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Nanomaterials to be used in battle against antibiotic resistance||The discovery of antibiotics had made many health experts believe that the fight against infectious diseases was in its final stages. But recent decades have seen the evolution of resistance to antibiotics in pathogenic bacteria, purportedly due to misuse and overuse of antibiotics. Now, in what is touted to be a significant breakthrough in the battle against antibiotic resistance, a research team from the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) has synthesised a nanomaterial that mimics an enzyme and can disintegrate the cell membranes of a range of disease-causing bacteria. The study, published in the journal ACS Applied Bio Materials , is a collaboration between researchers from the Department of Inorganic and Physical Chemistry (IPC) and the Department of Microbiology and Cell Biology (MCB). According to an IISc. release, the cell membranes of all organisms, including bacteria, have two layers of lipids containing phosphate molecules. Phospholipid is an essential component of the cell membrane, which the researchers decided to target with the help of nanomaterials that would break the bonds holding the membrane bilayer together. These nanomaterials are known as nanozymes. According to the authors, as the nanozymes directly target the chemical integrity of the phospholipids to destroy the cell membrane, bacteria are less likely to be able to develop resistance against them. “To develop this novel compound, the team synthesized a cerium oxide based nanozyme using what is known as a chemical co-precipitation method. In the next step, they carried out a reaction between cerium oxide and sodium polyacrylate in a basic solution to coat the nanoparticles with polymers. The polymer coating allows the nanozyme to disperse onto any surface or material and boosts its activity,” the release said. The nanomaterial was tested in the lab on several potentially pathogenic bacteria such as Salmonella Typhi , Shigella flexneri , Escherichia coli , Vibrio cholerae and Klebsiella pneumoniae , which cause typhoid, gastroenteritis, dysentery, cholera and pneumonia. The team found out that the nanozyme stopped their growth and subsequently inhibited the formation of biofilm – a densely packed community of bacteria, explained the release. It also added that nanozyme was tested on urinary catheters, which are vulnerable to formation of pathogenic biofilm on their surfaces, leading to infection in patients. They found that bacterial attachment to the catheter surface significantly reduced with the use of the nanozyme.
23 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minister’s father tests positive||Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar’s octogenarian father tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. He was admitted to a private hospital after he complained of fever and cough. The Minister took to Twitter to announce the results of the test on Monday evening. “My father’s COVID-19 test has come out positive. Anxiously waiting for reports of other family members. Praying for speedy recovery of my father,” he tweeted. Dr. Sudhakar’s father is suspected to have contracted the virus at home as one of the household helps also tested positive. In another tweet, Dr. Sudhakar said: “One of our household helps has also reported positive. He is under treatment at the designated hospital. My prayers are with him for early recovery.” Earlier in the day, Dr. Sudhakar had tweeted: “My 82-year-old father has been admitted with complaints of fever and cough. He has undergone COVID-19 test as well. We anxiously await results. Need your prayers and blessings.” One of the key Ministers in the COVID-19 pandemic-handling of the State, Dr. Sudhakar did not attend the high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday to review the spread of pandemic in Bengaluru. Sources close to the Minister said he voluntarily chose to stay away from the meeting as his father had shown symptoms. “It was a deliberate decision to stay away till the test report was received. The Minister has undergone COVID-19 tests four times till now since he has been travelling and also interacting with those involved in COVID-19 related work,” sources said.
23 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State records 249 new cases, 5 deaths; total cases at 9,399||As many as 249 new cases were reported in the State on Monday. With this, the total number of cases stand at 9,399. The State reported five new deaths due to COVID-19, taking the total death toll to 142. Of the total 249 new cases reported in Karnataka, 126 are from Bengaluru. According to media bulletin, among the 249 cases, 50 are inter-state passengers and 11 international passengers. Meanwhile, 111 patients were discharged on Monday. With a total of 5,730 discharges, the recovery rate in Karnataka now stood at 60.96%. The media bulletin also stated that 80 out of the total 3,523 active cases are admitted in the intensive care units of various designated hospitals. Patient asymptomatic  According to the bulletin, one of the five patients did not have any co-morbidities. Another patient who passed away was asymptomatic. Of the five deaths, three were reported in Bengaluru Urban, one each in Ballari and Ramanagaram. The patients who died included a 45-year-old man who had tuberculosis, a 38-year-old female who had no co-morbidities, and a 70-year-old male who had Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses and coronary heart disease. All the patients in Bengaluru had fever, cough, and breathlessness. The deceased patient from Ramanagaram was 90-years-old and asymptomatic, and died at his residence. He had hypertension. Meanwhile, a 60-year-old woman in Ballari, who had influenza-like illnesses, passed away in a designated hospital. She had fever, cough and breathlessness and also reported uncontrolled diabetes mellitus as a co-morbidity.  Among the 249 new cases, 50 are inter-state passengers and 11 are international passengers
23 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Blanket ban on online classes may lead to chaotic situation’||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday said the State government needs to find a solution immediately to the issues that have cropped up because of the “blanket” ban on online classes from preschool to Class 5. It pointed out that a blanket ban could lead to a “chaotic situation”. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy made these observations during the hearing of a PIL petition filed by Anumitha Sharma and 22 others, all parents of children studying in various schools. The petitioners had questioned the legality of imposing a blanket ban on online classes. The Bench, pointing out that the issue involved Article 21A of the Constitution on the right of children to compulsory education, said that continuing education at least for a couple of hours a day should be considered, besides addressing the issue of how students in rural areas, where the online mode may not be possible, can be taught. The Bench also said that it would take up other petitions, filed by two educational institutions, for hearing on Friday, along with this PIL petition.   ‘No logic’  Appearing for the petitioners, advocate Pradeep Nayak contended that the June 15 ban order was not only arbitrary, but also “perverse” as it only banned schools from conducting online classed and did not stop other entities or institutions from involving students in online classes. Pointing out that the order had brought the process of education to a complete standstill, in a clear violation of the fundamental right to education, the petitioners contended that the constitution of a committee to frame guidelines for the use of media and technology in education after imposing the “blanket ban” showed that the order had been issued without any application of mind and was devoid of logic or reasoning. It was also pointed out that the government, in its April 17 circular, had specifically allowed schools to impart education through online mode, and this had resulted in schools, teachers and parents investing their time, resources, and energy into seamlessly adapting to the new medium of education. The petitioners stated that the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs specifically allowed the online mode of education. Meanwhile, the government counsel argued that the ban would be in force only till the government framed guidelines. However, the advocate for the petitioners contended that the government order imposed a blanket ban on online classes till class 5 and the guidelines through the committee were proposed for online classes for students of class 6 onwards.
23 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ministers meet and decide to hasten PWD trifurcation||Amid opposition from a section of officials to the trifurcation of the Public Works Department (PWD), a meeting of Ministers was held on Monday and it was decided that the process would be hastened. It has been pending for decades. Minister for Public Works Govind Karjol, Water Resources Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, and Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa met in Bengaluru and arrived at an agreement to complete the process. Sources in the Water Resources Minister’s office said that the Ministers agreed to an immediate trifurcation, but discussions on the promotion avenues for engineers were still under way. The departmental heads have been asked to work out the modalities, including drawing up a list of engineers, their seniority, and a list of officials on deputation from the PWD, which is considered the mother department for engineering personnel resources in the State. While the issue of bifurcating Water Resources from Public Works has been discussedsince 1986, the RDPR Department has engineers on deputation from the PWD. The State Government SC/ST Employees’ Association is opposed to the trifurcation move as it has been insisting on effecting promotions for engineers before the process. It has also petitioned Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on the issue, stating that if the trifurcation is done withoutproviding promotion opportunities, the engineers belonging to SC/ST communities would lose out.
23 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Testing centres for police sought||The Home Department has sought dedicated COVID-19 testing centres and priority in treatment in hospitals for police personnel and corona warriors in the State, in the light of increasing number of cases among the personnel. Speaking to reporters here after attending the review meeting with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said that the police personnel are playing an important role in the containment of the pandemic, and they have been deployed in duties at check-posts, quarantine centres, monitoring those in home quarantine, and hospitals. Number of cases “So far, in Bengaluru alone, 59 cases have been reported among the police personnel, of which 49 cases are active. Six police stations have been closed down and are being sanitised, while the work has been shifted to the neighbouring police stations.” In rest of the State, 93 positive cases have been reported, of which 36 cases are active. The Home Minister said that the department believes that police personnel and corona warriors should be given priority in testing. “We will be meeting Health Department officials to seek dedicated test centres and priority in treatment being given at hospitals because they have to recover and report back to duty.” On facilities To a question on the facilities being extended to the police personnel, he said: “Adequate facilities are being provided. We have provided sanitisers, head gears and masks adequately. If need be, we will provide more. Those above 55 years have been deployed to office work.”
23 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private hospitals to treat patients from today||Revenue Minister R. Ashok said there was an extensive discussion over the shortage of beds to treat COVID-19 patients in government facilities, and that the government will allow the designated private hospitals to start treating patients from Tuesday. “Many private hospitals have come forward to treat patients. The government in consultation with private hospitals will decide on the number of wards and the rate to be fixed,” he added. He said there was a lot of confusion about the availability of hospital beds, and a mechanism will be devised to disseminate information on the availability of beds and hospitals that people could go to. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said: “ILI and SARI cases have increased and those without travel history are testing positive.”
23 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Doctor refused admission in private hospitals||A 32-year-old cardiologist from Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, who tested positive for COVID-19, was reportedly refused admission by many private facilities. Tested on June 21 He went from one private hospital to another seeking treatment, but in vain. The doctor got his test results on June 21. Confirming this to The Hindu , C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, said the patient was finally admitted in the cardiac rehabilitation centre of Jayadeva, which is located in a separate building on the hospital campus. However, Jayadeva is not a COVID-19 hospital. But considering the situation of the patient, he was given admission. Several staff from the hospital have also been quarantined. Shortage of beds Bengaluru is facing a shortage of beds in government facilities, and the government is looking at roping in more private hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients.
23 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Quarantine violators to be arrested||Stating that criminal action would be initiated against those violating home quarantine rules, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said it was unfortunate that they were leaving their mobile phones at home and moving around unnecessarily. “Because they can be tracked using their phones, they are leaving them at home,” he said, adding that police have been asked to file FIR against them. “There is a format and it needs no formal complaint against the violators. They will be arrested.” He said that the hospital capacity to accommodate COVID-19 positive cases were discussed. “There are 13 government hospitals in Bengaluru, and 13 medical medical colleges, including three government medical colleges. These have to be utilised completely. ”Asymptomatic cases have to be shifted to COVID care centres so that critical cases can be focused, he added.
23 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 patients stage protest||A few patients who tested positive for COVID-19 staged a snap protest and walked out of their wards at Victoria hospital on Monday. The patients complained that there was a delay in the food being served to them at one of the blocks in the hospital. To show their dissent, the patients walked out of their wards to grab the attention of the authorities. However, sources in BMRCI refuted that there was a delay in providing meals regularly. “Our lift was not functioning for a few minutes and this caused delay in serving lunch. It is only a one-off incident,” said a senior official in the hospital.
23 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Aid package of Rs. 45 cr. sought for advocates||Members of the Advocates’ Association, Bengaluru (AAB), staged a demonstration on Monday demanding that the State government release Rs. 45 crore as financial assistance to advocates who are in distress owing to the closure of regular courts in the State because of COVID-19. The AAB members, led by their president A.P. Ranganatha, said that the Rs. 5 crore released by the State government was meagre when 85% of the one lakh or so practising advocates were financially not sound. Pointing out that the Telangana government had announced a package of Rs. 25 crore for advocates in distress, the AAB urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to announce a package for advocates on the lines of the ones announced for migrants and those working in the unorganised sector. The demonstrators also urged the CM to come out with an insurance scheme for advocates, as was requested by AAB in a representation submitted in October 2019.
23 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Seven elected unopposed||With two of the nine nominations filed for seven seats of the Legislative Council being rejected, the seven remaining candidates have been declared elected unopposed. The two Independent candidates had their nominations rejected because their papers did not have signatures of proposers. The seven who have been elected unopposed are N. Nagaraju (MTB), Prathap Simha Nayak, R. Shankar, and Sunil Valyapure (all of BJP), B.K. Hariprasad and Naseer Ahmed (of the Congress), and Govindraju (of JD-S). With Monday being the last date for withdrawal of nominations, the seven that remained in the fray were declared elected unopposed. The election was to be held on June 29.
23 June 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Five test positive in Chikkamagaluru||Five people, including a returnee from Maharasthra, tested positive for COVID-19 infection in Chikkamagaluru district on Monday. Deputy Commissioner Bagadi Gautam, in a video bulletin, informed media that four people, natives of Ajjampura taluk, tested positive. They were all primary contacts of a police constable, who had tested positive earlier. Another person, who had returned to Sringeri from Maharashtra, also tested positive.
23 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||22 private hospitals enlisted to treat COVID-19 patients||Following a State government’s order regarding involving private hospitals to treat COVID-19 patients, a total of 22 private hospitals have been enlisted for this purpose in Hubballi-Dharwad. According to officials, this decision has been taken following a surge in COVID-19 positive cases. The district has reported 202 COVID-19 positive cases till date. All these days, the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) in Hubballi was the only designated hospital in the twin cities to offer treatment to COVID-19 patients. A 250-bed special ward was transformed into a COVID-19 unit and patients not only from the district but also from Haveri, Davangere, Bagalkot and Gadag are being treated at KIMS. The officials added that the private hospitals which are registered under KPME Act and are empanelled with Suvarna Arogya Suraksha Trust (SAST) and with sufficient manpower and medical facilities have been enlisted to treat COVID-19 positive cases. However, these private hospitals have to strictly follow the State government protocol on treatment. Only the Deputy Commissioner can refer infected patients to these hospitals and on referral, these hospitals should immediately admit patients and notify patient details on SAST website before starting treatment. The hospitals will be paid as per the appropriate package rate for COVID-19 management. Additional packages will also be applicable for co-morbidities, they said.
23 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 positive cases touch 202 in Dharwad||The total number of COVID-19 positive cases reached 202 in Dharwad district as four new cases were reported on Monday. Of these new cases, three are from Morab village in Navalgund taluk and one from Vijay Nagar in Dharwad. Meanwhile, two more patients recovered and were discharged from hospital taking the tally of recovered patients to 76. The number of active cases stands at 123.
23 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||When a house is lifted and shifted||A coffee planter at Ballupete in Sakleshpur taluk was disappointed when a portion of his land, where his house stood, was acquired for National Highway 75 (Bengaluru-Mangaluru) widening project. H.K. Lokesh, the planter, had built the 40 sq. ft house by spending Rs. 80 lakh. However, an engineering company based in Haryana came to his rescue. His house is now being moved 120 ft. away from its earlier place so that he need not take the burden of building one more. A team of 15 workers have been working on the project since January this year. Now it is on the verge of completion. He got the idea of shifting the house after he came across a newspaper report about shifting a house in Mandya district. Lokesh’s son, Udeesh, a software engineer in Bengaluru, got in touch with TDBD Engineering Works Ltd. of Haryana, who had executed the work in Mandya. The company has assured 20-year guarantee to the structure, which would be shifted at a cost of around Rs. 35 lakh. “I am happy with the work. Otherwise, I would have to spend a lot more money to rebuild the house,” said Lokesh. The engineers study the structure and its strength before taking up the lifting work. With the help of steel jacks, the house is relocated using railway sleepers. The owner is utilising the fund he got as compensation for the land he parted with.
23 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Service of Corona Warriors commendable’||Lauding the services of the Corona Warriors, Minister for Large and Medium Industries and district-in-charge for Dharwad Jagadish Shettar has said that during the time of crisis, the Corona warriors had done a commendable service to the society risking their lives. He was addressing a gathering at HDMC Hall here on Monday after symbolically distributing the kits provided to Corona Warriors by Samarthanam, an organisation for the physically challenged persons. The minister said that during the risk of contracting the disease, the corona warriors including ASHAs, police and health officials and staff and municipal staff had done tremendous work to prevent the spread of the pandemic. The minister also thanked Samarthanam for providing kits worth Rs. 37 lakhs to the Corona Warriors. Managing Trustee of Samarthanam Mahanthesh Kivudasannavar said that the orgnisation was helping particularly the physically challenged, migrant workers and daily wagers by providing them rapid relief response kits, daily food, masks and sanitisers. “So far 20,000 rapid response relief kits and food packets worth Rs. 3 lakh have been distributed. Samarthanam has also contributed one-day wages of the staff (Rs. 5 lakh) the Chief minister’s COVID relief fund”, he said. Earlier Minister Jagadish Shettar symbolically handed over the rapid response relief kits to the officials of various departments and some of the ASHAs. The relief kits worth Rs. 37.5 lakhs have been provided by Samarthanam with the assistance of Coca Cola India and United Way, Mumbai. MLA Arvind Bellad, Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal, Director of Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) Dr Ramalingappa Antaratani and others were present.
23 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Guest lecturers, teachers to stage agitation across State on June 25||Stating that the State government has failed to resolve their problems, thousands of guest lecturers and teachers working in degree colleges, high schools and Pre University colleges have decided to stage a State-wide agitation on June 25. In a joint press release, Karnataka State Lecturers/ Teachers Agitation Committee and All India Democratic Youth Organisation (AIDYO) have said that because of the apathy of the State government, guest lecturers and teachers were facing hardships though they are engaged in the noble work of imparting education. “According to official sources, till recently, 14,564 guest lecturers were serving in 413 government first grade colleges in the State. During July 2019, the government appointed around 22,150 guest teachers to hold classes for Class X and II PU students. And, there is no official data available on other such guest faculty in various educational institutions,” both the organisations have said in the release. Releasing the press release on behalf of both the organisations, Dharwad District Secretary of AIDYO Hanumesh Huded has said that during January 2019 University Grants Commission had issued a circular directing State governments to fix an honorarium of Rs. 1,500 per class or a monthly honorarium of up to Rs. 50,000 to guest lecturers. “However, till date guest lecturers with NET, SLET and Ph.D are getting an honorarium of Rs. 13,000 and others were getting Rs. 11,000. The guest teachers are getting Rs. 7,500 per month. What is worse is that they have not been paid even that amount for the last four or five months,” he has said. Mr. Huded has pointed out in the release that while the State government had been asking the private players not to stop or cut down salaries of employees during the COVID-19 lockdown period, it itself had not paid guest lecturers and teachers for the last four or five months. The State government had only recently released Rs. 53 crore towards honorarium, which was not sufficient to clear all pending honorarium to be paid to guest lecturers and teachers. The two organisations urged the State government to immediately release all the pending dues and also to initiate the process of filling vacant posts of lecturers and teachers through permanent appointment instead of continuing the guest faculty system.
23 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Four railway bridges rebuilt during lockdown||Making good use of the lockdown period during which majority train services were suspended, South Western Railway (SWR) has reconstructed four minor bridges on the Londa-Miraj section that comes under the zone. A press release said that as only a limited number of special trains, goods and parcel trains were being run on selected routes, the reconstruction of minor bridges was taken up. Considering the onset of monsoon, the reconstruction of railway bridges was taken up in May. Rehabilitation/rebuilding of four bridges on the Londa-Miraj section was identified and taken up and completed well in advance. The Londa-Miraj section carries heavy freight traffic, catering to the movement of coal and iron ore to and from Goa Port and the sectional capacity is in excess of 100 %, the release said. According to the release, the work on Bridge Nos 28, 33, 35. and 40 on the Londa-Miraj section was a major and intensive work. A total of 60 contractual labourers and 30 department staff were involved in the reconstruction activity which was taken up at a cost of Rs. 1.5 crore under the guidance of Principal Chief Engineer Vijay Agarwal and Divisional Regional Manager, Hubballi, Arvind Malkhede, the release said.
23 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Govt. cautioned against complete shutdown of JSW Steel Plant||Taking serious exceptions to the demand by a few individuals to completely shut down the JSW Steel Plant at Toranagal in Ballari district, where COVID-19 was spreading alarmingly, Ballari District Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BDCCI), a body of industrialists and traders, has cautioned the State government against complete closure of the plant. In a June 20 letter to Heavy and Medium Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, BDCCI president V. Ravikumar held that a complete closure would have an adverse impact on around two lakh people dependent on the steel plant. “It is unfair to trouble the industry going by the words of some vested interests. JSW has followed every instruction and the procedures laid down by the State government and the district administration while tackling COVID-19, taking utmost care of its employees and managing its operations,” he said in the letter. The steel plant, India’s largest one, had been free from novel coronavirus infection till lockdown was lifted. The first case of COVID-19 was reported from the plant on June 3, when a 35-year-old man (P-4,184) and an employee of JSW Steel working at Corex Plant on Toranagal campus tested positive for the disease. The disease then spread like a wildfire inside and outside the campus forming the biggest COVID-19 cluster in the State and forcing the district administration to impose stringent containment measures. The management also joined hands with the administration by closing down the Corex Plant, the hotspot of the disease inside the campus, and asking its over 10,000 employees to work from home, apart from taking several containment measures. When contacted, Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul clarified that there was no direction from the district administration to shut down the entire plant. He said that a shutdown was mandated as per standard operating procedure issued by the Union government on June 4. The plant yet continued to be a source of infection to many inside and outside as several employees from Hosapete, Ballari, Sandur and other cities and villages travelled to and from it, Mr. Nakul said. He, as Chairman of the District Disaster Management Authority, had to issue an order under Section 34 (c) read with Section 34 (m) of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, restricting the movement of employees to JSW Township and the factory. Meanwhile, a few people in the district demanded that the government completely shut down the entire steel plant to prevent the virus from spreading, just as it was done in the case of Jubilant Life Sciences at Nanjangud in Mysuru district where the disease had spread to many people from a single source, eventually leading to the closure of the entire unit.  Deputy Commissioner S.S. Nakul clarifies that there is no direction from the district administration to shut down the entire plant
23 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||28 persons booked for quarantine violation||The Kalaburagi district administration has registered 28 cases against people for violating home quarantine orders and has shifted eight persons to institutional quarantine. Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat in a release said that despite all advisories by the government on home quarantine, people are still loitering around, putting themselves at risk. The Village Accountant, PDOs and bill collectors used to visit their residences and upload their photos to Quarantine Watch App. Mr. Sharat said that the 28 were booked for breaching geo-fencing. As many as eight persons were shifted to institutional quarantine for not adhering to restrictions.
23 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||34 COVID-19 patients recover in Kalaburagi||As many as 34 COVID-19 infected patients in Kalaburagi district recovered on Monday. As per information provided by Deputy Commissioner B. Sharat, 15 patients from Kalagi taluk, five from Kalaburagi taluk, four from Kamalapur taluk, six from Chittapur taluk and one each from Sedam, Aland, Afzalpur taluks and Kalaburagi city were discharged from hospital. The district also reported 27 new positive cases on Monday, taking the total number of infected persons to 1,226 which included 11 deaths. Monday’s recoveries took the total number of recovered patients to 731 and brought down the number of active cases to 484.
23 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Fuel prices hike condemned||Members of Communist Party of India (Marxist) staged a demonstration outside the district administrative complex here on Monday condemning the hike in fuel prices.
23 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Many areas to go without power supply today||Many areas in Mangaluru city and Udupi district will go without power supply on Tuesday as MESCOM is undertaking maintenance works. Between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m.: Areas fed by 11 kV Hosabettu and Panambur feeders, including Baikampady, Hosabettu, Kulai, Honnakette, Panambur and surrounding areas. 10 a.m. and 5 p.m.: Areas fed by 11 kV Sadur, Gurupura, Kukkatte and Muchchur feeders, including Gurupura Town, Malali, Sadur, Addur, Paddaipadavu, Kaikamba town, Ganjimutt, Mundevu, Mogaru, Mijar and surrounding areas. 10 a.m. and 5 p.m.: Areas fed by 11 kV Moodbidri, Gandhinagar, Kotebagilu, Puchchemogaru and Iruvail feeders, including Moodbidri Town, Gandhinagar, Kadalakere, Shediguri, Alangar, Pranthya, Gantalkatte, Thakode and surrounding areas. Udupi district Between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m.: Areas fed by 11 kV Belve, Jansale and Siddapura feeders, including Belve, Madamakki, Ardi, Siddapura, Hosangadi, Jansale, Ajri and surrounding areas. 9 a.m. and 5 p.m.: Areas fed by 11 kV Vandse, Bandya, Hemmadi, Gulvadi, Gangolli, Trasi, Mullikatte and Nada feeders, including Chittur, Bellala, Jadkal, Kavradi, Bandya, Tallur, Uppinakudru, Hemmadi, Gulvadi, Kattabelthur and surrounding areas. 9.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m.: Areas fed by 11 kV Udupi-2, Udyavar-1, Malpe and Kodavoor feeders, including Mission Compound, Kolambe, Bailur, Udyavar, Padukare, Pithrodi, Kadekar, Malpe, Badanidiyur, Thenkanidiyur, Vadabhandeshwara, Puttur, Kodavoor, Aadi Udupi and surrounding areas.
23 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||University College recognised one among top 200 colleges by NIRF||University College Mangaluru is among the top 200 colleges in the country as per a recently released National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF) by the Union Ministry of Human Resource. The college has emerged as the only second college in the district and one among six colleges in the State to achieve the feat, said a release. St. Aloysius College, Mangaluru, finds itself in the top 150 of the NIRF list, it said. The second oldest among government colleges in the State, the University College celebrated its sesquicentennial (1868-2018) on February 6 this year. Located on around seven acres of land in Hampanakatte, the heart of the city, the college was considered as a constituent college of Mangalore University on March 7, 1993. It was the only college from the State to get the heritage tag when the University Grants Commission (UGC) accorded heritage tag to 19 old colleges in the country to preserve their historical importance in 2016-17. The red building with laterrite stone walls was also called “red fort” and attracts onlookers with its Indo-Gothic style and Italian architecture. University College also got the UGC recognition as a College with Potential Excellence (CPE) in 2017-18 and got Rs. 1.5 crore grant for various development works. The college offering education to more than 2,000 students got A grade from NAAC in 2016 for its quality education and infrastructure. The same year, it launched a unique free mid-day meal scheme for eligible students.
23 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Dakshina Kannada admn. ready to handle natural disasters’||Dakshina Kannada district in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari on Monday said that the administration is ready to face the monsoon situation in view of the incidents that occurred during the last two years. He was speaking after handing over various equipment to different government agencies to face natural disaster sponsored by Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. here. MRPL has provided equipment worth Rs. 1 crore for the benefit of different frontline agencies to ensure the safety of people. Mr. Poojari said that the District Disaster Management Committee has procured the equipment to face natural disasters, if any. Previous experiences have made the administration more cautious. The equipment sponsored by MRPL has strengthened the administration, the Minister said. On the occasion, the administration felicitated MRPL’s Director (Refinery) Sanjay Varma to acknowledge company’s gesture. MP Nalin Kumar Kateel, Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat president Meenakshi Shanthigod, MLAs, MLCs and others were present.
23 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||12 people test positive, 12 discharged||As many as 12 persons tested positive for COVID-19, while an equal number of patients were discharged from the Government Wenlock Hospital on Monday. According to a bulletin from the district administration, six persons who returned Kuwait on June 17 tested positive. A 64-year-old man and a 65-year-old woman, who returned to the city from Qatar on June 19, tested positive. One passenger each who returned from Muscat, Saudi Arabia and Sharjah are among those who tested positive for COVID-19. A 27-year-old man from the city with influenza like illness also tested positive. Among the 12 discharged include a 52-year-old man and a 57-year-old man.
23 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Rail barricading sees fall in crop damage claims||There is a steep drop in crop damage claims filed by farmers around Nagarahole Tiger Reserve, where the country’s first rail barricading project has been taken up to reduce human-elephant conflict. The project was launched in 2015 and envisages the installation of rail barricade or fence spanning a distance of 156 km in the core area. Barricade the length of 43 km has been installed. The cost of laying fence for 1 km is Rs. 1.25 crore. Though the project is still a work in progress, there has been a steep drop in cash compensation claims from villages adjoining which the barricade has been installed. Mahesh Kumar, director, Nagarahole National Park, told The Hindu that in Hunsur Wildlife Division, there were 90 cash compensation claims arising out of crop damage due to elephant raids in 2015-16 and 2016-17. But this declined to 33 cases spread over three years — from 2017-18 to 2019-20. Veeranahosahalli range used to witness the highest number of conflicts and there were 469 cases during the three-year period from 2015-16 to 2017-18. But once fencing was completed around the range in 2018, only 60 cases were reported during the next two years. Metikuppe range, which recorded 147 compensation claims from 2015-16 to 2018-19, has not seen a single crop damage case ever since the rail fence was completed in that range last year, said Mr. Kumar. There is a pattern in the statistics and it indicates a steep decline in crop damage claims in areas where the fencing has been completed, he said. The Forest Department used to settle cash compensation claims amounting to crores of rupees earlier, but the amount is declining now. Height of fence There were issues with the height of the fence. It was earlier pegged at 2 metres, but has now been redesigned and does not allow elephants to cross over. Also, in areas where there are special structures because of undulating terrain, the spikes have been removed following a Supreme Court order. “These spikes used to deter the elephants, but after the apex court order the spikes were replaced with cross barricading that is effective and prevents elephants from sneaking through,” said Mr. Kumar. He said the Forest Department was now going in for barricading the buffer zone as well where the conflict was high. Nearly 200 sq.km, comprising reserve forests and which was under the purview of the territorial division, was incorporated into the park management in 2018-19 and declared as a buffer. “The periphery of the buffer will also be fenced so as to prevent elephants from straying into human habitations. This will entail installing an additional 103 km of rail fence,” he added. Similar barricading has been taken up around Bandipur and M.M. Hills wildlife reserves as well and other parts where human-elephant conflict is high.
23 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Visitor turnout remains negligible in Mysuru too||Two weeks after places of tourist interest were reopened in Mysuru, footfall remained negligible at the Mysuru palace and zoo, the two major tourist attractions in the city. The palace, which draws an average of 10,000 visitors daily, has seen barely 120 to 150 people every day ever since the places of tourist interest were reopened on June 8 after almost three months of lockdown due to COVID-19. The zoo, which is on the must-see list of most tourists visiting Mysuru, has been recording barely 250 to 300 visitors every day since the last two weeks. The curbs on inter-State travel to prevent the spread of COVID-19 have been identified as one of the major reasons for the abysmally low footfall at the tourist destinations. Zoo Director Ajit Kulkarni told The Hindu that most of the visitors come from neighbouring States such as Kerala and Tamil Nadu. “Inter-State travel has not reached normalcy. Once travel from Kerala and Tamil Nadu resumes, we can expect the number of visitors to go up.” Asked how the authorities were implementing the government advisory to refuse admission to children below 10 years and senior citizens above 65 years, Mr. Kulkarni said there are hardly any visitors belonging to that age group. “They are not coming. There is enough awareness. Even if they come as part of groups, we cannot give any relaxation”, he said. Against an average of 3,000 visitors the zoo records every day, barely 250 to 300 are coming. The number reaches around 350 during weekends. Deputy Director of Palace Board Subramanya said most of the visitors to the palace these days are from nearby places including Mandya, Chamarajanagar and Tumakuru. The palace authorities send away about 20 visitors every day belonging to the risky category of above 65 years or less than 10 years. The palace remains closed on Saturday, Sunday and public holidays. The decision is aimed at preventing over-crowding and maintain social distancing. The illumination of the palace in the evenings during weekends has also been suspended. Chamundi Hills, the other major tourist attraction in Mysuru, has managed to draw a fair number of devotees to the Chamundeshwari Temple. The authorities have decided to keep the temple closed during weekends as well as the four Fridays of Ashada Masa (Ashada Shukravara) beginning this week. With the temple remaining closed from Friday to Sunday from this week, the authorities have decided to keep the road as well as the steps leading to the hill-top out of bounds for people. The authorities said the restrictions had been imposed to prevent the possibility of a mass gathering.
23 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Amendments to land reforms Act: Series of agitations planned||A State-wide agitation has been planned against the recent amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, that paves way for direct purchase of farmland from farmers by non-agriculturists. Farmers across the State will hold a series of agitations staring June 23 and will entail gheraoing the district in-charge Ministers followed by protests in front of the residences of the local MLAs. The agitation plan also includes laying siege to the residence of Chief Minister in Bengaluru on June 29. This was stated by the Karnataka State Sugarcane Cultivators’ Association president Kurubur Shanthakumar here on Monday. He appealed to farmers belonging to various organisations to join hands and support the agitation and said the amendments to the land reforms Act will break the back of the farming community. He said the both the Union and the State governments “have become subservient to industrialists and corporate lobby and were enacting laws that were beneficial to them while ignoring the farmers”. Questioning the rationale for easing the norms for purchase of agricultural lands by non-agriculturists, Mr. Shanthakumar said by the same logic unqualified persons should also be appointed as doctors and engineers. Responding to the remarks of various Ministers that over 2.4 lakh acres of agricultural land had been converted for non-agricultural purpose during the last few decades, he said the onus was on the government to fix responsibility on those who had allowed the conversion. “If the law has been broken then the guilty should be prosecuted but instead they are overthrowing the original Act and paving way for the sale of agricultural land.”
23 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||SARI, ILI cases: Mysuru pvt. hospitals ‘indifferent’||Even as Mysuru is seeing a spike in COVID-19 cases in the recent days, causing concern to health authorities, private hospitals had remained indifferent with regard to reporting of SARI and ILI cases, if the Deputy Commissioner’s warning is an indication. Despite strict diktat from the government to inform the Health Department about persons with SARI and ILI symptoms for containing the contagion, many hospitals don’t seem to be complying with the order. Deputy Commissioner Abhiram G. Sankar on Monday warned of cancelling the registration of hospitals, clinics and private practitioners if they continue to be unresponsive to the diktat and do not report the cases as mandated. Report on website “Reports on the persons with SARI, ILI and COVID-19 symptoms need to be documented on https://kpme.karnataka.tech every day. Despite repeated warnings, the reports are not being uploaded on the website,” he said. He said all SARI and ILI cases reported from the private hospitals should be subjected to free COVID-19 test.
23 June 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Tiger sculpture from 3rd century found||A stone sculpture of a seated tiger belonging to the 3rd century A.D. was found near Maaravalli village of Shikaripur taluk recently. Shejeshwara R., assistant director of the Department of Archaeology, Heritage and Museums, told The Hindu that the sculpture was found on a hillock near the village during field work undertaken by him recently. The teeth, nose and eyes of the tiger are clearly visible. Mr. Shejeshwara said that the region was ruled by the Kadamba kings. Mathikote, in the vicinity of Maaravalli, was referred to as Mariyasa in the inscription issued by the Kadamba ruler Shivaskanda Varma near Malavalli. He said that worshipping tigers was part of the tradition in Malnad under the Kabamba rule. The sculpture was locally called Huli Siddeshwara and Narasimha, and a small temple was built for it 200 years ago, he said.
23 June 2020||Sindgi (Vijayapura district),KARNATAKA||‘Report on status of Indira Canteens soon’||Urban Development Minister B.A. Basavaraj has said that following complaints received about corruption and serving of low quality food at Indira Canteens in the State, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has asked him to get a detailed report prepared about the functioning of canteens for taking a call on whether to continue them or not. Addressing mediapersons on the sidelines of the foundation laying function of the underground drainage project in Sindgi town on Monday, he said that he would ask the officials to prepare a detailed report soon for being submitted to the Chief Minister. “As of now, the canteens are functioning as usual,” he said. Smart City project Answering a query, Mr. Basavaraj said Vijayapura, Kalaburagi, Mysuru, and Ballari were under consideration for being included under the Smart City project. “Since the government is busy dealing with COVID-19, I’m unable to visit Delhi to exert pressure. Soon I will meet the Union Minister to press for the demand,” he said.
23 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||14 test positive for COVID-19 in Udupi||As many as 14 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi district on Monday. According to a health bulletin issued here, the 14 included six men, seven women and one seven-year-old boy. All these 14 have been admitted to COVID-19 hospitals in the district. Eight of these persons have travel history from Maharashtra, while four persons are contacts of a previous patient (P-6,843). The contacts of two persons are yet to be traced.
23 June 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Woman tests positive||One person tested positive for coronavirus in Yadgir on Monday. There were no such positive cases reported in Raichur. P-9,365 a 35-year-old female, who tested positive, had returned from Maharashtra. She has been provided treatment at the designated hospital in Yadgir.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Localities in five wards to be sealed following rise in COVID-19 cases||The civic body, which had eased restrictions considerably, is reverting to a more stringent containment strategy to curtail the spread of COVID-19 in Bengaluru. Localities where the number of cases has seen a sudden rise in five wards – Siddapura, V.V. Puram, Kalasipalyam, Dharmaraya Swamy Temple and Vidyaranyapura – will be sealed. However, the exact number of cases in these wards was not available. B.H. Anil Kumar, Commissioner of Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), who also heads a special task force formed to check the spread of the pandemic in the city, allayed fears that entire wards will be locked down. “We will be sealing only localities within these wards where the number of cases have seen an increase. It will be done following discussions with the police,” he told The Hindu , and added that this may come into effect immediately. In a video message on Monday, the Commissioner said that following the lifting of restrictions imposed during the lockdown, the number of positive cases in the city had gone up. “This was discussed during a meeting chaired by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. We now have to look at sealing down localities to prevent further spread in the city,” he said. “During the meeting, the Chief Minister stressed on the need to restrict the movement of people. Once the area/locality has been sealed, nobody will be allowed to go in or come out,” said Mr. Kumar. Civic officials said they will work with the police and other agencies to ensure that essential supplies are made available to people in affected areas. The announcement has sparked off panic buying among many residents. Pawan Koppa, a software engineer and resident of NTI Layout in Vidyaranyapura, said that he checks Arogya Setu regularly for the number of cases reported from his locality. “There are no cases as of now. But if the BBMP is thinking of sealing localities in the ward, it means that the number of cases has increased. That is serious and worrisome at the same time,” he said. Markets closed Also, Mr. Anil Kumar issued an order stating that Krishna Rajendra Market and Kalasipalyam market would remain closed for the next 15 days. By then, many traders had already decided to voluntarily shut down due to the increased number of cases in surrounding areas. G.M. Divakar, president of the K.R. Market Flower Merchants’ Association, said that all the 2,200 shop owners had consented to close the market, which had reopened on June 8. This, he said, was in the interest of public health. Traders of Chikpete also volunteered to put in place a one-week lockdown. However, traders of major associations related to textiles, garments, paper, chemicals, steel, switchgear and silk retailers claimed that they were not in support of the self-imposed lockdown. Sajjan Raj Mehta, trade activist, maintained that if the government or BBMP were to announce a lockdown, all the traders’ associations would extend their support.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Conductor’s song on COVID-19 spreads cheer and awareness||In an attempt to create awareness among the public, especially people commuting in city buses, the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) released a song sung by a conductor named Abu Bakar Siddik. He urges commuters to follow social distancing rules while waiting at bus stops and to use digital forms of payment as a precautionary measure. The video was released by the Corporation on Monday on various social media platforms. Mr. Siddik, a diploma holder who hails from Sandur taluk in Ballari district, works as a conductor on a bus that operates between Sarjapur and K.R. Market. “I have been singing songs and was involved in cultural activities even while studying. My higher-ups asked me to sing a song to create awareness on COVID-19 and what people can do to contain its spread,” he said. The BMTC, with the help of the BBMP, has started testing its drivers and conductors at the depot level. BMTC Managing Director C. Shikha said, “Our bus crew are discharging their duty during these difficult times. They too are frontline workers. We have started collecting swabs of employees who are above the age of 50 and have a history of co-morbidities. In the coming days, we will cover all the 45 depots. Further action will depend on the test results.” Earlier, a bus crew member had tested positive for COVID-19. Fortunately, all his primary contacts tested negative. Incentives for staff In another move, the BMTC has decided to provide incentives for employees who voluntarily reported for duty during lockdown to help run essential services for health workers. Ms. Shikha said that around 3,000 employees will be paid Rs. 250 for every day they worked. It will cost the Corporation Rs. 94 lakh.  Our bus crew are discharging their duty during these difficult times. They, too, are frontline workers. We have started collecting swabs of employees who are above the age of 50 and have a history of co-morbidities. In the coming days, we will cover all the 45 depots C. Shikha, Managing Director, BMTC
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Convert Cubbon Park into no-traffic zone’||The citizens’ group, Heritage Beku, has demanded that the State government declare Cubbon Park as a ‘no-traffic zone’ throughout the year. In an online campaign, members maintain that the move will help in preservation of the lung space. The State government on Saturday had authorised local authorities and civic bodies to open public parks, outside containment zones, for any number of hours between 5 a.m. and 9 p.m. Two years ago, an online campaign was started to prohibit the entry of vehicles inside the park. Many experts and environmentalists have endorsed the idea of converting the park to a ‘no-traffic zone’.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Accused tests positive||A man accused of chain-snatching and stealing bikes has tested positive for COVID-19. On Saturday, Tilak Nagar police had arrested the 35-year-old accused and recovered 65 gm of gold and three motorcycles from him. As per the protocol, his swab was collected. The report came on Sunday stating that he had contracted COVID-19. Following the report, the entire police station was sanitised. Sources said that 12 police personnel had come in contact with him and are in quarantine. The accused was arrested after allegedly snatching a gold chain from an elderly woman. During the investigation, the police found out that he was also involved in several instances of theft in Kalasipalya and Puttenahalli.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: BBMP again turns to RWAs||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has once again reached out to the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) to ensure strict enforcement of home quarantine. In a fresh advisory issued by BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar on Monday, RWAs have been asked to be watchful and keep an unobtrusive lookout for any visitor or resident, who has returned after travelling outside the State, breaking home quarantine rules. They can report it to either the BBMP helpline or police control room or Whatsapp/Telegram message (977-7777-684). RWAs also have the responsibility of advising the household concerned about home quarantine procedures and assisting them. They have also been asked to ensure that there is no social stigma attached to families or individuals in home quarantine. The advisory stated that RWAs should take due care to not violate any legal rights of residents and urged them to seek help through the State or BBMP helpline in case of any doubt or for any assistance.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CCB takes custody of associate of gangster Ravi Pujari||The Central Crime Branch (CCB), which is probing cases related to gangster Ravi Pujary, has taken custody of a sharpshooter and an associate of his named Yousuf Bachakhan. “The sharpshooter was convicted for his role in the murder of builder Subbarao and is serving his sentence in the State. “The interrogation of Pujari has indicated his involvement in more cases. “So, we have taken him into our custody,” said a CCB official.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Working outdoors||
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Surge in cases of ILI and SARI||The numbers of Influenza like Illnesses (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses (SARI) cases in Bengaluru have spiked in less than a month. As per data from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike COVID-19 war room, the number of ILI and SARI cases reported till May 31 was 34. However, as of June 22, the number had risen to 448. Change in weather Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD) Director C. Nagaraj said that the number of ILI cases has increased due to change in the weather. “People are reporting flu-like symptoms. They are being tested and found to be positive for COVID-19,” he said. The number of containment zones too have increased from 63 on May 31 to 484 on June 22. It coincides with the easing in lockdown restrictions. Over 1,000 cases have been reported between June 1 and June 22 after Unlock 1.0 came into force. Case fatality rate The number of deaths too has increased from 12 on May 31 to 67 as of Saturday. According to officials, the case fatality rate has increased from 6.81% in May-end to 7.64%. Sources said that many of the patients who passed away include those who have come in the last stages, and despite being put on ventilator support. Positivity rate The positivity rate, however, has increased only marginally even though the number of tests conducted has more than doubled since May 31. The number of tests conducted till May 31 was 33,070. As of Monday, the number of tests conducted was 77,049. The positivity rate has gone up from 1.16% in the end of May to 1.8% as of Monday. This essentially means that 1 out of every 100 people tested are found to be positive for the virus, said officials.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Seven held||Seven persons from Bengaluru have been arrested in connection with the alleged contract killing of a man in Mysuru.
23 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha has 12 more cases||Twelve more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. Among the fresh cases, eight people came from other States and four from abroad. Of the new patients, three of a family—husband, wife and their daughter—hailing from Pattanakkad came from Chennai in a private vehicle on June 4. Those who tested positive also included two women, a 47-year-old native of Karthikappally and a 49-year-old hailing from Kayamkulam, who came from Mumbai by flight on June 5 and June 10 respectively. A young woman hailing from Thaikkattussery who came from Bengaluru on a flight on June 9 was also on the list of new cases. The seventh patient, a native of Muthukulam, reached the district by train from Mumbai on June 5. Another patient, a young woman from Thaikkattussery, came by train from Maharashtra on June 12. From abroad Among the foreign returnees, a 46-year-old man and native of Mararikulam reached the district from Kuwait on June 12. Another man, a Pathiyoor native, came from Nigeria on June 18. The 11th patient, a young man from Cherthala South, came from Dubai on June 10. A man hailing from Palamel came from Kuwait on June 11. Cured A person from the district who was undergoing treatment at a hospital in Malappuram tested negative. The number of active cases in the district stands at 103.
23 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||State to feed captive elephants||The State government has started the distribution of food to captive elephants in the State. It was inaugurated by Food and Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman at Mararikulam, near here, on Monday. Speaking at the function, Mr. Thilothaman said by the move the government was ensuring that not only human beings but animals too did not go hungry due to the COVID-19 pandemic. No revenue “Earlier, elephant owners approached the Chief Minister seeking aid after their revenues dried up as a result of cancellation of temple festivals and other functions due to the pandemic. To overcome the crisis, the State government has earmarked an amount of Rs. 5 crore for the Animal Husbandry sector. Free food will be provided to all captive elephants in the State for 40 days,” the Minister said. Food would be distributed by the Animal Husbandry Department with the support of the State Forest Department, he said. Food kit would contain eight items including wheat, ragi, horse gram, jaggery, green gram, and so on. Officials said each elephant would be provided food worth Rs. 400 every day by the Animal Husbandry Department. Mararikulam South grama panchayat president Indira Thilakan, district Animal Husbandry Officer P.K. Santhosh Kumar, Animal Husbandry Department Deputy Director S. Sindhu, Assistant Conservator of Forests (Social Forestry), Alappuzha, Fen Antony, and others attended the function.
23 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Murder: life term for man||The Additional District Court-II, Alappuzha, on Monday sentenced Anil Kumar, 49, of Thanneermukkom to life imprisonment for murdering a 58-year-old man at Cherthala. Judge A. Ijas ordered the convict to pay a compensation of Rs. 3 lakh. The prosecution case was that Dominic (Babu) of Mannancherry was killed by Anil Kumar following a dispute over the rate of food served in the canteen at KSRTC bus station, Cherthala, on December 29, 2011. According to the prosecution, Anil Kumar arrived at the canteen and ordered parotta and beef curry. After having food, Dominic, a waiter at the canteen, handed over the bill to him. An altercation broke out between the two over the price and Anil Kumar stabbed Dominic with a knife. The court found him guilty under various sections of the Indian Penal Code.
23 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||One killed in dispute between neighbours||A 76-year-old man died following a dispute between neighbours over a pathway at Cherthala South on Monday. The deceased was identified as Maniyan, 76. The Arthunkal police said that two of his neighbours Sundareswara Rao, 40 and brother Sreedhara Rao, 30 had been arrested in connection with the case. The police said that the neighbours had been at loggerheads for some time. “We had earlier intervened in the matter and demarcated a way to the house of the accused alongside Maniyan’s house. On Monday, the arrested rode their bike through the courtyard of the victim’s house and an altercation ensued. The brothers attacked Maniyan and he collapsed. Although, he was taken to a hospital, his life could not be saved,” the police said.
23 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Debris being cleared||The National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) started removing the debris from the landslip-hit area of Gap Road on the Kochi-Dhanushkodi National Highway on Monday. Traffic is expected to resume through the Muttukad route in a few days. District Collector H. Dinesan on Sunday visited the landslip-hit area where 200 meters of the road was destroyed in Wednesday’s landslip. Rex Felix, Assistant Executive Engineer, NHAI, said the debris removal would be completed in two days. The contractor was entrusted with repairing the Muttukad route to resume the traffic, he said. The road widening works on the stretch was expected to be completed in two months, he said.
23 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Heightened vigil after surge in cases in Idukki||The district is on heightened vigil after 11 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday with two of them contracting the disease from unknown sources. After a driver of a vehicle carrying vegetables from Tamil Nadu tested positive on Friday, more persons associated with the main market at Kattappana were tested. Three members of the driver’s family too tested positive on Sunday. The driver had reportedly supplied vegetables to other areas also, said a Health Department official. So far, the source of two cases remained unknown, he said. The main market at Kattappana was closed and wards 5 and 8 of the Kattappana municipality were declared containment wards. Ward number 8 of Rajakumary grama panchayat was also made containment zone. A person from Kuruvilacity tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 during a test held before a surgery. It is suspected that a number of persons are on his contact list. The police have intensified patrolling in containment zones to book those violating norms. The earlier spike in cases was on June 3 when nine cases were reported. Four cases on Monday On Monday, four persons tested positive. Two of them are the contacts of a person who tested positive at Kattappana on Friday. In addition to three members of his family who tested positive earlier, his son and father-in-law tested positive on Monday. The others who tested positive on the day are two Kuwait returnees — a Rajakkad resident who came on June 10 and another who reached Erattayar on June 15.
23 June 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Woman dies of scrub typhus in Wayanad||A 49-year-old woman in Thavinhal grama panchayat in Wayanad district died of scrub typhus on Monday morning. Scrub typhus is a disease transmitted by infected ticks. Health officials identified the deceased as Sofia, wife of K.C. Joseph of Kappalumakkal of Vimala Nagar. A man of Vallivattom tribal hamlet at Cheeral in the district had died of the disease in February this year. “Sofia had been admitted to a private hospital at Thalapuzha on June 8 with symptoms of scrub typhus and later she was referred to a private hospital in Kannur,” R. Renuka, District Medical Officer, told The Hindu . She was also a chronic diabetic, Dr.Renuka said. Her condition worsened on Sunday night and she died on Monday at 5.30 a.m. Tests conducted on the samples collected from the patient confirmed it as a case of scrub typhus. There was no need for panic as all steps had been taken to prevent an outbreak of the disease, Dr. Renuka said.  “Orientia tsutsugamushi , a tick-borne bacterium belonging to the family Rickettsiaceae, is responsible for scrub typhus in humans,” Dr.Renuka said adding that Chigger mites (larval mites) on rodents such as rat and squirrel transmitted the disease to humans. Health Department data indicate as many as eight scrub typhus cases, including two deaths, in the district so far this year.
23 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||NATPAC to find ways to lessen snarls, accidents||The City traffic police have roped in experts from the Thiruvananthapuram-based National Transportation Planning and Research Centre (NATPAC) to conduct a comprehensive study on traffic bottlenecks and accident-prone areas in Kochi to streamline traffic flow and reduce accidents. “We have requested the agency to intensify its study which had lost steam due to the lockdown. This is because traffic snarls have worsened in Kochi owing to the phenomenal rise in the number of people venturing out in cars and two-wheelers following the COVID-19 scare. It has resulted in more number of vehicles jostling to occupy the available space,” said G. Poonguzhali, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic, Law and Order). An in-depth study to decongest the city and lessen accidents is important since the rise in the number of personalised vehicles is going to be the new normal, she added. Risky U-turns Earlier this year, the traffic police had initiated an exercise to identify unscientifically located U-turns which abound beneath the Kochi metro corridor and on several other busy, accident-prone stretches. “Most U-turns were permitted without any rationale. They end up causing accidents rather than preventing them. A few dangerous ones were closed following a spate of accidents at Kalamassery and Edappally. “Similarly, metal barricades were erected on a 1-km stretch at Padamukal on Civil Line Road as motorists taking sudden U-turns were causing traffic hold-ups and accidents. Obstructive parking too is common on the stretch,” Ms. Poonguzhali said. The police have also begun efforts to install reflectors on medians and allied road infrastructure to prevent vehicles crashing into them, especially at night. The process is being taken up in response to a call from the Chief Minister to halve the number of accidents in the State. Year-end target “Our personnel have been studying the traffic pattern in accident-prone areas, convening meetings with traders and residents’ associations and working on solutions. The aim is to identify all such spots and introduce remedial measures by year-end,” Ms. Poonguzhali said. “It is shocking that U-turns are hewed out haphazardly across the city, without adhering to safety norms,” said Vincent John of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP). Meanwhile, officials of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said they provided U-turns in accordance with a list given by the traffic police.
23 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Ernakulam sees highest single-day spike in cases||Ernakulam on Monday added 14 more persons to the list of COVID-19 patients, the highest so far on a single day in the district. They include a 27-year-old Chengamanad native who reached here from Pune by a flight on June 18, a 34-year-old Varapuzha native who reached here on June 1 by a Moscow-Kannur flight, a 53-year-old Kodanad native who came from Kuwait on June 16, a 33-year-old Njarackal native who came from Kuwait on June 12, a 44-year-old Pindimana native who reached here on June 20 from Muscat, a 33-year-old and a 30-year-old Asamannur natives who reached here on June 12 from Qatar, a 19-year-old Elanji native came from Maharashtra by a train on June 12, a 31-year-old Thattekkad native who reached here by train from Delhi on June 11 and their children aged one and seven, another 49-year-old Thattekkad native who came by the same train, a 23-year-old Kakkanad resident who came from Chennai, and a 49-year-old Mulavukad native who reached here from Kuwait on June 11. In Thrissur Thrissur district recorded 12 new COVID-19 cases. In all, 14,619 persons are under observation and 113 persons are undergoing treatment for the disease. The Medical Board on Monday asked Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar and Thrissur Mayor Ajitha Jayarajan to go into quarantine after a health official in the corporation tested positive. In Malappuram Seventeen new COVID-19 cases were confirmed in Malappuram district. While six of them were returnees from other districts, 11 had come back from abroad. In Palakkad Sixteen more persons tested positive for the virus in Palakkad. They included two boys below 10 years of age. Nine of them had returned from the Gulf while seven had come back from other States. In Kozhikode Five more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode. They include four persons who arrived from Qatar recently and one from Saudi Arabia. In Wayanad Five persons tested positive for the virus in Wayanad. A 53-year-old and a 31-year-old Ambalavayal natives who came from Kuwait on June 5 and Chennai on June 15 respectively; a 53-year-old and a 24-year-old Chulliyode natives who returned from Abu Dhabi on June 15 and Kuwait on June 13 respectively; and a 29-year-old at Vellamunda who returned from Saudi Arabia on June 19 tested positive on the day.  (With inputs from Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Wayanad bureaus)
23 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Sharp rise in veggie, pulse prices||The prices of some vegetables and pulses have moved up, though the market witnessed a general stability in prices over the last fortnight. The price of fish has gone up sharply with the trawling ban coming into force early this month. COVID-19 restrictions on farming and heavy rain in some places have resulted in prices of commodities like ginger and green chilli shooting up. The price of green peas has touched Rs. 100 a kg, while that of toor dal is around Rs. 120. Moong sold at around Rs. 140 and Bengal gram at Rs. 80. Fresh chicken was priced at Rs. 107 in the retail market on Monday. Market sources said the price of meat had gone up to Rs. 145 a kg last week owing to supply issues, but they appeared to have been resolved. They, however, added that the lockdown had disrupted the supply of both birds and feed. The prices of fish rose exponentially during the lockdown. Oil sardines, brought mostly from other States, cost Rs. 170 a kg in the main markets, while it was around Rs. 200 in retail markets outside. Indian mackerels sold at Rs. 280 on Sunday. There is scarcity of local catch of both mackerels and oil sardines in markets in Kochi, sources said. According to sources in the Kerala Horticulture Corporation, the rise in fuel prices had its reflection on the prices of commodities. The price of vegetable cowpea ranged around Rs. 35 a kg. Carrot sold at Rs. 60 in the retail market, while cabbage was priced at Rs. 30. Big onion sold at Rs. 20 to Rs. 28 depending on quality. The prices of green chilli and ginger were as high as Rs. 60 and Rs. 95 a kg respectively in Kochi.
23 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Pappukutty Bhagavathar dead||Malayalam stage and screen actor and playback singer, Pappukutty Bhagavathar, popularly known as Kerala Saigal, died at his home here on Monday. He was 107. The funeral will be held with State honours at Perumbadappu on Tuesday. Kerala Saigal Pappukutty had earned the name ‘Saigal’ for popularising K.L. Saigal’s songs on stages between intervals. He continued to be a livewire even after turning 100. He had taken to stage at the age of seven on a platform provided by Vedamani, a musical drama. He turned professional at 17 years in P.J. Cherian’s ‘Messiahcharithram’ donning the role of Mary Magdalene. It is said that he was hesitant to play the role of a woman, but it was usual for men to don women’s role on stage during that period. Playback singer K.J. Yesudas’s father Augustine Joseph was part of this stage as well. He later joined a drama troupe in Changanassery. His major success was the lead role he acted in a play ‘Maya’ along with Thikkurissi, who played villain. It ran 290 shows a year. Later came many roles and his shows crossed 15,000 stages over the years. First feature film  Prasanna , filmed at Pakshiraja Studios, was his first feature film. He also sang his songs in the film.  Guruvayurappan, Sthree Hridayam, Muthalali, Vila Kurajna Manushyan, Padicha Kallan, Anchu Sundarikal are among some of the 25 films he had acted. He had also sung playback for Sathyan and Nazir in many films. In 2010 In 2010, he made his presence felt in a Dileep-Bhavana starer film Marykkundoru Kunjadu with his song ‘Enteduke Vannadukkum Pembirannole…’ Born to Michael and Anna from Vypeen, C.M. Pappukutty Bhagavathar was married to Baby. Director K.G. George’s wife Salma was his daughter. Actor Mohan Jose, Sabu, Sali and Jeevan are his sons. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan condoled Bhagavathar’s demise saying that his contributions would be remembered by lovers of art in Kerala.
23 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Eight migrant workers moved into quarantine||A group of eight migrant workers from Rajasthan was moved to a quarantine facility by the Elamakkara police after irate locals laid siege to them on their arrival near the Al-Ameen College at Edappally. They had come straight from the Kochi airport in two SUVs reportedly for work at a mall. Their arrival raised the hackles of local residents who were unaware that the workers had pre-arranged quarantine facility. The situation was diffused by the Elamakkara police who moved the workers into a flat at Ponekkara for quarantine.
23 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Rural police to crack the whip on physical distancing norm violators||With COVID-19 cases showing no signs of immediate let-up and the public increasingly ignoring physical distancing norms, the Ernakulam Rural Police have decided to act tough. Sending out a clear message that there will be no leniency to those floundering in adopting precautionary measures, K. Karthik, District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural), has ordered the force to crack the whip on those found flouting physical distancing norms. The move comes in the wake of crowding noticed in public places like bus stops and markets recently. The police are planning to embark on a dual strategy of strict enforcement and widespread awareness campaign on the need for maintaining physical distancing and wearing masks to contain the spread of the pandemic. Meanwhile, the Rural police registered 13 cases, arrested five persons, and seized five vehicles on the charge of lockdown violations. Three were charged for not wearing masks. Charges under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance have been invoked against them.
23 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||New Command Medical Officer takes charge||Surgeon Rear Admiral Arti Sarin has assumed charge as the Command Medical Officer of the Southern Naval Command in Kochi. An alumnus of the Armed Forces Medical College, Pune, she was commissioned into the Armed Forces Medical Services in 1985. She has the distinction of having completed two postgraduate degrees --MD in Radiology at AFMC Pune and DNB Radiation Oncology from the Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai. In a long naval career, she has done tenures at the Naval Science and Technology Laboratory in Visakhapatnam, and served in the naval hospitals in Port Blair, Visakhapatnam, Kochi, and Mumbai.
23 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Advisory on de-silting of rivers, dams soon||The Water Resources Department can de-silt rivers and dams to maintain the flow of water and avert natural disasters, suggested the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA). The SEIAA is likely to issue a general advisory on both de-silting and sand mining, said sources privy to the 104th meeting of the authority that was held on Monday. The meeting also noted that environment clearance was not required for de-silting rivers and dams to clear the course of the rivers. De-silting could be done on the flanks of the rivers and at strategic locations. While removing the silt, the guidelines set by the Central Electricity Authority for the management of silt in dams would have to be followed. Pampa river However, when it came to removal of sand from the rivers, mandatory procedures would have to be followed and environment clearance obtained from the SEIAA. Incidentally, an attempt of the authorities to remove sand from the Pampa river had become a controversy in the State with the Forest Department opposing the move.
23 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||BJP leader moves HC for bail||A bail petition was filed on Monday before the Kerala High Court by K. Padmarajan, a suspended schoolteacher and local BJP leader at Panur in Kannur in a case relating to sexual abuse of a 10-year-old student. The prosecution charge was that he had sexually assaulted the fourth standard student at the bathroom of the school. In his petition, Padmarajan pointed out that the allegation was imaginary as the bathroom was located hardly 2.5 metres from the classroom. There were a lot of students in the school at the alleged time of occurrence. It was humanly impossible to commit the act as alleged by the victim. He was falsely implicated in the case and there was a conspiracy behind it.
23 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Pizhala bridge opened||The much-awaited Moolampilly-Pizhala overbridge was inaugurated by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday through the augmented-reality system in the wake of COVID-19 restrictions. Minister for Local Self-Government A.C. Moideen was the chief guest at the function which was shared at the Collectorate conference hall through videoconferencing. It was aired live on the Facebook page of the District Collector as well. Presidents of panchayats on Goshree islands which would benefit from the bridge were among those present. The 9.6-metre wide bridge was built at a cost of Rs. 80 crore. Another Rs. 14 crore was spent for Pizhala connectivity bridge. The two structures will provide connectivity from Moolampilly, Pizhala and Kadamakudy isles to the Container Road. The construction of Pizhala-Valiyakadamakudy and Valiyakadamakudy-Chathanad bridges and two box culverts are awaited. Preparatory works were under way for this, the Chief Minister said. He attributed delay in land acquisition and the 2018 floods for the delay in commissioning the new bridge.
23 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||13 cases each in Kottayam, Kollam||Thirteen COVID-19 cases each were reported in Kollam and Kottayam districts on Monday. The persons who tested positive in Kottayam included six persons who landed from abroad and six who returned from other States. A health worker contracted the infection through contact while in home quarantine with her daughter and granddaughter. The foreign returnees are a 50-year-old Vaikom native, a 57-year-old woman, a 25-year-old man from Ramapuram, a 65-year-old Koottikkal native, and a 43-year-old Paippad native, all of who came from Kuwait, and a 59-year-old woman from Cheeranchira who came from Muscat on June 19. The other patients are a 38-year-old from Thrikkodithanam, a 19-year-old woman from Thengana, a 39-year-old Moolavattam native, his 35-year-old wife, a 34-year-old woman from Ezhacherry, her four-year-old daughter, and her 53-year-old mother. Of this, the first three came from New Delhi while three others came from Mumbai. A 23-year-old from Koruthodu, a 58-year-old from Perumbayikkad, a 36-year-old from Nedumkunnam, and a woman from Pathanamthitta were cured. In Kollam In Kollam, a staff nurse from Mumbai, tested positive on the day. Among the other patients, 10 are from abroad, including eight from Kuwait and two from Saudi Arabia. The remaining two came from Chennai. Two of them were in institutional quarantine and others in home quarantine. The new cases are from Puthur, Velyam, Elamadu, Pattazhi, Mynagappally, Oachira, Poruvazhi, Perinad, Kallumthazham, Perumon, Karunagappally, Alumkadavu, and Ilambal.
23 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||KC(M) wins Kanjirappally block panchayat chief post||Mariyamma Joseph, fielded by the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by P.J. Joseph, was elected president of the Kanjirappally block panchayat here on Monday. In the election to the 15-member council, Ms. Joseph secured 10 votes, while her rival candidate P.G. Vasanthakumari of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) received only five votes. Despite the factionalism in the party, two members who owe allegiance to the rival KC(M) group led by Jose K. Mani too cast their votes in support of the Joseph group candidate. P.A. Shameer of the Congress, who was the acting president of the local body, proposed Ms. Joseph’s name to the post. The election was necessitated by the resignation of Sophy Joseph, a member owing allegiance to the Mani group, on May 29 in accordance with a power-sharing pact within the United Democratic Front (UDF). As per the agreement, Sophy Joseph should have stepped down from the post on November 30, 2019. She, however, held on to the post for six more months despite protests by the rival faction and even survived a no-confidence motion moved by the Left Democratic Front in February this year. Cong. wins Erattupetta Meanwhile, the Erattupetta municipality here on Monday got its fifth chairman in as many years with Nizar Kurbani, a Congress candidate, being elected to the post. In the 28-member council, Mr. Kurbani obtained 16 votes, including the votes by an LDF rebel and four SDPI members. His rival candidate, Laila Pareeth of the LDF, secured 11 votes. The election was held after V.M. Siraj of the Indian Union Muslim League stepped down from the post as per an agreement in the coalition. Though, Ms. Pareeth had been elected chairperson in an earlier election, she resigned from the post within five minutes after taking the oath of office citing that the LDF did not require the support of the SDPI members. The civic body council has witnessed four elections since August last year after the former chairman V.K. Kabeer resigned from the post following a no-confidence motion moved by the UDF.
23 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MGU exams from today||The fourth-semester examinations for the undergraduate and postgraduate students of the Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, will begin on Tuesday. Candidates who registered themselves online could appear for the examinations from the special centres in their respective districts. Those who were unable to register themselves online could get a copy of their original hall tickets over e-mail to appear for the examination from these centres, a statement here said.
23 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Visa-holders can return to Dubai from July 7||In a major relief to thousands of NRIs stuck in India following travel restrictions imposed after COVID-19 pandemic, Dubai has granted permission to visa-holders to return by pre-booking flights of any airline. However, India’s Ministry of Civil Aviation has said that resumption of international flights will be allowed only when domestic traffic reaches about 50-60% and other countries are open to international traffic. “Once the situation evolves thus, we will consider a calibrated opening,” Hardeep Singh Puri, Union Minister for Civil Aviation, tweeted. The Supreme Committee of Crisis and Disaster Management in Dubai said the emirate will welcome visitors from July 7. However, they will be required to present a recent COVID-19 negative certificate or undergo testing at the Dubai airport. NRIs should also secure the approval of General Directorate of Residency and Foreigners Affairs. “Now the Ministry of Home Affairs should allow the travel of NRIs who wish to return to Dubai. Once the UAE resumes air travel, other GCC nations will follow suit. That is the norm,” K.V. Shamsudheen, chairman of UAE-based Pravasi Bandu Welfare Trust, said. Residents should register their details in the COVID-19 DXB smart app at the airport. They will not be allowed to leave their residence until they receive their COVID-19 results. All positive cases will be isolated.
23 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Youth, child electrocuted||A youth and a child were electrocuted at Azhiyur in Kozhikode on Monday after they entered a stream on which a snapped power line had fallen during Sunday’s heavy rain. The incident happened around 10 a.m. when the child, Sahal, 12, along with two friends were playing near Keerithodu, a shallow stream near Chungam Beach. He saw a coconut floating in the water and entered the stream to take it, and was electrocuted. Irfan, 26, a local resident, was electrocuted when he tried to save the boy.
23 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Public urged to use online facilities||With the Kozhikode Corporation restricting the attendance of its staff to 50% following a State directive, the public has been urged to make use of its online facilities as much as possible. Corporation Secretary Binu Francis said the civic body was able to implement the directive to some extent, but the lack of awareness among the public had led to many people visiting the office. “In a recent survey, we found that an average of 2,000 people visited the Corporation office on a daily basis. This shall not be encouraged,” he said. The websitekozhikodecorporation. lsgkerala.gov.inprovides the facility to pay property tax, and apply for ownership certificate, building permit, occupancy certificate, marriage registration, welfare pension, and birth and death certificates.
23 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||2.2 kg of gold seized from passengers||Customs officials have seized 2.2 kg of gold from four passengers who flew in from the United Arab Emirates on chartered flights at the Calicut International Airport. Three of them arrived by a flydubai flight from Dubai on Sunday night and one person by an Air Arabia flight from Sharjah on Monday morning. The passengers were detained on the suspicion that they had concealed gold inside their undergarments, Deputy Commissioner of Customs T.A. Kiran, who led the seizures, said. There arrested are Nafisuddin and Fahad of Thalassery, Basheer of Panur, and Jithu of Malappuram, officials said. One of them had tried to smuggle 1.4 g of gold in paste form, mixed with chemicals. Indians stranded abroad due to travel restrictions in the wake of COVID-19 have been returning on chartered flights.
23 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Incendiary slogans: 4 DYFI members held||The police on Monday arrested four DYFI members at Edakkara in connection with a march taken out by party workers at Moothedam near Nilambur on Thursday. The arrested were DYFI zonal secretary P.K. Shafeek, block committee members Sabeeb Manayil, V.P. Beneesh Sadar and Joshi Thalipadam. They had reportedly raised incendiary slogans threatening to do away with their adversaries. They had also allegedly shouted that the knife that killed Muslim Students Federation (MSF)  leader Ariyil Shukoor would be used again. The Youth Congress and the Muslim Youth League on Monday staged marches to the police station demanding action against the DYFI members. The DYFI district committee removed Shafeek from the post of zonal secretary on Monday.
23 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Replica of Aranmula temple draws crowd||An exceptionally large replica of the centuries-old Sree Parthasarathy temple at Aranmula made by a 23-year-old electronics and electrical engineer, Akhil Maliyekkal, is drawing crowds to Cherukol, near Kozhencherry. It took five months’ planning and seven months of work for Akhil to complete this model, made in multiwood. The 24-sq-ft model with 5 ft height has miniatures of all the structures attached to the temple — the 18-steps leading to the temple complex, Kaanicka-mandapam, Aanakkottil, Naalambalom, shrines dedicated to Balabhadra, Rama and various cohorts of the presiding deity, Oottupura, administrative block and the golden temple mast. “I have been cherishing this dream project right from my childhood. Now, with the support of my parents and encouragement from well-wishers and teachers at the Cherukol Government UP School and the Kattoor NSS High School, I could materialise this project,” says Akhil. Anilkumar, Akhil’s father, told The Hindu that he had constructed a makeshift workshop at their courtyard for his son to carry out the carving work. The project cost Rs. 1.25 lakh. It took seven months for Akhil to complete the carvings. An elderly woman, Radhamony of Chittayil, permitted him to erect the temple model on her one-acre land near the Subramanyaswami temple at Cherukol. It took one week for Akhil to assemble the parts and complete the temple replica there. The Melsanthi-designate of the Parthasarathy temple, Krishnan Namboodiri, inaugurated the public exhibition of the replica by lighting a lamp on June 18. ‘Exceptional’ “This artistic rendering of the Aranmula temple complex is really exceptional and an exquisite piece of art,” says Raju Abraham, MLA. Mr. Abraham said he had approached the Cultural Affairs Department seeking to support and encourage the young artist. Kummanam Rajashekharan, former Mizoram Governor, and Suresh Gopi, MP, said the possibility of taking this unique piece of art to a museum of national importance would be explored.
23 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Four NoRKs test positive in Pathanamthitta||Four more Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. Eight persons were also cured on the day, a medical bulletin said. With this, the number of COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment in the district has gone up to 122. New patients A 44-year-old man who came from Kuwait on June 15, a 66-year-old man who came from Maharashtra on June 8, a 54-year-old woman who came from Delhi on June 4 and a 50-year-old man who came from Dubai on June 10 tested positive on the day. All of them have been hospitalised. A total of 138 persons, including persons with COVID-19 symptoms, have been admitted to the isolation wards of various hospitals. Of this, 56 persons are at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, 13 at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, 63 persons at the Firstline COVID-19 Treatment Centre at Menamthottom Hospital in Ranni and six others at various private hospitals in the district.  A total of 5,548 persons have been quarantined in the district as on Monday. As many as 3,323 people among them have come from various other States and 1,663 from abroad while 562 others are contacts of COVID-19 patients. A total of 1,153 persons have been placed in quarantine at 136 Corona Care Centres in the district. Hotspot Meanwhile, Mallappuzhasserry grama panchayat has been declared a COVID-19 hotspot from Sunday as the Health surveillance teams have identified as many as 490 primary and secondary contacts of an ASHA worker who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 a few days ago. The district had reported 198 cases in all and 75 of them have been cured of the disease, according to an official bulletin.
23 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Tight restrictions come into effect in capital||The mounting number of COVID-19 cases, including those without known sources of infection, has prompted the State government to reinforce restrictions and clamp down on widespread violations in the district. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, who convened a meeting of MLAs in the district and senior officials on Monday, said that demonstrations having more than 10 protesters would no longer be permitted during the prevailing crisis. Besides, a cap of 20 participants had also been set for programmes organised by government departments in the district.  The restriction comes amid the State capital witnessing numerous agitations, mostly in front of the Secretariat, during the last two weeks. Along coastal belt Enforcement will also be intensified along the coastal belt and in border areas. Local self-government institutions have also been directed to step up surveillance and to ensure all commercial outlets adhered to the government guidelines. Thiruvananthapuram Corporation will organise joint inspections with the police to detect violations and close down shops that violate norms. Mr. Surendran will discuss the situation with chairpersons and secretaries of local bodies in the district through video-conference on Tuesday. Besides, legislators will organise regular meetings with local body chiefs in their constituencies to coordinate such efforts. The district authorities will also rein in crowding during weddings and funerals by enforcing restrictions that make it mandatory to limit gatherings to within 50 and 20 people respectively. Setting a model, the legislators will refrain from participating in such functions in their constituencies except those conducted by their relatives. There will be a total ban on visitors in hospitals in the district with no one except the care-givers of patients allowed entry. Auto travel In light of an autorickshaw driver testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 recently, the public have been advised to collect and maintain the details of autorickshaws and taxis, including the contact details of the drivers and the vehicle registration numbers in which they travel. The directive would be applicable for app-based cab aggregators like Uber and Ola, Mr. Surendran said. At least one institutional quarantine centre will be opened in each grama panchayat. The facilities, which could be a house or a cluster of houses, will be utilised to accommodate people coming from abroad and other States who are unable to self-isolate themselves in their own houses. In a bid to reduce rush in prominent market places including Chala and Palayam, the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation will permit shops to function on alternate days, thereby bringing down the number of outlets functioning every day by half. Besides, social distancing and crowd management must be effectively maintained by the trading community. Shops found to violate the norms will be closed with their licences temporarily suspended. The norms would be applicable for shopping malls and supermarkets too, City Mayor K. Sreekumar said. In addition to the existing 31 institutional quarantine centres in the city, the Corporation will commence five more such facilities in the Vizhinjam, Poonthura, Shangumugham, Attipra and Kazhakuttom health circles to boost containment efforts along the coast. The Thiruvananthapuram Corporation has also imposed restrictions for the public in its headquarters. Complaints will be received at a special counter outside the office building. In addition, grievances could also be sent tocomplaints.tmc @ gmail. com, through the web portal smarttvm.corporationoftrivandrum.in, or through the WhatsApp number 8590036770.  There will be a total ban on visitors in hospitals in the district with no one except the care-givers of patients allowed entry
23 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vande Bharat extended till June 30||Air India Express’s Vande Bharat Mission Phase III repatriation flights to evacuate stranded Non-Resident Indians from West Asia has been extended till June 30 with another 42 flights reaching the four airports of the State in the next seven days. With this, the repatriation flights operated by the AIE from West Asia and South East Asian countries in the Phase III that commenced on June 9 will touch 176. The repatriation flights of AIE, which was scheduled to end on June 23, will conclude with IX 1374 flight from Doha to Kozhikode on June 30. Kerala is the biggest beneficiary of Vande Bharat Mission repatriation flights and charters to evacuate the stranded Non Resident Indians as 70,209 had so far been evacuated. Delhi is behind with 56,115 passengers, Maharashtra is in the third place among the destination states with 20,469 passengers followed by Tamil Nadu (20,268), Telangana (11,482) and Karnataka (6,558). Of the 70,209 who had reached Kerala, 29,839 came in the flights of the mission and 40,370 in the charters. Evacuation status shows 23,790 had arrived from United Arab Emirates, which includes 15,540 from Dubai, 8,068 from Abu Dhabi and 182 from Sharjah. As many as 10,240 had come from U.S, 8,276 from Saudi Arabia, 7,386 from Qatar, 7,073 from Oman, 6,092 from U.K., 4,566 from Singapore and 4,387 from Kuwait in the repatriation flights. Of the 43 flights announced in the extended Phase III, 42 flights are to the State. Delhi has the remaining one flight (IX 1172) from Bahrain on June 24. Thiruvananthapuram international airport has 11 flights, Cochin 14, Kozhikode 13 and Kannur four flights from West Asia. Six flights daily AIE will be operating six repatriation flights daily in the last leg of the mission from June 24 to 30. However, there are no repatriation flights from the South East Asian countries of Singapore and Malaysia to the airports in the State in the next seven days. “The airline will be deploying over 20 Boeing 737-800 NG aircraft for the extended operations and the Phase III mission is going on smoothly,” airline sources told The Hindu . The phase III began in the backdrop of nine crew members who handled flights to Kerala testing positive for COVID-19 despite following all protocols. AIE had operated 22 flights in the Phase I, 38 in Phase II and 95 in the Phase II plus of Vande Bharat Mission that ended on June 4. In addition to the AIE flights, Air India is operating around 300 flights to Europe, Australia, Canada, the USA, the UK and Africa between June 10 and July 1 during the third phase.
23 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Well-being may get top billing||A well-being Budget that prioritises health above economy has been mooted to equip the State battle the rigours of COVID-19 and make it compatible to live with the virus. Taking a cue from the well-being budget of New Zealand and the capability approach of famed economist Amartya Zen, an expert panel headed by Centre for Development Studies (CDS) director Sunil Mani tasked with rationalising the State’s expenditure, has mooted the new concept that places “health first and the economy a second.” The COVID-19 containment strategy of New Zealand, as in the case of Kerala, had won accolades and were hailed as the best models for flattening the curve. Six priorities The expert committee has set six priorities for preparing the new Budget, giving due accent to mental health. Improving the well-being of children, providing an enhanced support and care to the indigent and marginalised sections such as tribespeople and fishermen, building a proactive State, transforming the State by focussing on environment and maintaining its rich biodiversity and also investing specifically in health and education. Charting out a well-being budget would not be an arduous task for Kerala that already has a robust health care system, optimum investment in health and education sectors, a genuine concern for the marginalised and also has top priority for protection of environment and biodiversity. Investments What calls for is a deviation from the conventional pattern of budget preparation and the government has already awakened to the need for resetting its investment priorities in the wake of the virus spread. The report wants the government to form a frontline service for mental health with a well-designed targeted programme that provides access to all sections. It also proposes the need for bolstering suicide prevention services, engaging professional counsellors in schools and meeting the housing requirements of all sections, especially those dwelling in areas prone to natural disasters. The panel also proposes, among others, the need for bridging the venture capital gap for start-ups, vocational education reforms and specific employment support service for the young. The State has already crossed most of the milestones set by the panel and most of the features figure in the State Budget too. But in the current context preparation of separate well-being Budget has become imperative to face the health challenges, mainly due to loss of jobs, means of livelihood and angst triggered by the crisis.
23 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heavy rainfall likely in Idukki on June 26||With the southwest monsoon rainfall activity expected to increase over the State in the coming days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has sounded alerts for most of the districts from Wednesday. An orange alert indicating the likelihood of extremely heavy rainfall (above 20.4 cm in 24 hours) has been issued for Idukki district for June 26, Friday. The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority (KSDMA) has directed the police, fire and rescue services and personnel attached to revenue and LSG departments in Idukki to remain prepared. Yellow alerts, signalling the probability of isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall, have been issued for Kottayam, Ernakulam, Idukki, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kozhikode and Kannur for Wednesday. For Thursday, yellow alerts are in place for all districts except Palakkad. And on Friday, yellow alerts are in place for 13 districts and an orange alert for Idukki. According to a June 19 extended range forecast issued by IMD, the State can expect normal rainfall in the week from June 25 to July 2. The southwest monsoon has been active over Kerala over weekend, especially over north and central Kerala regions. The KSDMA had issued special alerts for the hilly regions on Sunday, given the increase in rainfall activity. Meanwhile, water levels in reservoirs in the State, especially of those in Idukki, are currently at safe levels.
23 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||MCH guard, 10 others test positive||The diagnosis of COVID-19 in a security guard of the Thiruvananthapuram Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), among 11 people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday, has set alarm bells ringing in the capital district, which has already been grappling with several cases with unknown sources of infection. The 55-year-old native of Karikkakom, who is part of the security staff at the MCH, has been involved in crowd management and used to work in the casualty and main gate of the outpatient department. Having also worked in the COVID-19 outpatient wing from May 2 to 6, he was involved in shifting patients to the ‘red channel’ (sanitised corridor) on the hospital premises. He sought treatment at the family health centre in Kadakampally on June 17, a day after he developed fever and fatigue. He had also gone to the casualty of a private hospital at Venpalavattom on June 18 along with his son in an autorickshaw. A 23-year-old Karamana native, who works in the Fire Department in Chennai, was also diagnosed with the disease. He had come to the State along with a friend, who hails from Shoranur, on scooter via Walayar on June 15. A Tirunelveli youth, aged 27, also contracted the illness after coming to Kerala in a train from Mumbai on June 19. He has been a bystander to his father who was being treated for vomiting and vertigo at the Thiruvananthapuram MCH. The other cases include a 60-year-old Neyyattinkara native who came from Saudi Arabia via Kochi on June 15, a 54-year-old Kaithamukku native who arrived from Qatar on June 13, a 29-year-old Pozhiyoor native who came from Kuwait via Kochi on June 13, a 27-year-old man from St. Andrews who came from Kuwait via Kochi on June 13, a 25-year-old Maruthankuzhy native who returned from Kuwait via Kochi on June 13, a 37-year-old Venjaramoodu native who came from Kuwait via. Kochi on June 16, a 34-year-old Madavoor native who came from Dubai on June 20, and a 27-year-old Venpalavattom native who returned from Dubai on June 18. Under quarantine The district administration placed 1,244 people under quarantine on the day, thereby increasing the number of people who were being closely monitored to 21,346. The City police have intensified inspections in the wake of the spurt of COVID-19 cases of late. As many as 120 people were booked under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020, while 324 people were fined for failing to wear masks outdoors. Besides those that came in the containment zones in the Manacaud, Attukal and Kalady wards, the police also closed a few other road stretches as part of streamlining vehicular flow. Swab tests Meanwhile, the district administration has designated hospitals in each taluk for undertaking swab tests. Remand prisoners will be subjected to the COVID-19 test in the Varkala taluk hospital. Such examinations will be conducted in the General Hospital, Fort Hospital, SUT Royal Hospital, Peroorkada district Hospital (in Thiruvananthapuram taluk), Chirayinkeezhu taluk hospital (in Chirayinkeezhu taluk), Varkala taluk hospital (in Varkala taluk), Nedumangad district hospital (in Nedumangad taluk), Neyyattinkara General Hospital, Parassala taluk hospital (in Nedumangad taluk), and Amachal family health centre (in Kattakada taluk). The tests will be conducted from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. In the case of symptomatic people who are found after 4 p.m., they will be admitted to the General Hospital for the tests, district medical officer P.P. Preetha said.
23 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Minister in self-quarantine||Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar has gone into self-quarantine after a health worker who attended a COVID-19 review convened by him in Thrissur on June 15 tested positive on Sunday. He underwent a test on Monday, which returned negative. The Minister will continue to remain in quarantine for another 10 days, his office said. Mr. Sunil Kumar, who had reached Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday evening, has quarantined himself at his official residence here. The meeting was held at the Thrissur Corporation office and was also attended by the Thrissur Mayor, people’s representatives and senior officials in addition to Mr. Sunil Kumar who is the MLA representing the Thrissur constituency. Among the Minister’s staff, an additional private secretary, who had attended the meeting, also is in quarantine. “I had taken all precautions while attending the meeting such as wearing a mask and a pair of gloves. However, I have decided to go in self-quarantine since one individual who had attended the meeting has tested positive and I am on her list of contacts,” the Minister said in a Facebook message on Monday. Mr. Sunil Kumar said he would attend to office matters online from his residence. Activities related to the coordination of COVID-19 containment measures in Ernakulam districtwould also be taken care of thus, he said.  Health worker who attended a review meeting convened by him in Thrissur tests positive
23 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State looks for substitutes for ‘banned’ pesticides||With the Union government moving to ban 27 pesticides, the State Agriculture Department has asked the Kerala Agricultural University (KAU) to suggest possible substitutes. The department has also sought the opinion of KAU and its own field staff with regard to the Centre’s proposal to prohibit the import, manufacture, sale, transport, distribution and use of the pesticides in agriculture. In May, the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare had issued a gazette notification on the draft ‘Banning of Insecticides Order, 2020,’ which lists 27 formulations which ‘are likely to involve risk to human beings and animals.’ “We have forwarded the notification to all our Principal Agriculture Officers for seeking suggestions and also objections from field-level officers and farm officers. In the light of the proposed ban, the KAU has also been asked to suggest alternative formulations,” a department official told The Hindu . The State’s views on the matter are expected to be placed before the Centre in 15 days. In due course, the State expects to go fully organic, but the Agriculture Department is also looking at the possible consequences that a sudden ban on 27 pesticides would have on the farm sector. Banned in 30 countries According to the Union Agriculture Ministry, alternatives are available for all the 27 listed pesticides. The use of many of the formulations on the list, such as Acephate, Chlorpyriphos and Atrazine, are already prohibited in more than 30 countries. Others, such as Carbofuran for example, “are also toxic to honey bees, aquatic organisms and birds. Its 50% SP formulation is already banned in our country,” the draft order says. The use of Malathion, as per the draft, is confined to public health and for tackling the pesky desert locust. In February 2019, Kerala invoked Section 27(1) of the Insecticides Act, 1968, to ban the sale and distribution of the weed-killer Glyphosate for 60 days. According to Agriculture Department officials, the government does not issue licence for its sale.
23 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Treatment for patients from hotspots||A separate treatment facility has been readied at Thiruvananthapuram Medical College hospital for patients who are arriving at the hospital for treatment from hotspots and containment zones. The new facility has been arranged at the new casualty wing near the MCH entrance, under the Emergency Medicine Department. The new treatment facility will, to a certain extent, allow separation between patients from hotspots and containment zones who could be potential COVID sources and patients from other parts of the district. It will also afford some protection to doctors and other healthcare staff working in the hospital. From triage till operation theatre, extensive arrangements have been made. There is a treatment area, procedure room, ward, ICU, swab testing centre, separate X-ray division and operation theatre. All patients will be screened at the help desk at casualty and OP divisions and those from hotspots and containment zones will be sent to the separate treatment facility, where they will be triaged and offered appropriate care in ward or ICU. They will also be tested for COVID-19 and removed to the COVID care facility if found positive.
23 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Start flights to Dubai: CM||Kerala has sought the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to commence commercial flight operations to and from the State to Dubai. Hundreds of Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) working in Dubai and other countries in West Asia were eagerly waiting in the State to return to their work places, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said in an e-mail to the Prime Minister. The State government was willing to conduct PCR test for those who wanted to return to Dubai, Mr. Vijayan said. The passengers should request the test.
23 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Policemen quarantined||Around 30 personnel of the SAP camp, Peroorkada, have reportedly been advised to go in quarantine after a policeman attached to the camp was admitted to the General Hospital with fever and vomiting. All of them reportedly attended a training course at the camp. The COVID-19 test results of the hospitalised policeman is awaited.
23 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||EPC mode for 10 ROBs||Tender process has been initiated for the 10 Road Over Bridges (ROBs) to be constructed in the State using Rs. 222 crore to be provided by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). Tenders had been floated through the Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala (RBDCK) and the works for the 10 ROBs will be completed in one year under the Engineering, Procurement, Construction (EPC) mode, Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran said on Monday. To avoid delay, the Minister said steel concrete composite structure was to be used. The ROBs are at Chirayinkeezhu (Rs. 20.49 crore) in Thiruvananthapuram district, Maleyakkal (Rs. 28.28 crore), Eravipuram (Rs. 21.82 crore), Guruvayur (Rs. 20.09 crore), Akethethara (Rs. 33.26 crore), Vadanamkurishi (Rs. 25.7 crore), Tanur-Theyala (Rs. 21.65 crore), Chelari-Chettipadi (Rs. 15.97 crore) and Koduvally (Rs. 20 crore).
23 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. to ensure good income for farmers: CM||The State government is committed to finding good markets for agricultural produce and ensuring good income to farmers, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Monday. As part of its Subhiksha Keralam project, the government aims to launch wholesale markets, district-level procurement centres, and block-level and weekly markets, the Chief Minister said, inaugurating the Thiruvathira Njattuvela markets and Karshaka Sabhas and the distribution of one crore fruit tree saplings and coconut saplings via videoconference. Through Subhiksha Keralam, the government aims to inject fresh life into agriculture, animal husbandry, dairy, and fisheries sectors which face challenges, given the COVID-19 scenario. Under this initiative, paddy cultivation alone is expected to go up by 5,000 ha, according to the Chief Minister. Although the area under coconut cultivation is 7.81 lakh ha, productivity is low. The government is distributing saplings of high-yield varieties to boost productivity. As part of the Thiruvathira Njattuvela markets, farmers will have an opportunity to exchange or buy seeds and planting material, he said. The LDF government has succeeded in doubling vegetable production, Mr. Vijayan said.
23 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU - restriction||Kerala University has imposed restrictions on public entry on its premises for a week in view of the spike in COVID-19 cases in the city. The restrictions will remain in effect until June 29.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||NTTF offers International Diploma along with regular Diploma programs||NTTF is a nationally and internationally known educational institution engaged in providing a purposeful employable Technical training to the youth of the country for the last 60 years. Established in Nettur, Thalassery, Kerala in1959 with one training centre it has expanded its activities over the years and grown in size and stature. The Foundation has now a pan India presence and implements its programs through 16 training centres all over India.The main highlight this year is the International Accreditation and Concurrent ‘International Diploma’ with NOCN from UK along with ‘NTTF Diploma’ for core diploma courses. NOCN, National Open College Network, and NCC, National Computing Centre, are the leading Govt approved International Assessment and point assessment organisation that has been creating opportunities for thirty years in United Kingdom. NOCN International Diploma offers a pathway to pursue a Bachelors Degree in UK University with a student visa. Other concurrent Degree/ certificates B.Voc, Bachelor of Vocational Education from Indian Universities. Features of NTTF Programmes: Proven Placement record of our students across 500 Industrial establishments in India and Abroad. Unique Career Oriented Industry Focussed Programmes.More than 20+ full time programmes and 20+ Skill Development training modules.Programme designed to equip students to become Entrepreneurs.5000+ seats offered across NTTF Training centres. Merit scholarship offered for meritorious/ economically weaker/deserving students. NSDC (National Skill Development Corporation) Certificate upto Level 5.Higher education in Indian Universities. Programmes in brief:The Diploma level courses are aimed at delivering skilled manpower to the Industry.The core Diploma courses are Diploma in Tool Engineering and Digital Manufacturing,Diploma in Electronics and Embedded system, Diploma in Computer Engineering and IT Infrastructure, Diploma in Information Technology and Data Science, Diploma in Mechatronics Engineering and Smart Factory, Diploma in Electrical and Electronics. Some of the top employers of NTTF are indeed the best corporate companies of India, namely Brakes India Ltd., Godrej & Boyce Mfg. Co.Ltd., Kirloskar Toyota Textile Machine Pvt. Ltd., Larsen & Toubro Ltd., Legrand India, TATA Group ,Siemens Infrastructure & Cities, TVS Sundaram Auto Components Ltd., Videocon Applicomp, VIP Industries Limited and Wipro Infrastructure Engineering and many other reputed companies. NTTF has two centres in Kerala.The first campus is at Nettur,Thalassery and the second campus is at Malappuram district,Kerala. Please contact NETTUR TECHNICAL TRAINING FOUNDATION Thalassery: Tel: 0490 2351423 Call: 9744170410 / 9744584890 Malappuram: Call: 8606390101 / 8606490101 Email:ttc@nttf.co.in/intc@nttf.co.in Website: www.nttftrg.com
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||The time for a new financial order||At a time when people have started thinking about survival strategies and their livelihood in the current scenario of Covid 19, Niravath Jubily Chits guides them to the world of new financial order. Most of our clientele have now adopted online money transfer methods. People have now realised the increasing importance of chit funds. Chits give financial security in dire circumstances.Niravath Chit Funds, with its Corporate office based in Iritty, has as many as 33 branches and 40000 clients. Our offices are functioning by fully adhering to the Covid 19 safety instructions. Sanitizer is provided at the entrance itself and all the staffers wear face masks. It is a completely government approved chit fund institution. Niravath has also bagged many awards for its commendable services.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Kalyan Kendra||It is a fact that the current scenario in the health sector has adversely affected Kalyan Kendra’s business. Nevertheless, it is also our turn to meet this critical situation with a positive approach and try to overcome it for better days. It is totally unhealthy to respond at this time with a negative mindset and attitude. If we are truly involved in our business, we will have many solutions the natural way to overcome it. We have already come across several such occasions earlier through which our better involvement in the business paved way for better ideas and solutions. So, let us think positive at this time too.   Thinking of improving or expanding the business in the absence of the expected requirements in the country is a tough job. However, we can hope that there are ways to explore the changing phases of requirements and find better business opportunities to bounce back to our customers. Since we have been operating in the field of textiles industry, we have put our creative thoughts and efforts together to update the existing garment collection in a bigger way and face the challenge. We are trying to introduce exclusive colour patterns and designs at a very reasonable rate to greet our customers. Wedding wears, silk items, sarees and lehengas are all reintroduced in a quite different way. Though there is a fall in the number of regular or casual buyers, we have wedding parties who make the purchase with full satisfaction on the offered budget and service. Like this, we can survive this adverse season too with a hearty smile and innovative ideas.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||MATRIX IT WORLD – for all generations||Matrix IT World adorns a prominent position in the IT & digital spectrum of Kerala. One among the earliest players in the state's IT sector, Matrix has carved a niche for themselves within a short span. Our foray into the retail sector was an opportunity to introduce and showcase the entire range of IT products & solutions that included laptops, desktops, gaming PC's, smartphones, tablets, all-in-one PCs, printers, projectors, smart TV's and other reprographic solutions and as an authorised dealer in Kerala for globally renowned brands. Matrix IT World is celebrating its 21st anniversary this year. The popularity the company acquired all these years is attributed to the support of their valued customers. Matrix IT World is perhaps your best destination for laptop/desktop/AIO brands like HP, Lenovo, Apple, Dell, Asus, all peripherals, accessories and mobile phones of leading brands. We also have a service wing for laptop/desktop service. The Covid 19 pandemic has left all industries and business houses in peril. Retail sector is slowly back to the new normal and at Matrix, every effort is done to combat the situation. To address the adverse circumstances, Matrix has trained their staff and follows strict guidelines of the government and health department. Management states that customers can purchase Computers, Mobile phones, accessories and all other electronic gadgets, as before, as the showroom is a certified Suraksha store. Though there is shortage of products owing to the covid pandemic, the company is taking all possible steps to keep up the sentiments of the customers. “More range of products will be added to the portfolio very soon to meet the requirements of our valued customers and best prices and incredible offers never end at Matrix”, says the management.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Setting New Trends in Building Material Industry||We are going through a peculiar scenario in which Covid 19, the epidemic, is affecting every sphere of our collective life. Our fight against this pandemic is still going on. ABC Group pays tribute to police personnel, doctors, nurses, health workers and NGOs for their commendable service in this fight against the pandemic. Kerala's efforts to combat Covid19 have been recognized worldwide. ABC Group would like to express its wholehearted appreciation for the State Government. In addition to this struggle, we must continue our daily activities. ABC's showrooms comply with all safety standards issued by the government and the health department. We ensure that facilities like mask, sanitizer and hand wash are available at the showroom for a safe and enjoyable shopping experience for our customers. Above all, we are presenting new features such as video shopping, Online appointment, shop through WhatsApp, and prior appointment facilities for our customers as we recognize the requirements of the new era and the importance of ensuring social distancing norms. ABC offers customers the convenience of shopping without having to come to the showroom. As always, ABC Group is committed to showcasing world-class products for our beloved customers! Let's continue the fight against Covid… we will survive this! The fight against this pandemic will also empower us with valuable experience!
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Fresh catch||
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In agitation mode||
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Messengers amble along||
23 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur set to witness ‘war’ over water sharing||About 40 tmcft Krishna water drawn through the Handri Neeva Sujala Sravanthi (HNSS) network last season was not sufficient and a political slugfest among people’s representatives is a distinct possibility in the next two weeks in Anantapur district over allocation to individual Assembly constituencies. The demand has risen to 51 tmcft, but the budgetary allocation for the HNSS irrigation project is mere Rs. 565 crore as against Rs. 6,228 crore sought in the detailed project report submitted to the State government for Phase-I widening to increase drawal capacity from 2,200 cusecs to 6,300 cusecs within three years. To meet this goal of completing the project and irrigating the parched lands of Anantapur, Kadapa and Chittoor districts each year, an allocation of more than Rs. 2,000 crore is needed. Which constituency gets how much water has always been following the adage ‘might is right’ in all governments and the present one is no exception. At a meeting in the State capital a couple of days ago over allocation of water and individual demands of MLAs brought to the fore the sharp differences among public representatives of the ruling party with everyone seeking their pound of flesh. Against the 19.641 tmcft officially calculated allocation of surplus Krishna water for the district to meet irrigation needs of 3.45 lakh acres, last water year, one of the best in recent times, brought 31.739 tmcft. But going by the demands put forth by the MLAs and MLCs, it is anywhere above 51 tmcft with each of them seeking share for their constituency even if they do not have ayacut. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, to assuage the hurt feelings of public representatives, had ordered for water release to tanks even if there was no ayacut.  IAB meeting Ahead of the Irrigation Advisory Board meeting, the MLAs have been asked to sit with the Engineer-in-Chief (ENC) in the first week of July to finalise which constituency gets how much, so that a clear picture can be given to the Chief Minister and later approved in the IAB. To cater to new ayacut, distributary canal network modernisation works need to be rendered and grounded along with widening of the main canal. The Hindupur constituency had got water last year during the TDP government, but this year, neighbouring constituencies such as Madakasira and Rapthadu too were given water reducing its quota.
23 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||No respite in Kurnool, Anantapur districts||The number of COVID-19 positive cases has been on the rise in both Anantapur and Kurnool districts for the past 10 days, but with the number of samples testing going up significantly, the rate of people turning positive has come down from 3% to 2% in Kurnool district. The total number of positive cases in Anantapur reached 1,228 with 70 new positive cases reported on Monday. The number of patients getting treated in hospitals, COVID care centres or in Home isolation has reached 564 in Anantapur. While there was one COVID death, 11 persons got discharged from the three COVID-19 Hospitals in Anantapur, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said. Mr. Chandrudu participated in a review meeting with A.P. Health, Medical and Family Welfare Special Chief Secretary K.S. Jawahar Reddy from Anantapur along with Joint Collector A. Siri. Review meeting In Kurnool, District Collector G. Veerapandian along with Joint Collector Ravi Pattanshetty participated in the review meeting. Mr. Veerapandian later held a review meeting with district nodal officers and asked them to concentrate on the migrants returning from high-risk zones such as Delhi and Mumbai. 557 active cases Kurnool district too had 66 positive cases on Monday with number samples tested reaching 2,961 and of them 2,826 were negative, Mr. Veerapandian said. The cumulative patients discharge number has gone up to 777 (regular) and 304 (other states) totalling 1,081, and 557 active cases were there in the Kurnool district. Anantapur district is now under lockdown yet again following number of cases rising sharply compared to the past two months.
23 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||J.C. Prabhakar, his son remanded till June 26||Former Tadipatri MLA J.C. Prabhakar Reddy and his son J.C. Ashmit Reddy were remanded to judicial custody till June 26, after spending two days in police custody on Monday. They are facing charges of selling BS-III vehicles after registering them as BS-IV vehicles by fabricating documents. Prabhakar Reddy and Ashmit Reddy were produced before the Second Additional Judicial First Class Magistrate, Thousad Hussein, who remanded them to Kadapa Central Prison. Anantapur Deputy Superintendent of Police G. Veeraragahva Reddy said that 25 cases had been registered against the duo in Anantapur and Tadipatri, with regard to the registration of BS-III vehicles in Nagaland and then migrating them to Andhra Pradesh producing fake insurance and police NoC documents. The DSP further said that the accused had answered some of the questions during the two days of police custody.
23 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||6 held with 2 country rifles near Palamaner||The Palamaner forest range officials on Friday night nabbed six persons and seized two country-made rifles from their possession and a car when they were allegedly found to be hunting wild animals at the reserve forest at M. Kotur village of Palamaner mandal. Forest Range Officer (Palamaner) S. Srinivasulu said the six accused, hailing from Palamaner and Tavanampalle mandals, were remanded after being produced in a local court. The official said vigil had been intensified at the forest fringe villages to prevent entry of suspected poachers into the reserved forest. Forest Section Officer G. Munaswamy said that villagers at the forest fringe areas were told to inform the officials as and when they found strangers moving in their localities. He said anyone possessing the country weapons would invite criminal cases. As M. Kotur and surrounding villages come under the Koundinya wildlife sanctuary teeming with wild elephants, extra precautions have been taken to prevent public movement in reserved forest. Recently, wild elephants trampled a man to death inside the forest near Palamaner when he trespassed into the prohibited area.
23 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Venture out only if necessary: police||The Chittoor police on Monday issued a public alert urging people to stay indoors and not to move out unless it was unavoidable, but fully adhering to COVID-19 guidelines. On Monday, the district witnessed 29 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total to 961, which included six deaths. Police, Revenue and medical officials were on alert with a man testing positive at Mulakala Cheruvu mandal on Monday. While coming from Bengaluru, he had reportedly attended the funeral at B. Kotha Kota mandal.  Guard tests positive With this, the officials are on the job to identify those who came in contact with him. The new cases were registered predominantly in Tirupati, Srikalahasti, Puttur and Chittoor mandal. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar inspected the red zone at Puthalapattu near Chittoor, where a home guard tested positive to the virus. Interacting with the residents, the SP urged them to strictly stay indoors and not to venture out. He also inquired about public using masks and sanitisers in the mandal. Link to other States Deputy SP K. Eshwar Reddy expressed concern at the unprecedented number of COVID-19 positive cases emerging in Chittoor. He said that 90% of the cases had links to other States or been returnees from Chennai. The Deputy SP said that people should voluntarily come forward to stay indoors unless it is absolutely necessary. He said that the public moving out should adhere to the guidelines of social distancing, masks and sanitisers. Chittoor Municipal Corporation limits had so far witnessed close to 70 cases. He said that in order to check the free movement of public in red zones, police personnel had been posted on bandobasth duties. In Tirupati Municipal Corporation limits, 34 out of 50 divisions were under containment zones. At Nagari municipality, four sanitation workers tested positive to the virus. Of the total cases, 320 were in the age group of 16-30, while those between 31-45 age group were 300. A pregnant woman at Srikalahasti with travel history to Chennai tested positive.
23 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sudden spurt in tomato price yields rich dividends to farmers at Madanapalle||Tomato prices have jumped three-fold in a span of three weeks at the Madanapalle agriculture market, Asia’s largest trading centre for tomatoes. From Rs. 12 a kg for the first grade on June 1, the price has shot up to Rs. 36 on Monday, as per the official records. The second variety too saw a sharp rise from Rs. 8 a kg to Rs. 27. This sudden phenomenon is considered the first-of-its-kind in the region in a decade. The wholesale demand is expected to touch Rs. 50-70 in a couple of weeks due to declining stock arrivals. Trade analysts predict a possible repeat of 2015 scenario when the retail price of tomatoes touched Rs. 150-200 a kg. Due to dwindling stocks, on Monday, about 1,000 metric tonnes were traded as against 1,700 tonnes on June 1. Prices remain steady Marketing and horticulture officials maintain that despite COVID-19 lockdown, prices remained rather steady at the Madanapalle market and in the last three months never slipped below Rs. 5 a kg, considered the threshold limit to avoid losses. Throughout May, the retail price remained in the Rs. 10-15 range for the third quality, while the first and second varieties found their way to metropolitan cities for a higher price. A.V. Eeshwar Reddy, a young farmer from Mulakalacheruvu mandal in the region, attributed the sudden spike in the tomato price to dismal yields in the neighbouring Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Maharashtra. Due to the COVID-19 threat, many farmers in the southern States either stayed away from active cultivation or couldn’t transport their produce to markets causing shortage in the domestic markets there and spurred exports from Madanapalle region since first week of June. Tomato’s nutritional value also seems to have fuelled demand for it from a section of public conscious of improving immunity to face coronavirus. Further shortage likely On the other hand, tomato yields are likely to come down further between July and October due to rains, which could lead to its further shortage.
23 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 children die after eating ‘poisoned’ chicken||In a tragic incident, two siblings died after reportedly eating chicken fry, which was mistakenly mixed with rat poison, at AL Puram village of Gudipala mandal, 15 km from here, on Monday evening. According to the police, the siblings of Cherolpalle village near Chittoor came to stay with their grandmother Govindamma (70) due to the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown. In the evening, the elderly woman prepared chicken fry, but had reportedly mixed rat poison, mistaking it for chicken massala. After eating the dish with rice, Rohit (11) and Jeev (8) started to complain of stomach pain and breathlessness. Immediately, they were shifted to the district hospital at Chittoor, where they died while under treatment. The bodies were shifted to the mortuary for postmortem. Further investigation is on.
23 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Annuity payment released for Capital farmers||The State Government has released Rs. 189.70 crore towards annuity payment to farmers who have given away their lands as part of Land Pooling Scheme (LPS). In two separate GOs issued on Monday, the Finance Department issued a budget release order for an amount of Rs. 142.28 crore and Rs. 47.42 crore towards annuity payment under Head of Account-Capital Outlay on Urban Development, State Capital Development, Land Pooling Scheme. The amount is to be given to the farmers who parted with their lands under LPS implemented by the previous TDP government.
23 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Surge in positive cases continues in Guntur range||Surge in the number of COVID-19 cases continues in the Guntur range (Guntur Urban, Rural, Prakasam and Nellore districts) with the figure doubling in the last 15 days. “We are having a re-look at the COVID-19 prevention strategies after the number of cases (850 as on June 3) doubled in the last 15 days (1,794 as on June 22) in the Guntur range. This situation is quite alarming,” Inspector-General of Police, South Coastal Range, J. Prabhakara Rao, told The Hindu on Monday. As part of the revised strategy, the police would not allow any vehicles pass through the border check-posts between 7 p.m. and 7 a.m., except for medical emergency. Medical and screening facilities would be upgraded at the border check-posts. Random screening tests would be done for passengers showing symptoms, said the IGP. Screening camps Stating that the local administration has already scaled up testing by organising screening camps at Tadepalli (Mahanadu Road) and Etukuru market (Guntur), the IGP said that more such screening camps would be held at markets. “Now that we have allowed autos and limited transport, we are expecting a peak in COVID-19 cases by July 15, but we are fully geared up to face the situation,” he said. After taking charge, Mr. Prabhakara Rao began visiting the containment zones and toured across the range ordering the district police to implement the lockdown strictly. The IGP also gave several suggestions on imposing restrictions and barricading. “We will again take stock of the COVID-19 containment strategies and, if required, restrictions will be imposed in the containment zones only,” he said. Campaign on masks Further, the entry from the Nagarjuna Sagar remains closed till further orders. On the COVID-19 preventive measures, Mr. Prabhakara Rao said a massive campaign would be launched to make masks a mandatory. The police are also launching e-challan facility to allow people to pay a fine in case of violation of the norm.
23 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Group 1 Mains exam from Nov. 2||After repeated postponements, the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has announced the schedule for the Group 1 Mains examination. According to the revised schedule, paper in Telugu (qualifying) will be held on November 2, followed by English (November 3). The Mains examination (Paper 1) would be held on November 5, Paper 2 on Nov. 7, Paper 3 on Nov. 9, Paper 4 on Nov. 11 and Paper 5 on Nov. 13. As many as 8,351 candidates cleared the preliminary exams held in May 2019. APPSC Secretary PSR Anjaneyulu announced the revised schedule for other posts. The exam for degree college lecturers would be held on September 15 (subjects), general studies (Sept. 16), assistant BC/social/tribal welfare officers (Sept. 21, 22), royalty inspector in AP Mining Service (Sept. 22), civil assistant surgeons in AP Insurance Medical Service (Sept. 23), technical assistant (automobile engineering) in AP Police Transport Organisation (Sept. 23), assistant director in AP Town and Country Planning (Sept. 23), assistant chemist in AP Ground Water Service (Sept. 23) and town planning assistant in AP Town and Country Planning Service (Sept. 23).
23 June 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA inaugurates RO plants in fluoride-hit tandas||Tiruvuru MLA Kokkiligadda Rakshana Nidhi on Monday inaugurated six reverse osmosis plants in Krishna district in Lambada tandas in grip of kidney ailments. By 2017, as many as 26 Lambada-majority habitations in A. Konduru mandal had been declared fluoride affected. Mr. Rakshana Nidhi opened two plants in Cheemalapudu and one each in Madavaram, Gollamandalu, Gopalapuram and A.Konduru mandal headquarters. “Rs. 30 lakh of the special grant has been sanctioned by District Collector (A. Md. Imtiaz) to set up nine RO plants in the Lambada tandas. Three more plants — two at Krishnaraopalem and one at Repudi panchayat — will be opened soon,” the MLA said.  Dialaysis centre Mr. Rakshana Nidhi said a dialysis centre was being set up at a cost of Rs. 50 lakh at the government hospital in Tiruvuru. “The Lions Club has donated the amount, and it will be operational soon,” he added. Nephrologists attribute consumption of groundwater as one of the prime reasons for kidney ailments being reported in the tribal tandas. A majority of the residents draw groundwater from hand pumps, but following the steep rise in the number of kidney ailments over the past five years, they have been advised to abandon them. Kidney ailments are widely prevalent in Maansingh, Repudi and Deepla Nagar tandas in A. Konduru mandal.
23 June 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 new cases in Masula||Four persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in Machilipatnam on Monday. Revenue Divisional Officer N.SK. Khazavali told mediapersons that the cases had been reported at Inaguduru, Eedepalli, Sarkaruthota and Javvarupeta. In Pedana mandal, one person tested positive.
23 June 2020||NARSAPURAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Police to take legal opinion on YSRCP MP’s complaint||The police are taking legal opinion on the complaint lodged by YSRCP Narsapuram Member of Parliament Kanumuru Raghu Ramakrishna Raju, that some persons were targeting him and that there was a threat to his life. The MP’s personal assistant, K.U. Krishna Varma, lodged a complaint with West Godavari Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik, on Sunday alleging that some ruling party activists made “threatening comments” against the MP, and sought action against the protesters who burnt the effigies of Mr. Ramakrishna Raju, a few days ago. The MP reportedly had a verbal duel over implementation of some State government schemes and other decisions with the party cadre a few days ago. Protesting against the MP’s statement, some local youth burnt the effigies of Mr. Ramakrishna Raju in Undi, Akiveedu, Tadepalligudem and Achanta in the district. “Though police were present at the spot, nobody tried to stop the protesters. The party activists with the support of some leaders, burnt my effigies and threatened to kill me. They even threatened attack me if I entered my constituency,” the MP alleged. Despite complaints lodged in the police stations concerned, no cases have been registered so far, Mr. Ramakrishna Raju alleged. ‘Inquiry ordered’ “We gave full protection to the MP, and we are ready to step up security further. As regarding complaints lodged in the police stations, an inquiry has been ordered,” a senior police officer told The Hindu on Monday.
23 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Unlock pushes up fresh cases’ count in Prakasam, Nellore||Cases of COVID -29 continue to rise unabated in south coastal Andhra Pradesh, thanks to intra-State and inter-State movement of people during Unlock. Thirty-one persons — 19 in Prakasam district and 12 in SPSR Nellore district — tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours, health officials said. A 18-month-old baby put in the quarantine centre in Ongole was among those who got infected, Prakasam COVID-19 Nodal Officer John Richards said. Some of the infected persons had returned from, among other places, COVID-19 hotspots of Delhi, Chennai, Vijayawada and Guntur. With this, the total number of confirmed cases increased to 569 in SPSR Nellore district and 333 in Prakasam district. Discharged In a welcome sign, 25 patients — 21 in SPSR Nellore district and four in Prakasam district — were cured of the virus during the period and discharged from designated COVID-19 hospitals in the two districts. With this, 360 persons have been cured of the disease in Nellore and 137 persons in Ongole. Health officials stepped up containment activities across the district as cases were reported from Markapur, Donakonda, Chirala, Ongole, Kandukur and Yerrobenapalli in Prakasam district. A 25-year-old woman from Giddalur, who had returned from Delhi, and a 31-year-old man from Ongole, who had returned from Chennai, got infected. Stringent lockdown A stringent lockdown was implemented in Ongole and Chirala in view of the surge in cases. In Nellore district, the city accounted for five new cases, followed by Kavali, Udayagiri, Mutukur, Buchireddipalem, Sangam and Chittamur with one case each. One person from Prakasam district who had visited Nellore also tested positive, a report compiled by the Medical and Health department said on Monday night.
23 June 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Laterite was not supplied to Vedanta’||Andru Minerals on Monday stated in a press release that it did not supply laterite to Vedanta group. Condemning the reports in a section of media, the company had clarified that the laterite from Rajamahendravaram site was being supplied only to the cement companies in the State. An official release issued by the company on Monday said that the total worth of laterite explored annually in the entire State does not exceed Rs. 100 crore, rejecting the reports that the annual turnover of the laterite was above Rs. 180 crore.
23 June 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasVISSANNAPETA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ushering in a 'Parivarthana' in tribal heartland||A job mela organised by the police for tribal and Scheduled Caste youth at Vissannapeta in Krishna district on Monday saw the participation of about 100 candidates with qualifications ranging from M. Tech, B.Tech, MBA, postgraduation, degree, TTC, diploma, ITI and Intermediate. Christened ‘Parivarthana’, it was the first attempt by the police to bring a change in the life of tribal people in the border and island villages, which depended on illicitly distilled (ID) liquor brewing and smuggling in the thandas (tribal hamlets). The officers had earlier convinced the residents, who agreed to to stop the illegal trade and handed over the utensils, cans, stoves and the raw material to the police. “I fared well in the interview. I completed B. Tech in Electronics and Communication Engineering (ECE) in 2018. I want to join a job, prepare for Civil Services and take care of my parents,” said Banavathu Sriveni of Pothanapalli village in Krishna district. Youth from Pedda Thanda, Pothanapalli, Chinna Thanda, Reddygudem, Chatrai, Kruthivennu, Nidamarru and other villages participated in the mela. “Following the directions from Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu, we are in touch with the Tribal Welfare, Revenue, Tricor, Panchayat Raj Departments and private organisations and are making efforts to generate employment to the educated youth in the thandas,” said Nuzvid Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) B. Srinivasulu. The SP said that instructions had been given to the DSP, CIs, and SIs to keep in touch with officials of the Agriculture, Women Development and Child Welfare, Fisheries and other department through the RDO, and local schools and colleges to ensure that eligible local youth got jobs. The police in association with Kuchipudi-based P.V.M.R. Groups Private Limited, a job consultancy organisation, arranged the job mela, Mr. Babu told The Hindu . Consultancy chairman Gopichand said that interviews had been conducted and suitable jobs would be provided to all eligible candidates in different companies. “Mr. Srinivasulu, Circle Inspector Srinu, SIs Siva Narayana and Lakshman and other officers consulted authorities of various departments. We are ready to issue appointment orders,” the SP said. Banavathu Kalyan Chakravarthy, an M. Tech graduate, MBA student Lavuri Ashok, Daravathu Santha Kumari, an M.Sc. (Mathematics), Bhukya Sridevi, who completed ITI were among those who attended the job mela. “This is the first time we attended an interview. Thanks to the police who are making efforts to bring a change in our lives. We want to settle in jobs locally and lead respectful lives,” said Hasavath Manasree, who completed M.A, B.Ed, and Daravathu Chennamma, an MBA graduate.
23 June 2020||srikakulam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Door-to-door survey planned on big scale in Srikakulam||With the dreaded coronavirus spreading fast, the Srikakulam district administration has decided to take up a door-to-door health survey in all 38 mandals. As many as four lakh houses will be covered under the systematic survey to identify the suspicious cases. The district has already registered 427 positive cases in the last two months and the number is likely to go up further. Against this background, the district administration is keen on controlling the spread of the virus. Special teams Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas has directed the district medical and health officials to take the help of other departments such as District Rural Development Agency (DRDA), non-governmental organisations to form special teams immediately for the door-to-door survey. The details of the persons with symptoms of fever, cough, cold, and throat infection should be informed immediately to the control room (94912-22122 and 94405-12447). In turn, the staff at the control room will inform the officials concerned who will act swiftly and conduct medical tests for such persons.  No mass gatherings Mr. Nivas has felt that the survey will help identify all suspected cases and provide treatment quickly. “In the wake of relaxation from lockdown, many people are moving freely without any fear of COVID-19. Many of them failed to wear masks and physical distancing. Apart from imposing a fine, we will ask them to work voluntarily at quarantine centres,” says the Collector. Meanwhile, the district administration has prohibited mass gatherings. It is not allowing the people to submit their petitions during the ‘spandana’ programme on every Monday. It allows only online petitions to prevent gathering of the people. As many of them have individual grievances, the district administration has decided to take up only online petitions. The people can send their petitions to spandanasrikakulam@gmail.com and Whatsapp number (9491222122) and same will be sent to the officials concerned for follow-up action.
23 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||S. Kota MLA tests positive for COVID||MLA from Sringavarapukota of Vizianagaram district Kadubandi Srinivasa Rao tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. Mr. Rao is the first MLA in Andhra Pradesh to have tested positive for the virus. Mr. Rao who got elected on YSRCP ticket in 2019, recently returned from the U.S. and underwent tests thrice as part of the safety precautions. The earlier two tests were negative, but the results of the last test conducted at the Vizianagaram Government Hospital was positive, causing tension among his family members and friends. Mr. Rao said that he had been strictly following COVID-19 protocol even after two previous tests were negative. “I have been following the advice of senior doctors and district administration. I am hoping for speedy recovery,” he said. Ministers, almost all MLAs of North Andhra region, Opposition leaders inquired about his health. Meanwhile, the COVID cases in Vizinaagaram district have gone up to 141 with the emergence of 21 new cases on Monday. The government announced 40 containment zones in the district .
23 June 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||No community spread in Appughar area, says official||Appughar area, which had recorded over 54 COVID-19 positive cases till Sunday, become an area of concern for the district administration, especially the Health Department. The cases have risen within a short period of four days, and as per the health officials it is spreading and they expect a few more cases in the next two days. This has become the hotspot, after the outbreak in Dandu Bazaar area and Anakapalle. But none was as severe as Appughar, as both in Dandu Bazaar and Anakapalle, the cases did not rise above 35. Though the cases have been on rise in Appughar area and 500 metres from the epicentre has been declared as containment zone, the authorities said there was no community spread. “So far all the spread has been through the primary contact, due to people in the area not following the COVID-19 protocols like wearing masks and not following the social distancing norms,” said District COVID Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar. Extensive testing has not only revealed the outbreak, but authorities say that it is also only way to contain the spread. “Already over 500 tests have been done in the area and we will not leave anyone. Our first priority is people above 60 years with co-morbidity, followed by others who are 60 plus who are free of any health issues and then we shall test the others,” said Dr. Sudhakar. Both in Dandu Bazaar and Anakapalle, over 2,000 tests were conducted in the containment zones alone. He said that it was only due to extensive testing the situation was brought under control in them. Apart from testing, health officials feel that people should cooperate to curb the spread of the virus, by following the basic prescribed norms.
23 June 2020||T. Appala Naidu,ANDHRA PRADESH||High alert sounded as water level in Godavari starts rising||The East Godavari district authorities are on high alert to avoid any untoward incident as water level in the Godavari started rising following inflows from its tributary Indravathi. A control room has been set up to monitor the situation at Sir Arthur Cotton (SAC) Barrage at Dowleswaram. The flood mitigation report-2020, prepared by the Irrigation Department, has warned that 87 villages in the East Godavari district and 50 villages in the West Godavari district would be affected due to submergence upstream of the Polavaram project due to partial completion of the cofferdam when the inflow reaches 5 lakh cusecs at the SAC Barrage. The control room authorities said that the water level at the barrage was 10.60 feet on Monday morning. The inflow was above 28,000 cusecs and the discharge 15,000 cusecs. Flood water has been flowing into the Godavari for the past four days, they added. Officials led by East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy constituted a team of four Executive Engineers (Irrigation Department) to monitor the flood situation upstream of the cofferdam.  Brisk progress Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar claimed in his recent visit to the project that construction of more than 10,000 houses in the rehabilitation colonies is in final stages and they are expected to be handed over to the oustees by early July. Evacuation Mr. Muralidhar Reddy said evacuation operations would begin based on the level at the Kunavaram point, 110 km from the SAC barrage. The situation would also be assessed based on the level at Koida, 96 km from SAC Barrage, and Polavaram,45 km from SAC Barrage. The team of officials has been deployed at K.R. Puram, Devipatnam, Yetapaka and Chintoor to alert the district authorities.
23 June 2020||TADEPALLIGUDEM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Foreign cigarettes seized, one held||The police on Monday seized imported cigarettes, worth about Rs. 30,000, in the town and arrested a person in connection with it. The team, led by Kovvur Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) K. Rajeswar Reddy and CI A. Raghu, intercepted a two-wheeler near Sai Baba temple and seized 150 boxes of foreign cigarettes. One Koppisetty Ramu was taken into custody in the case. The police are trying to find out the origin of the racket, according to West Godavari district Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik. Raid in Krishna “More raids will be conducted to check smuggling of gutkha, ID liquor, foreign cigarettes and sand in the district,” Mr. Naik said.  In another raid, the Krishna district police seized imported cigarettes, worth about Rs. 68,000 in Nandigama sub-division, a couple of days ago. The police are trying to find out whether the smugglers were manufacturing the cigars locally with foreign brands or importing the stocks from other countries, said a police official.
23 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu asks government to reduce fuel prices||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chadrababu Naidu has asked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to mount pressure on the Central government to cut down the prices of petrol and diesel immediately. In a statement on Monday, Mr. Naidu said that the governments across the world were providing concessions to improve the purchasing power of the business community and people amid the the economic crisis triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic. “The recurrent hikes in petrol and diesel prices have delivered a blow on the people who are already reeling under the economic slowdown triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic,” said Mr. Naidu. The rise in fuel prices is impacting the transport sector in the State. The diesel price has gone up by Rs. 8.88 per litre in the last fortnight and the same for petrol is Rs. 7.97 per litre. In addition, the State government has levied VAT of Rs. 2.76 per litre on diesel and Rs. 3.07 per litre on petrol. Cascading effect “The increase in fuel price will put a burden of Rs. 3,893 crore on the transport sector alone. As a cascading effect, the prices of essential commodities will also go up. Further, the farmers gearing up for the kharif season will also face hardship if the prices of fuel are not brought down,” pointed out Mr. Naidu. The TDP chief sought government intervention in bringing down the fuel prices, saying that it would provide the much-needed relief to people. “The TDP, when in power, had reduced the fuel price by Rs. 2 per litre in 2018 on humanitarian grounds. It is high time the YSRCP government took a similar move,” he added.
23 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM apprises Governor of COVID situation in State||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy met Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan at the Raj Bhavan here on Monday which the officials described as a courtesy call. Mr. Jagan Mohan Redy briefed the Governor about the COVID containment measures and the proceedings of the recently concluded budget session of the State Legislature. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Mr. Harichandan discussed the prevalence of coronavirus in the State and the steps being taken to arrest its spread. The Chief Minister apprised the Governor of the large-scale testing being done on a daily basis and the implementation of the lockdown as per the guidelines issued by the Central government. He also highlighted the budgetary allocations made for a slew of development and welfare schemes. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was accompanied by advisor Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy and some YSRCP leaders.
23 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police rule in State: Kishan Reddy||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Monday said the Centre gave about Rs. 1 lakh crore for the development of Andhra Pradesh and was committed to improving the living standards of the people of Rayalaseema. Addressing the party’s Rayalaseema zone virtual rally ‘Jan Samved’ from Hyderabad, Mr. Kishan Reddy while the Centre extended its cooperation, the YSRCP government’s actions affected the State’s profile. Also, corruption has become rampant, he alleged. He said the State was witnessing ‘police rule’ and expressed regret that Rayalaseema remained backward despite a majority of the Chief Ministers hailed from the region. The Union Minister said Rayalaseema continued to be neglected as due priority was not given to irrigation projects and industrialisation.
23 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NDRF commandant hails KCR’s gesture||National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) 10th Battalion commandant Zahid Khan thanked the Telangana government for announcing financial aid to all the 20 soldiers, including a Colonel, who laid down their lives in a skirmish with Chinese troops, along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. Mr. Khan praised Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for handing over a cheque for Rs. 5 crore and other benefits to Col. B. Santosh Kumar’s family members on Monday. Tributes paid The commandant, along with Second-in-Commandants Love Kumar, Santosh Kumar and Kuldip Singh, deputy commandant D.N. Singh and other officers paid tributes to the valiant soldiers. The Telangana government announced Rs. 10 lakh each to the soldiers who were killed in the clashes in the Galwan area.
23 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu hails services of cancer hospital||TDP national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu has congratulated Basavatarakam Indo American Cancer Hospital on completing 20 years. In a tweet on Monday, Mr. Naidu said, “Congratulations to Basavatarakam Indo American Cancer Hospital for successfully completing 20 yrs in service of the poor. Balakrishna Garu is fulfilling the dream of late Sri NT Rama Rao Garu with his exemplary dedication. I wish them the very best for all future endeavours.” TDP national general secretary Nara Lokesh tweeted that the hospital was a memory of grandmother Basavatarakam and spirit of service of grandfather NTR. “On this occasion I congratulate uncle and chairman of the hospital Nandamuri Balakrishna. I wish the hospital completes many more milestones.”
23 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Assistance under Nethanna Nestham far from adequate’||Accusing the State government of betraying the weavers community, TDP former MP Nimmala Kristappa on Sunday said that the assistance being provided under the the ‘YSR Nethanna Nestham’ scheme was far form adequate. “All weavers are not being provided with pensions. The government is supposed to sanction pensions to 3.5 lakh weavers and the ‘Nethanna Nestham’ should also be extended to those weavers who have looms. However, the benefits have been provided to only 81,000 weavers and the rest have left with empty hands,” Mr. Kristappa told the media here on Monday. The former MP said loans worth Rs. 110 crore availed of weavers was waived off during the TDP regime. Apart from 100 units free power, a monthly assistance of Rs. 1,000 was extended to weavers making silk clothes, he said. The TDP leader demanded that the government extend an immediate assistance of Rs. 80 crore to bail out the weavers from the crisis induced by the pandemic. “The assistance is necessary as weavers are suffering due to the rise in the prices of raw silk, while the products are less in demand,” he said. ‘10% of allocation spent’ “Only 10 % of the sum allocated to weavers’ welfare in the budget was spent during the one year rule of the YSRCP. The Centre allocated Rs. 31 crore for welfare of weavers, while the YSRCP government sanctioned just Rs. 6 lakh,” he pointed out.
23 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mobile centres to conduct tests in Krishna district||People in the district can get their samples tested at the 10 Intelligent Monitoring Analysis Service Quarantine (IMASQ) buses that will serve as mobile COVID-19 testing centres at six places in Vijayawada and four centres in the district. District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz in a release said that in Vijayawada the mobile testing centres would be placed at Krishnalanka, Gandhiji Municipal High School (One Town), IGMC Stadium, Basavapunnaih Stadium (Ajith Singh Nagar), Gunadala Mary Shrine, and the railway station. In the district, the centres will operate in Machilipatnam, Nuzvid, Jaggaiapet, and Ibrahimpatnam. People with symptoms who want to undergo the test have to register by contacting 9963112781, the Collector said. The tests will be conducted between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. Meanwhile, the district registered 1, 115 COVID positive cases so far, including the cases of people from other states and countries, and 61.35% of them have recovered. Meanwhile, 15 new cases were reported on Monday.
23 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Complete housing schemes: CPI||CPI leader K. Ramakrishna has urged the State government to initiate measures to complete housing schemes at the earliest and hand over the houses to the beneficiaries. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday, Mr. Ramakrishna said the previous government took up construction of about 14 lakh houses to the poor. “The work stopped due to reverse tendering process launched by the YSRCP government. The houses sanctioned under several welfare schemes are yet to be ready in Amaravati, Visakhapatnam, Anantapur, Kurnool, Chittoor and other districts and the onus lies on the government,” he pointed out.
23 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGOs adopt children in distress during lockdown||Three months ago, 12-year-old Padma (name changed) was whiling away her time playing cards or begging, under the Ramamurthi Pantulu Peta flyover. But today, she has learnt to read and write in Telugu and a little bit in English and also draw colourful pictures on her drawing board. Not only Padma but about 35 children in the age group of 8-18 are also in the process of transformation, thanks to the collaboration of two NGOs – POWER (People’s Organisation for Welfare in Rural Environment) and UVCT (Urvi Vikram Charitable Trust). Both NGOs have adopted the children who were orphans, rag pickers and children of daily wagers and migrant workers. “They were into gambling, small time crime or begging. But today, they are in the process of learning skills and transforming their lives,” said Abdul Raqeeb, executive secretary of POWER. After seeing a picture published in The Hindu , where the children were seen pouncing on volunteers who were distributing food packets during the first lockdown, the NGOs have decided to help them out. Of the 35 children adopted, about six are orphans and eight are girls. Classes “Initially, we focussed on providing food and nutrition to gain their confidence and improve their health condition. After a few days, we motivated them to join coaching classes, which are being held following the social distancing norms and other COVID protocols,” said Mr. Raqeeb. “Most of them have not gone to any school or had any form of education, but today they are in a position to read and write a bit,” he added. Skill development Not only basic education, they were also being taught drawing and other life skills. The idea was to make them learn some skills such as tailoring or painting, so that they could make their own living in the future, he said. This apart, the trainers from the NGOs were also creating awareness on various aspects such as COVID, child rights, child marriage, bonded labour and how to keep them safe, clean and healthy.
23 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB officials crack the whip against illegal sand mining, liquor smuggling||Officials from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) are cracking the whip against illegal sand mining and liquor smuggling in the district. In its first one month of formation, the SEB (Visakhapatnam Rural) has booked 1,117 cases and arrested 1,293 persons for their alleged involvement in various illegal activities. Teams from SEB (Rural) under the guidance of its Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Rahul Dev Singh had conducted raids on illegal ID liquor manufacturing units at various parts of the district police limits and seized 5,724 litres of ID liquor, apart from destroying 84,210 litres of fermented jaggery wash. The SEB teams also seized 68 litres of IML and 10 litres of beer, while being transported/sold illegally. A total of 404 vehicles were seized. A huge quantity of 3,743 tonnes of sand which was being illegally transported was seized. A total of 7,409 kg ganja and 15 kg hash oil was seized in various smuggling cases in one month. “A large number of awareness camps are being conducted in interior villages ,” said a senior official from SEB. The SEB (Visakhapatnam Urban) led by ASP V. Ajitha conducted raids and seized 705 tonnes of sand which was being illegally transported. The teams have booked 60 cases. The SEB teams have also conducted raids on 412 belt shops and seized 889.05 litres of IML and 87.5 litres of beer.
23 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cases booked over sale of spurious liquor||The Special Task Force Excise sleuths booked two cases and initiated action against supervisor, salesmen and watchman in separate cases of spurious liquor and defence liquor bottles in the district. The supervisor and the salesmen of a government retail outlet (code No. 3430) near the Highway at Tagarapuvalasa mixed cheap liquor, priced at Rs. 180 with a brand costing Rs. 1,500 and selling the mix at Rs. 2,580. The excise sleuths took the supervisor and salesmen of the outlet and the watchman of another outlet into custody and were suspended from service. In a separate case, a man was taken into custody for being in possession of four defence liquor bottles near the retail liquor outlet (03391) during the closing time of the shop. The accused was taken into custody and handed over to the enforcement wing for further investigation. The excise sleuths are keeping a special vigil at the shop. The services of salesman Shyam Kumar of the Kothapalem retail outlet (3392) were terminated following complaints that he was hoarding stocks. Nodal Prohibition and Excise Superintendent B. Srinivasulu said in a statement that a toll free No. 98665 50671 has been opened to attend to complaints from the public on irregularities at the retail liquor outlets in the district. Any person having complaints over sale at more than MRP, sale of spurious liquor and sale after closure hours can lodge a complaint by dialling the toll-free number.
23 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||41 new cases take district tally to 484||The district recorded highest single-day COVID-19 spike by recording 41 new positive cases, on Monday. With this the total count goes to 484, which includes 269 active cases, 212 discharges, including two on Monday, and three deaths. According District COVID Special Officer P.V. Sudhakar, the total number of very active clusters stand at 38, active clusters 37, dormant clusters 25 and denotified clusters 26. Medical Officer of GVMC K.S.L.G. Sastry, said the cases are on the rise, as extensive testing is being conducted. “On a daily basis, about 1,500 to 2,000 tests are being conducted. Testing is the only way to identify positive cases and thereby contain the spread of the disease,” he said. Among the new cases, 25 are from Peda Jalaripeta and Fishermen Colony. Appughar recorded about five to six cases and the rest are spread across different clusters, including one new case from Madhavadhara. The new active clusters added on Monday include Gandhi Nagar Zone I, Muslim Thatchetlapalem, Sairam Nagar, Madhavadhara Zone IV, Velpula Veedhi and Woodpeta in Anakapalle.
23 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas leak: High Court hears writs filed by South Koreans||The three writ petitions filed by eight South Korean nationals who come to India on May 13 to study the cause of styrene monomer leak from LG Polymers plant in Visakhapatnam, came for hearing in the High Court on Monday. The petitioners alleged that they were not being allowed to leave the country by the police. They said the police had issued a notice asking them to be present for inquiries. The petitioners said they were employees of the parent company LG Chem in South Korea, not of LG Polymers plant in Visakhapatnam. Advocate General arguing for the State submitted that the petitioners were never stopped from leaving. The police had issued the notice as the delegation was on a mission to find the facts behind the accident. Hence, their inputs would be crucial for the police investigation. It was further stated that the police had finished the inquiry and had recorded statements of the petitioners under the Section 161 of CRPC. The petitioners should be present before the police if it is required in the future to corroborate some evidence. The AG submitted that the petitioners needed to file affidavits stating that they would be willing to come to India and present themselves before the police when required during the investigation or thereafter. HC reserves order The High Court observed that in case the petitioners did not appear before the police when asked , the government may approach the High Court by submitting affidavit . The High Court reserved the matter for orders.
23 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Make nationwide protest on July 3 a success: unions||Leaders of various trade unions and employees’ federations called upon the people to make the nationwide protest on July 3, the call for which was given by the Central trade unions to protest against the alleged anti-labour and anti-people policies of the Centre, a success in the city. Participating in the roundtable, organised at the CITU office here on Monday, they said that workers have lost their jobs and were leading miserable lives even as COVID-19 was spreading rapidly in the country. The Centre, which was supposed to come to the rescue of the workers, was causing further problems to them by increasing the petrol and diesel prices and trying to amend the labour laws. They alleged that the Centre was trying to privatise the public sector LIC, Discoms, defence, railways and other organisations. The Rs. 20 lakh crore package announced by the Centre has not benefited either the workers or the poor directly. A major portion of the package had gone to the industrialists and the rich. The participants in the roundtable appealed to all employees, workers, and others to participate in the nationwide protest at their respective work spots by observing social distance. The activities to be taken up on that day include: joint meetings by all unions in all industries involving permanent and contract workers, distribution of pamphlets on the demands and holding human chains at different places.
23 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No rath yatra at Jagannadha Swamy temple today, says Executive Officer||The annual Rath Yatra celebrations of Sri Jagannadha Swamy on the Main Road here, began on a low-key this year on Monday with regulations issued by the Endowments Department and the State government in view of COVID-19. Special pujas were offered to the deity on Monday. Special pujas will be held at the temple premises on Tuesday also, instead of the Rath Yatra, which is supposed to begin on Tuesday. This year there will be no rath yatra conducted by the temple for the first time in the last 156 years, said EO K. Sirisha. Devotees will be allowed into the temple for darshan from 12 noon on Tuesday. The special pujas will continue till July 3 every day. Devotees who wish to register their names for ‘nityarchana’ can pay Rs. 300 and obtain a receipt for the same. More details can be obtained on the mobile No. 99511 39429.
23 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BPCL app to ensure contactless fuel filling||The BPCL has launched a smart and intuitive mobile app called Smart Drive to give a ‘contactless’ fuelling experience to its customers to ensure safety in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The app launched in Vizag, Bhatinda, Mathura, Raipur and Bhubaneswar on Monday comes loaded with a variety of customer-friendly features. The facility will be available at 25 retail outlets in the city. Bharat Petroleum territory manager Sri Pad Jogipetkar and territory coordinator Srinivasan were among those present at the launch at the outlet in Sheelanagar in the city.
23 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP govt. targeting Dalits: TDP SC cell||The Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government is targeting Dalits, including Dr. Sudhakar of Narsipatnam Area Hospital and Dr. Anita Rani for questioning on corruption, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) district SC cell president P. Vijay Kumar has alleged. Mr. Vijay Kumar alleged that the government had diverted funds of the SC Corporation to the ‘Amma Vodi’ scheme. BC leaders K. Atchannaidu and Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu were targeted by the ruling government, he alleged.
23 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 arrested in cheating case||The Kancharapalem police on Monday arrested the three accused who allegedly cheated a woman to the tune of Rs. 5 lakh, by promising her a role in a movie. The accused are Geeta Prasad and his friend Shareef and Satyanarayana. The woman had filed a case in the police station on Friday, stating that the trio had cheated her, said the police. She also alleged that the accused tried to threaten her when she demanded them to return the money.
23 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||HSL ties up with Turkish firm to build Fleet Support Ships||After clouds of uncertainty, the Hindustan Shipyard Limited, which achieved a turnaround, is inching forward smoothly to sign a contract and begin construction of five Fleet Support Ships for the Indian Navy in collaboration with a Turkish shipyard. The project is estimated between Rs. 10,000 crore and Rs. 14,000 crore. “After obtaining clearance from the Ministry of Defence, we are signing the contract with a shipyard based in Turkey and begin construction in collaboration with it by mid-2021,” HSL Chairman and Managing Director Rear Admiral (retd) L.V. Sarat Babu told The Hindu . The HSL which planned to have a strategic partnership with Hyundai Heavy Industries dropped it earlier following the latter’s insistence on constructing the first ship in South Korea and procuring major components from the global shipping giant. Each Fleet Support Ship will have a displacement capacity of 45,000 DWT. Mr. Sarat Babu said as part of the contract, the ‘know-how and know-why’ from the foreign collaborator would be transferred to HSL to give a fillip to local MSMEs. The MSMEs specialising in fabrication, blasting, piping, cable installation and outfitting will be benefited. Pontoon contract In competitive bidding, the HSL recently bagged a prestigious contract for construction of semi-submersible pontoons worth Rs. 420 crore from the Navy. Mr. Sarat Babu said the pontoons were being used as platforms to undertake repair of ships and submarines.  More orders The CMD said the yard bagged orders on competitive basis for construction of two Diving Support Vessels worth Rs. 2,390 crore and four 50-tonne bollard pull tugs worth Rs. 260 crore for the Navy. It also won orders for construction of four pontoons worth Rs. 10.25 crore and three flap gates worth Rs. 20 crore from the Naval Dockyard, Visakhapatnam.
23 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Official inspects land allotted to Greyhounds||Principal Secretary (Revenue) Usharani inspected the 385 acres of land allocated to the Greyhounds at Jagannadhapuram village of Chandaka panchayat of Anandapuram mandal on Monday. District Collector V. Vinay Chand explained to her about the issues regarding the land. About 145 acres of it was under the occupation of farmers, who were raising plantations like eucalyptus, cashew and mango. The Principal Secretary interacted with the farmers. Assuring them of compensation, Ms. Usharani asked them to record their objections at the local Tahsildar’s Office. Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy, RDO K. Penchala Kishore, Tahsildar Chandrasekhar and others were present.
23 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Forum objects to closure of VPT-aided school||Right To Education Forum- Andhra Pradesh took strong objection to the Visakhapatnam Port Trust closing down its aided school, here on Monday. According to Narava Prakasa Rao of the forum, the VPT has decided to close its aided school at Saligaramapuram that is providing education to 345 students and has over 30 teachers, from the academic year 2020-21. This unilateral action of the port will disallow the children not to enjoy their fundamental right to get education, he said. As per the RTE Act it is the right of every child in this county to get the education free of cost and it is the responsibility of the government to provide it. The VPT has been operating hospitals, kalyanamandapams, playground, sports complex, auditorium, parks and also a school as part of its corporate social responsibility and the school has been functioning for the last 40 years. The closure of the school is against the RTE Act 2009, and also AP Govt GO MS NO 139, he said. Addressing a letter to Education Minister A. Suresh, the forum sought the intervention of the government in this issue and see that the school is not closed.
23 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Applications sought from School Assistants for lecturer posts||Applications have been sought from eligible school assistants working in the government and the Zilla Parishad Schools in the district for the lecturer posts, which are vacant at IASE, CTE and DIET, due to court cases, on ‘deputation basis’, for the academic year 2020-21. The application proforma, vacancy position and other details can be had from the DEO’s office or the website deovsp.net
23 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chance to modify test centre for APPGECET||The APSCHE has given a chance to candidates, who applied for APPGECET-2020 (AP PG Engineering Common Entrance Test), being conducted by Andhra University, to modify the test centres for June 24 and 25, according to APPGECET-2020 Convener P. Srinivasa Rao. Interested candidates can visit the portalhttps://sche.ap.gov.in/pgcetto modify their options and also for updates on the entrance test.
23 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||PNB opens Circle Office in Vizag||Punjab National Bank (PNB) opened a new circle office in Visakhapatnam on Monday. A separate loan point in the name of PNB RAM has also been opened at Asilametta to cater to the needs of borrowers of retail, agriculture and MSME loans. A new office of Mid Corporate Centre has also been opened in the city. The offices were inaugurated by PNB Deputy General Manager A.D. Saha.
23 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Case booked against man for ‘making casteist slur’||Saluru police personnel booked a case under SC and ST Atrocities Act against a real estate consultant for reportedly making derogatory remarks against a village revenue assistant. According to Saluru Sub-inspector S. Srinivasa Rao, the accused, R. Maheswara Rao, had allegedly been harassing the woman, claiming that he had her nude pictures. The frightened woman met Mr. Rao and had an argument with him. During the course of the meeting, the accused had allegedly referred her caste and made comments, prompting her to file a complaint against him.
23 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shops at RTC complexes wear deserted look||Getting a shop either for rent or for lease on the APSRTC complex premises was a tough task for traders before the lockdown period in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. Traders, who were having brisk business activity and assured income, used to pay huge rent and security deposit to the corporation. Now, the situation is quite different. They had no income during the lockdown period and even after resuming the business, the situation has not improved due to operation of few bus services from the complex and lack of patronage. The RTC used to generate at least Rs. 45 lakh ‘commercial’ income from its properties in 11 depots of Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. Rents of shops range from Rs. 2,500 to Rs. 30,000 based on SFT and their location. Bidders of the parking area used to pay up to Rs. 2 lakh to the RTC authorities. Display of advertisements in the complexes is another major income source for the corporation. Almost all the shop owners stopped payment of rents for the month of April and May. They are not in a position to pay the rent of June which is to be paid in the first week of July, 2020. Waiver sought “We formally requested the RTC authorities to reduce rental burden since a few passengers are coming to the complex. There is no demand for eateries as travellers feared to buy them due to the coronavirus,” said a shop owner of Vizianagaram RTC complex. CPI senior leader Bugata Ashok sought complete waiver of rents for the months of April and May since there was no activity in the RTC complex. “Many traders are in deep financial crisis with the unexpected losses. Now the government should come to their rescue by announcing waiver immediately,” he added. Deputy Chief Traffic Manager for Vizianagaram and Srikakuam districts G. Varalakshmi told The Hindu that only head office would be able to take a decision on the request of traders and lease holders. She hoped that the commercial activity in complexes would pick up with the steady demand for APSRTC services. “We are currently operating nearly 280 services from the two districts. Occupancy rate (OR) is around 50 % against 75-80% on normal days. With restriction on passengers’ number in the buses, OR has come down significantly,” she added.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fall in line||
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Home-bound||
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Height of irresponsibility||
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Living on the edge||
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||ATC with pic||Uday Kumar Digumarthi, orthodontist from the city, has been appointed Coordinator of Andhra Pradesh for the forthcoming World Dental Conference 2020 (WDC 2020) to be held from October 7 to 11, 2020. This is the third successive time that he appointed Coordinator for the WDC.
23 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Central COVID-19 relief for SHGs||The centrally sanctioned COVID-19 financial support in the form of a loan to individual members of self-help groups has come as a great relief to them as its timing was perfect. The Union government has made provision for each member of eligible SHGs receiving a loan in the range of Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 10,000 to mitigate the prevailing conditions of hardships thanks to the continuing impact of the lockdown. The 6,311 groups will get Rs. 33.29 crore as COVID-19 support.   The disbursal started about 20 days back and so far 483 groups have received support worth Rs. 2.7 crore.
23 June 2020||B. Pradeep,TELANGANA||KCR calls on Col. Babu’s family, hands over relief package||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao handed over the State’s relief package to the family of Col. Bikkumalla Santosh Babu at their residence here on Monday. The Colonel’s widow Santoshi, joined by her nine-year-old daughter Abhigna, was handed over the appointment letter for a Group-I job, documents of a 711 sq. yard house site at Banjara Hills in Hyderabad and a cheque worth Rs. 4 crore. Explaining the share of the package, Mr. Rao handed over another cheque worth Rs. 1 crore to the Colonel’s parents Upender and Manjula. The Chief Minister took the NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) via Yadadri from his Erravelli farm house and arrived at Suryapet around 3.40 p.m. Officials ensured the town was spick and span, sans any flexies unlike the highway, barricaded and shut half the town turning it into a ‘containment zone’ and sprayed the entire Vidyanagar route with sodium hypochlorite. A lifesize portrait of the Colonel was also newly erected on the premises of the house for the Chief Minister, Ministers and legislators to offer floral tributes. Along with local legislator G. Jagadish Reddy, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy and police chief R. Bhaaskaran, he sat down with the family in their living room for about 20 minutes. Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao described the Colonel’s death as “deeply disturbing”, and wishing the family strength and fortitude, he conveyed his sympathies. He promised the family support any time and assigned Mr. Jagadish Reddy as immediate contact for the same. He also signed a painted portrait of the Colonel with ‘Jai Hind – KCR’. Following the quick visit, Ms. Santoshi, with her in-laws appeared before the press cameras with folded hands thanking the State government for the gesture, and the role it played since June 16. “Chief Minister KCR’s visit and his words gave us immense courage,” they said. Mr. Jagadish Reddy said it was decided that the town’s junction between the court and the old bus stand that leads to NH-65 will be christened ‘Col. Santosh Babu junction’. A bronze statue of the Colonel will also be installed there soon.
23 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Facial recognition system in Degree admissions||In yet another infusion of technology in degree admissions, the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) has simplified the admissions process introducing real-time digital face recognition system where students need to just upload their picture and the system will generate all the details. To utilise this, students need to download the T App Folio (Telangana Government’s App) and upload a selfie and key in a few details like the registered mobile number and Aadhaar number. In turn, it will automatically squeeze their personal details from the Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) matching with the photograph submitted to the BIE during the Intermediate exams and generate a Degree Online Services Telangana (DOST) ID using which students just need to choose their options of courses and colleges and submit. “This service is applicable only for students who passed from Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education as we have access to only their information. Students from other Boards can just log into the DOST website ‘https://dost.cgg.gov.in/’ and fill up their choices,” said TSCHE Vice Chairman and DOST Convenor R. Limbadri. Online admissions  Mr. Limbadri recalls that Telangana was the first State to make degree admissions online ensuring that students can apply to any college from anywhere with one-time application fee payment. Earlier, students had to apply to each college of their choice paying the application fee separately at each college. Rural students used to find it hard to come all the way to towns and cities to apply. “Time and Money is saved as students can now apply for any number of colleges sitting at home,” he says. If students are not comfortable with T App Folio they can also register with DOST at the helpline centres or MeeSeva centres. For this purpose 60 Help Line Centres (HLCs) including one State HLC, six university HLCs, 33 district HLCs and 20 college HLCs have been set up where students can personally go and register. These centres will also help students in rectifying any mismatch with Aadhaar card details and issues related to their certificates.  Mobile number If a student’s mobile number is not linked with Aadhaar details, he or she can link their parents’ mobile number to their Aadhaar number. Mr. Limbadri said that an online grievance system has also been introduced integrating a WhatsApp Chatbot with 7901002200 number with the DOST system. Students can key in their issues and will get instant answers. Students can also receive updates through the Facebook page – https://www.facebook.com/dost.telangana and on Twitter: https://twitter.com/dost_telangana, he said.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana records 872 COVID cases in a day||Monday saw a huge surge in COVID-19 cases in Telangana as 872 more swab samples tested positive, taking the total number of cases to 8,674. While the tally on Saturday stood at 546, it was 730 on Sunday, which indicates the spike in COVID-19 cases. Seven more COVID patients died on Monday taking the toll to 217. The rise in the cases is observed after Telangana government started to conduct ‘50,000 tests in 10 days’, scheduled to be wrapped up by June 25. Health Minister Eatala Rajender earlier said that they might increase the tests depending on the situation. The 872 new cases include 713 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 107 from Rangareddy, 16 from Medchal, 12 from Sangareddy. While 2698 cases were recorded from March 2 to May 31, 5976 were detected from June 1 to 22, which is more than double. If the cases are calculated month-wise, 95 cases were detected in March, 943 in April, 1,660 in May, and 5,976 from June 1 to 22.Of the total 8,674 cases, 4452 are active cases, 4,005 were discharged, and 217 died. Besides the cases, the daily Test Positivity Rate (percentage of samples that test positive) increased. While the positivity rate ranged between 17% to 24% from June 16 to 21, it was 27.3% on Monday. This indicates that more samples have tested positive.
23 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||New Manikonda-HiTec City road soon||The distance between Manikonda and HiTec City is set to be trimmed as the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation is racing to finish a new stretch of 100-feet road connecting the residential area to the business district. “The road will link the Old Bombay Highway with Manikonda as well as Chitrapuri Colony. The road will also be linked to the area near B.N. Reddy Colony. It is going to be completed in one year,” said a GHMC staffer handling construction debris at the location. The road skirts the Malkam Cheruvu on its right side and will curve right towards Chitrapuri Colony. The straight path takes it towards Manikonda. “Development on this stretch of road has been delayed as they gave time to people who had houses to move out,” said a resident who had a house on the shoreline of the lake. A three-storied building was being torn down to make way for the road. While the utility of the road can be easily gauged, the path it takes is debatable. “Parts of the road are easily inside the Full Tank Level of the lake marked by the GHMC-HMDA in 2013. Part of the lake front was lost to construction activity on the main road. This road will lead to further shrinkage of the carrying capacity of the lake,” said Lubna Sarwath of Save Our Urban Lakes after checking with the cadastral map of the site. FTL is the outer limit of a water body factoring in the annual flooding. Construction activity within FTL limits is prohibited. Over the past few years, the shrinkage in the carrying capacity of lakes has had its impact on localised urban flooding in Hyderabad as the water flows over flat ground flooding apartment blocks and marooning residential colonies. A rocky area on the southern shore of the lake is being flattened to make way for the road that will curve towards Chitrapuri Colony. “The sluice gate and the weir have been impacted by the earthen work inside the lake. The road will further impact the outflow channel,” says Ms. Sarwath who has surveyed the area extensively. On its path towards Manikonda, the road hugs the sewage channel to its right. Not surprisingly, a major chunk of the work has been done during the lockdown period where a clear path has been laid under the high-tension electricity pylons.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four link roads inaugurated in city||Four link routes of a total length of 4.67 kilometres have been inaugurated in the city, one of them at Prashasan Nagar, Jubilee Hills, through the hands of the Minister for Municipal Administration K.T. Rama Rao on Monday. On his tour, Mr. Rama Rao was accompanied by Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan. The roads have been developed by Hyderabad Road Development Corporation in coordination with GHMC and HMDA. They are expected to ease traffic congestion between Hyderabad and Cyberabad by providing alternative roads to the existing ones. Of these, the first road with a kilometre length is laid along the high tension electricity lines between Kukatpally and Miyapur roads. It will help residents of Hydernagar, Nizampet, and Bachupally who were commuting by National Highway-65 and JNTU road by providing an alternative route, besides reducing the distance by a kilometre. Another road between GHMC Serilingampally zonal office up to National Highway-65 via Chandanagar railway station and Manjeera Pipeline road is of 2.7 kilometres length, and expected to provide alternative route to the residents of Miyapur, Chandanagar, Patancheru, Lingampally, and those residing in colonies surrounding railway lines of Old Mumbai Road to travel towards Gachibowli, Financial District, with a reduced distance. The third route launched by Mr. K.T.Rama Rao links Road No.70 in Prashasan Nagar with Narne Road in Jubilee Hills, thereby bringing down the commute from 2.2 kilometres to half a kilometre. It reduces traffic on Road No.45, and Road No.1. It also eases traffic for those travelling between Jubilee Hills Checkpost and Old Mumbai Highway, a statement from HMDA said. Another link road between Neknampur Road and Osman Sagar Road via Alkapur Township, will help the commuters from Neknampur, Puppalguda, and Alkapur township by reducing the distance from 3.1 kilometres to half a kilometre, the statement informed. Total expenditure of all the four connecting roads put together is Rs. 33.8 crore, it said. A total of 137 link roads have been identified for development throughout the city, which will help reduce the commute distance by a total 126.2 kilometres. In the first phase, HRDCL has taken up 37 link roads with an estimated expenditure of Rs. 313.6 crore, with a cumulative decrease in distance of around 44.67 kilometres. The roads are built as part of the Comprehensive Mobility Plan (CMP) with a special action plan to develop link roads and slip roads keeping in view the needs of Hyderabad by 2024.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Beds in 11 private hospitals packed to capacity||COVID-19 isolation beds are fully occupied in at least 11 out of the 23 corporate/private hospitals in and around Hyderabad listed as having isolation wards. Six more said they are not admitting COVID patients. Only one corporate hospital said beds are available. This information came to the fore after The Hindu on Monday contacted the 23 private healthcare facilities listed as ‘Isolation Centres’ on the government’s official website on coronavirus (covid19.telangana.gov.in). A click on a hospital’s name in the list leads to its geographic location, address and contact details. While some of 11 hospitals where beds are full asked this reporter to call on Tuesday to find out the availability status, one informed that beds would not be available for the next one week. Not all the hospitals listed in the government website are admitting COVID-19 patients. The medical service for COVID patients is not available at six of the hospitals. “The arrangements are under way. The services will be available in two to three days,” said an employee of one of the six hospitals located on the city outskirts. Calls to three hospitals went unanswered, and two of them did not get back with any response. Officials from the Telangana Health department, on the other hand, said that a large number of COVID isolation beds are available at government hospitals. “Only one-fourth of the beds (550) are occupied at Gandhi Hospital. Besides the low case load, additional staff is appointed there. So, services have improved. Around 4,000 people who got admitted at government hospital have recovered,” a senior official said. ‘Display bed status’ When The Hindu tried to enquire about the bed availability over phone, it took more than one and a half hours to call all the 23 hospitals and get information. Imagine the anxiety of the family of a COVID patient who has to spend precious 90 minutes on just figuring out hospital admission details. Family members of two patients said when they called, the private hospitals said COVID beds are not available. The distress among patients and families could be mitigated if live status of COVID beds availability is displayed prominently online or on an offline medium. Mujtaba Hasan Askari, trustee of Helping Hands Foundation, an NGO involved in aiding underprivileged access medical services, said that he gets at least three calls a day for enquiries on availability of beds in private hospitals. “There is an urgent and acute need to set up a command and control room with a helpline to inform public about the availability of beds and treatment at both private and government hospitals. This will make access to treatment easy and save lives,” he said.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BJP slams govt. for failure to control COVID-19 spread||Leaders of BJP State unit, including party president Bandi Sanjay, were arrested at various places across the twin cities on Monday when they tried to stage a demonstration against the alleged failure of the government in tackling COVID-19 spread. While Mr. Sanjay and other leaders were picked up from the BJP State office in Nampally, others like K. Laxman and N. Ramchander Rao were not allowed to come out of their respective houses for any kind of protest. The party’s main demand is to include COVID-19 treatment in Aarogyasri or in the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat insurance scheme. It also wants the government to provide free treatment to all citizens irrespective of the hospital they are admitted in, and to increase the testing capacity multi-fold. “This government has utterly failed in containment of coronavirus and has disregarded Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines for testing and tracing. Where are the hundreds of isolation beds [that were to be] made ready? Where are the personal protection kits and masks? Not a single hospital has been made ready to receive the rising number of cases and the facilities in government hospitals are insufficent,” Mr. Sanjay charged. ‘Time to introspect’ Instead of taking objection to the criticism levelled by national party president J.P. Nadda, the TRS government should introspect why so many healthcare workers, police and even journalists are falling prey to the novel coronavirus and why the government is obfuscating figures in medical bulletin being released daily by the Health department. The BJP State president urged the government to immediately open the Telangana Institute of Medical Services at Gachibowli and start admitting patients. The admission process should also be streamlined given that the deaths in the State has reached an alarming 3%. Mr. Sanjay reiterated that the Central government had provided crores of rupees to Telangana for combating COVID-19 and accused the government of misuse of funds and hence, wanted a white paper to be released on the extent of funds spent. “If everything is hunky dory as the Health Minister claims, why are doctors at Gandhi Hospital doctors and now at Osmania General Hospital protesting,” he questioned. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao should call for an all-party meeting and explain the current COVID-19 situation, he demanded.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CSIR programme gets overwhelming response||The Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has received an overwhelming response with over 16,000 applications from across the country for its Summer Research Training Programme (CSIR-SRTP), said G. Narahari Sastry, director, CSIR- North East Institute of Science and Technology (NEIST), based in Jorhat, Assam. The event was inaugurated online by Director General (DG) of CSIR, and Secretary, Department of Scientific and Industrial Research (DSIR) Shekhar C. Mande. “The concept of this online programme started budding with the lockdown triggered by the COVID-19 pandemic that sent the academic scenario throughout the country into doldrums. To dissolve the lull created by the pandemic in the academics of the nation and to uplift the constructive spirit among the students fraternity of the country, Dr. Shekhar C. Mande has given the mandate to CSIR-NEIST to conceptualise this programme, which is happening for the first time in the academic history of India,” said Dr. Sastry. He lauded the dedicated team of CSIR-NEIST for accomplishing the Herculean task of processing the plethora of applications on a war footing in just two days to declare the names of shortlisted candidates. Dr. Sastry asserted that the best of innovation in science and technology have come about during the times of war, pandemic, and natural disasters. Therefore, this pandemic has posed a challenge and given an opportunity to science and technology to give its best.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||OGH junior doctors continue boycott||The 27 junior doctors at Osmania General Hospital (OGH) said they will continue boycotting COVID duties at the hospital until the workload is shared with Post Graduate (PG) students from other departments. Currently, COVID-19 suspects admitted at the hospital are attended by General Medicine faculty members. The 27 General Medicine PG students, also known as junior doctors, are not attending emergency and elective COVID duties from Saturday demanding support from other departments. They have also alleged that insufficient infrastructure, such as oxygen ports, is leading to deaths of COVID-19 suspects. House Surgeons (MBBS interns) at the hospital said that they are not provided with sufficient N95 masks or other protective gear. A house surgeon said they have to go to the Resident Medical Officer’s (RMO) office to collect the masks even as patients would be waiting for treatment. “At times, we use our own Pulse Oximeter for patients as the devices are insufficient,” the house surgeon said. Officials from the Health department said that they have allotted house surgeons, and PG students from Dermatology and Orthopaedics departments to assist the General Medicine PG students. Regarding the infrastructure, officials said that they have installed around 40 oxygen ports by Monday, and the tender for 500 more oxygen lines has been floated.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘All support for food processing firms investing in the State’||Telangana government will provide complete support to companies which come forward to invest in the food processing sector in the State, Industries and IT Minister K.T.Rama Rao said on Monday. Speaking at a webinar hosted by Invest India on food processing, he said the sector will create tremendous opportunities. Also, the State has invested heavily in irrigation infrastructure, created large reservoirs and established strong farm level ecosystem, from social security, farm input support, warehousing and marketing infrastructure, farm gate procurement infrastructure to farmer producer organisations. Contact farming  According to Mr.Rao, the advent of tremendous irrigation potential has opened up opportunities for the cultivation of a diverse range of crops in the State. The Telangana government is equipped to facilitate contract farming and market-oriented cultivation on a large scale enabled by State government agencies, he added.  The water revolution in Telangana has increased the production of fish and meat. He also said that the State has established a very strong base for ensuring revolutions across agriculture, livestock, fisheries, poultry and dairy industry. Companies investing in food processing sector and interested in large scale procurement of agriculture and related commodities from Telangana can expect tailor-made incentives. They will also be provided handholding support from the State government to establish manufacturing facilities and to establish supply chain linkages, including joint venture opportunities with local industry. Ease of doing business Telangana is also one of the best States in terms of ease of doing business and for setting up industry. “Our fast-growing local economy, quality of infrastructure, competitive costs, dynamic policy, strategic location, logistics, and a proactive government differentiate us, evident by the fact that we have been a State of choice for major international companies across various sectors,” he added. The session was attended by over 200 prospective investors from across the globe, said a release.  Our fast-growing local economy, quality of infrastructure, competitive costs, dynamic policy, strategic location, logistics, and a proactive government differentiate us. K.T. Rama Rao, Industries and IT Minister
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BRKR Bhavan staff jittery about reporting to work||Employees working in the Burgula Ramakrishna Rao Bhavan, the seat of State administration, are jittery over entering the premises with more COVID-19 cases being detected there. On Monday, an outsourcing employee engaged in the Finance department tested positive for the virus. The number of COVID-positive employees in BRKR Bhavan, with a built up area of 1.6 lakh sq.ft, has crossed a dozen in the past few days. This has given rise to fears of the possible scope for transmission of virus among employees notwithstanding the latest guidelines issued by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar imposing restrictions on staff attendance and entry of visitors. The building houses several major departments, including the General Administration, Finance, Planning, Law, IT and Minorities Welfare in addition to the Information Technology centre that serves as the backbone of all the IT transactions of the secretariat complex. Employee-intensive departments like Agriculture, Transport, Roads and Buildings and Irrigation have, however, been shifted to the premises of their heads of departments in the government complexes located at Errum Manzil, Khairatabad and other places. In the latest guidelines issued, the government directed only 50% of staff to be present on duty on any given day till July 4 besides imposing restrictions on the movement of visitors. Employees should maintain physical distancing at all times, including during lunch breaks, the guidelines said. “The scope for maintaining physical distancing norms is very little given the limited space to move around in the complex,” a senior official said. Attendance quandary Moreover, the employees are reportedly asked to sign on their attendance registers on time failing which they would be marked as being on leave. Employees lamented that the condition to sign the registers on time was forcing them to enter the premises in groups in the morning which was against the standard protocol of avoiding gatherings.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||2.5 crore saplings to be planted in GHMC limits||The GHMC’s target of plantation for the sixth phase of Haritha Haaram programme has been revised to 2.5 crore saplings, instead of the previous 50 lakh. Minister K.T. Rama Rao said this while addressing a review meeting on Monday, presided over by Minister T.Srinivas Yadav and attended by Minister Ch.Malla Reddy. As part of the programme, a total of 700 tree parks and 75 Miyawaki plantations, along the lines of Yadadri model, will be taken up in the GHMC area. Yadadri Model Plantation should be taken up where sufficient government lands are available, in locations such as Osmania University, University of Hyderabad, NGRI, endowment lands and others, Mr. Rama Rao said. He instructed the officials to create awareness among people about the need for greenery. He asked the corporators and officials to involve residents, residential welfare associations, and colony welfare associations to ensure high number of saplings. Create social media groups for better implementation, he advised the corporators, and asked them to prepare Green Action Plan for their respective divisions by June 30. He asked them to collect details of open places, schools, colleges, government institutions, parks, graveyards, lakes, ponds and nalas in their divisions where saplings can be planted. Mr. Rama Rao further instructed the corporators to visit every house and distribute saplings as per the requirement. He asked them to ensure mosquito repellent saplings along nala bunds, and also herbal and medicinal plants to minimise bad odour. Two nurseries may be provided in each division, he said. Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, Musi River Front Development Corporation chairman Sudheer Reddy, MP Ranjit Reddy, MLCs M.S. Prabhakar, Shambipur Raju, Yegge Mallesham, MLAs Kaleru Venkatesh, Muta Gopal, D. Nagender, B. Subash Reddy, K.P. Vivekanand, and Sayanna, were among those attended the meeting, besides GHMC Commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar and Collector Swetha Mohanthy, and other officials.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. hits back at BJP, Centre||Telangana government hit back hard at the Centre and the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) alleging that the party was resorting to filthy politics in the name of coronavirus. Speaking to reporters here on Monday, Minister for Health Eatala Rajender alleged that instead of giving funds to States to fight the pandemic the Centre was washing off its hands by giving calls to light up lamps and clap in support of the frontline warriors against coronavirus. He sought to know from the BJP leaders and the Centre as to why a testing machine ordered by Telangana was directed to other States. Stating that nobody could question the commitment and sincerity of Telangana government towards its people, the Minister said some leaders were playing cheap politics and staged protests in front of hospitals purely for political mileage. Mr. Rajendar mentioned that the Centre had given only Rs. 214 crore to the State so far for fighting coronavirus.  Centre’s mistake The Minister reminded the BJP leaders of the mistake committed by their government at the Centre by diverting COBAS 8800 machine having capacity of conducting 3,500 to 4,000 tests a day, first ordered by Telangana, to Kolkata. Instead of admitting their mistake, they were criticising the State government which was working hard to fight the pandemic.  Gachibowli facility After conducting a high-level review meeting on coronavirus, the Minister instructed the officials to start the Gachibowli hospital within a week and appoint Vimala Thomas as its in-charge with the arrangement of 50% staff working on alternate weeks. He also asked the officials to identify the symptoms of coronavirus at primary health centre level itself and get the tests done and ensure health services 24×7 in all secondary and tertiary care hospitals. He stated that the testing capacity in the government-run labs would be increase to 6,600 test a day in a week’s time from the present 2,290 tests a day.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Use Google Meet to register complaints, GHMC to citizens||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) will be exploring the technology route to receive complaints and representations from the public, in view of all government offices becoming out of bounds for visitors due to newly imposed COVID-19 restrictions. GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar, through a press statement on Monday, informed that the representations from public will be received through Google Meet from Tuesday onwards. On all working days People can air their grievances to GHMC officials through the Google Meet video link (https://meet.google.com/poj-qrex-hzh) on the official website of the municipal body. The link will be functional on all working days between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m., and can be accessed through both computers and mobile phones. With several officers and staff across government offices testing positive, a circular has been recently issued restricting visitors to the offices.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘MGNREGS being used to restore water channels’||Telangana State Planning Board Vice-Chairman B. Vinod Kumar has said that the government is actively working on utilising the resources of MG National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) for restoration of water channels to provide better irrigation facilities in villages across the State. The focus of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government was on restoration of 46,000 water bodies across the State besides conceptualisation and execution of mega irrigation and drinking water projects. Mr. Vinod Kumar was speaking during release of book “Kakatiya Heritage” here on Sunday. He recalled how the Kakatiya kings constructed a network of tanks for irrigation purposes and supply of drinking water which gave a boost to the overall development trajectory. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao drew inspiration from these initiatives and focussed on restoration and rejuvenation of water bodies across the State. The successful execution of these works were instrumental in irrigating lakhs of acres land and ensuring supply of drinking water to all. The book was based on papers presented at two national seminars on cultural heritage of Kakatiyas and irrigation structures and technological marvels during the Kakatiya period. Mr. Vinod Kumar said the monuments developed by the Kakatiya kings were masterpieces of human creative genius and underlined the need to restore them to their past glory. MCRHRD Institute Director-General B.P. Acharya said the significant feature that guided the ruling elite during the Kakatiya period was welfarism. Chairman of INTACH Telangana and AP chapters M. Gopalakrishna said the large empires across the south India made extensive use of technology for providing better irrigation facilities. Kakatiya Heritage Trust trustee B.V. Papa Rao and others also spoke. A book entitled Janaganamana Telangana , authored by Shyam Mohan was also released on the occasion.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Irregularities in medical PG admissions alleged||National Backward Classes Welfare Association president R. Krishnaiah has alleged that some 170 eligible BC, SC and ST students have lost an opportunity to get medical post-graduation — MD and MS — seats in the State due to irregularities in the implementation of the rule of reservation. Mr. Krishnaiah pointed out that the students had lost out due to non-implementation of GO 550. Such irregularities had taken places in the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka too but were rectified after the intervention of the respective chief ministers after the misdeeds were taken to the notice of the governments. However, in Telangana justice was not done in spite of taking the matter to the notice of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Minister for Health Eatala Rajender several times. He explained that the students of BC, SC and ST communities in the merit list were used to be given college and course options in the sliding as per GO 550 for the last 18 years, but this year they were not given course option. As a result, 170 other eligible BC, SC and ST students had lost an opportunity to get medical PG seats. He blamed the anti-BC attitude of the State government for the fiasco and suggested it to change the attitude or else it would have to pay a heavy price since the BCs comprised about 52% of the population. Mr. Krishnaiah, who is also a former MLA, further pointed out that the TRS government had been resorting anti-BC measures one after another and said it had rendered a historical injustice to BCs by reducing their quota in rural local bodies (panchayat raj) elections from 34% to 22%. Besides, by implementing the creamy layer rule in the BCs’ reservation in education and employment. He also accused the government of denying good postings to IAS and IPS officers from the BC communities. He appealed to the government to rectify the mistake committed in the medical PG admissions by scrapping GOs 114 and 27.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rythu Bandhu amount credited to 50.84 lakh farmers: Minister||The much-awaited crediting of Rythu Bandhu investment support into the bank accounts of about 50.84 lakh landholding farmers was done on Monday. According to Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy, the pattadar-passbook linked bank accounts were credited a total of Rs. 5,294.53 crore at the rate of Rs. 5,000 per acre. The exercise of transferring the amount into the bank accounts was taken up from 10 a.m. The Minister stated that an amount of Rs. 82.37 crore was also credited into 63,477 farmers having Recognition of Forest Rights (RoFR) pattas in the Agency areas. The Minister clarified that all the farmers who have secured passbooks till June 16 would get the Rythu Bandhu amount. However, some 5 lakh farmers did not give their bank account details so far and the investment support for them would be credited as soon as the details were given to the Agriculture Extension Officers (AEOs) concerned. Stating that the government was extending the support during the difficult times of coronavirus impact on the economy and the fall in State government revenue, the Minister said the government had made an allocation of Rs. 14,000 crore for Rythu Bandhu in the budget this year for the two crop seasons. He said Telangana was the only State in the country that was standing in support of the farming community even in the current trying times. He complimented that Agriculture, Revenue and Finance department officials and also those of the National Informatics Centre for making the crediting of Rythu Bandhu amount possible in just one day.
23 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Online survey to assess cyber crime awareness among youth||With a view to spread awareness among the youth on the perils of navigating the cyber world, the Women Safety Wing of Telangana police commissioned an online survey to assess the alacrity about cyber threat. The questions were drafted intending to elicit information on breach of cyber security, phishing attacks and ransomware. The three minutes survey includes questions like -- Do you know anything about cyber security or cyber crime? How frequently you change your online account passwords? Do you know about ransomware and phishing attacks. The survey, Youngster Conscious, is to support youngsters and lessen their social isolation gaps caused due to the ‘pandemic’ and ‘sudden transition’ towards safe and productive digitisation, said B. Sumathi, DIG Women Safety Wing. She said that the idea has changed perspective and crime trends during and post-COVID, which threw new challenges in understanding and addressing the gaps it has created. To make the transition and our approach smooth, the formula of assessment, analysis, alignment accordingly is felt necessary, the officer said. According to her, assessment of dynamics had changed and situations arising out of it with regards to lifestyle challenges had changed social alignments, especially among women and the young population. “There is free space, but only on the internet. Homes have shrunk and the virtual world is the only window of connection left. The paradigm of crime perpetrated on women is more within four walls with lesser social support towards grievance redressal,” said Ms. Sumathi. The survey will help the police to enable and deal with online complaint mechanism. “We want to reach the target group online to enable them to reach us easily,” the officer added.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Doctor dies of COVID||A 70-year-old medical practitioner, who tested positive for coronavirus, died on Sunday. Members ofIndian Medical Association (IMA)-Hyderabad branch said he did not attend patients during the lockdown. But he went to a hospital to check on an old patient and developed fever a few days thereafter. A resident of Himayatnagar, he was admitted to a private hospital five days ago, and died on Sunday. ASI succumbs A 54-year-old Assistant Sub-Inspector with Kalapathar police station, who was suspected to have COVID-19, died in the early hours on Monday, before test results could arrive. The victim, a resident of Asif Nagar Jilla, was admitted to Gandhi Hospital on Saturday, and his samples were drawn on Sunday, police said. Meanwhile, at least 15 staff at RBVRR State Police Academy, including an IPS officer and two Additional SsP, tested positive on Monday. More tests have been conducted and results are awaited. The academy has over 400 staff and 1,900 cadets.
23 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Government to act tough on tree felling||The State government has decided to take stringent measures against people found guilty of felling trees. Action will also be initiated against officials who are found wanting in discharge of their duties in ensuring plantation of saplings and taking steps for their survival. The decisions come ahead of the commencement of the sixth phase of Telanganaku Harita Haaram slated to be launched on June 25. Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhar Rao will formally launch the sixth phase at Narsapur forest as part of the forest revival programme. Mr. Rao instructed the officials to continue tree-planting programme uninterruptedly on either side of all State and National Highways. He wanted steps to be taken to set up plant nurseries on the State highways with at least one nursery in a span of 30 km. Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister E. Dayakar Rao instructed the officials concerned to conduct gram sabhas to create awareness among the people on the need for making Harita Haaram a success as it was the only solution to protect environment as well as bio-diversity in the State. The Chief Minister launched the ambitious programme with an aim to enhance the green cover in the State.
23 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Woman’s body wrapped in plastic bag found in nala||The Sanathnagar police of Cyberabad registered a murder case after a decomposed body of a woman was found near a nala in Sanathanagar recently. Police said that the unidentified victim’s body, aged in 30s, was found wrapped in a plastic cover on Saturday. “The suspect hit her on her head with a blunt object. She died of head injury, and later wrapped her body in a cover and dumped it in the nala,” the investigators said. When asked if it was a case of ‘rape and murder’, the police said that they are waiting for postmortem examination report.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pilot project on oil palm takes off||A pilot to extend oil palm cultivation to new districts in the State has taken off with planting of oil palm saplings over 98 acres. The project was proposed over 2,717 acres in Nirmal, Mancherial, Mahabubabad and the erstwhile Mahabubnagar districts. The administrative sanction for planting the saplings and taking up cultivation over 1,000 acres with drip irrigation was already given, a release said here on Monday.
23 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SSC grade points released||After issuing orders promoting all the SSC students, the government has allotted the grade points to all the registered students and made them available on www.bse.telangana.gov.in on Monday. According to Education Minister P. Sabitha Indra Reddy grade points have been allotted to 5,34,903 students on the basis of their internal marks. She said students were promoted after Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao decided not to conduct the examinations for 10th class students in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. Students can now collect their marks sheets from their school heads and any discrepancies in the memos can be brought to the notice of the Directorate of Government Examinations through the headmasters or principals. The discrepancies would be resolved as per the procedure.
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Intervention of KCR sought||The COVID 19 Task Force of Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee has urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to give permission to the Indian Association at Sharjah to operate chartered flights to bring back workers stranded in the UAE due to unemployment on account of coronavirus. The association arranged chartered flights to various cities with the cooperation of Indian Consulate, the task force chairman Marri Shashidhar Reddy and TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said in a letter to Mr. Rao.
23 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BSNL offer||BSNL has launched Google SMART device at concessional rate with broadband annual plans subscription for its customers. Those subscribing to the annual plan greater than or equal to Rs. 799 will get a Google Nest mini, a smart home device worth Rs. 4,999 by paying only Rs. 1,287. Those subscribing to annual plan greater than or equal to Rs. 1,999 will get Google Nest HUB, smart home device worth Rs. 9,999 by paying only Rs. 2,587 for 13 months service, a press release said.
23 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three held for murder of 83-year-old woman||With the arrest of three people, the Kachiguda police on Monday solved the murder of an 85-year-old woman in 48 hours. The victim, Sriramshetty Kamalamma of Chapal Bazaar was smothered to death by her maid servant Dalai Laxmi (46). The police also arrested Mandula Mahender (30) of Mahbubnagar for helping her, while Sagaram Satish Kumar of Vijayalaxmi Home Care Services was booked for not verifying antecedents of Laxmi. Police also recovered stolen property, including 10 tolas of gold and Rs. 26,000, four sarees and a mobile phone from their possession.
23 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Page 3 Hyderabad CP appreciates Chatrinaka police||Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar appreciated Chatrinaka police for their investigation in a POCSO case, in which a court awarded 10 years of rigorous imprisonment to the accused. Rewards were announced to all the investigation officers and the team members.
23 June 2020||P Sridhar,TELANGANA||Khammam to get 25 check dams||To rejuvenate the groundwater table and augment water supply for irrigation and drinking, as many as 25 check dams have been sanctioned across various rivulets, streams and other water bodies under four irrigation sub-divisions in the district at an estimated cost of Rs. 75.22 crore. A multipurpose check dam is under construction across the Munneru river at Prakashnagar in the town at a cost of Rs. 7.45 crore. The proposed water harvesting structure is designed to prevent wastage of floodwaters and conserve the precious resource. Multiple benefits Once completed it will accrue multiple benefits such as increasing the town’s groundwater table and also effectively catering to the small ayacut located on the right bank of Munneru, a tributary of Krishna river. It can also help cater to the drinking water needs of some of the areas, situated on the left bank of Munneru river, in Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) limits, if an intake well is constructed alongside, sources in the Irrigation department said. The Munneru river has its catchment area spread in the old undivided Khammam and Warangal districts. It extends a stretch of 40 km in Khammam district. As many as 61 proposals were earlier submitted to the State government for construction of check dams across several streams and rivulets under Khammam, Wyra, Madhira and Sattupalli sub-divisions in the last financial year. Of these, 25 proposals were approved by the government in January this year, sources added. Work on some of these proposed check dams including the one across Nimmavagu in Raghunadhapalem mandal are progressing at a brisk pace. The upcoming structure across Nimmavagu will benefit the tribal farmers and help recharge the groundwater table in K V Banjara and several other adjoining villages in Raghunadhapalem mandal in Khammam sub-division.
23 June 2020||R. Avadhani,TELANGANA||Medak villages take to vermicomposting||Segregating wet and dry garbage at source has become a herculean task for the sanitation staff in both urban and rural areas. Despite repeated appeals, people are not responding positively, thereby increasing burden on the authorities. But the case of Medak is something different. More than 100 villages in the district are already producing vermicompost that is being used by the farmers in their fields instead of chemical fertilizers. Collector K. Dharma Reddy personally took the responsibility and motivated the public in this regard. Take the case of Malkapur in Toopran mandal. ‘Wealth from waste’ is what transformation of Malkapur explains. The village has earned an amount of Rs. 10,500 by selling vermicompost that was produced from waste. This is in addition to supplying the compost to the nurseries in the village. “Initially, people were reluctant to segregate. We attended Self Help Group (SHG) meetings and explained them about the advantage of segregation. They are now able to understand, making the job easy. But it took a few months to convince them,” said M. Naveen, husband of Sarpanch M Mahadevi, who is active in motivating the villagers. Recently the village auctioned the compost for Rs. 6 per kilogram. Same was the case with Damaracheruvu in Ramayampet mandal which has been producing vermicompost. “Medak is doing excellent in segregating wet and dry garbage. More than 100 villages are producing vermicompost. Now it is the turn of Sangareddy to compete with it,” said Finance Minister T Harish Rao while participating in a review meeting recently.
23 June 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Police foil rally by Congress leaders||The police have foiled the proposed visit by Congress leaders to the Kalikota-Suramma project in Jagtial district, to stage protest demanding that the government execute the irrigation project, by arresting several Congress leaders and detaining them in their houses in Rajanna-Sircilla and Jagtial districts on Monday. The leaders of Congress party in undivided Karimnagar called for ‘chalo Kalikota-Suramma’ project on Monday and secured permission from the court. However, the police detained the leaders.
23 June 2020||BERHAMPUR,||11% beneficiaries in Odisha’s Ganjam yet to receive Central aid: survey||Rina Das of Phulasundari square and Rinki Maharana of Hanuman Nagar of Odisha’s Berhampur are yet to get Rs. 500 in their Jan-Dhan accounts as promised by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman. They are among the Jan Dhan account holders of Ganjam district who are yet to receive the special assistance under the Garib Kalyan Package declared by the Narendra Modi government due to COVID-19 pandemic. As per a ‘Rapid Assessment Survey’ conducted by the Youth for Social Development (YSD) in Ganjam, around 11% Jan- Dhan account holders of the district have not received the special assistance. Ms. Sitharaman, as part of the relief package for COVID-19, had announced that all account holders under the Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana (PMJDY) will receive cash transfers of Rs. 500 for three months starting from April 2020. It was a small solace for the worst-hit sections of the society. But Ms. Rina Das, who has her Jan Dhan account with the State Bank of India since 2019, claimed that she did not receive the relief while other account holders of her area have received Rs. 1,000 for April and May. Similarly, Ms. Rinki Maharana, having Jan Dhan account in Bank of Baroda, has not received the money while her neighbours in Hanuman Nagar got the same. Seven locations The YSD had conducted the survey at seven locations in Ganjam to study distribution of PMJDY amount to women beneficiaries across urban and rural areas in Ganjam district. Out of respondents, 43% were homemakers while 48% were serving in private and government agencies and 6% were students. The study revealed that 95% of operational Jan-Dhan account holders in Ganjam had linked their Aadhaar numbers. 77% respondents were aware of the PMJDY and the Garib Kalyan Package announced during the lockdown. It was found that 77% of the respondents had received the Rs. 500 cash transfer for April and May. But 11% respondents had not received the cash transfer despite having operational Jan- Dhan accounts. Around 65% respondents received information about the money transfer through physical visit to bank branches while 28% received the news through SMS. The survey also found that many respondents had no knowledge about transfer of money to their Jan-Dhan accounts. Thirty per cent of the respondents had to travel over 10 km to reach the bank to withdraw money, which was a significant hurdle during the lockdown. Around 43% of the residents decided not to withdraw money for fear of the lockdown and COVID-19 infection. Ironically, 7% respondents were denied withdrawal by bank officials for not maintaining the minimum balance of Rs. 2,000.  Money used for grocery Half of the respondents used the amount received to purchase grocery and other essential items for their families. Others used it to pay house rent, health expenses and on children’s education. It is a positive sign that 12% respondents spent money on education of children despite their poverty and dire economic condition due to COVID-19.
23 June 2020||Bhopal,||Centre hiking fuel prices when people need relief, says Nath||Former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath on Monday hit out at the Central government for hiking fuel prices, stating that such “absurd decisions” would push people during the COVID-19 pandemic into further distress. The continuously rising petrol-diesel prices, said Mr. Nath, even during the COVID-19 pandemic, was a double-whammy of inflation to the public. “Today is the time to provide relief, but people are not being given any,” he said. The State Congress president, Mr. Nath directed all city and district Congress committee presidents to protest against the hike at district/city/block party headquarters at 11 a.m. on Wednesday by involving party office-bearers, workers, affiliated organisations and MLAs. Besides, workers will also demand local employment opportunities for migrant workers. ‘Acute financial crisis’ For the past three months, said Mr. Nath, economic activity in the State had remained completely stopped. “The working class, having lost their employment and businesses, is sitting at homes while facing an acute financial crisis. They are expecting support from the Central and the State governments,” he said. ‘Absurd moves’ Mr. Nath added that “because of the absurd decisions of the BJP government at the Centre they are being forced to face further distress”. He claimed the government was making profits by hiking prices, and was inflicting inflation on the public. “Petrol and diesel prices are almost the same now. In the past 16 days, petrol prices have been hiked by Rs. 8.3 and diesel by Rs. 9.46 per litre, ” he said.
23 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab Cabinet nod for public grievance redressal policy||The Punjab Cabinet on Monday approved a comprehensive public grievance redressal policy to bring the grievance mechanisms of all departments under one umbrella, within the ambit of ‘digital Punjab’. The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh here. “There is currently no single interface for citizens to register their grievances with the government, which necessitated the formulation of a comprehensive policy in this regard,” said an official statement. The statement added that the policy provides for establishment of a clear standardised work-flow for grievance redressal, assigns time-lines to each officer in the work-flow for resolution of grievance, enables citizens to submit their feedback on the resolution provided, escalates grievances to higher authorities and allows for analysis of the collected data for evidence-based decision making. The Cabinet also decided to set up four new COVID-19 testing laboratories, with priority appointment of the 131 essential staff needed for these labs. Besides, the Cabinet cleared the proposal of Medical Education and Research Department to create and fill up four posts of assistant professor (microbiology) on ad-hoc basis in these four viral testing laboratories, said the statement. The statement said that for expeditious disposal of cases related to POCSO and crime against women, the Cabinet has okayed the creation of 35 posts for setting up of three new units of DNA, cyber forensic and audio-voice analysis in the Forensic Science Laboratory at S.A.S Nagar.
23 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab records 177 new cases||Punjab recorded 177 new COVID-19 cases on June 22 and reported two more deaths taking the toll to 101, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 4,235. The patients who died were from Ludhiana district. In Haryana, 390 new cases surfaced, taking the total tally to 11,025.
23 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||More containment zones in Gurugram||The district administration on Monday notified 20 new containment zones and removed 11 zones from the list, taking the total number of such zones to 107. Earlier, there were 98 containment zones. In view of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases, Deputy Commissioner Amit Khatri notified 17 new containment zones in Gurugram block of the district, including areas in DLF Phase-3, Sector 47, Sector 49 and Sector 57, among others, and removed 11 zones from the list, taking the total to 100. Similarly, two new areas were notified in Pataudi block and one in Sohna. In Farukh Nagar block, ward no. 5 continues to be the lone containment zone. An area is notified as a containment zone usually when five or more cases are found and is removed from the list in 28 days. Meanwhile, 85 new cases have been reported in Gurugram on Monday, taking the cumulative number to 4,512. However, 102 patients have recovered. The total number of active cases in the district is now 1,820. As many as 66 people have died so far. Of the total active cases, 1,193 are in home isolation. Of the four zones of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram, Zone I has the highest number with 1,326 cases followed by Zone II (1,087), Zone III (1,025) and Zone IV (679). While Pataudi has 201 cases, Farukh Nagar and Sohna have 116 and 78 respectively.
23 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Pollution board may revoke OIL well closure order||The Pollution Control Board Assam (PSBA) is likely to revoke its June 19 order to Oil India Limited (OIL) to close down all its crude oil and natural gas wells around the blowout-affected one in the Baghjan area of eastern Assam’s Tinsukia district. “The chairperson of PCBA spoke with our Chairman and Managing Director today (Monday) and the closure notice is in the process of being lifted,” OIL said in a statement on Monday. The PCBA had asked OIL to immediately cease all drilling and production operations in its Baghjan oilfield. ‘Not an option’ This would have meant shutting down 17 crude oil and four natural gas wells that together produce a sizeable quantity of OIL’s total output. After receiving the notice, OIL said shutting down the wells was not an option, as it could lead to an ecological disaster besides hampering the operations to cap the blowout well that burst into flames later. It also threatened to go to court against the “improbable” notice. PCBA chairperson Y. Suryanarayana did not specify whether the notice order would be revoked before OIL challenges it legally. But OIL officials said the PCBA has asked them to submit an affidavit for the order to be revoked via email. Meanwhile, fewer local organisations stopped or blocked operations at OIL’s installations across eastern Assam than in the last few days. Production loss The cumulative production loss since May 27, when the blowout happened, has been 8,162 metric tonnes of crude oil and 10.4 million metric standard cubic meters of natural gas, officials said.
23 June 2020||JAIPUR,||Party MLA suspended by CPI(M)||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Monday suspended its MLA in Rajasthan, Balwan Poonia, from the party’s membership for a year for violating the discipline by voting in favour of the Congress candidates in the Rajya Sabha elections in the State held on June 19. CPI(M) State Secretary Amra Ram said here that Mr. Poonia, who was also the Legislature Party leader, had been suspended with immediate effect and a show-cause notice had been issued to him seeking explanation of his conduct within seven days. Mr. Poonia disobeyed the party’s directions and went to vote in favour of the Congress. The other MLA, Girdhari Lal, did not cast his vote.
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||Capital reports 2,909 new COVID-19 cases||As many as 2,909 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the Capital in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 62,655, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. Also, 58 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 2,233. Of the total cases, 36,602 people have recovered and there are 23,820 active cases. There are a total of 13,183 hospital beds in the city of which 6,213 are occupied and 6,970 are vacant. Over 14,682 more tests have been conducted in a day, as per the bulletin. Rates ‘low’ The Delhi Medical Association (DMA) is working on a report on rates for COVID-19 beds in private hospitals, which will be submitted to the government, as the rates fixed by the government is “low”. “The rates fixed by the government are low. They should have done a proper audit before fixing the prices. We are in the process of preparing a report on rates that can be fixed in private hospitals. We will submit the report in the next three to four days,” DMA president Girish Tyagi told The Hindu.  On Saturday, the government had fixed the per day rates of COVID-19 beds in private hospitals between Rs. 8,000 and Rs. 18,000. Hiring students The Delhi government’s decision to deploy final-year medical students in COVID-19 hospitals in the city for six months to increase the manpower will happen only after their final-year examination, according to sources. “While the exams of students in GGSIPU [Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University] will start on June 25, the Delhi University is yet to declare the dates for the exam. We are planning to deploy them only after the exam,” an official source told The Hindu .
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi issues fresh rules for COVID-19 patients||The Delhi government on Monday issued new Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for management of patients who have tested COVID-19 positive. There are separate SOPs for people who get tested by rapid antigen test, which gives result in 30 minutes, and RT-PCR test, which takes more time. For the rapid test, if found positive, the duty medical officer at the testing centre will assess the severity of illness. All cases of moderate, severe illness will be transferred to a hospital. If a patient is tested positive by RT-PCR, then officials will contact the patients telephonically to assess severity of illness. Mild/pre-symptomatic patients will be shifted to COVID Care Centre. Moderate and severe cases will be shifted to hospitals or COVID-19 health centres by ambulance. “As per guidelines, pre-symptomatic/asymptomatic patients unless they have co-morbid conditions can be placed under home isolation if they have a residence of two rooms with a separate toilet for the patient,” the SoP said. In another order, the Delhi government extended the list of number of hospitals where a government official will be posted from 68 to 114. Meanwhile, Chief Secretary Vijay Kumar Dev has directed officials to implement Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines regarding the remapping of containment zones and contact tracing of COVID-19 patients in the Capital. He has also directed them to ensure enhanced testing and patient-friendly medical care.
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||Fake plasma donor arrested in city||A man was arrested for allegedly posing as a government hospital doctor and duping the Delhi Assembly Speaker on the pretext of donating blood plasma to a COVID-19 patient. The accused was identified as Abdul Karim alias Rahul Thakur, a resident of Prahladpur, the police said. They police received a complaint on Saturday from the Assembly Speaker, Ram Niwas Goel. Social media post In his complaint, Mr. Goel alleged that when his nephew was in need of a blood plasma donor for the treatment of his father-in-law who was a COVID-19 positive, he posted a request for help in search of a donor on social media and got a call from one Rahul Thakur, who introduced himself as a doctor at a government hospital. Mr. Thakur told that he has recovered from COVID-19 recently and showed his willingness to donate plasma. However, due to availability of another donor, they did not utilise his service. But later, on June 19, when Mr. Goel required a donor for one of his acquaintances, his nephew posted a request online again. They received a call from Mr. Thakur who assured to donate plasma and asked Mr. Goel to transfer Rs. 450 on Google Pay account. Transfer money After the Assembly Speaker transferred the requested amount, Mr. Thakur assured that he will reach Medanta Hospital, where the patient was admitted. But later, Mr. Thakur told them that he did not receive the amount and asked to transfer the money again. Later, when they tried to contact Mr. Thakur, his phone was found to be switched off. Mr. Goel found out that Mr. Thakur had also got Rs. 450 transferred from family members of the patient, the police said, adding it delayed the process of plasma transplantation. Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Monika Bhardwaj said an FIR was registered and an investigation was taken up. Raids were conducted at his hideouts and the accused was arrested, she said. “During interrogation, the accused confessed that he cheated people on the pretext of donating blood plasma amid the COVID-19 pandemic.
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 figures over last week show things are stabilising, says Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said numbers related to COVID-19 cases in the Capital over the last week seemed to indicate that things were improving. The Delhi government would provide pulse oximeters to patients recovering under home isolation. He said that every district will have oxygen concentrators in addition to a helpline and a team would visit the homes of recovering patients. Delhi has 25,000 active COVID-19 cases and around 12,000 people under home isolation, he said. Two wars against China Addressing a digital briefing here, Mr. Kejriwal said that the country was fighting two wars against China, one at the border and another against the virus from China, even as he asserted that people should not retreat in their fight against the virus, just as India’s 20 brave soldiers did not back down on the border. “Delhi has seen a surge in the cases of COVID-19, and while on one hand, we are trying to bring the situation under control by working together with the Central government and the people of Delhi, on the other hand, we are trying to provide the best treatment to the people who have been infected,” he said. “A week ago, there were 24,000 active cases in Delhi, which means that in one week, there has been a surge of only 1,000 cases and the number of recovering people is the same as the number of people who are getting infected. This gives us hope that things are slowly stabilising,” he also said. In the last few days, he said, the Delhi government had increased testing up to three times. Earlier, around 5,000 tests were conducted per day which had now increased to 18,000 tests per day, he said. “Some labs were involved in unacceptable activities, we have taken action against them. Now, all the labs have been directed to work on their full capacity and to work on a fair basis,” he said. With the help of the Central government, he said, “Antigen tests, which give results in around 15 minutes, have begun in Delhi. “All the people with very mild symptoms or who are asymptomatic are treated at their homes. Our team assists them with daily calls and advises them on what to do on a daily basis,” he said. He said that the people and all political parties must stand united against China.
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||Students and teachers against open book exam||Students and teachers of Delhi University hit out at the planned open book examinations for final year students at an online press meet on Monday, where they highlighted various dimensions of the issue and batted for an alternative marking system. Others, who held protests at the Arts Faculty against the exams, were detained by the police. Speaking at the online conference, Professor Satish Deshpande, highlighted the arbitrariness of examinations in the current situation. He argued that holding exams in the current climate would perpetuate existing social hierarchies and “baseless meritocracy.” Professor Nandita Narain, former DUTA president , pointed at the ‘non democratic’ mechanisms adopted by the university in pushing ahead with the examinations. She highlighted how no consultations were undertaken with statutory bodies of the university or student bodies before announcing the decision. Apart from this, student activists Damni Kain and Jayant from the All India Students’ Association (AISA) highlighted the inaccessibility of exams for the visually impaired. Speakers batted for an alternative marking system, which could involve promoting students based on average of marks from previous semesters and taking into account internal assessment marks in the current semester as proposed from various quarters.
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Multipronged plan helped Punjab contain virus spread’||The Health Ministry on Monday said that Punjab has shown good progress in containing the COVID-19 spread with the State following a multipronged strategy of focusing on high risk/vulnerable population from containment zones and adding to its testing capacity. “With a view to reducing mortality, vulnerable population groups are line listed including those over 60-years-old, those having cardiac or renal disease, hypertension, diabetes or with immune-compromised conditions. Such persons are offered facility of government quarantine outside their containment zone till their area comes out of containment,” the Ministry noted. It added that Punjab has also implemented a stringent containment strategy where the zones are clearly delineated.
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||SMDC to look into PPE dumping near crematorium||Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) kits used by those disposing bodies and of the deceased’s relatives, which are found dumped near the Lodhi Road crematorium, the site of COVID-19 funerals, were being looked into, a senior South Delhi Municipal Corporation official said on Monday. Kits, gloves and masks were found strewn around the crematorium, which is run by a private organisation the official informed. He added that the responsibility to collect and transport municipal waste to the nearest collection point is the responsibility of the organisation. “However, as a special case, during the pandemic, the SDMC is also assisting the agency in clearing the garbage and waste,” the official said. After the issue came to light, the municipal corporation began enquiring into the lapses, the official said. Calls to the crematorium regarding the issue went unanswered.
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Elderly man found dead at home||A day after an elderly woman was killed in her home during a robbery bid in south-west Delhi, the police said a similar incident on Monday, an 80-year-old man was found murdered at his home in east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar. DCP (East) Jasmeet Singh said K.P. Aggarwal, who lived alone on the first floor of the building, ran a washing machine service centre on the ground floor. “A PCR call was received at 10.30 a.m. from a man who said his neighbour was lying unconscious and the door was open. The police found the door open and the man lying dead. There were no visible injuries. The almirah was open and some articles, including money, were missing,” he said.
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Expedite test result of pregnant women’||The Delhi HC said five-seven days cannot be taken for getting COVID-19 results for pregnant women prior to admitting them in hospitals for childbirth, and asked the Indian Council of Medical Research and Delhi government to look into the issue.
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC relief for Ganga Ram Hospital||The Delhi High Court on Monday stayed the investigation and all-related proceedings against Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in connection with an FIR lodged against it for alleged violation of COVID-19 regulation norms. The court said all proceedings consequent to registration of the FIR will remain stayed till final disposal of the plea by the hospital.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Flood of news||
23 June 2020||Mumbai,||Daughter to vacate house after elderly mother alleges torture||A daughter finally gave an undertaking to vacate her 70-year-old mother’s house after the woman approached the Bombay High Court, alleging physical and mental harassment. A Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and N.R. Borkar was on June 19 hearing a plea by the septuagenarian, an ex-government employee and mother of five daughters. She alleged that one of her daughters tortured her mentally and physically. The Bench said prima facie “we gathered an impression that the mother seriously apprehended physical and mental harassment and consequent threats to her life, at the hands of her daughter if she resided in her own flat at Kandivali (East)” without the daughter being evicted from there. The HC referred to the story of Shravan Kumar from Ramayana, and said, “It is unfortunate that in the last several years, courts have witnessed old parents knocking at their doors, in the twilight years of their lives, seeking redressal of their grievances against their children.” On June 5, the 70-year-old woman, in her direct address to the court, had insisted that her daughter along with her 19-year-old son be directed to forthwith vacate her flat. However, because of the pandemic and consequent problems that individuals are facing, the HC had declined to pass such an order. The Bench had then said, “We hereby sternly warn the daughter, as well as her son that in the event of this court receiving any complaint from the mother of harassment by either or both of them, then in that event, after verifying the same, we will be constrained to pass orders, including an order restraining them from entering the said flat.” The HC had also directed the senior inspector of the local police station, under whose jurisdiction the said flat is situated, to render all assistance, at any point of time to the petitioner, who is a senior citizen, as and when she needs the same. The daughter on June 19 filed an affidavit stating that her mother was reacting or overreacting at the instance of her another sibling who had temporarily come down with her family from Singapore. The mother, however, refuted this allegation. The mother offered to give one of her flats at Nalasopara to her daughter to stay there with her son from July 15. The daughter then took an undertaking, on the same day, to vacate the said flat with her son within eight weeks.
23 June 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai sees 1,098 new cases; death toll is 3,737||Mumbai recorded 1,098 more cases of COVID-19 on Monday, pushing its tally to 67,586 cases. The city also recorded 66 fatalities, taking its death toll to 3,737. Civic health officials said only 20 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours, while the rest had occurred before June 19. At least 40 of these patients had co-morbid conditions. ‘Sitting on a plateau’ Officials said the number of positive cases had also stabilised considerably. In a Facebook post, Manisha Mhaiskar, principal secretary on special deputation to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), wrote that the city was sitting on a plateau in June. “Daily positives are steady between 1000-1200, admissions have stabilised, there are vacant beds even in KEM, there is no longer the pressure to commission a ward every alternate day. And this is even after 2 full weeks of unlock down in form of Mission Begin Again. Chase the virus is working (sic),” she said. According to civic officials, while the doubling rate of the city had improved to 37 days, some areas were recording more cases. “Keeping this in mind, BMC has decided to implement a rapid action plan in areas like Mulund, Bhandup, Andheri, Malad, Borivali, Dahisar and Kandivali. With the aim to bring down the number of positive cases in the city to zero, ‘Mission Zero’ has been launched today [June 22] at Shahaji Raje Bhosale Sports Complex in Andheri,” the BMC said. “The ambitious project will comprise 50 mobile dispensary vans going to different areas to conduct preliminary check-ups and identify patients. With the onset of monsoon, the plan is particularly critical for timely detection and treatment of patients with COVID-19 and other ailments. All suspected patients will be immediately isolated and swab tests will be conducted. This will lead to early detection and timely treatment of those infected. At the same time, public awareness will also be created,” the civic body said.
23 June 2020||Mumbai,||A wider net: non-profit helps disabled upskill during the lockdown||Mahesh Kale (22) lent his parents a hand in their farm in Yesawadi village in Ahmednagar district during the nationwide lockdown, when labour was hard to come by. The family grows corn and cereal, and farming is their only source of income. During his lunch breaks, Mr. Kale, who has a speech and hearing impairment and has studied up to Class XII, watched videos preparing him for a job. His disability has not cut his ambition; like most men his age, Mr. Kale says he “wants to work in a reputed company and support his family financially.” Mr. Kale was part of Web Interface Study Environment (WISE), an online training and placement programme conducted by Youth4Jobs (Y4J) Foundation, a pan-India organisation that trains youth with disabilities and links them to organised sector jobs in the cities. “We launched Youth4Jobs Online as a COVID-19 response, across India,” says Meera Shenoy, founder and CEO, Youth4Jobs. “At a time when every skilling organisation had halted operations, we were the only ones who launched a programme in the disability space; one of the few working at the bottom of the pyramid,” she says. The programme’s imperative was providing people with disability — among the most underemployed and undereducated community in India — a safety net during and after the lockdown. The Y4J teams in 27 centres across the country reached out to youth with disability, government organisations, rural communities and gram panchayats to collect data.   Social media The teams placed advertisements on social media to mobilise candidates with disabilities in search of employment opportunities, and reached out to organisations that had a manpower requirement. Y4J alumni who wanted to upgrade their skills were also welcome to take the training. A majority of the candidates were from low-income backgrounds in rural areas. They had speech and hearing impairment, locomotor (physical or orthopaedic) disabilities, low vision and intellectual disability, and had not completed their secondary and higher secondary education. Some had not even completed Class X. The NGO received calls from remote places — “little villages in Bihar and even Agartala,” says Ms. Shenoy — and a big challenge was addressing candidates with bandwidth issues. “We had to take a strategic decision on tools and learning management systems,” says Ms. Shenoy. “How could we open up the possibility of them watching sessions offline, take attendance, do screen-sharing, and help them log in with a simple interface?” Candidates were screened on internet connectivity, how digitally savvy they were, whether they owned smartphones and computers, what their available time slots were, and whether they were willing to take up jobs.  Those from 18 years to over 35 years of age were trained in life skills, basic English and job readiness in the 15-day programme. In case of hirers like Amazon, candidates were trained to crack the entrance test. The team created sign language videos for speech-and-hearing impaired people. A team comprising a project executive, trainers and sign language interpreters ran the programme in each centre. “While our regular classroom training is for eight hours a day, we had to cut it down to two to three hours,” says Swapnil Dewalwar, assistant programme manager, WISE programme, Mumbai region. “This is because their attention span is small, and it becomes difficult to find candidates in one place,” he said. Mix of content The teams looked at a mix of live and pre-recorded content, says Mr. Dewalwar.  For the live sessions, Whatsapp, Google Hangouts and Zoom were used, while for the pre-recorded sessions, Facebook Private Groups came in handy. “Our biggest challenge was how to get them to understand Zoom and Google Hangouts, and how to load these apps. They knew SMS and WhatsApp to some extent. It took a lot of time and patience from the teams,” says Ms. Shenoy. Assessments — one mid-way through the course and one at the end — were conducted mainly through Google Forms and live video calls, and certificates were given to candidates once when they completed the course. At least 1,152 people have been trained so far in 117 batches. “In just two batches, 1,100 youth with disabilities enrolled in rural areas. We have tapped into some kind of energy no one expected,” says Ms. Shenoy. Another interesting aspect was that girls, who would not come to the resource centres earlier, had enrolled in large numbers because of the relative safety of their homes. Also, dropouts, which the teams were expecting because of classes being online, were negligible.  Placement support Despite the impact on the economy due to the lockdown, a number of corporates in the Y4J network across India were ready to hire their candidates post the lockdown. The foundation has a corporate connect team that does accessibility audits, sensitises managers and provides sign language training. “We build relationships with organisations and encourage them to hire candidates in multiple roles. We explore how they can take in people with 100% visual impairment or intellectual disabilities, which they may not otherwise be keen on doing,” says Mr.  Dewalwar. Post lockdown, the team will take stock of the situation and connect candidates to work opportunities. A job readiness orientation, mock interviews and a role orientation will be part of the process. During placement, candidates with speech and hearing impairment will have interpreter support and a team member will accompany the candidates during the interview. Post placement, there will be periodic follow-ups, and intervention for resolving work-related issues. The foundation is also thinking of conducting a drive to procure unused phones and computers to help those with no access to these devices. None of this comes easy, especially if you are going where no one else has, says Ms. Shenoy. “Patience, compassion and a love for what they do carries the team through,” she says.
23 June 2020||Mumbai,||BAI to train jobless youth to tackle worker scarcity||To tide over a shortage of workers in the construction sector after migrants returned to their home towns, the Builders Association of India (BAI), Mumbai centre, will impart skill development training to unemployed youth from villages in and around the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). In a letter to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, the new chairman of BAI, Mumbai centre, Mohinder Rijhwani, said, “It seems the migrants will not be back till COVID-19 crisis is over, due to which there will be a shortage of labourers in the construction industry. This will be a major handicap for restarting real estate and infrastructure projects in and around the MMR.” BAI intends to take up the challenge of generating skilled and unskilled labourers from villages in and around the MMR, who are unemployed but are ready to work in the construction industry as carpenters, masons and fitters. “BAI wants to work with NGOs to source the labourers from the villages,” he said. “BAI initially will work with its members to ensure that unskilled labourers are trained on the site by specialists and then BAI wants to start training centres for which the State should provide suitable land,” the letter to the CM said. Mr. Rijhwani said more than 5,800 projects have been stalled till date, and the MahaRera has received complaints against them under Sections 7 and 8 of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, for revocation of the registration of the projects. He said such projects should be completed through formation of a panel of interested contractors.
23 June 2020||Mumbai,||Report overcharging by private hospitals: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has appealed to citizens to bring to its notice if they have been overcharged by private hospitals for the treatment of COVID-19. Last month, the BMC appointed auditors for various private hospitals after receiving complaints of overcharging. The auditors have so far settled 134 complaints pertaining to 26 private hospitals and bills have been collectively reduced by Rs. 23.42 lakh. “The total amount charged from all complainants was Rs. 1,61,88,819. After the audit of these bills, the amount was reduced to Rs. 1,38,46,705,” the BMC said. Two auditors have been appointed for every private hospital, and e-mail IDs have been made available to the public for registering complaints. Charges for a COVID-19 patient in the general isolation ward cannot exceed Rs. 4,000 a day, the charge for an intensive care unit is capped at Rs. 7,500 a day, and for ventilators it is Rs. 9,000 a day.
23 June 2020||Mumbai,||Dhananjay Munde discharged after recovery from COVID-19||Maharashtra Social Justice Minister Dhananjay Munde was on Monday discharged from Breach Candy hospital after recovering from COVID-19. He was admitted to the hospital on June 12 after testing positive. “My second test report came negative, thanks to your good wishes and prayers. I am heading to my village after getting discharged,” Mr. Munde said. Along with Mr. Munde, his private secretary, personal assistant, two drivers, and one of his bodyguards have been discharged after their second test reports returned negative, while a cook and bodyguard continue to be under treatment for COVID-19, sources said. Earlier, Maharashtra ministers Ashok Chavan of the Congress and Jitendra Awhad of the NCP had tested positive for the virus, and both recovered later.
23 June 2020||Mumbai,||Testing of water sources halted||The coronavirus-induced lockdown has affected the annual quality testing of drinking water sources in Maharashtra, with nearly 1.5 lakh such facilities remaining unchecked, as per official figures. According to data of the Maharashtra drinking water and sanitation department, there are 2,12,642 water sources notified , of which samples of only 62,482 could be tested, while 1,50,160 water sources still remain untested. Every year, the State carries out quality testing of notified drinking water sources.
23 June 2020||Mumbai,||Malabar Hill building sealed after 21 cases||A plush residential complex on Napean Sea Road in Malabar Hill has been sealed after 21 COVID-19 cases were reported in seven days, a BMC official said on Monday. He said 19 of the 21 patients were domestic helps, drivers and security staff. “House-helps work in different flats in the building and may have spread the infection. The entire building had to be sealed to break the chain of spread,” assistant municipal commissioner (D Ward) Prashant Gaikwad said. “We have shifted the house-helps and security staff to quarantine centres and told the residential society to sanitise common toilets at least four to six times a day,” he said.
23 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Highway Police to penalise overspeeding vehicles on Mumbai-Pune Expressway||The Highway Police have initiated a pilot project of finding overspeeding vehicles by comparing footage of CCTV cameras at two toll nakas — Khalapur and Urse — on the Mumbai-Pune Expressway. The project, which is planned to take off next month, is the brainchild of Vinay Korgaonkar, Additional Director General of Police, Highway Police. “The maximum number of deaths on highways is due to the accidents caused by overspeeding vehicles. Hence, it is important to discourage overspeeding by penalising such errant drivers. It is not possible to manually catch hold of each such vehicle, so we decided to take the help of CCTV cameras,” Digambar Pradhan, Superintendent of Police, Highway Police, said. The time taken to travel the distance between the two toll plazas will be monitored by obtaining data of every vehicle using the expressway. “Motorists crossing the speed limit will be penalised by sending e-challans,” Mr. Pradhan said. The pilot project will start at Khalapur toll plaza, which is 50 km from Urse toll plaza, including15 km of Bhor ghat section. “The speed limit for the regular road on the expressway is 100 kmph and for the ghat section, the speed limit is 50 kmph. As per the calculation, the 35 km of regular road and 15 km of ghat section between the toll plazas should take 37 minutes, with a 5% margin of error. So if a vehicle has taken less than 37 minutes, the owner will be sent an e-challan,” Mr. Pradhan said. From January to May, there were 46 accidents on the expressway. Of them, 16 were fatal ones, killing 17 people, while 10 were serious mishaps that injured 20. As many as eight were minor accidents, injuring eight people, while 12 mishaps were without any injuries. Last year, 306 accidents were reported, leaving 92 people dead and 162 seriously injured. “Once the pilot project is successful, this will be implemented across the State and on national highways,” Mr. Pradhan said.
23 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||NMMC reports 120 new cases; nears 5,000 mark||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) reported 120 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, pushing its total tally to 4, 961 cases. Four more deaths were also reported, taking its toll to 168. A total of 62 patients were discharged, taking the number of recoveries to 2,850. There are currently 1,943 active patients in Navi Mumbai. The city’s case fatality rate is 3.38% and a 57% recovery rate. On the rise in cases, NMMC Commissioner Annassheb Misal said, “Lack of physical distancing in gaothans and low-income housing areas, post the easing of the lockdown, is one of the major reasons.” However, Mr. Misal said the doubling rate, which was seven days, is now 25 days. “It was 23 till few days ago. We are trying our best to improve the doubling rate,” he said. Meanwhile, the Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 53 new cases, taking its tally to 1,382. With two more deaths, the toll is now 58. Fifty-six people were discharged, bringing the total recoveries to 923. PMC now has 401 active cases with a case fatality rate of 4.19% and a recovery rate of 66.8%. Panvel rural reported 23 new cases of COVID-19 and two deaths on Monday.
23 June 2020||Palghar,||Case filed for blocking ambulance with body||A case has been registered against a group of people in Palghar district for obstructing movement of an ambulance carrying the body of a COVID-19 victim to the crematorium in their locality, the police said on Monday. The incident occurred on the night of June 20 in Umela Phatak area near Vasai, a police official said. He said people who stopped the ambulance feared that its movement might expose them to the virus. They were not wearing masks and violated lockdown norms by their act, he said, adding that the situation was resolved only after intervention of the police. A case has been registered under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, and under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemic Diseases Act at Vasai police station.
23 June 2020||Panaji,||Goa reports first COVID-19 death||An 85-year-old man succumbed to COVID-19 in Goa on Monday, making it the first fatality due to the disease in the State, Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said. While Mr. Rane earlier said the deceased was a woman, he later clarified in his tweet that the victim was a man. The victim, belonging to Morlem village in Sattari taluka of North Goa district, was undergoing treatment at ESI Hospital, a designated facility for COVID-19 patients, Mr. Rane said. ‘Keeping people safe’ “Deeply saddened to inform that a 85 year old man, from Morlem in Sattari, who had tested positive has succumbed to #COVID19 My heartfelt condolence to the family. This is the first COVID-19 death reported in the state (sic),” he tweeted. “We assure the people that our team is doing everything to keep our people safe and are following the strictest measures that are in place. This is an unfortunate incident and I stand with the family in their time of grief,” he said in another tweet. The State government has already declared Morlem village, which falls under Valpoi, the Assembly constituency of Mr. Rane, as a containment zone. The victim, who was bed-ridden for four years, was taken to Goa Medical College and Hospital from his home in Morlem on Saturday, after he complained of breathlessness, a health department official said. He was later shifted to ESI Hospital, the official added. Body not handed over Hours after his death, Chief Minister Pramod Sawant said the body would not be handed over to kin and the final rites will be conducted by government authorities. “The body will not be handed over to the family. The State Health Department will conduct the final rites as per the laid down protocol,” he said.
23 June 2020||Pune,||263 new cases in Pune, 40% outside containment zones||COVID-19 cases continued to pile up across Pune district, which witnessed another spike of over 250 cases till Monday evening, taking district’s total case tally to 15,942, said authorities. The district reported 263 new cases, while its death toll has risen to 594. Pune Divisional Commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said 5,852 of the district’s total cases were active, while 9,257 people had been discharged till date. The district witnessed record surges of 823 and 675 cases on Saturday and Sunday respectively, with 90% of the fresh cases being reported from Pune city. Around 40% of the new cases in Pune city are from outside ‘containment zones’, said Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) Commissioner Shekhar Gaikwad, acknowledging that the sharp spike in cases was worrying. “After the unlocking and easing of restrictions on June 1, increased inter-city and inter-district movement has seen the number of fresh COVID-19 cases soar outside Pune city’s usual containment zones. The figure of these cases [outside the ‘red zones’], which hitherto was limited to 18-20% has now risen sharply to 40%,” Mr. Gaikwad said. He also said in the wake of mounting cases, the zone revision exercise would now be done weekly instead of fortnightly. “Every Saturday, we will take stock of the situation and revise the number of ‘containment zones’ in the city. If cases have emerged from a society or building, then it will be declared a ‘containment zone’,” he said, adding that COVID-19 cases had emerged from around 100 housing societies across Pune city. Testing capacity At the same time, increased participation of private labs had led to a significant increase in the city’s sample testing capacity, Mr. Gaikwad said, adding that the capacity would be further increased by 500 samples a day in the coming weeks. “Presently, an average 3,200-3,500 samples are being tested for Pune city itself. While the cases have soared in the last few days, the number of tests has also increased. So, there is no need to be unduly alarmed. Between June 1 and 5, as many as 8,843 samples had been tested, while the figure rose to 16,300 in the period between June 6 and 11,” said Pune District Collector Naval Kishore Ram. Mr. Ram further said that for the first time, the district’s case fatality rate was lesser than the State’s figure [of around 4.7%] and it currently stood at 3.73%. Meanwhile, commenting on Pune’s fatalities, Dr. Mhaisekar said while the State Health Department had reported the toll as 610 three days ago, the correct figure now stood at 594, as the State government authorities had accidentally duplicated some fatalities. “There was a difference of 70 in the State’s reporting, which put Pune’s death toll at 610 three days ago, whereas the actual figure was 540. Forty-seven of these deaths were duplicated records, while 13 deaths were from outside Pune,” he said.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Safety risk||
23 June 2020||Ahmedabad,||RS polls: NCP issues show-cause notice to MLA for cross voting||The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in Gujarat on Monday issued a show-cause notice to its lone MLA Kandhal Jadeja for defying the party whip and cross-voting in the recent Rajya Sabha elections. Though Mr. Jadeja was directed to cast his vote for a Congress candidate in the June 19 elections to four seats, he apparently voted for a BJP nominee. The NCP directed Mr. Jadeja, who represents Kutiyana seat in Porbandar district, to explain his stand within the next seven days. ‘Indulged in indiscipline’ “Though you were asked to vote for a Congress candidate and a whip was also issued for the same by the party, you indulged in indiscipline and defied the whip. You are supposed to submit your explanation in seven days. Action will be taken as per the explanation furnished by you,” said the notice signed by Gujarat NCP unit president Jayant Patel. Mr. Jadeja, whose party shares power with the Congress in Maharashtra and a constituent of the United Progressive Alliance, had been openly saying that he would vote for the BJP in the elections to the Upper House of Parliament. He had also voted for a BJP candidate against the party whip in the 2017 Rajya Sabha elections when Ahmed Patel of the Congress was in the fray. In the June 19 elections, all three candidates of the BJP — Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramilaben Bara and Narhari Amin — got elected to the Rajya Sabha. The Congress could ensure victory of only one of its two candidates, Shaktisinh Gohil, while Bharatsinh Solanki lost as he failed to get enough votes. The situation would have been different for the Congress if eight of its MLAs had not resigned after the announcement of the Rajya Sabha polls. Mr. Gohil of the Congress got 36 votes and Solanki got 30 votes, plus some 1.99 second preference votes which added up to 31.9. While 170 out of the total 172 MLAs exercised their franchise, two Bharatiya Tribal Party MLAs did not turn up to vote. In the 182-member House, whose effective strength stood at 172 due to resignation of eight MLAs of the Congress and two vacancies caused by court cases, the BJP has 103 members and the Congress 65.
23 June 2020||Mumbai,||Vikhe-Patil targeting Thorat out of desperation, says Sena||The Shiv Sena on Monday said BJP leader Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil’s criticism of State Congress chief and political rival Balasaheb Thorat showed the saffron party leader’s desperation owing to being out of power. An editorial in the Sena mouthpiece Saamana said Mr. Vikhe-Patil has targeted Mr. Thorat as he is till smarting from his failure to gain power despite joining the BJP ahead of the Assembly elections last year. Mr. Vikhe-Patil is still in the Opposition, while Mr. Thorat is the revenue minister in the ruling Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Mr. Thorat met Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray last week amid talk of the Congress sulking over not having enough say in the MVA government. Mr. Thorat later said his party was not feeling sidelined and that the ruling alliance was stable. After the meeting, Mr. Vikhe Patil, the former Congress leader who like Mr. Thorat also hails from Ahmednagar district, had reportedly attacked him by saying that he had never seen a State unit president of the party who was so desperate for power. Mr. Thorat later retorted, saying he has seen Mr. Vikhe Patil bow down to former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. The editorial said, “Vikhe should stay away from politics if he has forgotten the rule that those who live in a house of glass should not throw stones at others. There should be a code of conduct in politics as to who should be called helpless in politics. One feels amused when leaders like Vikhe label Thorat as helpless.” History of disloyalty Accusing Mr. Vikhe-Patil of not being loyal to any party he has joined so far, the Marathi publication recalled that he had joined the Sena, but quit it after enjoying power, and joined the Congress to be a minister. Mr. Vikhe-Patil joined the BJP when he was still the leader of the opposition. “One has to work quite hard to inculcate such courage (not helplessness!). Thorat and others fell short of such an effort,” the editorial said, adding that the Congress did not suffer any loss after Mr. Vikhe Patil left the party, but the BJP did not gain from his entry in any way. Mr. Vikhe-Patil could have been the Congresss leader in the present State government had he not joined the BJP, but as luck would have it, that place went Mr. Thorat’s way, the editorial said. “The Thackeray government in Maharashtra is stable. The administration is being run by respecting each other. Years ago, a [Marathi] film Thoratanchi Kamala [Thorats Kamala] was released. Now, Vikhe-Patalanchi Kamala [Vikhe-Patil’s Kamala] film has been released and has flopped,” it said. The BJPs party symbol, lotus, is called kamal in Marathi. “We will see whether the Congress’s bed squeaks [whether there are issues with Congress], but Mr. Vikhe-Patil’s tour and travel company has shut, yet he is grumbling. Desperation, what else!” the editorial said. The Sena further said the BJP has marred its own image by accepting turncoats in its ranks. The earnestness of Leader of the Opposition Devendra Fadnavis, a bitter critic of the MVA government, can be understood once, it said, and termed him a genuine worker of the BJP-Sangh family. “A vaccine might be found to combat the novel coronavirus, but it is difficult to find one for the earnestness of the opponents. At least Mr. Fadnavis is a genuine worker of the BJP-Sangh family. But we are surprised over the criticism of the Thackeray government by those who have switched loyalties [to the BJP],” the editorial said.
23 June 2020||Mumbai,||Give new loans to farmers: BJP to State govt.||BJP State unit chief Chandrakant Patil launched State-wide protests seeking loan waiver and new crop loans for farmers by taking part in a demonstration in front of the Kolhapur collectorate on Monday. Mr. Patil said, “Monsoon has arrived, sowing is about to end, but farmers are still not getting crop loans.” He said the State government failed to fulfil its promise of providing a compensation of Rs. 25,000-Rs. 50,000 per hectare to farmers whose crops were hit by unseasonal rains. “To cover that up, they declared a loan waiver of Rs. 18,000 crore,” Mr. Patil, a former State revenue minister, said. Mr. Patil claimed that Rs. 7,000 crore had been disbursed when the novel coronavirus broke out in the State. He said the loans of 70% of farmers eligible for the waiver are still pending. “Banks will not give new crop loans to these farmers now,” he added. Mr. Patil picked holes in the State government’s decision to give a Rs. 11,000 crore guarantee to banks to nullify loans and enable farmers to seek fresh loans. “On the one hand, farmers are not getting new crop loans and on the other, the government is not procuring their produce,” he said.
23 June 2020||Nagpur/Chandrapur,||Captured tiger dies after 11 days in rescue centre||A male tiger, which was captured earlier this month after it killed five people in Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR), died at a rescue centre in Maharashtra’s Nagpur district on Monday, 11 days after it was shifted to the facility, forest officials said. A senior official said septicaemia appears to be the prima facie cause behind the adult tiger’s death. The tiger, officially called KT-1, earlier used to move in and around TATR in Chandrapur district, located 140 km from Nagpur. It had killed five people on separate occasions in the last five months in Kolara, Bamangaon and Satara villages located near TATR. The last such incident was reported on June 6, following which it was tranquillised and captured near Kolara forest range, a forest official said. “The Maharashtra Chief Wildlife Warden gave permission for its capture on June 8. The tiger was tranquillised on June 10, and shifted to Gorewada Rescue Centre in Nagpur on June 11. It died on Monday,” the official said. ‘Poor appetite’ The tiger was quarantined at the enclosure 5 of the Gorewada rescue centre, stated a release issued by Divisional Manager, Gorewada Project. “The tiger showed poor appetite since arrival and failed to acclimatise to captive life,” it said. A team of experts of Wildlife Research & Training Centre (WRTC), Gorewada, was treating the big cat. “The tiger was, however, alert and active, and showed no signs of any core illness. But in the early hours of June 22, the tiger was noticed in distress by forest guards at 6.45 a.m.,” the statement said. When a team of veterinarians reached the animal holding facility, they found KT-1’s response was “feeble” response to touch and twitch. The animal was declared dead at 7 a.m. The big cat was then brought to Gorewada Rescue Centre hospital to examine the cause of its sudden death and a post-mortem was conducted. “Prima facie, the cause of the death of the tiger appears to be septicaemia. However, the exact cause will be known after a final post-mortem report,” the statement added. The remains of the tiger were cremated. Hurt tigress rescued Meanwhile, an injured tigress that strayed into Bamani village under Nagbhid forest range of Chandrapur district was tranquillised and rescued by a forest team, another official said. After entering Bamani village, located around 115 km from the Chandrapur district headquarters, the feline took shelter in a shed owned by a villager, he said. Some villagers spotted the tigress and alerted officials of Nagbhid forest range. A rescue team rushed to the spot on Monday and tranquillised the tigress, Chief Conservator of Forests, Chandrapur, S.V. Ramarao said. “No one was injured during the rescue operation. The tigress, which was injured, has been shifted to the Gorewada Rescue Centre in Nagpur,” Mr. Ramarao said.
23 June 2020||Pune,||Sex workers in Pune seek to resume work with caution, SOPs||With the lockdown being eased, some sex workers in Pune’s red light area want to get back to business by taking all precautions and following the standard operating procedures to stay protected against COVID-19. The livelihood of nearly 3,000 sex workers in the Budhwar Peth area in Pune has been affected by the COVID-19 outbreak and the lockdown, following which several of them moved back to their hometowns, according to an NGO working for their welfare. Now, with the lockdown being relaxed, some of them are gearing up to resume work and are even ready to explore options of services like “phone sex”, Tejasvi Sevekari, executive director of city-based NGO Saheli Sangh, said. She said the NGO, which is a collective of sex workers, has chalked out some standard operating procedures (SOPs) for them and is training them on how to take extra precautions while soliciting customers. All these SOPs and guidelines are for sex workers across the country who are connected through the National Network of Sex Workers, she said. ‘No COVID-19 case’ “As no COVID-19 case was reported from the red light area here, the containment zone tag and barricading have been removed. While majority of the sex workers are still not ready to start their work, a handful of them have resumed business as they are facing financial crunch due to the lockdown,” she said The NGO has started imparting training through audio and video clips to the sex workers on what precautions they need to take during customer visits. “Since there will be physical contact with customers, we have chalked out SOPs and guidelines. While condoms are mandatory, now masks and gloves are also a must during sexual activity. They have been asked to use hand sanitisers and disinfectants,” Ms. Sevekari said. Some of the sex workers have bought thermal scanners and foot-operated sanitiser dispensers and placed them outside their premises, she said. “It has been advised to ask the customer to take a shower before the activity and not to entertain any customer having cough or fever,” she added. The NGO is also encouraging them to explore the ‘phone sex’ option and asking those who are already into virtual sex business to teach others about it, Ms. Sevekari said. “Phone sex is quite normal with high-end call girls, but it is a new thing for sex workers. There are some who are already using the medium and they are sharing their experiences with others,” she said. The objective is to allow them to earn their livelihood without being exposed to physical contact with customers, keeping the risk of COVID-19 at bay, she said. Inspector Jagannath Kalaskar from Faraskhana police station, which has jurisdiction over the Budhwar Peth red light area, said they had a meeting with NGOs working in the area and asked them to ensure that precautions are taken. “Sex workers have been told not to stand or sit outside their rooms, and those are ill or infected with HIV have been asked to stay away,” Mr. Kalaskar said.
23 June 2020||Surat,||After 300 COVID-19 cases, fresh curbs on Surat diamond units||Nearly 300 workers of diamond units in Gujarat’s Surat city have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in the past 10 days, following which fresh restrictions have been imposed on the industry’s operations, an official said on Monday. As part of the new curbs, three main diamond trading markets will remain shut twice a week, while canteens of all the diamond polishing units will remain closed on all days to contain the spread of the virus. “In the last 10 days, nearly 300 workers of diamond units in the city have tested positive for COVID-19,” Surat Municipal Commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said. Unanimous decision Representatives of the Surat Diamond Association held a meeting with the civic chief on Monday and unanimously agreed to keep the three main diamomd trading hubs in Mahidharpura, Mini Bazar and Choksi Bazar shut on Saturdays and Sundays till the situation improves, Mr. Pani told reporters after the meeting. “If one COVID-19 case emerges in any unit, then that particular floor or section will be shut for a week. If three COVID-19 cases emerge, then the entire unit or factory will be shut for one week. The diamond units have also been asked to close their canteen facilities to minimise human-to-human contact,” he said. Working in shifts The diamond polishing units have also been asked to ensure proper ventilation on their premises for the staff, the official said. To reduce congestion and contact between employees, the units have been asked to either call workers in shifts every day or on alternate days, said Mr. Pani. “The diamond association also gave an assurance that all diamond packets will be sanitised to contain the spread of the novel coronavirus. Joint teams of the Surat Diamond Association and the municipal corporation will conduct an inspection to make sure the new guidelines are strictly followed,” he added.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Taking the plunge||
23 June 2020||Dubai,||Brazil COVID-19 toll crosses 50,000||The World Health Organization (WHO) sent out a fresh warning on Monday over the dangers of COVID-19 even as France returned to life by staging an annual music festival and sending millions of children back to school. In spite of numerous European countries further easing their lockdown restrictions, cases around the world are rising especially in Latin America with Brazil now registering over 50,000 deaths. There are also fears of a second wave with Australians being warned against travelling to Melbourne. WHO’s warning “The pandemic is still accelerating,” WHO’s director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told the virtual health forum organised by Dubai in the United Arab Emirates. Mr. Tedros said the greatest threat facing the world is not the virus itself, which has now killed over 4,65,000 people and infected nearly nine million worldwide, but “the lack of global solidarity and global leadership”. Brazil is the second worst-affected country behind the United States, another country where political infighting has prevented a unified policy to handle the virus. The spread of COVID-19 is accelerating across Latin America, with Mexico, Peru and Chile also hard-hit as death tolls soar and healthcare facilities are pushed toward collapse. Mexico City has delayed reopening markets, restaurants, malls, hotels and places of worship, with the country now recording over 20,000 COVID-19 deaths. Highlighting the region’s woes, Peru passed 8,000 deaths on Sunday despite preparing to reopen shopping malls on Monday. In Europe, meanwhile, the feel-good factor continues as countries ease their lockdown restrictions. Thousands of French danced and partied well into Monday for an annual music festival, in the first big blow out since the lockdown. Swimming pools and cinemas also reopened on Monday. Children up to the age of 15 also returned to school as attendance was switched from voluntary to compulsory. Fears remain, however, that the virus, may be on its way back even as countries where infections have ebbed lift their lockdowns to restart battered economies. Australians were warned Monday to avoid travelling to Melbourne, as the country's second biggest city tightened restrictions over fears of a second wave. Victoria state has recorded more than 110 cases in the past week — many of them in Melbourne — prompting leaders of other regions to warn against visiting the city’s six designated virus “hot spots”.
23 June 2020||Seoul,||N. Korea ready to send millions of retaliatory leaflets to the South||North Korea has millions of propaganda leaflets ready to send to the South by an aerial armada of balloons, it said on Monday, heightening its rhetoric against Seoul after blowing up a liaison office. In recent weeks, Pyongyang has issued a series of vitriolic condemnations of Seoul over anti-North leaflets, which defectors based in the South send across the border — usually attached to balloons or floated in bottles. Office blown up The North says it will have nothing more to do with Seoul, and last week blew up a liaison office on its side of the border that symbolised inter-Korean rapprochement, while threatening to bolster its military presence in and near the Demilitarized Zone. Analysts say Pyonygang has been conducting a series of staged provocations aimed at forcing concessions from Seoul and Washington with nuclear talks at a standstill. Ostensibly the source of its anger is the leaflets which it says insult the dignity of its leadership — a reference to leader Kim Jong-un. It is preparing to retaliate with its “largest-ever distribution of leaflets against the enemy”, the official Korean Central News Agency reported on Monday. Altogether “12 million leaflets of all kinds reflective of the wrath and hatred of the people from all walks of life” have been produced, it said, and more than 3,000 balloons prepared to send them far to the south. “The time for retaliatory punishment is drawing near,” it said. One of the leaflets shown in the official Rodong Sinmun newspaper carried an image of South Korean President Moon Jae-in drinking from a cup and accused him of having “eaten it all, including the north-south Korea agreement”. Both Koreas used to regularly send leaflets and loudspeaker broadcasts to the other side, but agreed to stop such activities in the Panmunjom Declaration that Mr. Moon and Mr. Kim signed at their first summit in 2018. Loudspeakers set up North Korea has begun setting up loudspeakers at multiple locations along the border to broadcast propaganda, the South’s Yonhap news agency reported on Monday, citing an official of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. Inter-Korean relations have been in a deep freeze following the collapse of a summit in Hanoi between Mr. Kim and U.S. President Donald Trump early last year over what the nuclear-armed North would be willing to give up in exchange for a loosening of sanctions. At times, leaflet dispatches have led to escalation — in October 2014 the North opened fire on an air balloon carrying anti-Pyongyang leaflets, triggering an exchange of shots at the border. But most South Koreans largely ignore leaflets they find sent by the North. The flyers often boast of its military prowess or criticise the U.S. and Southern Presidents, accompanied by offensive images and language.
23 June 2020||Beijing,||Spying charges are not linked to Huawei executive’s arrest: Beijing||China told Prime Minister Justin Trudeau on Monday to “stop making irresponsible remarks” after he said Beijing’s decision to charge two Canadians with spying was linked to his country’s arrest of a Chinese tech executive. The spying charges are “completely different” from the case of Huawei executive Meng Wanzhou, a Foreign Ministry spokesman said. Ms. Meng was arrested on U.S. charges connected to possible violations of trade sanctions on Iran. Arrest of Canadians Michael Kovrig and Michael Spavor were detained after Ms. Meng’s December 2018 arrest in Vancouver. Charges against them were announced on Friday after a Canadian judge ruled Ms. Meng’s extradition case can proceed to its next stage. Mr. Trudeau, speaking to reporters in Ottawa, said Chinese authorities “directly linked” the cases of Kovrig and Spavor with Ms. Meng. He called on Beijing to end their “arbitrary detention.” “There is no such thing as arbitrary detention,” said the Ministry spokesman, Zhao Lijian. “China urges the relevant Canadian leader to earnestly respect the spirit of the rule of law, respect China’s judicial sovereignty and stop making irresponsible remarks,” Mr. Zhao said. U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo on Monday called the charges against Kovrig and Spavor “politically motivated and completely groundless.” “The United States stands with Canada in calling on Beijing for the immediate release of the two men and rejects the use of these unjustified detentions to coerce Canada,” Mr. Pompeo said in a statement. ‘Release Meng’ “We strongly urge Canada to correct its mistakes as soon as possible, immediately release Meng Wanzhou and ensure her safe return to home,” said Mr. Zhao. Ms. Meng is living in a mansion she owns in Vancouver, where she reportedly is working on a graduate degree. Kovrig and Spavor are being held at an undisclosed location. China has also sentenced two other Canadians to death and suspended imports of Canadian canola.
23 June 2020||Tokyo,||Japan to rename islands disputed with China||A local council in southern Japan voted on Monday to rename an area, including islands disputed with China and Taiwan, a move Beijing denounced as illegal and a “serious provocation”. The local assembly of Ishigaki city approved a plan to change the name of the area covering the Tokyo-controlled Senkaku Islands — known by Taiwan and China as the Diaoyus — from “Tonoshiro” to “Tonoshiro Senkaku”. Local media said another part of Ishigaki is also known as Tonoshiro, and the name change was cast as a bid to avoid confusion. But the uninhabited islands are at the centre of a festering row between Tokyo and Beijing and the move sparked anger in both Taiwan and mainland China. “The passing of the so-called administration designation bill by Japan is a serious provocation to China’s territorial sovereignty,” said Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian. Taiwan says the islands are part of its territory, and also protested the move. “The sovereignty of Diaoyu islands belongs to our country and any move attempting to alter this fact is invalid,” the Foreign Ministry said in a statement.
23 June 2020||Colombo,||Ex-LTTE leader Karuna’s claim to be probed||The Sri Lankan police has ordered a probe into an alleged statement by former Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE) deputy leader Karuna Amman, claiming that he had murdered over 2,000 security forces on behalf of the Tamil separatist group, the government said on Monday. The acting police chief Chandana Wickremaratne has directed the Crime Investigation Department to launch an immediate probe into Mr. Amman’s statement, according to a press statement issued by the Ministry of Defence. Speaking at a political rally last week for the upcoming parliamentary elections in the country, Amman alias Vinayagamurthi Muralitharan reportedly said that he had murdered over 2,000 government troops during the LTTE’s separatist war which lasted for over three decades. “When I was a member of the LTTE, I killed some 2,000 to 3,000 Sri Lankan Army personnel in one night at Elephant Pass. I have killed more in Kilinochchi. That is certainly higher than the number of lives the coronavirus has claimed in Sri Lanka,” he was quoted as saying in the statement. He made the statement in response to a comment made by the Chairman of the Karathivu local government body that Karuna Amman is more dangerous than the coronavirus, a report in the Colombo Page said on Sunday.
23 June 2020||Karachi,||India-born Pak. Shia scholar passes away||India-born renowned Pakistani Shia scholar and author Talib Jauhari passed away here after a prolonged illness. He was 80. Mr. Jauhari, who was born on August 27, 1939 in Patna, is survived by his three sons, Dawn News reported on Monday. He migrated to Pakistan along with his father in 1949, two years after the Partition. Education in Iraq After obtaining early education from his father, he went to Iraq where he studied religion for 10 years under the renowned Shia scholars of that time. Mr. Jauhari, who was on a ventilator in the intensive care unit of a private hospital for the past 15 days, breathed his last on Sunday night. His son Riaz Jauhari confirmed his death and said that the body has been shifted to Ancholi Imambargah for the funeral prayers, The Express Tribune newspaper quoted his son as saying. Mr. Jauhari was respected among his sect as well as by Sunnis and was a class-fellow of the widely revered scholar Ayatollah Sayyid Ali al-Husayni al-Sistani. He was also a poet, historian and philosopher and authored many books. Among the awards he received was Pakistan’s third-highest civilian honour, Sitara-e-Imtiaz. Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan has condoled Mr. Jauhari death.
23 June 2020||Beijing,||China to join UN arms trade treaty||China will join a global pact to regulate arms sales, with Beijing saying on Monday that it is committed to efforts to “enhance peace and stability” in the world. The Communist Party leadership’s top legislative body voted on Saturday to adopt a decision on joining the UN Arms Trade Treaty that is designed to control the flow of weapons into conflict zones. It comes after U.S. President Donald Trump announced plans last year to pull the U.S. out of the agreement — which entered into force in 2014. Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told reporters that joining the treaty was “another important measure for China to support multilateralism”. It is among the agreements reached under the Obama administration that Mr. Trump has moved to pull out of.
23 June 2020||Melbourne,||Indian man among two new coronavirus cases in New Zealand||An Indian man is among two persons who tested positive for COVID-19 in New Zealand, taking the total number of active COVID-19 cases in the country to nine after having none at all earlier this month, health officials said on Monday. The man in his 30s travelled from India along with his wife. He was staying at a hotel in Auckland.PTI
23 June 2020||Washington,||Washington, June 22, 2020 (AFP) -||Former U.S. National Security Adviser John Bolton said on Sunday that he thinks North Korean leader Kim Jong-un “gets a huge laugh” over President Donald Trump’s perception of their relationship. Mr. Bolton spoke to ABC News ahead of the Tuesday release of his tell-all book, which contains many damning allegations against Mr. Trump.AFP
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Promote people power against COVID-19||India has a single time zone by the clock but it exists in many COVID-19 time zones. Cities with large international airports and high inflows of foreign returnees opened the door to COVID-19 and are trying to expel the unwelcome intruder. Other parts of India are trying to protect themselves against the virus which has just managed to get its toe in. These include rural India and much of the eastern and north-eastern regions. So, a pan-India defence is needed, with variations as appropriate to local contexts. Antibody prevalence Differences in viral exposure rates were initially observed across the country, from the RT-PCR tests. Since the testing criteria were restricted to specific indications and testing rates were variable, over time and geography, these comparisons were fallible. As reports of many persons testing positive but staying asymptomatic came in from across the world, questions arose as to the extent of virus spread in the general population. The government has just released the results of population surveys, employing antibody tests in different parts of the country. Data presented on 63 of the 83 districts reveal an antibody prevalence of 0.73% in the population. Earlier media reports of 15-30% antibody prevalence in the containment zones of large cities are yet to be corroborated, since data are still being analysed. Some sections of the media rushed to say that the reported prevalence in the containment zones heralds an imminent arrival of herd immunity in India. The herd immunity threshold (HIT) for this virus is estimated to be at least 70% of the Indian population. Extrapolating from containment zones to the entire country is a mistake, as the district survey shows. Even the prevalence attributed to the containment zones is far from the HIT. Much of the country remains untouched by the virus. This offers an opportunity to immobilise the virus even as we move out of the lockdown. It is clear that we need a differentiated approach in our response as we address the varied levels of infection across large cities, smaller towns and rural areas. One challenge is to stall the spread within the urban containment zones. The other is to protect the many parts of the country where the virus has touched very few but can threaten many. Despite the fatigue of national lockdown and the natural urge to get on with life as before, there are many battles yet to be fought before we unfurl the flag of victory like New Zealand or Vietnam. Changing track It is time to change track from a government-led but people-disconnected strategy of planning and implementation. As we open up, we need to engage the strengths of our community resources to ensure that the many components of the response, from testing and isolation to enhanced public awareness and personal protection, are successfully delivered at scale. So far, the strengths of voluntary groups and elected local bodies have been inadequately tapped across the country. There are examples of panchayats becoming excellent organisers of local community response in Kerala and Odisha, while Andhra Pradesh has deployed village and ward volunteers for symptom-based syndromic surveillance of rural and urban households and contact tracing. We need to replicate those good practices, and go beyond, as we move ahead. Symptom-based viral nucleic acid testing with RT-PCR will have limited success if we only depend on sick persons to self-report at hospitals. Stigma and fear of isolation in a crowded hospital impedes or delays self-referral. We need to detect all likely cases, with influenza-like illness and other COVID-19 symptoms, early in their illness and arrange for testing at home. The initial screening can be done by a school-educated community volunteer, without solely depending on the overburdened ASHA. Such volunteers can also become a family’s link with the healthcare system for follow-up of mild COVID-19 positive persons who are now being advised to isolate at home. Young volunteers can be equipped with a thermometer and a fingertip pulse oximeter. Each volunteer can visit 50 allotted houses daily, for case detection and follow-up. They should also act as the home isolated person’s link with the health system for efficient transfer and hospitalisation if symptoms worsen. Where will we get such easily trainable, disciplined and community-oriented young persons? The National Service Scheme functions under the Ministry of Youth Affairs. Started in 1969 to commemorate Mahatma Gandhi’s birth centenary, the NSS can demonstrate its value as we celebrate the completion of 150 years of his birth. The National Cadet Corps involves college students mentored by the Defence Ministry. These youth groups can be mobilised. Young persons are at very little risk of serious illness even if infected in the line of duty. This applies also to local youth volunteer groups. Elderly individuals, people with co-morbidities and persons with physical or mental disability will need special attention and customised service, for which the volunteers can be trained by experienced NGO trainers. Shortages in skilled healthcare providers need to be addressed, especially as there will be periodic attrition due to infection and exhaustion. The government can create a year-long short service commission under the National Health Mission to recruit doctors who have recently graduated and even attract private practitioners whose clinics shut during the lockdown. These temporary measures can lay the foundations for a larger, well-integrated health workforce of the future. Improving awareness We need to step up health awareness campaigns, not just through mass media but also through community leaders and local influencers. From women’s self-help groups to resident welfare associations, and trade unions to business associations, all social collectives have to be mobilised to educate their members and others. Fright and stigma, which drive the epidemic underground, must be countered while fostering social solidarity that assures collective safety. Within the hotspots, we need to increase efforts for micro-surveillance to curb spread even as the broader containment efforts aim to douse the infection. Physical distancing is difficult in slums but masks and hand washing can be highly protective. To overcome water shortages, municipalities should arrange water tankers. Each family in a slum can also be provided a bucket of soap solution (water with dissolved soap) for hand cleansing daily. However, all of this requires the active engagement and organisational skills of local community leaders who enjoy the trust of the people. COVID-19 threatens all of society. It can be countered only through a unified society effort. It is now time to direct people power against the virus. It requires the government to be more welcoming of NGO and volunteer participation and to create a platform for a new model of PPP: People Partnered Public Health. K. Srinath Reddy is President, Public Health Foundation of India. Views are personal
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||In anti-racism fight, the Lyndon B. Johnson option||Police killing blacks at the slightest pretext, sometimes without pretext, is one of the social constants of the United States. When police officer Derek Chauvin choked George Floyd to death on May 25, in Minnesota, the usual analysts pointed to the usual suspect, namely, racism. So, what is new? Yes, we all knew that blacks are more likely to be shot than white people by the police. Numbers vary; ProPublica’s 2014 finding says shooting blacks is 21 times higher, while a 2020 report in The New York Times points out that it is seven times greater in Minnesota. These numbers are nagging and repetitive. Just as we know where babies come from, racism in the U.S. police is not a revelation either. Much to be done George Floyd’s brother, Philonese Floyd, thinks what is new is that “people see it, White people too”. Yet, barely had George Floyd been cremated when another black person, Rayshard Brooks, was killed by the Atlanta police, on June 12. Perhaps Philonese was impressed that in Minneapolis, Denver, Dallas, Houston, Washington DC, California and New York, elected Mayors, citizens and even police officers want chokeholds banned or have got them banned. That still leaves out a very large area of concern. Banning chokeholds, yes, but what about gunshots? What about random, invasive probes? Thus far, these aspects are loosely worded by police reformists in terms of “de-escalation” of violent confrontations and greater caution to be exercised in “no-knock warrants”. What about correcting racial bias? Not even a spoonful yet. So, what has changed? In the meantime, well-meaning white anti-racists are self-flagellating, almost narcissistically. An influential video posting shows a white activist saying, in a confessional mode, that all whites are racists, pure and simple. The only way out for them is to admit, repent and self-demote. This is a variant of the Martin Luther King Jr. model: reason, prayer and goodwill hunting. LBJ, a man of action The other variant of anti-racism is the Lyndon B. Johnson (LBJ) option, not LBJ of the Vietnam War, but the person who passed the Civil Rights Act in 1964 ( picture ). While King was a general goodwill hunter, LBJ stalked down his opponents, one by one, on Washington’s Capitol Hill, till he got the Civil Rights Act passed. While in the thick of it, LBJ was asked by well-wishers why he was risking so much, and his reply was: “Well, what the hell’s the Presidency for.” In the end, the Civil Rights Bill was passed because Johnson would just not give up. He changed gears, pulled levers, heaved loading jacks, did whatever was needed to get the Bill through. U.S. President Barack Obama radiated the hope that he would place further legal impediments, LBJ style, on police brutality, but in the end, he chose the much-travelled road of Martin Luther King Jr. When Rev. Clementa Pinckney was shot dead by a White supremacist in 2015, Mr. Obama performed, what might be called, the acme of goodwill hunting. He sang, “Amazing Grace.” That’s it. He did not make laws and change procedures that would give racist, bigoted police officers a black eye. Today, following George Floyd’s killing, the time is ripe and ready for an LBJ-like intervention. Every aspect of police training, recruitment procedures, funding, and accountability needs to be transformed. If we were to take just the well-known inquiries into police brutality since 1990, we find that out of 18 such incidents, in only one has the punishment been commensurate to the crime. In as many as 12 instances, there was no punishment at all; the erring officers just walked home as if from a grocery store. In line with this, the National Registry of Exonerations shows that between 2008-2018, there was a doubling of cases against police action being overturned. How it is in Europe It is not as if people in Europe are not racists; the recent Syrian refugee crisis brought that out. Even so, police procedure is impressively more measured and controlled in that continent. This shows up in a number of ways. In 2015 alone, German police, fighting Islamophobes and fascists, fired in all four fatal shots, while the American police killed 400. Or, across the Channel, take the British example, where its police force used firearms only 51 times between 2003 and 2013. Or, across the pond, Canada has recorded only 12 fatal police shootings between 1999 and 2009. In Japan, the last time a person was shot by the police was in 2012. This difference between the American and European police in the use of guns is primarily because of better training. In the U.S., police training is, on an average, for 19 weeks, which is unthinkable by European standards. In Germany, for example, it is at least 130 weeks. In North Carolina, U.S., it takes 1,528 hours for one to be a licensed barber but only 278 hours to be a police officer. A case for extensive change A 2015 Report of the U.S. Justice Department concluded that the alarming number of violent incidents in which the police have been involved is because “officers do not receive regular, consistent training on the department’s deadly force policy”. In 2000, the United States Commission on Civil Rights in its study entitled, “Revisiting Who is Guarding the Guardians?”, advocated intensive diversity training. None of these recommendations has left behind tyre tracks on the ground in terms of actual action. This explains not just racist violence among U.S. police personnel, but also the disregard for previous offences. Derek Chauvin had 18 past complaints against him; his fellow officer, Tou Thao, had six. Myles Cosgrove, charged with Breonna Taylor’s murder in March 2020, shot seven times at a traffic violator in 2006. In 2005, George Zimmerman, the killer of teenage African-American Trayvon Martin, had also faced multiple assault complaints. This is just a sample. Interestingly, Cosgrove also won 10 commendations earlier for various achievements. Derek Chauvin is also a much-awarded officer. These are not freak exceptions. In the famous Rodney King case of 1991, officer Stacey Koon, the ultimate baton bruiser, was earlier awarded “Medal of Honor” and more than 100 other decorations. Garrett Rolfe, who has recently come under scrutiny for the June 12, 2020 killing of Rayshard Brooks, was awarded a silver pin though he had 11 serious allegations against him. There is, therefore, enough to spur anti-racist legislations against racist police violence. U.S. President Donald Trump may have, inadvertently, come to the aid of anti-race activists and made room for an LBJ mode of internal executive pressure. His widely publicised tweet, “When the looting starts, the shooting starts”, was read as an endorsement of police violence against those demonstrating George Floyd’s killing. It is a rare thing when antipathy to a sitting President partners anti-racist activism. This fortunate conjuncture of events may not happen again. In 1957, the earlier toothless Civil Rights Act was passed without much discussion for President Dwight D. Eisenhower was still regarded as a credible leader. The situation is very different today for Mr. Trump is facing an angry fall in popularity. This is much like the 2012-13 anti-rape movement in India which did not represent anti-rape sentiments as much as it did frustrations with the then United Progressive Alliance regime. When that moment was lost, rape returned to India. Activists in the U.S., whether on the streets or in elected office, should seize this opportunity and insist that only major police reforms by executive action would be satisfactory. They are in a happy place, between righteous anger and a failing President. It is very unlikely that colour will return to Mr. Trump’s election prospects in the near future. In this frame, goodwill hunting, or self-flagellating trending videos can be a distraction. Hearts will change once the law does and this is the time for law makers to change the law and not be satisfied with a Botox job. Over and above, the two presidential contenders should be pressured to put police reform right on top of their to-do list.” LBJ needs to ride shotgun again. Dipankar Gupta, an eminent sociologist, was a professor at the School of Social Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||A way out of undelineated borders||The Galwan face-off should focus minds on resolving, not managing, different perceptions of the northern border, relying first on ‘samadhaan’, as Kautilya suggested. The root of the misunderstanding between India and Nepal lies in a treaty to end a territorial war to which no map was attached and the negotiators had no idea of the geography of the area, except that devout Hindus on the way to Mansarovar considered the springs at Kalapani, at the base of the Lipulekh pass, as the source of the Kali river. Historical facts The Treaty of Sugauli in 1815-16, which ended the Anglo-Nepalese War, stipulated that “the Kali River” would mark Nepal’s western border with the British East India Company. The demarcation undertaken by W.J. Webb later in 1816, covered ‘the entire Byans region both to the east and west of the river, on the ground that it had traditionally been part of Kumaon prior to the 25-year-old occupation by Nepal’. In 1817, Nepal made a ‘representation to the British, claiming that it was entitled to the areas east of the river. The British Governor-General in Council accepted the demand’, and the villages of Tinkar and Chaggru were transferred to Nepal, dividing the Byans area. The drainage of the Kalapani and Lipulekh was considered wholly within British territory, and it was stated that a short way below the springs, the Kali formed the boundary with Nepal. Nepal later ‘extended a claim to the Kuthi valley further to the west, stating that the Kuthi-Yankti stream, the western branch of the head waters, should be considered the main Kali river’. The Himalayan Gazetteer records that the surveyor, W.J. Webb, made known to Bam Shah, the Governor of Doti, who had negotiated the Treaty, ‘that the lesser stream flowing from the Kalapani springs had always been recognised as the main branch of the Kali and had in fact given its name to the river. The British retained the Kuthi Valley’ and the Limpiyadhura Pass. The first British Resident in Nepal, Edward Gardner, laid this out to the Nepal Durbar, in correspondence (February 4, 1817 to October 10, 1817). The matter was considered settled as only the lowland lying between the Kali and Gorakhpur that were ceded in 1815 were restored to Nepal by the Treaty of 1860. To establish the boundary, initially, the Deputy Commissioner of Almora would each year travel to the Lipulekh Pass to open trade. The northern boundary of Byans was stated as the line of water parting between India and ‘Hundes’ in the Settlements of Trail in 1828 and Batten in 1840-41. The first Settlement, under the British government of Beckett between 1863 -1873, measured each cultivated field, reiterated this, and, as The Himalayan Gazetteer points out, was used to input local names into the new map prepared by the Survey of India, correcting earlier sketchy maps. The British Government did not shift the British East India Company boundary, as Nepal alleges. Agreed tri-junction In 1905, Charles A. Sherring, Deputy Commissioner of Almora, recorded his travels across Lipulekh into Tibet. He camped at Kalapani and noted its half dozen springs and the Nepal boundary at the Tinkar Pass. Trade through Lipulekh, amounting to £26,000 annually, had grown ten-fold since 1816, and was regulated by the British. The 1954 Trade Agreement between India and China mentions Lipulekh as one of the passes that could be used for trade and pilgrimage traffic; a police post was established by India at Kalapani in 1956. The China-Nepal Boundary Treaty, October 5, 1961, in its Article 1 states: “The Chinese-Nepalese boundary line starts from the point where the watershed between the Kali River and the Tinkar River meet the watershed between the tributaries of the Mapchu (Karnali) River on the one hand and the Tinkar River on the other hand.” The China-Nepal Boundary Protocol of January 20, 1963 established permanent boundary markers “as numbered 1 to 79 in serial order from west to east.” The first marker of the Sino-Nepal border is at Tinkar. The tri-junction, though not delineated, corresponds to the border claimed by India and shown on the British map of 1879, and in subsequent ones, is about 5 km east-southeast of Lipulekh and 20 km from the Limpiyadhura pass. International law Principles of international law support the British and India’s claim. Borders are established through political agreements; delimitation gives specific meaning to the verbal description and is considered part of the negotiations and demarcation is the setting up of boundary markers. In the case of Lipulekh and Kalapani, and now Limpiyadhura, the political agreement in 1817 has been acted upon and not open to challenge now. A treaty has to be interpreted with reference to the circumstances prevailing at the time the treaty was concluded. In considering the general significance of map evidence, the basis of Nepal’s claim, if that evidence is inconsistent, its value is reduced by any delimitation done at that time and textual interpretation as well as legislative, administrative or judicial assertions of authority over the area. There are also clear legal grounds and reasons for corrections in names in the maps. The militarisation of this un-delineated part of the border has made it imperative for India to respond early to Nepal’s selective reference to certain maps of the British East India Company — first raised in 1997 — with a white paper and discuss giving Byansis in Nepal all facilities, as those villages are cut-off from the rest of Nepal. Equally important is the need for another white paper on Aksai Chin where the border is also not delineated. Resolution is a part of political negotiation and overlapping “patrolling points” are grossly inadequate substitutes for boundary pillars. Civilisational states should rely on the power of persuasion to settle misapprehensions left over by colonialism based on historical facts and summit diplomacy. Mukul Sanwal is a former UN diplomat and has served as Deputy Commissioner Almora
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Transparency during a crisis||Right to Information (RTI) applications seeking information pertaining to the PM CARES Fund have been stonewalled. No information exists on the official website of the Fund regarding the amount collected, names of donors, expenditure incurred, or details of beneficiaries. The trust deed of the fund chaired by the Prime Minister is not available for public scrutiny. Reports suggest that donations of over $1 billion have been made, including contributions from foreign sources. Access to information is crucial This violation of peoples’ RTI is particularly concerning given the unprecedented crisis gripping the nation. Relief and welfare programmes funded through public money are the sole lifeline of millions who suddenly lost income-earning opportunities during the lockdown. If the poor and marginalised affected by the public health emergency are to have any hope of obtaining the benefits of government schemes, they must have access to relevant information. Ironically, however, a corrosive narrative seems to have emerged that public scrutiny of government actions is undesirable during the crisis and citizens must unquestioningly trust the state. This undermines the basic democratic tenet that citizens’ participation and oversight is necessary to ensure they are able to access their rights. Without information, peoples’ ability to perform that role is eviscerated and corruption thrives. The RTI Act, 2005, has empowered citizens to access information from public authorities and hold them accountable. During the COVID-19 crisis, proper implementation of the law has assumed greater significance than ever before. It is crucial that information related to implementation of relief measures announced by governments be widely disseminated. For instance, to ensure food security for the needy, Central and State governments have put in place schemes to provide subsidised rations. For effective delivery of foodgrains and other essential commodities, information must be made available in the public domain about the quantity and price of commodities, details of beneficiaries and the list of ration shops along with their stock position. Ground reports have revealed that in the absence of information, it is impossible for intended beneficiaries to get their due — ration shopkeepers siphon foodgrains and keep their shops closed on the pretext that they have no stocks. Greater openness would prevent controversies of the kind exemplified by faulty testing kits and fake ventilators. Following complaints from various States about rapid COVID-19 testing kits imported from China, the Indian Council for Medical Research halted their use. Serious questions arose about the government’s decision to order the kits from China, especially in the backdrop of countries like Spain and the Netherlands returning faulty Chinese kits. Numerous instances have been reported of COVID-19-positive patients requiring treatment in intensive care units being shunted from one hospital to another. This could be prevented if hospitals and health centres publicly provide real-time information about availability of beds and other facilities. To ensure easy accessibility to those who need it the most, relevant information must be made available in local languages and widely disseminated. In fact, this is a statutory obligation of public authorities under Section 4 of the RTI Act. Role of transparency watchdogs In the current scenario the role of information commissions is crucial. While in the midst of a pandemic it is reasonable to expect delays in processing information requests, public authorities must not be allowed to interpret the crisis as a justification for not complying with the RTI Act. Unfortunately, an assessment of the functioning of the transparency watchdogs revealed that 21 out of 29 commissions in the country did not hold a single hearing during the first three stages of the lockdown. While the Central Information Commission and some State commissions used audio and video conferencing to hear and dispose cases, most commissions did not make provision for hearing even urgent matters. At a time when incentives for secrecy are great, and the scope for discretionary actions wide, it is critical to create a culture of openness to empower people to participate meaningfully in the decisions that have profound effects on their lives and livelihoods. People must be able to obtain information about how and where their money is being spent in the efforts to combat the pandemic and whether funds are reaching the intended beneficiaries. It is behind the cloak of secrecy that the rights of individuals are most frequently abrogated, corruption thrives and public trust in institutions is eroded. Anjali Bhardwaj is associated with the National Campaign for Peoples’ Right to Information
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||A case to exempt GST in Central Police Canteens||Union Home Minister Amit Shah announced in early May that only indigenous products will be sold in all Central Police Canteens run by the Central Armed Police Force (CAPF). This is a welcome step in keeping with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s directive to promote indigenously manufactured products, or swadeshi products, in India. As almost all products sold in CAPF canteens are indigenous, detailed instructions on this are awaited from the Home Ministry. The CAPF comprises the Central Reserve Police Force, the Border Security Force, the Central Industrial Security Force, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the Sashastra Seema Bal, the Assam Rifles and the National Security Guard. Clearing proposals Repeated efforts over the years to get the facilities of the Canteen Stores Department for CAPF personnel proved futile though the items were sold to civilians as part of the Army’s civic action programme in the Northeast. When Atal Bihari Vajpayee, as Prime Minister, concurred with the Home Ministry’s proposal to include the CAPF in the list of beneficiaries of the Canteen Stores Department, the Defence Ministry opposed it and later shelved it. A proposal was subsequently cleared in 2006 by former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh to open Central Police Canteens for the police forces of the country on the lines of the Canteen Stores Department. The first CEO of the Central Police Canteen, R.K. Singh, visited the Canteen Stores Department headquarters in Mumbai to obtain first-hand knowledge for the gargantuan task of opening Central Police Canteens. Headed by an Additional Director General, the Central Police Canteen purchase Committee registered nearly 200 firms and the project took off in 2007. Run by the CAPFs, the Central Police Canteens are open to serving and retired CAPF and State police personnel and their families all over the country. With over 119 master canteens functioning as depots and 1,700 canteens running across the country catering to over 50 lakh family members of 10 lakh serving personnel, the Central Police Canteen boasts of sales of over Rs. 2,800 crore worth of products annually. Baba Ramdev’s Patanjali has already made inroads into these canteens with various products and is expected to expand. The Khadi and Village Industries Commission is also channelising the sale of its products like textiles and uniform accoutrements through these canteens. Non-exemption of GST on all products sold through canteens has been a sore point among the CAPF personnel. The rates at which the products are sold at present in the canteens are marginally less than the market rates. Exemption of GST will reduce the costs further making the products more easily affordable and lucrative. The government has to pay serious attention to this aspect. Paying VAT Before the GST came into effect, certain States had exempted the levy of VAT while many others, including Delhi, were reluctant to extend this benefit. While VAT was exempted for all Canteen Stores Department items, the Central Police Canteens in most States had to continue paying VAT. The authorities cannot ignore the fact that the the CAPF is working in difficult conditions across the country at grave risk to their lives. Not only are these personnel combating terrorism in Jammu and Kashmir, tackling insurgency in the Northeast and fighting the Maoists in left wing extremism-affected areas but are also in the forefront quelling riots, as they did in Delhi and Aligarh recently. While sale of indigenous products in CAPF canteens is a step in the right direction, the issue of exemption of GST needs to be addressed on priority lest the CAPF personnel feel that they are being given step-motherly treatment despite the arduous duties they carry out in inhospitable terrains and the innumerable sacrifices they make for the nation. M.P. Nathanael is Inspector General of Police (Retd), Central Reserve Police Force
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||The lone wolf threat||The knife attack at a park in Reading, a town west of London, which killed three people and injured three others, is yet another reminder of the threat of lone wolf attacks the U.K. is facing. Last November, the British government reduced the official threat level from “severe” to “substantial”, which means attacks could happen but there was no intelligence of an immediate terror strike. Since then, the country has seen three major incidents. In November, Usman Khan, 28, who had been jailed for terror offences, killed two with a knife at the Fishmongers’ Hall, London. In February this year, a 20-year-old was shot dead by police when he launched a knife attack in south London. A 25-year-old Libyan national has been arrested in connection with the latest incident. British media have reported that Khairi Saadallah was on the MI5’s radar. He was investigated as the intelligence community got a report that he was looking to travel abroad to link up with terror outfits. The investigation closed for lack of evidence. But he is now in custody for the Reading attack, which has been declared a terror incident. Lone wolf attacks, in which extremist individuals translate their beliefs into violent actions, are hard to detect and prevent. In coordinated terror attacks, the chances of competent intelligence agencies detecting the perpetrators are much higher. To their credit, the U.K.’s intelligence wings have foiled dozens of terror attacks since the devastating 2005 London bombings that killed 52 people and injured 700 others. But the U.K., especially London, continued to see low-tech lone attacks, where the attacker either used vehicles to run over people or launched knife attacks. Terrorist organisations had also embraced this tactic to spread violence in countries where coordinated big attacks are impossible. When the territories it controlled in Iraq and Syria started shrinking in the wake of counter-attacks, in 2015 and 2016 the Islamic State urged its supporters first to launch attacks in western cities and then declare allegiance to the ‘Caliph’. In 2017, Khalid Masood, a British citizen, drove a car into pedestrians on the pavement of Westminster Bridge and stabbed a police officer. He killed six people and injured 40 others before being shot by police. Though British authorities had foiled some knife attacks since the 2013 killing of soldier Lee Rigby in southeast London, lone wolf attacks continue to pose a security challenge to the public and the government. In all the last three knife attacks, the attackers were known to the agencies. The government and the security agencies need to adopt a multi-pronged approach towards radicalisation, which is anchored in human intelligence, strong ties with communities and community leaders and deradicalisation programmes.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Vigilance paramount||On June 20, a month after 1,00,000 novel coronavirus cases were reported, India crossed a grim milestone of 4,00,000 cases. If it took 13 days to double to 2,00,000 cases, India added another one lakh cases in 10 days on June 12. From a test positivity rate of 4.6% in mid-May, it is 7.9% as on June 21, reflecting a wider spread in the community, particularly in the hotspots — Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai and Ahmedabad. Mortality, which was initially low, has been steadily increasing. The first death was reported on March 13 and the figure crossed 1,000 only on April 28. But it has taken just three days for each additional 1,000 deaths after the toll touched 4,000 to reach 13,703 deaths as on June 21. The lower mortality figures are a reflection of the low median age (nearly 27 years) of the Indian population, the stage of the pandemic in India, health-seeking behaviour and the health-care system. While the low median age has helped keep mortality low, high prevalence of high-risk factors even among younger people might put them at great risk if infected with the virus. The health-care system in Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai and Ahmedabad, already strained, could witness more deaths if the virus spreads unabated. With India now in the unlock phase, this is the time to be most vigilant. Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh have done exceptionally well in containment. If Kerala was fully geared even before the first case was reported, the other two States utilised the early phase of the lockdown to track, test and isolate those infected and trace contacts. Nothing else can explain why Bengaluru has bucked the trend while Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai have become pandemic epicentres. Maharashtra has adopted the correct approach of enhanced testing unmindful of the large number of cases getting reported each day. Aggressive testing enabled Maharashtra to achieve the remarkable feat of containment in Dharavi. In stark contrast, till a few days ago, Delhi had used every trick in the textbook to keep cases and deaths low. That fewer cases are reported from Telangana, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar raises suspicion about their testing and counting. While many States have reported migrant workers testing positive on arrival, it is inconceivable that Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal, which have recorded the most returnees, should not see a spike. Through fever clinics and testing of people with influenza-like illness in certain areas in Chennai that have high spread, Tamil Nadu is making up for lost time. But true containment will remain difficult and will depend on door-to-door surveillance and large-scale testing in these areas. Going by the cases reported, Gujarat seems to be the only place where the virus spreads to a definite number of people every fortnight even when tests are increased incrementally. The only way to contain numbers is by not hiding them.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Sukarno’s success and failure (From an editorial)||For more than two decades, the name of Sukarno was synonymous with that of Indonesia and history will record that it was he who united this group of 3,000 islands into a new Asian nation. Sukarno founded the Indonesian Nationalist Party in 1927 and his powerful demand for independence led the Dutch rulers to exile him for many years. Then came the Japanese conquest and Sukarno accepted their offer to form a puppet government though he did not give up the goal of genuine independence. With the defeat of Japan in 1945, the Dutch re-appeared on the scene and a new movement, strongly supported by India, was launched to force them to transfer power to the Indonesian people. This was achieved in 1950 and Sukarno was unanimously chosen as President. Assisted by outstanding leaders like Sultan Sjahrir, who became Premier, and Vice-President Hatta, it seemed Indonesia would forge ahead on the democratic path. Despite the numerous political parties, parliamentary government seemed to be well established and economic progress was fairly rapid. But the extreme nationalism which had developed a reaction to Dutch colonial rule led the Government into a kind of radicalism for which it was not prepared.
23 June 2020||MADRID,||Madrid supplants Barca||Real Madrid knocked Barcelona off the top of LaLiga by beating Real Sociedad 2-1 on Sunday as Sergio Ramos rolled in another penalty before being forced off due to injury. Karim Benzema continued his excellent form by adding a second at Anoeta and while Mikel Merino gave Sociedad hope with seven minutes left, Madrid held on to go above Barca on head-to-head as both have 65 points. Ramos’ 20th consecutive spot-kick has made him LaLiga’s highest ever scoring defender on 68 goals, overtaking Ronald Koeman. Liverpool’s march towards the Premier League title was delayed as the leader returned to action with a goalless draw against Everton in the ‘Merseyside derby’, while Chelsea fought back for a 2-1 win at Aston Villa.  Record viewership Incidentally, the Liverpool-Everton match was the most-watched Premier League game ever on British television with an average of five million people across Sky’s channels watching the match.  The results:   Premier League: Aston Villa 1 (Hause 43) lost to Chelsea 2 (Pulisic 60, Giroud 62); Everton 0 drew with Liverpool 0.   LaLiga: Valencia 2 (Guedes 12, Rodrigo 35) bt Osasuna 0.   Real Sociedad 1 (Merino 83) lost to Real Madrid 2 (Ramos 50-pen, Benzema 70).   Serie A: Atalanta 4 (Djimsiti 16, Zapata 31, 66, Bourabia 37-og) bt Sassuolo 1 (Bourabia 90+2); Inter Milan 2 (Lukaku 10, Martţnez 33) bt Sampdoria 1 (Thorsby 52) .
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||A spinner and a gentleman||‘End of an era’ is a cliche, but I just cannot think of anything else to summarise my feelings on the sad demise of Rajinder Goel, a left-arm spinner with guile and a thorough gentleman. In many ways, with our careers overlapping each other’s, I had the privilege of playing with and against him a few times. Unfortunately, we didn’t have as much off-the-field camaraderie with each other so I didn’t know him as an individual as well as I did some of our contemporaries. But all those common friends and cricketers would rave about him being one of the gentlest human beings one could come across. And my experience during the limited interactions with him was no different. Similar and different We both were fortunate to have been mentored by two of the greatest cricketers in India. While Goel sahab had Lala Amarnath monitoring his progress early on, I was fortunate to have bumped into ‘Vinoobhai’ [Vinoo Mankad] at a chance trial at Bombay Gymkhana and that changed my life forever. But our bowling styles were a little different. While he relied more on dipping the ball in and using flight variation in between, I was more of a spinner who preferred to deceive the batsman in flight. The commonest aspect of our sojourn was the fact that we both were perhaps born in the wrong era. With Bishan Singh Bedi being a permanent fixture in the national side and the selectors somehow not looking at another left-arm spinner in the team, we both had to be content with an India cap in unofficial Tests. But as both of us have often said, we were not destined to play international cricket. And a lot of common friends tell me that the fact that neither of us is bitter about it is yet another common factor between us. Fitting reward It was fitting that Goel sahab and I were rewarded by the BCCI with the Lifetime Achievement Award on the same day. Since both of us had our families accompanying us, we couldn’t really spend a lot of time talking with each other. Still, I could feel the sense of satisfaction on his face that day.  (As told to Amol Karhadkar)   (Padmakar Shivalkar was a left-arm orthodox spinner who took 589 First Class wickets in 124 matches).
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Looking forward to 2021’||Yuki Bhambri is happy to be back on the tennis court, but is in no hurry to get back into competition mode. “I have not played any practice sets yet. I am going to take it slow. There is not much time for me this year. Am looking at 2021,” said the 27-year-old Bhambri, in an Instagram conversation with Jayant Chowdhary. Bhambri said that he was doing everything right to stay fit. He has lost nearly two years to the knee injury for which he consulted experts around the world, before he could make progress with the recovery. Bhambri felt that despite all the caution, there was no way of avoiding injuries. “You can’t stop running on a tennis court. Once you are on court, there is no stopping,” he said. Bhambri had lost time earlier to an elbow injury and said that he was still doing rehab for the same. After having been a bright junior, winning the Australian Open juniors (2009) and being world No.1, Bhambri said that he did not change much except for the step up in effort required to cope with the physicality of professional tennis at a young age. He remembered being asked by the renowned coach Nick Bollettieri, who has had an array of world No.1 stars training at his centre in Florida, “to shorten the backswing.” From being a counter-puncher, Bhambri said that he slowly kept improving in bits and pieces. Young players could tap into a lot of knowledge on the web these days, Bhambri felt, as top experts were putting so much in the public domain for the benefit of all. On a lighter note, Bhambri said he would have become a cricketer, if not a tennis player. “I would blame my sisters for that.”
23 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Mithali returns to the nets, feels fresh||She is back, and so are the smiles, in the company of best friend and fellow cricketer Nooshin Al Khadeer. After a near three-month break, Indian women’s cricket ODI captain Mithali Raj started practice at the St. John’s Coaching Foundation here. Struggled a lot “I struggled a lot during lockdown even though it helped me to work on my fitness, working on small things on which otherwise I couldn’t have spent enough time during a busy season,” Mithali, who practised under the watchful eyes of her coach R.S.R. Murthy and mentor K. John Manoj, told The Hindu on Monday.  “There is some freshness to the game, too, after the long break though the buzz is missing in this academy as there is no one around,” she said. The 37-year-old Mithali said that though she trained just about twice a week, she was ensuring that she enhanced her skills. “When I resumed training, surprisingly, my body kept up with the momentum and I was pleasantly surprised with the way I was batting in the nets,” she said. “Perhaps, it had something to do with the way I kept myself fit. “There is a lot of clarity [on how] to plan my training sessions,” she explained. “Maybe I have to work a bit more on my endurance levels,” she added. “So, when I reflect on resuming training, I never felt that I was coming back after such a long layoff. “Feeling 70% okay, which is better than being about 20% ready for the game,” she said with a smile. “I think this is the best way to get back into the groove,” she added. Biggest event “Next February’s ODI World Cup in New Zealand should be the biggest event for all of us if the scheduled series in England this September is cancelled because of COVID-19. “Thankfully, New Zealand is the safest place right now and I am sincerely looking forward to it,” Mithali said.
23 June 2020||KOLKATA,||A sense of normalcy through resumption of Serie A: CEO||Resuming after a break of around four months following the coronavirus pandemic, Italy’s premier football league Serie A is seeing a big negative economic impact with its clubs suffering a loss of “more than €100 million”. Revealing the crisis, the Serie A CEO Luigi De Siervo said that the resumption of the season is providing hopes to many Italians looking to come out of the scourge. “The return of Serie A TIM will give the country a sense of normalcy because many fans wanted football to return. In fact millions of fans in Italy watched on TV the Coppa Italia Coca-Cola final. We are very satisfied with our preparation and are excited about the return of the championship. Safety protocol “We are also confident about completing the season thanks to a rigid safety protocol made in collaboration with the Italian Football Federation,” said Siervo, replying to questions from The Hindu in an e-mail interview. Siervo hoped that the fans will help the clubs recover the deficit. “The virus has had a negative economic impact on the revenues of our clubs, who collectively are losing than €100 million in revenues from ticket sales because the fans cannot enter the stadium now. We hope that they can soon return to enjoy matches live,” he said. “Being a part of the Association of European Leagues, we are trying to standardise the safety protocols across all European leagues,” Siervo added.  (Serie A is aired live on Sony Ten 2 and Sony Six channels in India)
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Aditi learning to be ambidextrous||She has been busy hitting balls on to the curtains and off a roll-on mat on her terrace but the big challenge for Aditi Ashok in the last three months has been trying to master the art of being ambidextrous. The lone Indian on the LPGA Tour at the moment has been home for the longest period in over a decade and while it has not been easy, Aditi is now looking forward to finally getting back onto the golf course. She has already walked out at the BGC in Bangalore thrice since the lockdown eased but admitted it wasn’t anything like before. “It’s nothing close to how much time I usually spend, maximum 3-4 hours so far, but still it’s better to feel the greens than hitting balls on the terrace. Of course there are precautions and protocols in place — checking temperatures, mask on, walking through a disinfectant passage, no touching anything including scorecards and flagsticks and no hitting balls, only play on the golf course. But social distance is easy, you are not in a crowd anyway in golf,” Aditi told The Hindu .  The forced break has given her time to catch up on non-golfing stuff. “I am baking a bit, used to earlier but I have got better at whatever little I make. I have also started learning how to write with my left hand, it’s good for engaging both sides of your brain. There have been a bunch of books on my to-read list that I have got through and of course there are movies, so it’s been ok,” she explained. Uncertainty The most difficult part, as for most professional sportspersons, has been the uncertainty. “Usually when I am practising or working on fitness or golf, I know when I am going to play next, which tournament and how much time I have left going into it. “Now, even though there are tournaments on schedule, nothing is actually confirmed till it happens so you don’t know why or for what you are working. That has been a little difficult to deal with,” she admitted.
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Goel kept Ranji Trophy alive: Bedi||India’s cricket fraternity mourned the demise of legendary left-arm spinner Rajinder Goel, who passed away on Sunday, by paying glowing tributes on the social media. Bishan Singh Bedi said he envied Goel’s sense of ‘contentment’ as the latter was never bitter and accepted his fate [not playing for India] with grace. “Rajinder Goel was easily the most ‘contented’ human being I’ve known. I used to envy his sense of ‘contentment’ in my moments of turmoil...RIP ‘Goely’. You bowled your heart out to keep Ranji Trophy alive..!!,” tweeted the spin great.  BCCI president Sourav Ganguly: To have a career that lasts more than 25 years and still be able to perform consistently speaks about his dedication and commitment towards the game. To be able to pick 750 wickets needs years and years of hard work and I salute his efforts.  Sachin Tendulkar: He was a stalwart of Indian Domestic Cricket picking up more than 600 wickets in the Ranji Trophy.  Ravi Shastri: Master of his craft. Killer line & length in our terrain. Humility personified.  Virat Kohli: We’ve lost a legend in Rajinder Goel Ji. Him being the highest wicket-taker in the history of Ranji Trophy, speaks volumes about the career he had.  Sanjay Manjrekar: 157 matches, 750 wickets! 59 five wicket hauls & 18 times 10 wkts in a match. Avg — 18.58. That’s Bradmanesque in bowling.  V.V.S. Laxman: Deeply saddened by the passing away of Rajinder Goel, the highest wicket-taker in the history of Ranji Trophy.  Shikhar Dhawan: Rest in peace Rajinder Goel Sir. God bless your soul.
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Harikrishna suffers his fourth loss||P. Harikrishna suffered his fourth loss, second to Group ‘A’ leader Vladimir Artemiev, and slipped closer to elimination after six rounds of $150,000 Chessable Masters on Monday. Just when all the focus was on Magnus Carslen’s 28-move master-class to Hikaru Nakamkura, Harikrishna lost his way following the exchange of queens and eventually resigned after 47 moves. Faltering On Sunday, in Group ‘B’, Anish Giri surprised second seed Fabiano Caruana in the day’s final round to catch up with Maxim Vachier-Lagrave in the lead.  The results: Group A: Sixth round: P. Harikrishna (1.5) lost to Vladislav Artemiev (Rus, 4.5).   Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 3.5) bt Hikaru Nakamura (USA, 2.5); Alexander Grischuk (Rus, 2.5) drew with Daniil Dubov (Rus, 3.5).   Group B: Fifth round: Fabiano Caruana (USA, 2.5) lost to Anish Giri (Ned, 3); Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus, 2.5) drew with Maxim Vachier-Lagrave (Fra, 3); Ding Liren (Chn, 2.5) drew with Teimour Radjabov (Aze, 1.5).   Fourth: Lagrave drew with Liren; Giri drew with Nepomniachtchi; Radjabov lost to Caruana.   Third: Lagrave bt Caruana; Nepomniachtchi drew with Liren; Giri drew with Radjabov.   Second: Caruana bt Nepomniachtchi; Radjabov drew with Lagrave; Liren drew with Giri.   First: Caruana drew with Liren; Nepomniachtchi bt Radjabov; Lagrave drew with Giri.
23 June 2020||KOLKATA,||ICA’s gesture to four more Bengal players||The Indian Cricketers Association (ICA) will extend financial assistance to four more former Bengal players, including three women. It had earlier helped five former cricketers from the State. The new beneficiaries are Nandu Chandvarker (Rs. 80,000) and women cricketers Sumita Mukhopadhaya (Rs. 80,000), Ila Das (Rs. 60,000) and Iti Dutta (Rs. 60,000). Ila, expressed her gratitude, saying, “I am thankful for the support at this difficult time. I live with my sick mother. With the coaching camps having been closed due to the pandemic, I am out of work. I can’t say how thankful I am.”
23 June 2020||Dubai,||2020 WC most watched women’s event: ICC||The International Cricket Council on Monday claimed record viewership of the 2020 Women’s T20 World Cup in Australia with the event clocking 1.1 billion views through the governing body’s digital channels. An ICC release said, the tournament held in February-March recorded 10 times more views than the previous most successful women’s event — the 2017 ODI World Cup.PTI
23 June 2020||PARIS,||Dimitrov, Coric test positive||Borna Coric announced on Monday he had tested positive for coronavirus after playing in an exhibition tournament in Croatia featuring World No. 1 Novak Djokovic. On Sunday, Grigor Dimitrov, said he had also tested positive after pulling out of the exhibition event. Coric had beaten Dimitrov in the second leg of the Adria Tour in Zadar on Saturday. The final between Djokovic and Andrey Rublev was cancelled as a precaution.
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Former shooter Pournima passes away||Cancer-stricken former India shooter Pournima Zanane passed away aged 42. She had represented India at multiple ISSF World Cups and Asian and Commonwealth Championships, among other events.PTI
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||DRI busts syndicate smuggling exotic macaws from Bangladesh||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) has busted a wildlife smuggling syndicate with the arrest of two persons and seizure of a consignment of exotic macaws which had been smuggled from Bangladesh to Kolkata and was on its way to Bengaluru. The joint operation was carried out in coordination with the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB) and the Customs Department at the Kolkata airport. The DRI officials intercepted the consignment at the airport’s cargo area on Sunday morning. “The cargo contained 22 exotic birds kept in cramped cages, which had been smuggled in through the Bongaon area of Indo-Bangla border,” said the agency. The exotic birds, handed over to the zoological garden in Kolkata, were identified as Hyacinth macaw, Pesquet’s parrot, Severe macaw and Hahn’s macaw. Zoonotic disease concern The DRI said the possibility of spread of zoonotic diseases on account of smuggling in such exotic species was increasingly becoming a global concern against the backdrop of COVID-19. “The seized macaws are protected under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES), with Hyacinth macaw being accorded the highest protection,” said the DRI. Vulnerable West Bengal and northeast India are vulnerable to cross-border wildlife smuggling because of their proximity to the Bangladesh and Myanmar borders, and to Thailand. Over the recent years, the DRI has seized a range of endangered species, including black-and-white ruffed lemur, hoolock gibbons, palm civets and Indian star tortoises; and exotic birds like rosellas, nanday conures, peach-fronted conures, grass parakeets and maroon-tailed conures. Syndicates smuggling macaws, pygmy falcons, mandarin ducks, kookaburras (kingfishers), java sparrows, star finches, Gouldian finches, cockatiels and aracaris have also been busted. Another major concern has been the smuggling of tusks and ivory products. About 65.33kg of elephant tusks, tiger teeth and ivory articles have been seized in six recent cases.
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 07:29 IST,||Sudoku - June 23, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Basic storytelling done right||Suspended upside down from gymnastics rings in the opening shot, Sushmita Sen as Aarya, perfectly sets the tone for the nine-episode series. The enigmatic image, contrary to expectations, ushers us into a normal household, grappling with a familial morning routine. It’s a clever glimpse into the possibilities of Aarya shape-shifting into something more badass from a regular home-maker, and the underlying capability, focus and strength required, both in body and mind, to do so. The series rests heavily on Sen’s capabilities and conviction to slip into different avatars, while maintaining her credibility in all the roles — a grieving wife, scared mother, hurt friend, diplomatic daughter, drug dealer, businesswoman and keeper of secrets. Sen’s prowess to transition smoothly, while not giving away too much, is one of the biggest assets of the show.  Aarya is a genre series that’s not too ambitious. The show knows its limits and remains quite basic as a crime thriller, which works in its favour. The big reveals aren’t too shocking, but the emphasis is on how we, as an audience, reach the destination rather than the destination itself. The cliff hangers at the end of each episode — classic old-school television-style — serve their sole purpose of creating a desire to know more. In a genre film, with its time constraint, the narrative is often limited to what’s integral to the plot and the thriller. But with a lavish run-time of nine 50-minute episodes, Aarya can explore the finer relationship details and wallow in moments like the murder of Tej Sareen (Chandrachur Singh). For the most part, even though stretched a bit too much at times, the story remains on track, is simple (sometimes simplistic) to follow and leaves you with utmost curiosity at the end of each episode. The characters and the actors contribute heavily to build up intrigue, despite a rather rudimentary premise. The show fleshes out characters apart from Aarya, and giving their respective actors enough screen-time to make them believable and some, memorable. Aarya has close to a dozen main characters but they seldom feel like embellishments. Even though most characters are very one-tone (the confused friend Maya or muscleman Sampat), Aarya also brings out the sexuality of ACP Khan and chronicles the various ways in which the three kids deal with their father’s death. Often, the show sidesteps some common depictions and instead shows a smoking grandmother, a cop’s hidden sexuality and a white son-in-law. Even though in consecutive seasons, ACP Khan's sexuality may become an easy source of conflict, in the first episode it remains largely a characteristic trait, which is rather rare in Indian films and shows. Grey filters (typical of a crime thriller) mixed with upscale and modern yet traditional Rajasthani mise-en-scène, renders a visually-striking show and lends it an air of high-production value. But the show’s dubbing takes away its expensive look. Perhaps it is the last-minute patchwork, but the characters often sound like they are speaking into a mic, and there is an evident disassociation between the dialogues and the sounds of a landscape. Even the sounds of a wedding in the first two episodes feel engineered rather than atmospheric. The show overall sounds quite shoddy. The three-camera, long-takes shooting technique pays off rather well, as actors, led by Sen, appear invested. There isn’t a disassociation of emotions between takes and there is a natural fluidity in the way the actors conduct themselves. Sen has a composed, vulnerable and tall presence throughout the show, but there are others like Sohaila Kapur, Vikas Kumar and Namit Das, who are given enough space to showcase their acting abilities. Although one wishes Kapur was given more space in the writing, the show does hint at a second instalment and perhaps she’ll have more to do then. The show, by no means, is extraordinary, yet it keeps you interested in the characters and their lives, and emerges as a good example of basic storytelling done right. Aarya is currently streaming on Hotstar+ Disney
23 June 2020||June 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Farrukh Jaffar: Keeper of the old world||Farrukh Jaffar, just like Gulabo Sitabo ’s writer Juhi Chaturvedi, is a Lucknow girl. So, what does Jaffar then think of the portrayal of her city in the film in which she is the centre of attention as the spunky and spirited nonagenarian Fatima “Fatto” Begum? “It is true that parts of Lucknow are exactly as shown in the film. But like all cities there is the more modern side [to it] as well,” she tells The Hindu on an email interview. Jaffar’s character, despite the sharp tongue, is actually the keeper of old world, genteel values of loyalty and love, even when it comes to something inanimate like her crumbling ancestral haveli Fatima Mahal. A belief system and philosophy that is fast on the decline; on its way to becoming extinct, in fact. Starting out Just like Shoojit Sircar’s Gulabo Sitabo , Jaffar’s first foray on to the big screen—Muzaffar Ali’s Umrao Jaan —was also set in Lucknow. She played the courtesan’s mother. In an earlier interview with me she had referred to it as “ filmi duniya ki sair ka pehla jeena (the first step in the journey through the world of films)”. Both recreations of the city are vastly different, set as they are in different times and cultures. “Every city has different corners. When you watch Umrao Jaan you may get the impression that Lucknow is one big brothel. After watching Gulabo Sitabo you might think that the entire population of the city is decadent and decaying. But each film is only a small part of the whole city,” she asserts. Born in 1933, Jaffer was 16 when she left her village in district Jaunpur, to come to Lucknow following her marriage to eminent journalist and freedom fighter Syed Muhammad Jaffar. Her maternal grandfather and father were landlords. “I was very excited to leave the village behind. In Lucknow, I was glamour struck,” she recollects. Jaffer wanted to do many things but was not sure what. In Lucknow University she participated in cultural programmes and theatre. After graduation she did not want to remain a housewife, and so began her career in radio in 1963. “I landed a job at the radio station by accident, and I began to like the idea of speaking to countless people, some of whom fell in love with my voice,” she shares. She wrote and acted in several radio plays and also did a brief stint on stage. Born to be loved How do you relate to the world of radio and theatre as opposed to films? I ask her. “I like the idea of being loved by so many people and the idea of plays and films allowing me to play so many different characters in one life. The biggest high of showbiz is to be able to communicate with the whole world. Radio, films and theatre all work for me. All these are a medium for me to be loved by a maximum number of people. I love to be loved,” she declares. I remember seeing her first on big screen in Anusha Rizvi’s Peepli Live! as the crochety old amma. In between, there have been outings in Sultan , Photograph , Tanu Weds Manu etc. But her character in Gulabo Sitabo has made an impact, like no other of Jaffer’s. She gives the credit to the direction of Shoojit Sircar and the writing of Juhi Chaturvedi. “I am a director’s actor. Shoojit explained my work so well to me, that it became easy for me to play it,” she says. Fearless Fatto It was the first time for her to have been working with Sircar's unit and she can’t seem to get enough of him. “He is able to explain what he wants in few words. He gave me tremendous confidence by saying ‘There is no other actress in the film except you. You are my leading lady. You are the heroine. It is just you and the Big B’,” she recollects. He told her that during the shoot she should not see Amitabh Bachchan as a super star but as the “creep” Mirza. “That made me dialogue with Amitabh fearlessly,” she says. It’s clear that she has an energy and vivacity—similar to Fatto—that totally belie her age. Though she thinks that she isn’t as bold and cheeky as her latest on screen avtaar. “What I do give her character, is that twinkle in the eye. I believe in having maximum fun in life despite age or the economic situation,” she emphasises. She loved her birthday scene in the film, “Fatto is happy that she, as a woman with age not on her side, still smarts the crooks.” She also liked it for getting to wear lovely clothes, jewellery and make-up which made her look good on the screen. However, in her own family, birthdays are not a big deal. “There is no celebration. When I do remember, I wish my grandchildren on their birthdays. I routinely forget the birthdays of my children.” I ask her whom she’d want to elope with in real life just like she does in the film. Her reply makes me smile, “I would not like to elope with anyone. I am very happy where I am in life today. Even Fatto Begum did not elope for love or for a man. She staged the elopement to spite the very greedy Mirza.”
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Residents of sealed zone attack volunteers over food delivery||Civil defence volunteers and home guards deployed at a containment zone in west Delhi’s Naraina were allegedly attacked by a group of locals after a quarrel broke out between the two sides over delivery of “non-veg” food, said an officer on Monday. A civil defence staff was injured and a resident has been arrested, said the police. The area was declared a containment zone after 10 COVID-19 cases were reported on Saturday. On the same day, the locals argued with the police and demanded that the barricades be removed. The officials were eventually able to pacify and convince the crowd that the sealing was needed.  On Sunday, a heated argument broke out over delivery of food and other supplies. The incident took place around noon when some of the residents became agitated as they wanted to go to a nearby area where food was being distributed. The locals were told that any kind of delivery is restricted in the containment zone but the residents refused to listen, said an officer. The crowd became agitated and a quarrel broke out between the two sides. “People were making unnecessary demands for non-essential items, including non-veg food, and argued with civil defence volunteers and home guards to deliver items at their doorstep. A heated argument ensued after volunteers refused their demands. A group of locals thrashed volunteers and policemen who intervened,” said an officer. A constable and a civil defence staff member present said the residents removed the iron tin shade used to cover the area. CCTV footage “We have registered an FIR against residents under relevant sections of the IPC and Epidemic Diseases Act for attacking policemen. The case is under investigation. The people involved in the attack will be identified with the help of CCTV footage and videos recorded in mobile phones,” said DCP (West) Deepak Purohit.
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||Court grants bail to duo held in connection with Delhi riots||A Delhi court has granted bail to two persons who were arrested for their alleged involvement in the north-east Delhi riots cases, noting that there was “hardly any connection” between the CCTV footage and the incident cited in the FIR. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav said, “A bare perusal of the FIR in this matter and the place where the applicant is stated to be seen rioting is altogether different.” The court also questioned the delay of 112 days between the registration of FIR and the arrest. The court enlarged Habib Ahmed and Irfan on bail under separate orders but with similar conditions. It said they will continue to help the investigation and shall not tamper with evidence. The court also ordered them to keep their mobile phone in operational condition, the number to be intimated to the area SHO upon their release, and also to instal Aarogya Setu app.  Gap of 112 days The counsel, appearing for the duo, had argued that the alleged incident in the matter took place on February 24, 2020, whereas the FIR in the matter was registered on March 3 and the duo was arrested after 112 days of recording of the FIR on June 14. The counsel further argued that the duo had no previous involvement. “No test identification parade in the matter was conducted. Even the police custody remand of the applicant was not sought in the matter,” the counsel had argued. The Additional Public Prosecutor (APP) argued that the duo was seen rioting in CCTV footage of PWD camera. The APP further submitted that Constable Sunil had duly identified them. “There is hardly any connection between the CCTV footage and the incident in this case. As regards identification by Constable Sunil of the applicant is concerned, even same has no meaning as why he kept waiting from 24.02.2020 till 14.06.2020 and not reported the matter to the police, [sic],” the court said.  No test identification parade in the matter was conducted. Even the police custody remand of the applicant was not sought in the matter Counsel for accused
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC halts release of school principal||Within two days of being granted bail by a local court here, the release of Faisal Farooq — principal of Rajdhani Public School — was halted by the Delhi High Court on Monday following an appeal by the city police. Mr. Farooq was arrested in connection with a north-east Delhi riots case and has been charged under Sections ranging from 307 (attempt to murder), 395 (dacoity), 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance) amongst others. “Till further order, if the respondent/accused [Mr. Farooq], pursuant to order dated June 20, 2020 is still in custody, he shall not be released,” Justice Suresh Kumar Kait ordered on Monday. This came after the police challenged a June 20 order of a local court here enlarging Mr. Farooq on bail. During the hearing, Delhi government’s Standing Counsel Rahul Mehra contended that the Centre has no power to file the present petition against the June 20 order. However, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said he has received instructions from the Centre to file the present petition and to appear before the court. The court will hear the case again on Tuesday. In the order granting bail to Mr. Farooq, Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav had taken into consideration the fact that he kept on calling the police to report about damage to his school (Rajdhani Public School) from February 24, but FIR was ultimately recorded on March 05. The judge also pointed out that in none of the CCTV footages installed at Rajdhani Public School, the presence of Mr. Farooq is recorded. “The chargesheet is berefet of material showing the links of the applicant [Mr. Farooq] with PFI [Popular front of India], Pinjra Tod group and Muslim clerics,” the judge had said. The judge also cited a May 15 order of a Magistrate which dismissed the supplementary statement of the primary witness recorded by the Investigating Officer on the ground that it can not be permitted to make improvement in the statement of the witness.
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||High Court extends interim protection against coercive action for DMC chief||The High Court on Monday extended the interim protection granted to Delhi Minorities Commission (DMC) chairman Zafarul Islam Khan against any coercive action from the police in the sedition case till July 31. Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri also directed the police to serve a copy of the status report filed in the matter to Mr. Khan. The 72-year-old, who has been serving as the DMC chief since July 2017, in his anticipatory bail plea filed through advocate Vrinda Grover said he suffers from heart disease and hypertension and was highly susceptible to COVID-19 infection, which can have fatal consequences for a person of his age and health condition. The police had on April 30 registered a case under Sections 124A (sedition) and 153A (promoting enmity between different groups) against Mr. Khan over a complaint received from a Delhi resident, who alleged that he has “made a social media post on Twitter and Facebook (on April 28) and the contents of the post are provocative, intended to cause disharmony and creat rift in the society”. Mr. Khan had said the FIR against him was “misconceived, being made on a misrepresentation of facts and an erroneous, untenable reading of the law”. Mr. Khan had defended his social media post saying it was on the plight of the minority population which had been targeted by certain elements in society, and further acknowledged the role of the international fraternity in raising concerns regarding the wellbeing of Indian Muslims.
23 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Residents irked about building being sealed||Residents of a containment zone in east Delhi’s Patparganj area expressed anger over the locality being sealed, after five members of a family tested positive for COVID-19. On June 5, B3 Tower of Ekta Garden, comprising 28 flats, was declared a containment zone and barricades had been installed at all entry and exit points. In the last week of May, a family of five, including three children, tested positive in the building. Senior citizens The residents said that most of them are senior citizens and are managing without house helps. For them, it is extremely tough. They also find the decision of making their tower a containment zone illogical. “Here, we only have one family which tested positive and in a block close to ours, a person died of COVID-19. However, that block was not declared a containment zone,” said Saurabh Mehra, a 45-year-old resident. Mr. Mehra said that there are many senior citizens in the building who are facing difficulties. “We are at the mercy of the security guard who gets us stuff two times a day, depending on his availability,” he added. Sarita Khanna, another resident, said that businessmen and office goers are also facing problems. “There was a complete lockdown for two months and just when it opened, we are behind the barricades again. They should have just contained the family. It’s depressing to stay indoors, we can’t even go for a walk. There’s some influence involved here,” she alleged. When contacted, District Magistrate (East) Arun Mishra said that they have followed the government’s guidelines while declaring it as a containment zone.
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||Deferred bail hearing of Safoora Zargar today||The Delhi High Court on Monday adjourned the hearing on bail plea of Jamia Coordination Committee media coordinator Safoora Zargar, who was arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots case, for Tuesday. Justice Rajiv Shakdher adjourned the hearing after Solicitor General Tushar Mehta and Additional Solicitor General Aman Lekhi sought to defer the hearing by a day to take instruction on the issue. Advocate Nitya Ramakrishnan objected to the request highlighting the delicate state of health of Ms. Zargar, who is 23 weeks pregnant. During the hearing, Delhi government’s standing counsel Rahul Mehra raised objection to Solicitor General and Additional Solicitor General appearing for the Delhi police in the case. Mr. Mehra stated that Delhi Police had taken requisite permission from the Delhi government to represent them by the team led by the Solicitor General and ASG in another north-east Delhi riots case. However, in Ms. Zargar’s case no such permission was taken. Mr. Mehra said that the appointment of public prosecutors has to be done on the aid and advice of the Council of Ministers and that the Lieutenant Governor cannot unilaterally appoint them. He additionally said that Delhi Police’s status report in the case was not routed through his office. Objects to bail plea Delhi Police, in the status report, has objected to the grant of bail to Ms. Zargar stating that she was “part of the conspiratorial design not only to cause disaffection but also the use of any means to cause death and injury to person and death and loss to persons”.
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||Rs. 25 lakh green compensation imposed on Noida Golf Course, business park||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has imposed an environmental compensation of Rs. 25 lakh on the Noida Golf Course and Advant Navis Business Park over unauthorised extraction of groundwater leading to scarcity of drinking water. Directing the two units to deposit the compensation with the Central Pollution Control Board, a Bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel noted that no operative no-objection certificate was not available for the two units. Referring to earlier orders on similar issues, the Bench said, “The Tribunal has held that groundwater cannot be used for a playground like a cricket ground particularly in over-exploited, critical and semi-critical areas, which observation also applies to Golf Course.” It added, “In view of depleting groundwater, there is a threat of irreversible damage to the aquifers and salinity of the water. Moreover, it is leading to scarcity of drinking water, thereby depriving a section of society of access to potable water which is already scarce. The rainwater harvesting systems have to be regularly maintained as per norms.” NGT directed a panel comprising members from the CPCB and IIT-D to conduct a water audit in order to ascertain the extent of use and replenishment of groundwater in the last three years.
23 June 2020||New Delhi,||Tiwari visits family of slain Army personnel||North East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari on Monday visited the residence of Hawaldar Sunil Kumar, one of the Indian Army personnel martyred at the Galwan Valley, in Bihta near Patna, the party said. Mr. Tiwari had earlier announced he would adopt Mr. Kumar’s family.
