23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Confirmed cases cross 20,000; nearly 4,000 people recover||India on Wednesday reported 50 new COVID-19 deaths and the recovery of 3,959 patients, taking the recovery rate to 19.36% from 17% previously. The Union Health Ministry said 20,971 individuals have been confirmed positive as of now, while the death toll stood at 652. Since Tuesday, 1,383 new cases were reported. However, reports from the States put the toll at 683 and the total number of positive cases at 21,324, out of which 16,489 are active. Maharashtra has the most number of cases (5,649), followed by Gujarat (2,407) and Delhi (2,248). The Ministry said the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had promised to collect data from the States to assess the scope and extent of the utility of the rapid antibody test in field conditions. “It [ICMR] shall keep advising the States on a regular basis. The States have also been advised to follow the prescribed protocol for this test and use it for the purpose for which it is meant,” said a release issued by the Ministry. The ICMR had reiterated that the rapid test was largely to be used as a tool for surveillance. “Globally also, the utility of this test is evolving and it is currently being used for detecting the formation of antibodies in individuals. The test results are also dependent on field conditions,” the release noted and asserted that the test cannot replace the RT-PCR test to diagnose COVID-19 cases.  The Ministry said it had directed State Chief Secretaries and the UT administrations to ensure the safety of health workers. “Their skill and service amongst all professionals place them in a unique position to save people in present times. The States and the UTs have been advised to take up various measures, including human resource and capacity-building training, medical safety, timely payments, psychological support, training of front line workers and life insurance cover,” it stated.
23 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Partial relaxation in lockdown norms in State from today||The State government on Wednesday relaxed partially the lockdown norms from Thursday. While almost all activities related to agriculture and allied sectors besides construction work in rural and semi-urban areas have got exemption from the norms, chosen commercial activities, including manufacturing sectors involved in production and delivery of essential services, packaging industry, and courier/postal services have been allowed to operate in urban areas. However, these relaxations will not apply to containment zones.  Motor mechanics, plumbers, electricians, those taking care of IT-product repairs and carpenters too have been allowed to operate. IT services IT and IT-enabled services, as promised by the government earlier, can work only with “essential minimum staff only”. The remaining employees of these firms would have to work from home, as per the Karnataka State Consolidated Revised Guidelines issued by the government. As earlier, essential services such as medical facilities, grocery units, banking activities and a host of government offices would continue to work in urban as well as rural areas. Online delivery All the players in the supply chain of essential commodities have been kept out of lockdown norms. At the same time, the notification has asked the district authorities to take measures for online delivery of essential commodities so that residents need not come out of their houses. All the manufacturing units involved in production of essential items, including drugs and medical devices have been allowed to function.
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Attacks on health workers to attract up to 7 years in prison||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved the promulgation of an ordinance to amend the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, making acts of violence against medical staff a cognisable and non-bailable offence and to provide compensation for injury to healthcare personnel or for damage or loss to property. The ordinance proposes that in cases of attacks on healthcare workers, the investigation will be completed within 30 days and the final decision arrived at within one year. The punishment for such attacks will be three months to five years and the fine Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 2 lakh. In severe cases, where there are grievous injuries, the punishment will be six months to seven years and the fine Rs. 1 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh. ‘Zero tolerance’ Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, in a series of tweets after the announcement, said that as per the “new ordinance, there shall be zero tolerance to any incidents of violence against healthcare service personnel and/or damage to property. All offences of violence will be cognisable and non-bailable”. “This will facilitate punishment under the law in cases of violence against healthcare service personnel serving during an epidemic. Public venting of angst against healthcare service personnel leading to harassment assault and damage to property is being highlighted daily. Portrayal as potential spreaders of COVID-19 pandemic played havoc with the confidence of the medical community which is demanding protection,’’ the Health Minister tweeted.
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Most sectors will be open by May 3, says Sanjeev Sanyal||The process of “unwinding” the lockdown imposed to contain COVID-19 has already begun, and most sectors of the economy will be open by May 3, Principal Economic Adviser Sanjeev Sanyal told members of the PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry via a video-conference call. “Well before the rest of the world is out and about, the Indian economy will be open,” he said. International passenger travel, however, would be locked down for a long time. “I think it will be months, not weeks, as much of the world remains unsafe,” he said. With regard to an economic stimulus, Mr. Sanyal exhorted industry leaders to view the process as “a marathon, not a sprint.” He warned that the economic downturn was expected to last a long time. “Not weeks, but possibly years, and certainly months,” he said. So the government also expected to dole out support in incremental doses, rather than spend all its resources in one go. Mr. Sanyal acknowledged that many other countries announced huge stimulus packages, running into trillions of dollars, even before announcing shutdown measures to prevent the spread of the infection. However, most of these countries “wasted” their money on a “big bang” and felt the Indian approach of first announcing the lockdown, and then taking “calibrated” measures to protect and revive the economy was more effective in the long run.
23 April 2020||Jaipur,||Migrant workers give a gift of warm colours||It was a labour of love in the midst of the lockdown. Migrant workers from multiple States quarantined in a government school at Palsana in Rajasthan’s Sikar district decided to give something back to the community that was taking care of them. They repaired and painted the school building. The Government Senior Secondary School at Palsana, 28 km away from Sikar, was turned into a temporary shelter, and 54 daily wage earners from the local units, who could not return home, were housed in it. The workers belong to Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, while four are from other districts of Rajasthan. Though none had COVID-19 symptoms, the panchayat asked them to complete the 14-day quarantine period in the school. Food and medical assistance were arranged. Palsana Naib Tehsildar Vipul Chaudhary told The Hindu on Wednesday that the labourers were surprised at the hospitality. Good food and essential items were offered readily. Medical teams from the block headquarters visited them for a regular check-up. Decade old structure The workers could not help noticing that the old school building, which had not been painted for a decade, was in bad shape and the premises could do with a clean-up. They offered to deploy their skills, to paint and repair the building, clean up the compound, and plant samplings. Buckets of paint, brushes, polish and tools came through a fund-raiser by the teachers, panchayat staff and villagers. Shankar Singh Chauhan from Haryana, a painter, led the team while Tara Chand, Om Prakash and others took up repairs. The workers wanted to do something for the village which cared for them in a crisis, when they were emotionally shattered and had no money. Palsana Sarpanch Roop Singh Shekhawat said the school’s alumni campaigned to raise funds for the infrastructure and collected Rs. 1.15 lakh. “The money is funding repairs. The villagers are overwhelmed by the gesture of the labourers,” he said.
23 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||COVID toll rises to 24||The total number of COVID -19 cases in Telangana touched 943 as 15 more cases were detected on Wednesday. One person suffering from the infectious disease died. Of the 15 positive cases, 10 were from GHMC area, three from Suryapet, and two from Gadwal. Till April 22, there were 725 active cases, 194 were discharged, and 24 people have died. Meanwhile, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar issued directions stating that asymptomatic secondary contacts should not be tested. “However, they shall be identified, stamped and placed under strict home quarantine for a period of 28 days and monitored daily by the local area Multi Disciplinary Surveillance Teams,” Mr Kumar stated. He added that only primary contacts of positive cases shall be brought to the government identified quarantine centres and their samples should be collected for testing.
23 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Steep hike in Assam fuel prices despite global dip||A litre of fuel went up by almost Rs. 6 in Assam from Wednesday despite global crude oil prices hitting rock bottom. The State’s Finance (Taxation) Department issued a notification modifying the rates of tax on diesel and petrol. The notification by Principal Secretary Samir Kumar Sinha on Tuesday evening said the tax rates had been increased under a relevant Section of the Assam Value Added Tax Act, 2003. A State can impose tax only on fuel and liquor. Accordingly, the VAT on diesel was modified to “23.66 paise in the rupee or Rs. 17.45 per litre, whichever is higher” and that of petrol and other motor spirits to “32.66 paise in the rupee or Rs. 22.63 per litre, whichever is higher”. This worked out to an increase in retail prices of diesel and petrol by almost Rs. 6 per litre, officials said. From April 21 midnight, the price of diesel increased from Rs. 65.07 to Rs. 70.5 per litre and of petrol from Rs. 71.61 to Rs. 77.46 per litre. The fuel price hike followed State Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma’s fears that Assam might not be able to meet its expenditure in June, including paying salaries to about 5 lakh government employees, if there is no infusion of funds. Assam Congress spokesperson Gauravv Somani termed the State government’s decision “regressive, especially at a time when prices of essentials are already at increased levels”. “The steep hike when global oil prices are at a record low is unacceptable,” said CPI(M) secretary Deben Bhattacharya.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||IMA calls off protest plan||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Wednesday withdrew a protest planned against the attacks on doctors and healthcare professionals after the Union government promised that all necessary steps, including relevant legislation, would be introduced for their safety and dignity. The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) asked the States to appoint nodal officers to redress any safety issue related to medical professionals 24/7. In a letter, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla asked the States to take strict action against those who obstruct last rites of a medical professional and provide security for the final rites.Page 8
23 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Positive cases breach the 800-mark in State||With two more persons succumbing to COVID-19 and 56 new cases registered in the last 24 hours ending Wednesday morning, the toll touched 24 and the tally of positive cases reached 813 in the State. The two deaths were reported from Guntur district. 24 discharged On the brighter side, 24 patients – eight from Guntur, five from Anantapur, four each from Nellore and Kadapa, two from Krishna and one from Visakhapatnam – were discharged from the COVID-19 hospitals in the last 24 hours after recovering from the disease, taking the tally of those who recovered so far to 120. The number of active cases in the State is 669. Continuing to witness an increasing number of cases, Kurnool and Guntur districts reported 19 new cases each. With these, the tally in both the districts touched 203 and 177 respectively. Guntur also reported eight deaths so far, the highest in the State. The number of new cases in other districts was as follows: Chittoor six, Kadapa five, Prakasam four, and Krishna three. With 19 of the 21 persons who had tested positive in Visakhapatnam recovering so far, there were only two active cases in the Port City. The tally of positive cases in others districts was Krishna (86), Nellore (67), Chittoor (59), Kadapa (51), Prakasam (48), West Godavari (39), Anantapur (36), and East Godavari (26).
23 April 2020||CHENNAI,||33 more persons test positive for virus in T.N.||Tamil Nadu reported 33 cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 1,629 (including three who died — two who were counted in other States and one person who tested negative after death). The day also saw 27 patients being discharged from hospitals. The majority of cases were contacts of COVID-19 patients. Only three patients — one woman in Dindigul and two men in Madurai — were primary cases, and an investigation is on to trace their source of infection. Ten districts have reported fresh cases. Of the 33 cases, 15 were reported in Chennai. Officials said four more mediapersons — from two television channels — tested positive and were admitted to isolation wards. The city now accounts for a total of 373 cases. There were two patients, including a 12-year-old boy, in Ariyalur, Madurai had four, while Thanjavur had five new patients. There were two cases in Tiruvallur, and one each in Dindigul, Kancheepuram, Tiruvannamalai, Tiruchi and Villupuram, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine.  A total of 27 patients — two from the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, three from Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, five from Karur Medical College Hospital, two from Sivaganga Medical College Hospital, nine from Raja Muthiah Medical College Hospital and two from private hospitals — were discharged. So far, a total of 662 persons have been discharged across the State. There were no deaths. A total of 59,023 samples have been tested in the State, of which the day’s count was 5,978. A total of 53,072 persons have been tested so far. Testing of 1,937 samples is under way. “The cases are increasing in Chennai, and this is worrying. So, we had a meeting with the Chief Secretary on Tuesday, and have decided to post additional officers in the city. Strict containment measures will be taken up across the city,” Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said. Officials of the Health Department said that the COVID-19 situation was under control in the State. A total of 1,878 persons were admitted to isolation facilities, while 23,760 persons were under home quarantine. A total of 155 persons were lodged in government quarantine facilities.
23 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Facebook buys Rs. 43,574 cr. stake in Jio Platforms||Mark Zuckerberg’s Facebook Inc. on Wednesday announced that it had agreed to buy a 9.99% stake in the Mukesh Ambani-led Jio Platforms Limited for Rs. 43,574 crore, valuing the subsidiary of Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) at an enterprise value of Rs. 4.62 lakh crore. The transaction, which will need regulatory approval, will help the RIL unit to leverage Facebook’s WhatsApp in accelerating business on the JioMart platform and connecting neighbourhood grocery  stores with consumers. “In the near future, JioMart and WhatsApp will empower nearly 3 crore small Indian kirana shops to digitally transact with every customer in their neighbourhood,” Mr. Ambani said in a video message. Jio Platforms, which houses all of RIL’s digital businesses, intends to use a part of the funds invested by Facebook to reduce debt. “Jio Platforms has debt of Rs. 40,000 crore,” Anshuman Thakur, head of strategy at Reliance Jio, told The Hindu . “About Rs. 15,000 crore of proceeds will stay in Jio Platforms and the remaining will be used to pay for optionally convertible preference shares investments made by RIL in this company,” he added.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||State too promulgates one||The Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, promulgated on Wednesday, comes with penal provisions of penalty and jail term against those who violate restrictions during the outbreak of an epidemic, attack health staff and cause damage to property. This comes in the backdrop of violence in Padarayanapura of Bengaluru when police and BBMP officials tried to take some secondary contacts of a deceased COVID-19 patient into quarantine. This is on the lines of legislations in Uttar Pradesh and Kerala.
23 April 2020||ADILABAD,||Tribal tests positive||A 48-year-old woman became the first tribal to test positive for COVID-19 in former united Adilabad district on Wednesday. She is a pensioner from a village in Sirpur (U) mandal of Kumram Bheem Asifabad district and had come in contact with a branch post-master, a resident of Jainoor mandal headquarters who had himself tested positive earlier. The post-master, infected through a Jamaat returnee, had distributed pensions to over 300 pensioners in Adivasi hamletsearlier this month.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Back to work||
23 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||‘2 fishermen stranded in Gujarat dead’||Two of the fishermen from Andhra Pradesh, who were stranded at Veraval in Gujarat following the lockdown, died, the National Fishworkers’ Forum said on Wednesday. Forum executive member K. Lakshmi told The Hindu that K. Raju of D. Matchyapalem in Srikakulam district allegedly died due to fear of contracting coronavirus. Another fisherman, Jagannadham, of Gara mandal in the same district died due to lack of proper food while undergoing treatment, she said. Their bodies were kept in a mortuary. Most of the 4,800 stranded fishermen were from north Andhra. They were running short of provisions and forced to stay in boats. There was a need to airlift them, she added.
23 April 2020||Srinagar,||Four militants killed in J&K encounter||Four militants were killed by security forces in a village in south Kashmir’s Shopian district on Wednesday. “The identities of the militants are being ascertained,” the police said. The militants were encircled during a search and cordon operation at Melhora village on Tuesday evening. “The operation was launched after a tip-off. The militants opened fire on the search party, triggering a gunfight,” said the police. The operation was carried out jointly by the Army, the police and the Central Reserve Police Force.
23 April 2020||Lucknow,||U.P. to allow other States to take people home||The Uttar Pradesh government will allow other States to take home their residents if they want, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday. “If the governments of other States wish to recall their citizens stranded in U.P., we will cooperate,” he said.
23 April 2020||Srinagar,||No decision on Amarnath Yatra yet: shrine board||The Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board on Wednesday said it had not yet decided whether to hold the Amarnath Yatra or not due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A spokesperson of the board said the members expressed apprehension over conducting the yatra this year.
23 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Maruti Manesar plant gets nod for operations||Exactly a month after Maruti Suzuki India Limited shut down production and office operations across Haryana on March 22, its Manesar plant has been given permission to resume operations in a single shift with restricted number of staff and vehicles. The company is yet to decide on resuming production.
23 April 2020||HUBBALLI,||Four media persons test negative for COVID-19||In a big relief to the media fraternity, four media persons from Hubballi have tested negative for COVID-19 pandemic. According to a press release from the district administration, four of the five media persons who were identified as secondary contacts of a COVID-19 positive person have tested negative for the pandemic. The samples of another media person were not tested as the doctors felt that there was no need for it. All these five media persons voluntarily went into home quarantine after the watchman of a graveyard they had visited for news coverage tested positive here on April 18.
23 April 2020||Tumakuru,||SSLC examination after revision classes: Minister||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar, before interacting with students of Siddaganga Mutt in Tumakuru on Wednesday, announced that the government will hold the SSLC examination only after conducting revision classes.
23 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Padarayanapura families anxious about kin||Around a hundred women gathered outside JJ Nagar police station on Wednesday demanding information about their kin who were rounded up as part of investigation into the violence at Padarayanapura on April 19.
23 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Four-month-old among nine new cases||Nine new cases — including a four-month-old baby from Kalaburagi and the mother — have been detected on Wednesday taking the total number of positive COVID-19 cases in the State to 427. The baby is the youngest patient to date in Karnataka.
23 April 2020||Chennai,||Tangedco provides relief to commercial consumers||In a major relief to industrial and commercial consumers, the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has allowed ‘self-assessment’ of meter readings. Tangedco said self-assessment of electricity meters would be allowed in place of payment of the previous month’s bill.
23 April 2020||Chennai,||Ration tokens to be given on April 24, 25||Tokens for getting essentials from ration shops for May will be distributed at the doorsteps of consumers on April 24 and 25, CM Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Wednesday. “The tokens will have a specific day and time when cardholders can get their supplies. Consumers can collect them from ration shops on the specified day and time,” the CM said.
23 April 2020||Chennai,||Solatium to kin of fallen frontline workers hiked||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday announced that the solatium to the families of frontline workers who die fighting COVID-19 will be increased from Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 50 lakh.
23 April 2020||New Delhi,||IMA withdraws protest plan||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Wednesday withdrew a protest planned against the attacks on doctors and healthcare professionals after the Union government promised that all necessary steps, including relevant legislation, would be introduced for their safety and dignity. The Union Home Ministry asked the States to appoint nodal officers to redress any safety issue faced by medical professionals round the clock. States alerted In a letter, Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla asked Tamil nadu to take strict action against those who obstructed last rites of a doctor. He asked the States to provide security for the final rites. “…any single incident of violence against healthcare professionals is likely to create a sense of insecurity among the entire healthcare community,” the letter said. The IMA should be apprised of the measures taken to create a sense of security and confidence among the health fraternity, it added. The States were asked to invoke Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which provides for strict penalties against such obstructions.  There have been several instances of medical teams coming under attack as they went about collecting samples of suspected COVID-19 patients in many parts of the country. In Tamil Nadu, the funeral party of a doctor who died of COVID-19 infection was attacked. His colleagues were also assaulted. Amit Shah’s assurance Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan convened a videoconference with IMA representatives and other doctors on Wednesday to address the issue. “The way our doctors are performing their duties in these testing times is exceptional. I urge every Indian to cooperate with doctors in this fight against COVID-19. Safety and dignity of our doctors at their work place is non-negotiable. It is our collective responsibility to ensure a conducive atmosphere for them at all times. I have assured doctors that Modi govt is committed to their cause and appealed to reconsider their proposed protest,” Mr. Shah tweeted after the meeting. The IMA said in a statement, “Considering the immediate high-level response of government and solid assurance given by the Home Minister himself, it is decided that the white alert protest of April 22 and Black Day [protest] of May 23 stands withdrawn to maintain the unity and integrity of the country.”
23 April 2020||New Delhi,||Centre continues Bengal study||The Central team visiting West Bengal has demanded that the State government provide information on nine aspects, which include testing criteria and instances of COVID-19 among health care workers. Additional Secretary Apurva Chandra, who was rushed to Kolkata on April 20 to take stock of the State’s preparedness in the wake of the pandemic, shot off a letter to the Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha on Wednesday seeking a detailed presentation on the level of testing, protocol adopted for testing, availability of personal protective equipment and masks for health professionals, availability of oxygen beds, ICUs, number of surveillance teams and COVID care hospitals, instances of COVID in healthcare workers and system of approval of cause of declaration of death of COVID patients by a committee. The Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT) also wanted to know about the procedure for identifying and quarantining people, supply of essential commodities, condition of the relief camps and “support required from the Government of India” in this regard. The team asked the State government to arrange visits to quarantine centres, hotspots and market places and wanted an opportunity to interact with health care workers on the ground. Earlier, refuting the claims of the Union Home Ministry, the State government said “it is not a fact” that there was no cooperation. Responding to a letter by Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla, Chief Secretary Rajiva Sinha said in a letter that he had shared up-to-date reports with them. “The teams arrived without any prior consultation, so there was no opportunity to provide logistic help, [and] neither did they ask for any help.”
23 April 2020||New Delhi,||Policemen in virus fight have no insurance||In the absence of a specific Central insurance scheme for policemen and paramilitary personnel who may die from COVID-19 infection while on duty, the States are customising policies for the frontline workers. On March 29, the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare announced the ‘Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Package: Insurance Scheme for Health Workers Fighting COVID-19’. The package provides an insurance cover of Rs. 50 lakh to around 22.12 lakh public healthcare providers, including community health workers, who may have to be in direct contact and care of COVID-19 patients and who may be at risk of being impacted by this. Since the Central package does not include policemen who are working on the frontline, the States are using the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund or other budget heads to compensate the families of those who die on duty. Punjab said it would pay Rs. 50 lakh from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to the family of Assistant Commissioner of Police Anil Kohli (52), who died in a Ludhiana hospital on April 18. The State Cabinet approved an insurance policy in this regard. Andhra Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have also announced similar relief measures for police personnel. “They [police] are the first point of contact and on some occasions have also come under attack. Yet they are not covered under the Central scheme,” a senior police officer said. The paramilitary or the Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) personnel who are killed on duty are entitled to Rs. 60 lakh ex-gratia relief but no specific policy has been announced by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) for COVID-19 related deaths. On March 14, the MHA issued an order to treat COVID-19 as a “notified disaster” for the purpose of providing assistance under the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). The SDRF is the primary fund available with the States for responses to notified disasters.
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Stress and anxiety rise amid pandemic||“Every morning I wake up with a panic attack. I sweat profusely even when my air conditioner is on full blast because I am worried how my day at work will be. While there have been no job cuts in my office, the environment has suddenly become very hostile. It is as if the organisation is forcing us to resign,” says a communication professional in her thirties. With her old parents dependent on her, Rithika can’t afford to lose her job especially after a medical emergency wiped out all her savings. Psychiatrists say there is a universal presence of anxiety due to COVID-19, but certain categories of people are highly vulnerable. The first category involves those dealing with poverty and unemployment and the second category includes those with psycho-social issues such as domestic violence, sexual abuse, etc. There is also a small minority of people who have COVID-19 infection, or have a family member who has tested positive, who have reported heightened anxiety. Many frontline workers, such as ASHA workers, are also extremely susceptible to stress. Tipping point “If any of these sets of people had a prior illness, then their condition is likely to worsen because of stress, or due to medicines and psychiatrists being unavailable,” cautions Dr. Achal Bhagat, senior consultant psychiatrist and psychotherapist. He says quite often caregivers of those with mental illnesses also burn out as they try to cope with multiple responsibilities such as working from home, managing domestic chores, the threat of a job loss, etc. The senior doctor recommends that policymakers ensure that relief services are delivered with empathy. “Whoever is providing help to people must ensure that people’s dignity is not challenged. If they get humiliated through this process of seeking help, this will have a long term impact. There are fissures in our society on religious lines as well as caste and gender, and if these widen there will be a long-term impact on us as a community.” Multi-pronged approach Mental health issues will not be solved merely by counselling, but through a multi-dimensional approach that includes financial support. This will help solve the real problems facing the people today, the doctor says. The real problems are hunger, shelter and clothing, explains Dr. Soumitra Pathare, consultant psychiatrist and Director of Centre for Mental Health Law and Policy at ILS Law College in Pune. He also emphasises on devising a policy without any delay, including one to prevent suicides. “We don’t know whether pandemics increase suicides, but for the economic crisis that will follow you get increase in suicide rates. That is something we are going to see definitely. Now is the time to put suicide prevention strategies in place.” A study conducted by Oxford University Assistant Professor Aaron Reeves, and published in The Lancet in 2012, estimated that the U.S. had suffered 4,750 “excess suicide deaths” after the recession hit in 2008. Some studies have found that suicides are four times higher among men as they feel “greater pressure and shame” due to financial problems. But the majority of suicides were found to be among those who already suffered from depression. Experts warn that the relationship between the COVID-19 and mental health problems are “bi-directional”: such illnesses are not merely consequences of the pandemic but an inability to deal with them can lead to the spread of COVID-19 infection. (Helpline for suicide prevention: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-40769002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. - 7.30 p.m.)
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Foreign attendees under ED lens||The Enforcement Directorate is probing the financial transactions related to over 2,000 foreign nationals who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Nizamuddin here this March. The agency had earlier registered a money laundering case based on an FIR lodged by the Delhi police. The foreigners had come from more than 40 countries. Most of them were from Indonesia, Sri Lanka, Myanmar, Kyrgyzstan and Malaysia. They face allegations of violating visa rules and the Foreigners Act provisions, besides visiting restricted areas during the lockdown without permission. The government has blacklisted about 1,000 such foreign nationals, while the police have issued look-out circulars against close to 1,900. “We are pursuing all the aspects of money-laundering allegations, including financial transactions pertaining to those who came from abroad. Statements of those named in the case and the others involved will be recorded under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act,” said an ED official. e-visa loopholes Another government official raised questions over the manner in which e-tourist visas were granted to so many foreigners who participated in the congregation. There is no system of verification of e-visa applications, which directly go to the server and are processed automatically. The applicants have to provide correct information about only three things: name, date of birth and place of birth, which are already mentioned in their passports, said the official. “This exposes the failure in devising a due-diligence process in issuing e-visas. There are specific missionaries visa rules. All such applications have to be referred to the Union Home Ministry along with the relevant details of applicants,” said the official. The official said: “However, in this case, the foreign nationals in question applied for, and got, e-tourist visas. We suspect that they were specifically told to apply under this category.” The trend was detected only after the agencies concerned found that the foreigners who attended the congregation had come on e-tourist visas. “Earlier, in February, it happened in the case of United Kingdom parliamentarian Debbie Abrahams, whose visa was revoked,” the official said. Explaining the process followed in various categories, the official said for transit and medical visas, applications of Pakistani nationals and those of Pakistani origin have to be referred to the Home Ministry. No tourist visa is granted to Pakistani passport holder, while applications from those of Pakistani origin are also referred. Prior reference to the Home Ministry is also made in case the employment visa applications by the nationals of Afghanistan, China and foreign nationals of Pakistani origin, and business visa applications by the nationals of Afghanistan, Iraq, Nigeria, Somalia, Pakistan and those of Pakistani origin. According to government records, more than 25 lakh e-visas were issued in 2018 — an almost five-fold increase from 5.29 lakh in 2015.
23 April 2020||PUNE,||Mumbai case load rises to 3,683||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Maharashtra continued to soar relentlessly, with 431 new cases reported from the State on Wednesday, taking the cumulative tally to 5,649. Eighteen new deaths took the death toll to 269. According to State health officials, 10 of these deaths were from Mumbai city, while two deaths each were reported from Pune and Aurangabad districts. Kalyan-Dombivli, Solapur, Jalgaon and Malegaon in Nashik recorded a death each. Maharashtra accounts for more than 30% of the country COVID-19 death toll. Mumbai’s death toll now stands at 161, while that of Pune district has risen to 57. While the number of cases in Aurangabad has remained in check thus far, the deaths of a 76-year-old woman and a 60-year-old man in the past 24 hours have sparked alarm among authorities, who have tightened lockdown measures. The district has recorded five deaths so far. “More than 60% of the deaths reported had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension, asthma and heart disease,” said State Surveillance Officer Pradeep Awate. Alongside the surge in cases, a total of 67 persons were discharged on Wednesday, taking the figure of persons recovered till date to 789. Mumbai reported 232 of the 431 new cases, as its cumulative tally touched 3,683, while Pune city witnessed a spike of 68 new cases to take its tally to 755. Heartening fact Pune Divisional Commissioner Deepak Mhaisekar said as many as 115 patients had recovered and were discharged. A heartening fact, he said, was that among those recently recovered were a 92-year-old grandmother and a three-year-old child. Areas in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (excluding Mumbai city) reported fresh cases with 18 new cases recorded in Thane district, to take its tally to 190, while Navi Mumbai reported seven more to touch 101. Another spurt was witnessed in Nagpur city which reported as many as 21 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 100.
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indian test kits must for reliability||For reliable antibody testing kits, India will have to make its own, according to independent epidemiologists and biotechnologists. A day after the Rajasthan government said that it would stop antibody tests because they were returning inaccurate results, the Indian Council of Medical Research announced that it had advised putting such tests on hold because it was generating widely varying results. The ICMR on Wednesday said it had forwarded a “protocol” for rapid antibody tests to all States, but did not specify the details. Quick results Much like home-based pregnancy tests, antibody tests are valuable because they give results quickly and only needs a pinprick’s worth of blood. However, they can only detect antibodies produced by the immune system in response to the virus and this can take as many as seven to 14 days to manifest. “The initial expectation was that an antibody test would soon be available. But it was the PCR technology that came first. That’s also due to the fast moving nature of the virus,” said Iype Joseph, epidemiologist with the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology, Thiruvananthapuram. The PCR technology is confirmatory because it identifies the SARS-CoV-2 based on genes, whereas the presence of viruses have usually been detected via antibody kits by the proteins produced by the virus’s genes. An antibody test only tells you whether a person has ever been infected by the virus. These antibodies that are produced are not necessarily specific to SARS-CoV-2 and could even be generated by a variety of other pathogens. “There are other four other common coronaviruses and antibodies could be generated to that too. So far, nobody has found a protein that is specific to SARS-CoV-2.” Surveillance tool The ICMR’s current recommendation is to test those who show symptoms such as cough, fever and breathlessness and even a sore throat. After quarantining for 14 days, an antibody test is to be done and if positive, the person ought to be tested by RT-PCR. The ICMR has underlined that tests are a surveillance tool. The utility of the test was evolving and its value was dependent on field conditions. They were not a replacement for RT-PCR tests. However, with the accuracy widely ranging from 5% to 71%, there are questions on whether they can reliably help indicate the spread of the infection. All kits need to be validated by the National Institute of Virology, Pune. They test two things: are the kits detecting antibodies at specified intervals after an infection, mirroring when antibodies actually show up in people with confirmed COVID infections? And do they falsely respond to the presence of other pathogens? It is not clear how tests validated by the NIV began showing widely discordant results for them to be paused by the ICMR. “We need tests that are locally developed and validated,” Dr. Joseph said. “The need of the hour is to have rapidly deployable RT PCR kits. If we can reduce the time taken for analysis, or have a paper-based strip that can detect the virus, it would be more useful,” said Asha Kishore, Director, Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram. The institute has developed a rapid PCR test that awaits final approval from the ICMR. Renu Swarup, Secretary, Department of Biotechnology, said that India’s challenges with diagnostic kits were temporary. “There are at least seven Indian manufacturers of these kits awaiting approval from the National Institute of Virology and we are hoping to be able to produce at least a million kits by end May.”
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||‘I am confident we will win this battle soon and Indore will set the ideal’||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has had a trial by fire in his current tenure, having been sworn in after much drama and on the eve of the nationwide lockdown that left him without an opportunity to get a large Ministry in place. The situation in the State is also serious with COVID-19 cases soaring.  Indore and Bhopal continue to be huge areas of concern with spiking rates of cases. Why hasn’t the situation been under some sort of control till now? Do you think Madhya Pradesh was fatally late in waking up to the challenge due to its political instability all of March? No, we cannot say that. One should try to avoid jumping to conclusions without going into the details. Initially, there were fewer cases found in Madhya Pradesh, primarily in Jabalpur, and after that, a rapid increase in the number of cases around major cities like Indore and Bhopal raised the index. Tablighi Jamaat members of Madhya Pradesh, who attended this event in Delhi, came back and scattered into many core and prime areas of the State. They are also the reason for this sudden rise as they responded reluctantly and did not come forward willingly and thus indirectly spread it among others. Indore is the prime commercial centre and densely populated city. It is a place where a big number of people travel abroad for business and commerce. Initially, such people hid their travel histories and somehow came into contact with others and as a result, this infection spread from one to another. For now, we are taking a special care in this regard, special attention is being paid to cases found here. In Indore, the entire staff, including the police and the administration, with the cooperation of public representatives, social workers, organisations, the media and the public, have been fighting wholeheartedly in this fight against the novel coronavirus. I am confident that we will win this battle soon and Indore will set the ideal for this. I have also ordered effective implementation of the strategy to identify, isolate, test and treat (IITT) in all districts, including Indore. With this strategy, we will conquer the coronavirus soon. The testing rate in Indore is much higher than the rest of the State. 5,120 samples have been taken in Indore, out of which 1,000 have been sent to Delhi for testing. 489 teams are engaged in this work. So far, 3.9 lakh persons have been surveyed in the infected areas. A total of 12-13 lakh persons have been surveyed in the entire city. In the next 7 days, 20-21 lakh persons will be surveyed. I have also given a clear instruction that the fair price ration be sent to all the districts in sufficient quantity and there should be no delay in distribution. If there is no situation of opening a shop, then the ration can be distributed from house to house. In order to ensure that the vegetables and fruits of farmers are not spoiled, decentralised purchase of their fruits and vegetables can be arranged outside the city in a protective manner. As per the instructions of the Central government, a containment plan is ready, and it is being implemented. A large number of infected patients are recovering. Till yesterday [Tuesday], 31 infected patients in Bhopal and 71 infected patients in Indore recovered and went home. Similarly, there is not a single local COVID-19-positive patient in Gwalior and Shivpuri. Reports of 193 samples from Bhopal came negative yesterday. More than 50% of the districts are completely free from the virus. Right from the moment I was sworn in as the Chief Minister, I started monitoring and doing work for preventing the spread of the virus, along with the Health Department and administrative bodies. What is your plan for ramping up health infrastructure and testing facilities and how soon do you think there will be an exit from the lockdown? Well, our medical system and infrastructure is ready. We are well prepared and in a better condition than a month and a half before. Tests are being conducted in 10 laboratories in the State. There has been an increase in daily checks, now we are doing around 1,800 tests daily. The process to start a few other laboratories is under way. Testing kits are available and are being supplied continuously to all the districts. Talking about testing equipment, we have 22,520 RTPCR, 14,200 manual RNA. PPE kits are around 1 lakh, with kits distributed daily to different districts. The availability of N95 masks is around 1.77 lakh, of which more than 1,60,000 have been distributed so far. The availability of hydroxychloroquine tablets is more than 3.3 million. There are 2,776 oxygen cylinders. Over 20,243 isolation beds are available. There are about 783 ICU beds available, with 690 ventilators. We are continuously increasing the facilities. What is your exit plan. It may seem premature to ask with rate of infection being the way it is, but still? As far as the exit plan is concerned, it is a simple plan — to follow the guidelines of the lockdown and cooperate with each other. Do not leave your houses. I appeal to everyone to follow the lockdown sincerely; it is for your safety. Keep maintaining the rule of social distancing. Stay at home, stay safe. No entry, no exit in the containment zones. Continuous, State-wise surveys are being conducted. It is a question of life and death. Safety and security of the common man is our top priority. As soon as the situation comes under control, the lockdown will be lifted; things will be back on track soon. We are consistently trying to overcome the hazard and trying to stabilise the situation. I request everyone to have patience; we will soon overcome this pandemic. With new Ministers, what will be the status of the committee appointed under V.D. Sharma for the management of the crisis? The task force or the committee appointed under V.D. Sharma includes senior and experienced leaders of the State who are very well known to the State and who are eligible to manage the challenges coming out of the situation. They are also here for additional help and suggestions to control the situation at different levels and places and they will be surely supporting the new Ministers and the government with their experience. Many of them are in touch with many social organisations and self-help groups across the State, they are in consistent touch with the government and will be helping us till this fight is over. You have five Ministers now and you have also notified their portfolios. Are you anticipating any restiveness and resentment among those not accommodated? As you know, the day after I was sworn in as CM, we had the lockdown, and so, in order to manage the situation I have done this small expansion of my Council of Ministers. I will go in for a bigger exercise once the lockdown is eased, and I don’t think that this is the time when people will think in this manner. Everyone in the Ministry is a senior member and well experienced to deal with the situation. Portfolio allocation has been done after due consultation. Our prime focus right now is to safeguard the State and get control over the pandemic.  Our medical system and infrastructure are ready and well prepared and in a better condition than a month and a half before
23 April 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra to ramp up fight after Centre’s report||Taking cognisance of a Central report that has projected a staggering spike in COVID-19 cases in Mumbai, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday directed officials to ramp up the State’s response accordingly. A day after The Hindu reported on a Central report projecting a spike of 6.5 lakh cases in Mumbai by May 15, Mr. Thackeray ordered converting the tertiary care GT Hospital and multi-speciality St. George Hospital into COVID-19 facilities on the lines of Nair Hospital. In a presentation, senior State health officials said Maharashtra’s peak — taken at a doubling rate of 7 as opposed to the Centre’s assumption of 3.8 days — will result in 80,000 to 90,000 cases in the financial capital by May 15. The State is not completely discarding the projections made by the Centre but believes numbers could be restricted to under 1,00,000 by stringent measures, said an official present during the meeting at Mayor’s Bungalow. “We are in the process of ramping up facilities at the GT and St. George Hospitals in line with the decision to convert the tertiary care Nair Hospital into a COVID-19 facility. The decision was taken by the Chief Minister,” said Principal Secretary Manisha Mhaiskar, currently in charge of the State’s response to the pandemic. Earlier, a mathematical modelling study carried out by a Deputy Director General (DDG) rank officer from the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on April 16, projected COVID-19 cases to touch an estimated count of 42,604 by April 30 and jumping to 6,56,407 cases by May 15 in Mumbai alone. The State has countered the methodology and tools used for the latest projection and gap analysis, and raised the “discrepancies” in the modelling with the visiting Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCT). ‘Don’t discard figures’ During the meeting at Mayor’s Bungalow, Mr. Thackeray urged officials not to discard the Central figures even if they appear to be on a higher side. By substantially increasing contact tracing exercise in slums, the State will be able to achieve a doubling rate of 7 and later to 10, he said. “We are not discarding the Central report completely but are only scaling our response, especially contact tracing, to increase doubling rate to 7 and much higher to 10 by May. This way, the numbers will be controlled,” said an official present during the meet. The Central projections raised a heated debate among experts who argued that the report seems to have completely ignored the State’s efforts to tackle the virus. Subhash Salunkhe, technical adviser to Maharashtra on pandemic control, said: “The projections look as if the virus has a free hand. The aggressive quarantining activities in Mumbai, the lockdown, social distancing, treatment and recovery of patients and the impact of all these efforts have not been factored in at all,” said Dr. Salunkhe, adding that the projections were made when the city’s case doubling rate was at 3.8 days while it had now come to nearly 7 days. A former public health official agreed that predictive mathematical models can be uncertain but questions must be asked how prepared is the State even if 15% of the predicted figures are to come true. “A lot of focus has been given to creating new COVID-19 facilities. It will be sensible if the government takes over private healthcare facilities that already have good infrastructure and a team of doctors who are not working at their full capacity,” he said.
23 April 2020||Patna,||Lockdown leaves Bihar’s litchi growers in the lurch||The prolonged lockdown to contain the COVID-19 pandemic has put Bihar’s more than 45,000 litchi farmers in a bind as they stare at imminent losses amounting to almost Rs. 1,000 crore this year. Bihar, especially Muzaffarpur district, accounts for almost 40% of the total litchi production in the country. “Last year our litchi business was severely hit by rumours that its consumption leads to encephalitis,” litchi farmer Bhola Nath Jha told The Hindu over telephone. “And this year, the prolonged lockdown is threatening huge losses for us…we appeal to the government to look at our problem immediately,” he added. Mr. Jha owns several large litchi orchards with 600 trees in north Bihar’s Muzaffarpur district. He estimates that the losses to the State’s litchi farmers this year would likely amount to not less than Rs. 1,000 crore. Litchi is grown on more than 32,000 hectares of land in the State with annual production totalling to about 0.30 million metric tonnes. Normally, by this time of the year, the litchi traders, middlemen and agents from major cities like Delhi, Mumbai, Ludhiana, Uttar Pradesh, Pune, Bengaluru and Nepal would have come to Muzaffarpur ahead of the plucking season to tie up produce from litchi orchards with local farmers while paying money in advance. “But, due to the lockdown no one has come yet and our fruits are about to ripen in the next 20-25 days,” said Bachha Singh, president of the Bihar Litchi Growers Association. ‘Perishes quickly’ “The problem is litchi is a perishable fruit with a shelf life of two or three days, and if it doesn’t get buyers on time all will be lost ... Ever year, we’ve been sending approximately 1,500 tonnes to Delhi and 1,000 tonnes to Mumbai from Muzaffarpur but due to the lockdown both these cities are badly affected and none of those traders have contacted us yet,” Mr. Singh said. The peak litchi season is between the third week of May and the second week of June. Alok Kumar Kedia, a litchi exporter from Muzaffarpur, said his plant usually processes 10,000-12,000 tonnes of the fruit annually and exports it to countries like Germany, England, France, Canada and the Netherlands but that this year “due to lockdown and slowdown of the market our sales have dipped about 30%”. And the marginal farmers of litchi are an even more worried lot. “The big farmers can somehow survive the lockdown, but for us it will be a hard hit,” said Surendra Singh, a farmer with anorchard in the Bochaha block. “We cannot sell the fruit on carts,” he added. The other problem for the growers is the lack of availability of wooden boxes in which the fruit is packed for export. “The sawmills are all closed,” rued Mr. Jha.
23 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Make up for lost time, advises Madhavan Nair||Former chairman of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) G. Madhavan Nair has urged the space agency to prioritise missions and make up for lost time once the lockdown is lifted. The former ISRO chief’s remarks come at a time when ISRO facilities have temporarily shut owing to the COVID-19 pandemic and space missions are faced with the spectre of delays and budgetary cuts. Top priority should be given to earth observation and communication satellite missions once the ISRO units reopen after the lockdown, Mr. Madhavan Nair, who led the space agency from 2003 to 2009, said. “There is a possibility of delays affecting many of the programmes. But some of our transponders, for example, are old. They need to be replaced. We need to give priority to satellites offering better digital connectivity to rural areas and high-resolution, multi-spectral imaging satellites for earth observation,” he said. Human space flight He also stressed the need to focus on the ambitious human space flight mission. “We are among the premier space agencies. If we need to maintain that status, human space flight is critical. If we are to compare ourselves with China, we are behind them in that area,” Mr. Madhavan Nair said. In the long run, investment in human space flight will pay dividends as it would enhance India’s opportunities in the space transportation scene. Mr. Madhavan Nair expressed the hope that the space programme would continue to be treated as a priority sector as societal benefits are many. Money spent on space technology has never gone to waste as the returns have been much higher, he said.
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||No 100% quota for tribal teachers: SC||A five-judge Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court held it unconstitutional to provide 100% reservation for tribal teachers in schools located in Scheduled Areas across the country. A 152-page judgment by a Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra said it was an “obnoxious idea” to have only tribals teach tribals. “It is an obnoxious idea that tribals only should teach the tribals. When there are other local residents, why they cannot teach is not understandable. The action defies logic and is arbitrary. Merit cannot be denied in toto by providing reservation,” Justice Mishra, who wrote the verdict for the Constitution Bench, observed. The five-judge Bench was answering a reference made to it in 2016 on whether 100% reservation is permissible under the Constitution. Sawhney judgment The court held that 100% reservation is discriminatory and impermissible. The opportunity of public employment is not the prerogative of few. A 100% reservation to the Scheduled Tribes has deprived Scheduled Castes and Other Backward Classes also of their due representation. The court referred to the Indira Sawhney judgment, which caps reservation at 50%. “Citizens have equal rights, and the total exclusion of others by creating an opportunity for one class is not contemplated by the founding fathers of the Constitution of India,” Justice Mishra wrote. The case stemmed from a legal challenge to January 10, 2000 order issued by the erstwhile State of Andhra Pradesh Bench providing 100% reservation to the Scheduled Tribe candidates, out of whom 33.1/3% shall be women, for the post of teachers in schools located in the Scheduled Areas of the State. The court said the 2000 notification was “unreasonable and arbitrary”.
23 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Death toll in Gujarat increases to 103||Gujarat’s death toll due to COVID-19 infections has climbed to 103, with 13 new deaths reported on Wednesday, while the number of positive cases have jumped to 2,407, with 229 new cases added on the same day. The State continues to see a higher number of cases and casualties, a trend that began a week ago. On Wednesday, as many as 30 patients were discharged after full recovery, bringing the number of patients who have recovered to 179 so far. Of 13 deaths recorded, nine were from Ahmedabad, three were from Vadodara and and one from Surat. In Ahmedabad, the total number of cases have climbed to 1,501, and 62 deaths, the highest tally in the State. On Wednesday, besides nine deaths, Ahmedabad also reported 128 new positive cases, continuing the trend of over 100 cases per day since a week. So far, 86 patients have recovered and have been discharged in the city. In Surat, the total cases have jumped to 415, with 12 deaths and 13 recoveries, while in Vadodara, the total number of cases has reached 208, and ten patients have succumbed to the infection. Meanwhile, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has decided to set up another COVID-19 care centre with a 4,000-bed capacity.
23 April 2020||Kolkata,||Bengal left with no testing kits: Mamata||Raising the issue of paucity of COVID-19 testing kits in West Bengal, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday blamed the Central government for creating a “health hazard” in the State. The State and the Centre have been at loggerheads for the past few days as the number of cases see a jump in the State and in the country. On Wednesday, Ms. Banerjee said the Centre was not supplying an adequate number of kits. There are three types of kits, she said. One is rapid testing kit and the other is BGI Group’s real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), while the third one is antigen kits. “The BGI RT-PCRs are withdrawn as per the email from NICED, received yesterday [Tuesday]. Antigen KITS are not available in the Bengal Hospital. Therefore, the State would not even have one kit currently in stock. All rapid testing kits sent to our State have been withdrawn,” said Ms. Banerjee. “The Health Department had made previous orders, but we do not know when we will receive those orders,” she said. “While 2,500 viral transport kits were provided by the Centre, we did 7,037 tests. We required 14,000 kits.”  All rapid testing kits which were sent to our State have been withdrawn
23 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Don’t deport foreigners with Tablighi link: Centre||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has written to all States that foreign nationals who came on a tourist visa and took part in Tablighi Jamaat activities in India should not be deported after the COVID-19 quarantine period. In a letter to all Chief Secretaries, Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla said punitive action under the National Disaster Management Act, 2005, The Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, Sections 13 and 14 of the Foreigners Act, 1946 and other relevant provisions of the IPC should be taken against them, police sources told The Hindu on Wednesday. About 1,000 foreign nationals from various countries came to India on a tourist visa and took part in the Tablighi Jamaat conference in the Markaz Mosque, Nizamuddin, Delhi in early March. After the religious congregation, the foreign missionaries visited different States and camped there to preach the religious values of Islam. Many of the delegates along with scores of Indian nationals were linked to the spread of COVID-19 across the country, the sources said. In Tamil Nadu alone, at least 125 foreign nationals, from countries like Indonesia, Bangladesh and Thailand, were reportedly camping in mosques to preach.  111 held in T.N. At least 111 of them have been arrested and remanded in judicial custody in an isolated Borstal School. Of the 11 Bangladeshis, two tested positive to COVID-19 after their arrest and prison officials moved the whole group to a quarantine facility. Security agencies and immigration authorities zeroed in on the foreign delegates of Tablighi Jamaat based on their travel documents. The MHA directed the States to take legal action against all the foreigners and Indian nationals for the offences committed under various provisions of law. The Home Secretary called for a detailed report on the action taken from the States, police sources said. “Even if bail is granted, the foreigners will not be allowed to be deported. They have to face trial by staying in a special camp... ,” a senior police official said.
23 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Maruti’s Manesar plant gets green light for operations||Exactly a month after Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. shut down production and office operations across Haryana on March 22, its Manesar plant has been given permission to resume operations in a single shift with restricted number of staff and vehicles. The company’s spokesperson, however, said the decision to resume production had not been taken yet. The certificate to resume operations said the “authorised strength” of the company during the lockdown period would be 4,696 persons and 50 vehicles and it could run a single shift. However, it later said the application was recommended for permission to operate for 600 employees. Additional Chief Secretary V.S. Kundu told The Hindu that the company could resume operations after they put in place measures for social distancing and safe management of the workers. He said it depended on the company as to how long they took to prepare their premises for it. The company spokesperson said no decision was taken on the resumption of production because the Gurugram and Manesar plants were interlinked and the permission was not granted for the former. The company could also not function in isolation without its vendors. There was confusion over the number of staff members allowed as well, since different numbers were quoted, and “our team was in talks with the government on this and other related issued,” he said. In a press statement on March 22, the company announced the shutting down of its all private and corporate establishments till further orders. Manesar Industries Welfare Association vice-president Manmohan Gaind welcomed the grant of permission to Maruti Suzuki, but added that the administration was slow in clearing applications by the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises seeking to resume operations. He said around 500 applications were pending with the administration and they should be disposed of fast.
23 April 2020||Srinagar,||No decision on Amarnath Yatra yet, says shrine board||The Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board (SASB) on Wednesday said it had as yet not decided whether to hold the upcoming Amarnath Yatra or not due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A SASB spokesperson said the Board members on Wednesday expressed apprehensions over conducting the annual Yatra this year. “The situation being dynamic, an appropriate decision can be taken on organising the Yatra on reviewing the situation in the coming future,” said the spokesperson. The Yatra was discussed in a meeting chaired by Jammu & Kashmir Lieutenant-Governor Girish Chandra Murmu, also Chairman of the Board, at the Raj Bhavan. The Yatra is scheduled from June 23 till August 3. Last year, the Centre cancelled the Yatra midway due to revocation of J&K’s special status in August.
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Poor prices for rabi crops at markets bode ill for farmers||Arrivals of wheat, mustard and other major rabi crops at markets during the first two weeks of April were more than 90% lower than during the corresponding period last year, according to an analysis by research and ratings agency CRISIL. However, increase in the prices have not been very high. Fruit farmers have been hit the hardest with prices down 9%, despite 85% fall in arrivals. The impact of the COVID-19 crisis on the rabi or winter season harvest has been brutal, despite government efforts to facilitate agricultural activities. The CRISIL research showed that only one lakh tonnes of major rabi crops — wheat, gram, rapeseed and mustard — arrived in mandis between April 1 to 12, 98% less than the 51 lakh tonnes that arrived in mandis during the same period in 2019. “While there are four primary reasons for this — delayed rabi harvest, labour shortage, lack of transport, and reduced mandi operations — grains are also said to be hoarded by farmers/traders to be sold at a later date when mandi operations and logistics normalise,” said CRISIL. The main wheat producing areas of Punjab and Haryana had not yet begun harvesting during this period.  Mandi prices for these crops were about 29% higher than the previous year. “Going forward, bumper crop output, lower industrial demand and limited exports [will] exert downward pressure on wheat prices,” said the analysis. The arrivals of pulses and oilseeds were also 93% lower than the previous year, while prices were 28% higher. The situation is slightly better with regard to winter paddy and coarse grains with a 68% drop in arrivals. However, prices are also down about 2%, due to a drop in demand for coarse grains.
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre cuts non-urea fertilizer subsidy||The Centre has cut the subsidy for non-urea fertilizers this year to Rs. 22,186 crore. That is about 3% lower than the Rs. 22,875 crore which was the estimated expenditure on the nutrient based subsidies in 2019-20. The Cabinet Committee on conomic Affairs on Wednesday decided to reduce the subsidy for nitrogen-based fertilizers to Rs. 18.78 per kg, for phosphorous-based fertilizers to Rs. 14.88 per kg, and set the subsidy for potash-based fertilizers at Rs. 10.11 per kg, according to an official statement. And while the subsidy for sulphur-based fertilisers had been raised last year to Rs. 3.56 per kg, from Rs. 2.72 per kg, this year it has been slashed to just Rs. 2.37 per kg. The CCEA also approved the inclusion of a complex fertilizer, ammonium phosphate, under the nutrient-based subsidy scheme. The scheme was set up in 2010 to ensure the availability of phosphatic and potassic fertilizers to farmers at an affordable price, as the retail prices of such non-urea fertilisers are decontrolled and set by manufacturers.
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet approves Rs. 15,000-cr. package||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a Rs. 15,000-crore investment package for the COVID-19 emergency response and health system preparedness, the government said in a statement. Post facto approval was given to the package at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, said Union Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar at a press conference. The funds will be used in three phases, with Rs. 7,774 crore for immediate use and the rest for medium-term support, that is one to four years, the statement said. “The key objectives of the package include mounting emergency response to slow and limit COVID-19.” The plan includes developing diagnostics and COVID-19-dedicated treatment facilities, centralising the procurement of essential medical equipment and drugs, strengthening the healthcare systems nationally and in States, bio-security preparedness and pandemic research. Phase one of the plan has already been rolled out by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, with Rs. 3,000 crore in additional funds being released to the States and the UTs for strengthening facilities, it said. The network of diagnostic laboratories had been expanded and orders for 13 lakh diagnostic kits had been placed. Health workers, including ASHA workers, have been given insurance cover under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. “Personal protection equipment, N95 masks and ventilators, testing kits and drugs are being procured centrally,” the statement said.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||FB buys Rs. 43,574 crore stake in Jio Platforms||Facebook’s investment in Jio will be the largest foreign direct investment (FDI) in the technology sector in India. Facebook, which counts India as one of its largest markets, said the investment “underscores our commitment to India and our excitement for the dramatic transformation that Jio has spurred in the country”. By investing in RIL’s digital business, the U.S. social media company aims to deepen its engagement with users in Asia’s third-largest economy. Reliance Jio Infocomm, which provides connectivity to more than 388 million subscribers, will continue to be a wholly owned subsidiary of Jio Platforms. “Our goal with this investment is to enable new opportunities for businesses of all sizes, but especially for small businesses across India and create new and exciting digital ecosystems that will empower, enrich and uplift the lives of all 1.3 billion Indians,” RIL said in a statement. RIL shares rose 10.3% on the BSE on Wednesday to close at Rs. 1,363.65.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Most sectors will open by May 3: Sanjeev Sanyal||“International investors are impressed by what we are trying to do...We should not at all be apologetic about this approach,” he said. The steps announced by the Finance Ministry and the Reserve Bank of India so far were only meant to “cushion the blow” so that the economy stays alive to the other side of the lockdown, so that limited resources could be saved for the rebuilding phase. Larger package soon “Our first few efforts are to make sure you have enough working capital to keep yourself alive through this shock,” said Mr. Sanyal. A larger package was in the works and would be announced “sooner rather than later.” “Of course, we are not going to solve poverty by giving Rs. 500... But we are just cushioning the hit, so that everyone has some money and some food,” he said, responding to widespread criticism that the Centre’s initial Rs. 1.7 lakh crore welfare package was insufficient to deal with large-scale distress. ‘Opportunity to rebuild’ The Principal Economic Advisor also said India would use the opportunity to implement “large-scale reforms” in the economy. “We must remember that the world on the other side of this crisis will be very different,” he said. Geopolitical realities, supply chain structures and the use of technology would all have changed. “This is not the end of the world... India should see it as an opportunity not just to rebuild ourselves, but also participate in the rebuilding of this new world,” he said.
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre, State can fix sugarcane price, says SC||A Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court on Wednesday held that both the Central and State governments have the power to fix the price of sugarcane under the Concurrent List of the Constitution. However, the five-judge Bench, led by Justice Arun Mishra, said that even though a State cannot fix a “minimum price” if the Centre has already fixed it, the State is always welcome to fix the “advised price”. The advised or remunerative price shall be higher than the minimum price in accordance with the provisions of the Sugarcane (Control) Order, 1966, issued under Section 16 of the Uttar Pradesh Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) Act, 1953. The case revolved around a petition by the Western Uttar Pradesh Sugar Mills Association questioning if the State had the power to fix a minimum price when a similar price had already been set by a Central legislation.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||4 militants killed in Shopian encounter||Inspector General of Police (IGP), Kashmir, Vijay Kumar said, “We have taken DNA samples of the killed militants. We are conducting their burial in the presence of a magistrate. So far, the family of one of them has came forward. We will show them. If they identify, then two to three family members will be permitted to participate in the burial. Those who make the claim later, their DNA samples will taken for further course of action.” The IGP did not disclose the identity of the outfits the militants belonged to. However, police sources said it was a joint group of the Lashkar-e-Taiba, the Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) and the Hizb-ul-Mujahideen.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Attacks on health staff to attract up to 7 years in jail||A government release said the ordinance is intended to ensure that during any situation akin to the current pandemic, there is zero tolerance to any form of violence against healthcare service personnel and damage to property. It said several States had enacted special laws to offer protection to doctors and other medical personnel in the past. “However, the COVID-19 outbreak has posed a unique situation where harassment of the healthcare workforce and others working to contain the spread of the disease has been taking place at all fronts, in various places, including in cremation grounds,” the release said, adding the existing State laws do not have such a wide ambit. In this context, the Union Cabinet, at its meeting on April 22, 2020, approved the promulgation of an ordinance to amend the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, to protect healthcare service personnel and property, including their living/working premises, from violence during epidemics. The President has given his assent for the ordinance, the release said. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) said it welcomed the move.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Confirmed COVID-19 cases cross 20,000||The Central government would conduct a telephonic survey, where citizens will be contacted on their mobile phone from the number 1921, through the National Informatics Centre (NIC), it said. “This is a genuine survey. All citizens are requested to participate to help get proper feedback on the prevalence and distribution of COVID-19 symptoms. Also, please be aware of any other calls by pranksters or calls from any other number in the guise of such a similar survey. The States/UTs are requested to inform the public about the survey through media. They are also requested to inform people about the official nature of this exercise and create awareness of any other calls by pranksters or phishing/fishing attempts from any other number. They are also to host the information about this survey on the Health Departments’ home pages and other Depts,” the release stated.
23 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab’s red zone district has no more active cases||Punjab on Wednesday reported six fresh COVID-19 cases taking the tally to 257 even as the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (SBS) district, which reported the State’s first virus death, has no more active cases. The Health Department said five new patients were from the Jalandhar district while one was from the Kapurthala district. Till April 22, Punjab has seen 16 pandemic-related deaths while 53 patients have so far recovered, it said. No fresh case has been reported in the SBS district since March 26 . All the 18 positive patients undergoing treatment have recovered and since been discharged. The first victim in the State, a 70-year-old man and resident of Pathlawa village, had died on March 18. After the 18th patient recovered, Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said all those who have recovered are now a source of inspiration for other affected patients. He said the teams from Health Department, including the district administration, had worked hard to shift the district from the red zone to the green zone.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Dangers of desires||Everyone has desires, and desires can lead to misery. The story of Yayati shows us that even the old have inappropriate desires, said Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. Yayati was worried that he was ageing. Ageing is a natural process and a right-thinking person would not worry over something like this. But Yayati was concerned about his age. He wanted to enjoy the pleasures of youth. So, he asked his sons to exchange their youth with his (Yayati’s) old age. One after the other, his sons refused to heed him. But one of his sons, called Puru, was ready to do as his father wanted. So Puru exchanged his youth for Yayati’s old age. Eventually, Yayati realised how wrong it was to have hankered after the enjoyments of the senses. He sent for Puru and told him that he regretted what he had done. He said that desire was like a fire. If you pour ghee into a fire, it burns more brightly. Likewise, you may think that once you have fulfilled a desire, then you will experience a sense of satisfaction. But desires do not operate like that. Once a desire is fulfilled, you want something else. So, the fire of desire is kept alive always. Even if we have vairagya, if we are in the company of the those who are constantly seeking something, then we too are affected by their behaviour, and we are tempted to give up our vairagya. A person who does not get what he wants, becomes envious, is filled with anger, and may even commit unpardonable acts of sin. It would help if we could consult someone when we want something. Wise advice helps a lot. But even then, whether we listen to such advice is up to us. Dhritarashtra asked Vidura for advice, but he did not follow the advice. He was so fond of his son Duryodhana, that he could not be reasonable.
23 April 2020||Mumbai,||101 arrested in Palghar lynching case||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday made public the list of 101 accused arrested in the Palghar mob lynching of three persons, including two sadhus. The Minister, while declaring the list, categorically said that none of the arrested accused was Muslim and once again appealed to everyone not to communalise the incident. In a statement on social media, he said: “Palghar mob lynching is a grotesque incident which happened due to rumours on social media about child kidnappers and thieves prowling in the area. A high-level inquiry is going on and, meanwhile, people are requested not to fall for rumours and verify facts from trusted sources.” Three people were lynched at the remote Gadchinchle village in Palghar district on the night of April 16. The three were trying to cross the border to Gujarat and were refused entry at Dadra and Nagar Haveli Union Territory. The villagers stopped the car as the area was rife with rumours about a kidnappers’ gang and thieves. A mob of over hundred lynched them.
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bill Gates hails Modi’s leadership||Microsoft founder and philanthropist Bill Gates commended Prime Minister Modi’s leadership in a letter to the latter where he praised the government’s focus on public health along with social security during the COVID-19 crisis. “Grateful to see that you’re seeking to balance public health imperatives with the need to ensure adequate social protection for all Indians,” he wrote in his letter. “We commend your leadership and the proactive measures you and your government have taken to flatten the curve of the COVID-19 infection rate in India, such as adopting a national lockdown and expanding focused testing...,” he wrote.
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||10 lakh claims settled in 15 days: EPFO||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) has settled over 10 lakh claims, including 6.06 lakh claims under the special COVID-19 pandemic withdrawal scheme, in 15 working days, the EPFO said in a statement on Wednesday. An amount of Rs. 3,600.85 crore had been disbursed in 10.02 lakh claims, of which Rs. 1,954 crore were for the COVID-19 claims.
23 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||1,300 pigs die of swine fever in Assam||More than 1,300 pigs have died across five districts of eastern Assam of classical swine fever at a time when pig farmers have been hit by the lockdown to curb the spread of COVID-19 Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Minister Atul Bora said five-member teams of veterinary doctors have been asked to study the causes of the disease that killed 1,374 pigs in less than a week and suggest remedies. Dhireshwar Kalita, principal scientist at the Assam Agriculture University, said the pigs died of classical swine fever and not of swine flu or H1N1 as many in the State feared.
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Norm for tests for pregnant women||Pregnant women residing in clusters/containment areas or in large migration gatherings/evacuee centres in hotspot districts and presenting in labour or likely to deliver in five days should be tested even if asymptomatic. Releasing a new guideline, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) noted that asymptomatic pregnant women should be tested in the health facilities where they were expected to deliver and all arrangements should be made to collect and transfer samples to the testing facilities. Women should not be referred for lack of testing facility, ICMR said.
23 April 2020||New Delhi,||Congress seeks legal action against Arnab Goswami||The Congress reacted sharply to Republic Editor Arnab Goswami’s “condemnable comments” against party president Sonia Gandhi in the context of the Palghar lynching incident and sought legal action against him. “His comments were disgraceful and condemnable. Mr. Goswami claims to be an independent journalist but the deplorable language that he is using certainly matches that of the BJP,” general secretary organisation K.C. Venugopal told The Hindu . Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala told The Hindu that the party would pursue all legal options.
23 April 2020||New Delhi,||Aadhaar seeding deadline for PM KISAN extended for some States||Farmers in Assam, Meghalaya, J&K and Ladakh have been given a one-year extension to provide Aadhaar data to avail themselves of income support benefits under the PM-KISAN scheme. The new deadline will be March 31, 2021. The decision to relax the mandatory requirement of Aadhaar seeding of data for beneficiaries in these States and the Union Territories was taken by the Union Cabinet on Wednesday. This will benefit about 38 lakh farmers who have already received at least one instalment of PM-KISAN support.
23 April 2020||Mumbai,||Quarantine period of Wadhwans ending today, have informed ED and CBI: Anil Deshmukh||Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said the State police had written to both the Enforcement Directorate and the CBI stating that the quarantine period of Kapil Wadhawan and Dheeraj Wadhawan — accused in the Yes Bank and DHFL fraud cases — and their family members ended at 2 p.m. on Wednesday and the agencies could come and arrest them. “Till such time, the State police will keep a watch on them,” Mr. Deshmukh said. The ED had recently issued summons against both in the Yes Bank case.
23 April 2020||New Delhi,||Rahul Gandhi calls for ideas on possible MSME stimulus package||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi has called for ideas on social media on a possible stimulus package for the medium, small and micro enterprises (MSME) sector. “#COVID19 has devastated our micro, small & medium businesses (MSME). The Congress party needs your help. Send us suggestions & ideas for what an MSME stimulus package should cover on,” Mr. Gandhi said. The Congress has repeatedly criticised the Modi government for ignoring the plight of migrant workers and for offering a minuscule stimulus package.
23 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam gives 3-day window for inter-State travel||The Assam government has announced a three-day window for certain categories of people to travel from one district to another. State Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Wednesday said people stranded in various parts of the State would be allowed to travel back to their native places from April 25-27. Such movement would be allowed only if permission was taken from the district authority concerned and the traveller possessed an e-pass, he said.
23 April 2020||Mumbai,||Nine new cases in Dharavi, tally 189||Dharavi reported nine new cases on Wednesday, bringing the total to 189 including 12 deaths. The Centre’s team that visited Dharavi on Wednesday has suggested that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s 1200-bed capacity quarantine facilities in Dharavi are not enough and it should prepare for at least 5,000 beds as numbers peak. A five-member Inter-Ministerial Central Teams (IMCT) is in Mumbai to assess the situation.
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Aviation Ministry employee tests positive||An employee of the Ministry of Civil Aviation has tested positive for COVID-19 and his colleagues have been asked to go into self-isolation. “An employee of the Ministry who had attended office on 15 April 2020 has tested positive for COVID19 on 21st April. All necessary protocols are being stringently followed on the premises. All colleagues who came in contact are being asked to go into self-isolation as a precaution,” the Ministry said on Twitter. The Delhi government was taking appropriate steps to conduct tracing, it stated.
23 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana cancels Chinese testing kits order||Haryana has cancelled an order placed with two Chinese companies for 1 lakh Rapid Testing Kits, State Health Minister Anil Vij said on Wednesday. “We have instead placed a fresh order with a South Korean company that is preparing the kits at Manesar near Gurugram,” he said in a statement. The company had so far handed over 25,000 kits. “We are getting the kits at almost half the price quoted by the Chinese companies, and the kits are of better quality,” he said.
23 April 2020||Kolkata,||Doctors seek measures for staff in Bengal||More than half a dozen doctors’ associations in West Bengal have written to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee urging her that the State provide protective measures to front line medical staff and increased testing for COVID-19. “Healthcare workers working relentlessly in different categories should be provided with necessary protective measures as per the ICMR, WHO guidelines,” it said. “More testing centres should be opened at least in every region and testing done as per ICMR guidelines,” the letter said.
23 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||4 new cases in Odisha, total mounts to 83||Four new COVID-19 cases were detected in Odisha, taking the State’s total number to 83 on Wednesday as Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik administered an oath for sarpanchs to discharge their duties with a commitment to protect villages from the virus. The number of active cases stood at 50 in the State and the number of recovered patients increased to 32. The State has reported only one death due to COVID-19. Interacting with the sarpanchs, Mr. Patnaik asked them to ensure strict observance of lockdown rules, compulsory use of mask for all, frequent hand washing, social distancing and zero tolerance for spitting in public.
23 April 2020||B. Tilak Chandar,TAMIL NADU||First anniversary of landmark judgement day celebrated||On April 22, 2019, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, in a landmark judgement, upheld the marriage between a cisgender man and a transgender woman. In his verdict, Justice G.R. Swaminathan also directed the State to ban sex selective surgeries on intersex infants and children. Thus, Tamil Nadu became the first State in the country to ban sex normalising surgeries on intersex infants and children, except in cases where they become necessary to overcome life-threatening situations. Srishti Madurai, an NGO that works for the rights of LGBTQIA+ community, celebrated the first anniversary of the pronouncement of this historic judgement and held discussions through videoconferencing with activists in different parts of the country on the implementation of the recommendations made in the judgement. “It is a momentous day in the journey of intersex rights in India. This judgement led to a ban on unnecessary medical surgeries on intersex infants/children in Tamil Nadu and recognises the consent rights of intersex children and the right to bodily integrity,” said Gopi Shankar, executive board member of International Lesbian Gay Bisexual Trans and Intersex Association (ILGA Asia). “If the judgement becomes a law at the national level, India will become the second nation after Malta to have a legal regime protecting the rights of intersex children. The judgement highlighted the need to remove stigma against intersex people and obligation of the government to raise public awareness of intersex rights,” ze (a pronoun sometimes used instead of ‘he’ or ‘she’ because it does not show a particular gender) said. However, the activist felt that even after a year of the pronouncement of the judgement, comprehensive human rights protection was still a distant reality for the intersex community in India. “This is quite visible from the recent legislative attempts such as enactment of the Transgender Persons Act, 2019, where specific needs of intersex people have not been recognised,” ze said.
23 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Shift doctor’s mortal remains to Kilpauk cemetery’||The family of neurosurgeon Simon Hercules, who died of COVID-19 on Sunday and was buried in Velangadu amid chaos, has appealed to the Chief Minister that his mortal remains be shifted to the cemetery in Kilpauk, as per his last wish. On Sunday evening, the Chennai Corporation had made arrangements at its burial ground near Kilpauk. However, as residents took to the road, objecting to the burial, they decided to bury him at Velangadu which has a crematorium with limited space for burials. But a mob attacked Corporation staff and colleagues of the doctor, in Velangadu, opposing the burial. The body was later buried with police protection. In a video message, the doctor’s wife, Anandhi Simon, said that it was his last wish to be buried at the Kilpauk cemetery. “We had obtained permission to bury him at the Kilpauk cemetery, but he was buried in Velangadu due to a few incidents. We could not witness his burial. He has been buried in a sealed casket and this can be shifted to the Kilpauk cemetery. It will not create any trouble for anyone,” she said. She added that he spoke to them before he was put on ventilatory support. “It was his last wish to be buried as per our rituals. Please fulfil his last wish,” she appealed to the Chief Minister. CM speaks to Anandhi On Wednesday forenoon, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami spoke to Ms. Anandhi Simon over the phone and expressed his condolences to the bereaved family. In his tweet about his phone call with her, @CMOTamilNadu said he requested her to remain strong considering the future of her son and daughter. Stalin’s call DMK president M.K. Stalin spoke to Ms. Anandhi and expressed his condolences. He also spoke to journalist who had tested positive for the virus. The Tamil Nadu Engineers' Federation (TNEF) has condemned the attack on persons who had accompanied the mortal remains of Dr. Simon to the burial ground on Sunday. In a statement, president of the TNEF S.Ananth said that two engineers belonging to the Greater Chennai Corporation had sustained injuries when they were on duty and are currently undergoing treatment for the same. They welcomed the immediate action taken by the Tamil Nadu government against the perpetrators.
23 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Solatium to relatives of deceased front line staff hiked to Rs. 50 lakh||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday announced that the solatium to families of front line workers who died fighting COVID-19 would be increased from Rs. 10 lakh to Rs. 50 lakh. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami said that a family member of the deceased would be given a government job based on qualifications. “The solatium is applicable to the Health, Police and Local Administration departments, whose workers are involved in the fight against COVID-19, on a war footing,” he added. The Centre had announced a medical insurance cover of Rs. 50 lakh for health workers battling the disease, Mr. Palaniswami noted.  The CM said that the State government would take all possible steps to provide protection during front line workers’ funerals, irrespective of whether the deceased were government or private sector staff. “It is the duty of the government to honour the selfless service of front line staff,” he said. Mr. Palaniswami also announced that doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers of both government and private hospitals, who die fighting COVID-19, would be honoured with awards. “If a health worker serving in a private hospital contracts COVID-19, permission will be granted to examine all those serving in the unit, as per protocol. After measures are taken to prevent the spread of the disease, medical services will be allowed to resume in the unit,” the CM said. He said that he had instructed officials to intensify precautionary and screening measures in Chennai to identify those with symptoms such as breathing difficulty, cold and cough, and trace contacts of those who had tested positive for COVID-19. IAS officers Karthikeyan and Baskaran had been tasked with the exercise, he added.
23 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Better quarters, safety gear need of the hour for health workers||In a six-hour shift in the COVID-19 isolation ward, a doctor gets only one set of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) that he cannot remove. With air-conditioners turned off, he struggles with profuse sweating and dehydration but smiles saying he was now used to it. The few things that healthcare providers (HCP) such as him are in need of, are better accommodation and quality protective gear. Both accommodation and safety kits continue to be a problem for several HCPs posted on COVID-19 duty in isolation wards and outpatient departments in a number of government hospitals. The arrangements made for accommodation, and number of days on duty that are followed by a quarantine period varies from hospital to hospital. This should not be the case, say a number of doctors. While some government medical college hospitals have made arrangements for accommodation in nearby hotels or buildings such as MLA hostel in Chennai, some still house the healthcare providers on campus — in hostels or other blocks. At a government hospital in Chennai, doctors on isolation duty were provided accommodation on one of the floors of a building where the COVID-19 OP was functioning. After a representation to the hospital administration, 50 rooms in the MLA hostel were allocated, but only for male doctors. “On the floor allotted for us, there were double sharing rooms with a common bathroom. This was not acceptable. Some of the medical college hospitals in districts have arranged for rooms in nearby hotels for healthcare providers. While male doctors moved to the MLA hostel, many women doctors are going home after duty in the isolation ward, posing a risk to those at home. We are ready to work but we need a safe environment to stay after work,” another doctor said. “We are provided accommodation in the hostel. This increases the risk for cross infections. No healthcare provider on COVID-19 duty should be provided accommodation on the same campus,” a doctor said. Each hospital follows different patterns for duty and quarantine periods. “It should be the same for all. We have been requesting one week of duty followed by 14 days of quarantine,” a doctor said.
23 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Restrictions to become part of daily life’||Even after the lockdown is lifted, certain restrictions and norms may become part of daily life, for at least a year, say officials and public health experts. This will include restrictions on mass gatherings, visits to recreation/entertainment facilities and thermal scanning in office buildings. Officials of the Health Department said that presently, COVID-19 was under control in the State. “Measures to keep it under control will continue. However, after the lockdown is relaxed, we will witness cases in June, as people will start to travel and move around. We will continue to be vigilant, and continue testing all persons with Severe Acute Respiratory Infection and Influenza Like Illness. Intensive laboratory testing and local containment measures will continue,” an official said. Hygiene practices But after the lockdown, life may never be the same again, say public health experts. They say that hand hygiene and respiratory hygiene will become a part of lifestyle in the post-lockdown period. Officials are looking at restrictions for at least a year. “There will be restrictions on mass gatherings and at entertainment facilities. Offices should have thermal scanning, and leaves should be granted to employees who have cold and cough. Every building should have adequate facilities for regular hand washing,” the official said. Adherence to such restrictions and practices for a year will help reduce the damage due to COVID-19, officials said. T. Jacob John, retired professor of virology, Christian Medical College, Vellore, said that once the lockdown ends, everyone should wear masks to achieve the aim of physical distancing. Preventing mass gatherings is a good idea, he said. Lifting the lockdown is important, he said, adding: “A staggered approach can be followed and decisions should be left with State governments.” “The epidemic spreads very much like H1N1 influenza, but it will kill a few more. The fury of the epidemic will be down in six months like what we saw with H1N1. As sufficient herd immunity is built, the epidemic will come down, muted by wearing masks and the lockdown. It will die out, meaning only a few people will get infected,” he said.
23 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu rulers infected with ‘corruption virus’, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday charged that the rulers of Tamil Nadu had been infected with “corruption virus” and accused them of indulging in corruption even at the time of a global pandemic. “We are worried that the rapid test kits are not working properly. But the rulers do not seem to be worried about it. They have purchased the kits for higher price when compared to other States,” he alleged in a statement. He claimed even though the AIADMK was in power, the people had faith only in the DMK. “Even though we have occupied the seat of opposition, we remain a ruling party in the hearts of the people. The DMK started its work even before the COVID-19 lockdown was announced and continues to work,” he said. Alleging that the rulers in the State had been infected with corruption virus, Mr. Stalin said the ever-increasing number of those who had tested positive for Coronavirus disease was a clear proof which the government could not suppress. “Doctors have died and they were not allowed to have dignified burial. Police personnel, sanitary workers and medical staff could not get adequate personal protection equipment. Now journalists have also been affected by the virus and government needs to function swiftly and efficiently,” he said. Mr. Stalin said it was pathetic that the medical staff of the Rajiv Gandhi Govt. Hospital had to resort to a protest as they could not get adequate facilities to combat the disease. “How can the government save people when it is not able to get facilities for medical professional? My heart trembles. How will the government which cannot save a few thousand doctors save lakhs of people? ,” he said.
23 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Normalcy in cine industry only by Sept.’||The Tamil film industry is expected to return to a normal state of affairs only by September. Film Employees Federation of South India (FEFSI) president R.K. Selvamani on Wednesday said, “Though we can start shooting in some limited way from June, complete normalcy in operations will return only in September.” A decision on returning to work will only be taken after the official removal of lockdown, he said and added that the 25,000-strong union will need to take stock after the lockdown is fully removed.  “We need a week to take stock after lockdown is completely removed. Cinema is not an essential, so even if the lockdown is partially removed, cinema will be one of the last industries to start working. Rapid testing needs to be started. I doubt if we can start working in May,” he said. Ruling out the possibility of conducting COVID-19 tests on all union members or maintaining strict physical distancing on sets, Mr. Selvamani said: “It is also not possible to maintain physical distancing in movie shoots. Hero and heroine have to act together. The cameraman and director have to work together closely. We can make masks compulsory but we cannot maintain physical distance all the time. Also, it is not possible to test all our 25,000 members. There have been no COVID-19 cases in the union, thankfully.” He said that the biggest challenge was to convince the audience to come to theatres. “People might come to theatres around Deepavali. The fans might come but I doubt if families would go to the theatres,” he said. Donations not enough Mr. Selvamani also said that donations from various actors to FEFSI were not enough to provide relief to members. “If we have to give Rs. 1,000 to 25,000 members, we will need Rs. 2.5 crore. Now, we have received around Rs. 3.25 crore. We have now given a bag of rice plus Rs. 500 to only 20,000 members. We are still falling short,” he said.  Cinema is not an essential, so even if the lockdown is partially removed, cinema will be one of the last industries to start working R.K. Selvamani President, FEFSI
23 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Relief to firms as Tangedco allows self-assessment of meter reading||In a major relief for industrial and commercial consumers, using low tension current transformers (LTCT), the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has allowed ‘self-assessment’ of meter readings during the COVID-19 crisis. Tangedco, in a circular issued by the Accounts Branch (a copy of which is available) on Tuesday, instructed that self-assessment of electricity meters would be allowed in place of payment of the previous month’s bill. All officials of Tangedco have been directed to accept the self-assessment by LTCT industrial and commercial consumers. However, the facility is not available for low tension domestic consumers. Tangedco had earlier directed domestic consumers and LTCT industrial and commercial consumers to pay the previous month’s bill amount as the current month’s due to the assessment not being carried out during the lockdown. Firms’ representation The circular states that the move comes in the wake of industrial and commercial consumers making a representation to Tangedco that as a majority of commercial establishments were going to be shut from March 24 to May 3, the direction to pay the previous month’s bill for April would prove very expensive as the actual usage was low to negligible. The self-assessment facility is open only till May 3, the circular from Tangedco stated.
23 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Outside Chennai, close to 40 lakh people in urban containment zones||The 300 containment zones in urban local bodies (ULBs) other than Chennai house 39.5 lakh people. Of these, around 18.4 lakh people are living in 72 containment zones located across 14 Municipal Corporations (barring Chennai); 17.5 lakh people in 129 such zones across 121 Municipalities and 3.6 lakh in 99 zones of 528 town panchayats of the State. Among the Municipal Corporations, Tiruppur accounts for the maximum number of people covered under containment zones with around 4.17 lakh people, followed by Coimbatore with 3.68 lakh people and Vellore with 2.78 lakh. As many as 43,656 persons are under home quarantine in all ULBs, of whom 27,432 are in the Erode Municipal Corporation alone. The town panchayats have the lowest number with, 707; Municipalities have 10,711 and Municipal Corporations 32,238. According to a senior official of the Commissionerate of Municipal Administration, the 300 zones are being monitored by 264 medical officers; an equal number of sanitary inspectors or officers, 177 nodal officers and 23,855 workers, drawn from various institutions such as anganwadi centres and self-help groups.  Urban local bodies have a stock of 4.35 lakh masks; 2.53 pairs of gloves and about 42,000 personal protective equipment (PPE).
23 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||How hand-washing will impact water needs||With people having to wash hands frequently in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic, two water experts have worked out estimates of the State’s water demand. In the absence of any stipulation from authorities on the number of times one has to wash hands every day, the experts, P.M. Natarajan, former director, Centre for Climate Change, Periyar Maniammai University, Thanjavur, and V. Sivakumaran, former chief engineer, Chennai Metrowater, differ in this respect. Mr. Natarajan estimates the number of times as 15, whereas according to Mr. Sivakumaran, it is 10. Both accept that the duration of washing has to last 20 seconds. In the former’s assessment, the water requirement will be 20 litres per capita per day (LPCD) whereas, in the estimate of the other, it will be 12 LPCD. Both take the present population of the State as 8.2 crore, but differ again on how many people have to wash their hands. Mr. Natarajan’s calculation covers the entire estimated population, whereas Mr. Sivakumaran points out that only two-thirds of the State’s population may have to wash hands daily, leaving out elderly, children and the sick — this means around 5.5 crore people of the total of 8.2 crore. The former, by applying his yardstick, arrives at the figure of 1,640 million litres a day (MLD) as the State’s water demand, while the latter says it is 660 MLD. N. Meenakshisundaram, water activist-engineer, said there was no shortage of water in the State, as there was enough availability of surface and groundwater. As on date, the Mettur reservoir, the main source of water for irrigation and drinking water in a host of districts, has about 66 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) of water, against a capacity of 93.47 TMC.
23 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stranded foreign nationals fly back home in 30 rescue flights||Since the lockdown, hundreds of foreign nationals, who were stranded in the city, have left in 30 rescue flights from various countries over the past month. According to Airports Authority of India (AAI) officials, the rescue flights flew to destinations like Australia, Japan, South Korea, Singapore, Bangladesh, USA, UK and Malaysia in the past few weeks carrying their nationals stranded in the city. Some of the flights picked up passengers from Chennai then head to Mumbai or Hyderabad or Bangalore, take more foreign nationals stranded there and head to their respective country, the officials said. For instance, a flight to Atlanta in USA from Chennai had a stopover at Mumbai, took in some more passengers and departed, officials said. Many flights also land here for refueling of their flights, they added. “Almost everyday, sa pecial rescue flight departs from the city. Before each such flight, the international terminal is fumigated thoroughly. All the areas are deep cleaned so that passengers are not at risk. Also, all passengers are subjected to temperature checks before they board the aircraft. There is always someone monitoring the activities during such times in the terminal,” an official said. Meanwhile, hundreds of Indians, who have been stranded in various parts of world like Singapore, Malaysia, Japan and Australia, have been waiting to return. Many have constantly requested the government and posted tweets asking them to make arrangements to help them get back home, officials said.
23 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Archbishop offers help in burying doctor’s body on church grounds||The Archbishop of Madras and Mylapore, Most Rev. George Antonysamy, has offered full cooperation for the burial of the body of Simon Hercules, a neurosurgeon who died of COVID-19, in a church cemetery in Kilpauk, after the deceased’s wife made a plea to the Chief Minister for the same. Following Anandhi Simon’s request to the CM that she be allowed to bury the mortal remains of her husband in the church ground, in accordance with religious traditions, the Archbishop said he was for doing that, with the permission of the State government. Rejects claim He also rejected the claim that a dispute between two churches had led to the body being shifted to a Corporation burial ground. He pointed out that a church in Mehta Nagar had given a letter of permission for the burial to the deceased’s relatives soon after he died. Welcoming Mrs. Simon’s request to the Chief Minister, he said the church condoled the death of the doctor and was standing by the bereaved family and holding them in its prayers. A spokesperson of the Tamil Nadu Bishops’ Council said this was also the stand of the Catholic Church and the Bishops of T.N. Violence condemned Condemning the violent untoward incidents that took place after the doctor’s death in Velangadu, the Archbishop also hit out at what he described as communal slander on social media which, he said, was shocking, unfounded and part of a hate campaign. "Though the deceased’s body was handed over to his family, it was still under the control of the Greater Chennai Corporation as it was a death related to the disease (COVID-19). Since it was advised to complete his burial that night itself, a decision was made to avoid the Kilpauk burial ground and conduct the funeral in another ground in the same locality, falling under the control of the Greater Chennai Corporation," the Archbishop pointed out. It was the Greater Chennai Corporation which took the decision to send the remains to the burial ground in Velangadu from the hospital, the Archbishop said, adding that all the violent and untoward incidents happened in Velangadu and not near the burial ground in Kilpauk.
23 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tele-counselling service gets around 300 calls daily||The Chennai Corporation’s tele-counselling services for persons reaching out with concerns during the lockdown has been receiving an average of 300 calls every day. The helpline (4612 2300), manned by volunteers from Loyola College and the Network of Professional Social Workers, had initially received calls from persons who had been placed under home quarantine. “Over the last week however, we’ve seen an increase in calls from the families of persons testing positive for COVID-19 or even the patients themselves. Many family members are anxious or stressed about infecting other people in their localities and we immediately reassure them as well as put them in touch with counsellors,” said Gladston Xavier, associate professor, social work department of Loyola College who has been coordinating this initiative. The volunteers had also initially been making calls to persons who were under home quarantine, to address any queries that they might have. “Ever since containment zones have been marked, we are receiving queries from residents there as well. If they have any psycho-social concerns, our counsellors address it and for other queries, they are connected to the officials in-charge,” Mr. Gladston added. As of 11 a.m. on Wednesday, 86 persons have recovered in Chennai and 263 people have been hospitalised, data from the Chennai Corporation indicated. Ambattur Zone recorded its first positive case on Tuesday.
23 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two policemen suspended for stealing liquor bottles||Two police personnel have been placed under suspension for stealing seized liquor bottles from the strongroom of New Washermenpet police station. The bottles, which were seized during a recent raid, were stored in the strong room of New Washermenpet Police Station, to be produced before a court later. Police said that a head constable and a constable, both posted at the police station, stole the bottles when they were on night duty on April 14. The next day, police found at least 50 bottles of 180 ml quantity missing. Following a report from the intelligence wing, the two police personnel were transferred and a detailed probe was conducted. A probe revealed the duo engaged an offender to open the lock of the strongroom and then they took the bottles for personal consumption, sources said. Meanwhile, city police seized liquor bottles from two persons in Ambattur Estate and Koyambedu market.
23 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors wear black badges in solidarity||Doctors affiliated to the Federation of Government Doctors Association (FOGDA) wore black badges to work on Wednesday to condole the recent death of three doctors, two of whom died of coronavirus disease (COVID-19). The association later thanked the Chief Minister for announcing ex-gratia to kin of frontline workers if they died on COVID-19 duty and government job for a family member. The Doctors Association for Social Equality, in a statement, demanded that the Centre pass a law that protects doctors and healthcare workers so that they could work in a safe environment. The association urged the Central and State governments to announce schemes for doctors and healthcare providers.
23 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ration tokens on April 24, 25||Tokens for getting essentials from ration shops for May will be distributed at consumers’ doorsteps on April 24 and 25, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Wednesday. “The tokens will have a specific day and time when ration cardholders can get their supplies. Consumers can collect them from ration shops on the specified day and time,” the CM said in a statement. He insisted that people strictly observe physical distancing norms while collecting rations. It may be recalled that the State government had earlier announced that ration supplies for the month of May would be distributed for free. Essentials for May for a ration cardholder includes 1 kg of sugar, 1 kg of tur dal and 1 kg of edible oil, besides the usual entitlement of rice.
23 April 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Two murders reported in city||A 24-year-old youth was hacked to death by a gang in Pallikaranai. The victim was Kirubakaran, an electrician of Periyar Nagar, Vengaivasal. Another murder was reported from Kabali Garden, Mylapore, in the early hours of Wednesday.
23 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Fee collection: colleges take objection to govt.’s decision||Private, self-financing colleges have taken serious exception to the State government’s directive to them to neither collect fee for the forthcoming academic year nor dues of the current one during the lockdown period. Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam had on Monday said students or parents should not be forced to pay dues for the academic year 2019-20 or be levied with penalty for delay during the lockdown period. The government followed it up with a direction issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The government had made the announcement without any application of mind and without consulting colleges or their association and in doing so it had hit hard. A few members of managements said on condition of anonymity that the directive had arrested the institutions’ revenue without providing any relief on the expenditure side. And, that too it had fully arrested the revenue because the direction had barred colleges from collecting even dues for the 2019-20 academic year. A college secretary said the bar on collecting the dues had affected those colleges the most that collected it in instalments from students. And, majority of the colleges in Coimbatore region did so to help students. Those institutions that collected fee annually, at the beginning of the academic year or semester would be hit, but only partially, he pointed out. The management representatives said on the expenditure side the colleges had to pay salary for both teaching and non-teaching staff, which ate away around 60% of their revenue. The colleges then had their share of employee state insurance, provident fund, take care of bills of various utilities like internet, telephone, power, municipal charges, etc. Further, the managements had to buy books, pay for starting new courses and invest in improving infrastructure. They pointed out that with almost all institutions being run by trusts, the managements also had to ensure that there was not more than 10% of the revenue in the accounts as 90% had to be spent towards improving education and infrastructure. This meant that the colleges had little money on hand to sail through the next few months, which also happened to be examination and holiday season. Without looking into the colleges’ commitments, the government simply asking them not to collect fee or dues was nothing short poor, ill-conceived decision. In short, the direction had simply financially squeezed the colleges between dried-up revenue and looming commitments. The management representatives said at least now the government should come to colleges’ rescue by directing banks to extend loans to the extent of pending revenue. And, with interest subvention, if possible. This would help ease their burden to a great extent and this was more than necessary because each college had at least 100 faculty and around 50 non-teaching staff, whose lives also depended on the colleges’ ability to pay salary.  The directive of the government has arrested the institutions’ revenue A few members of managements
23 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Industries continue to seek special permission to restart operations||Nearly 550 industries in Coimbatore district have received special permission to operate during the lockdown period. According to data available, as many as 99 large-scale industries and 448 MSMEs (Micro, Small and Medium-scale Enterprises) have obtained permission. Most of these are for emergency needs such as food and healthcare products. While some passes are given for a specific period, say five days or a week, some are for the entire lockdown period. On an average, these industries are given permission to employ five to seven workers for the specified period and the maximum number of workers permitted is 25. At the District Industries Centre here, about 100 applications are received every day from individuals and companies asking for vehicle passes to move goods, to operate industries and for the permitted staff to commute. The number of applicants have increased after the State government decided not to relax the lockdown norms till May 3, say officials. A large number of industries that make ventilators or products related to it have been permitted to operate as it is one of the emergency needs. In Tiruppur, 185 units have got permission to produce edible oil, rice, PPEs and masks.
23 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Policeman suspended for faking vehicle recovery||A head constable attached to the Saravanampatty Police Station was placed under suspension on Wednesday for allegedly collecting money from a retired BSNL employee, a resident of Viswasapuram, on the pretext of recovering the latter’s scooter that was stolen. CCTV visuals The scooter’s owner later found out from surveillance camera visuals that the policeman himself had shifted the scooter from his house’s compound to another place during night duty and produced it before him in the morning claiming that he recovered it from a thief. Saravanan, the Head Constable, allegedly collected Rs. 1,000 for the vehicle “recovery”. The incident happened in the early hours of April 18. The policeman found three vehicles parked in front of the house of the man, including one scooter with its key. He shifted the scooter around 100 metres from the owner’s house and returned it in the morning as if it had been recovered from a thief. The vehicle owner reported the incident to the Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) E.S. Uma, following which an internal intelligence team verified it. On Wednesday, City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan placed the Head Constable under suspension, said sources with the police.
23 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco to accept self- assessment from industrial, commercial consumers||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) has said that it will accept ‘self-assessment’ readings by Low Tension /Low Tension CT industrial and commercial consumers for the month of April. Based on data In a communication dated April 21, 2020, the Tangedco said the Superintending Engineers should accept self assessment reading sent to the text message, WhatsApp, e-mail to section office in the form of text or photo, the officials should raise the bill based on the data provided and communicate it back to the consumers through the same mode, and the consumers should be encouraged to make digital payment. An official of Tangedco here said the bill can be estimated immediately. As soon as the reading comes, the entered bill amount will be deleted and the correct amount will be entered. Consumers have to pay before the last date. So far, the instructions received is not to disconnect any connection till May 3, the official said. Modified amount K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary of Coimbatore Consumer Cause, says an earlier circular of Tangedco has clearly said that consumers have time to pay till May 6. All field officers should modify the amount entered already and enter the correct amount. This is not a concession to the consumers but just that the Tangedco is collecting the actual amount. This will itself come relief to industrial and commercial consumers. Since the lockdown is in force till May 3, the last date for payment should be extended beyond May 6, he said.
23 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Trade unions seek relief kits||Representatives of seven trade unions submitted a memorandum to District Collector K. Rajamani on Wednesday seeking relief kits for all registered workers in all the welfare boards, including those in the construction workers’ welfare board. There are about three lakh workers in the two boards in Coimbatore district. But only those who have renewed their membership are getting the relief materials and there are reports that even in that some are not getting the materials. In total, nearly two lakh registered members are not getting any support.
23 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Nearly 1,000 persons being tested every day||The Coimbatore district administration said on Wednesday it was testing up to 1,000 persons a day, using seven testing equipment, and the swab samples collected included those of persons from Tiruppur and the Nilgiris. The administration has so far tested 3,389 persons for their COVID-19 status, and 3,255 of them had tested negative. Of the remaining 134 persons who had tested positive, the doctors at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital had successfully treated 83 persons and they included the 29 who were discharged on Tuesday. Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani and officials reviewed the situation in the district on Wednesday. To mitigate the difficulty people faced, the administration had arranged for distribution of vegetables, a release said.
23 April 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||IAF lifts five tonnes of PPE||A special flight of Indian Air Force on Wednesday lifted five tonnes of PPE to be delivered to the Uttar Pradesh government. The PPEs were manufactured in Tiruppur. This is the second consignment of PPE lifted by air by a special flight of the Indian Air Force from Coimbatore.
23 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||LMW contributes Rs. 2 crore to relief fund||Lakshmi Machine Works has contributed Rs. 2 crore to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund (COVID relief fund). Sanjay Jayavarthanavelu, Chairman and Managing Director of Lakshmi Machine Works, handed over the cheque to Minister for Municipal Administration and Rural Development SP Velumani here on Wednesday in the presence of District Collector K. Rajamani.
23 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Residents demand water supply||Residents of M.G.R. Colony, Kavundampalayam, staged a protest on Wednesday complaining poor water supply. With empty pots and by maintaining personal distancing norms, the residents protested for a while until the Thudiyalur Police and Coimbatore Corporation officials reached the spot and assured them for proper water supply. Soon after the residents gave up their protest, the Corporation supplied drinking water and ground water, Corporation sources said.   Civic body officials on Wednesday sealed a chicken shop on Masakalipalayam Road after they found the owner doing business in violation of the lockdown order. The officials then buried the seized chicken, the sources added.
23 April 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Containment zone residents stage protest in Dindigul||Even as the district administration and Corporation have embarked on a series of measures to check the spread of COVID-19, a group of residents at Mounspuram, a thickly populated area, held a demonstration on Wednesday. The residents complained about poor supply of essential commodities and claimed that the goods were also priced high. Speaking to reporters, they said they had been put to untold hardships although a few residents from the area, who tested positive, underwent treatment and returned home successfully. When such was the situation, the health officials continued to keep their locality under the containment zone. The residents demanded that the authorities relax the order as the patients had returned home. On information a posse of police personnel and health officials arrived at the spot and told the agitators that the protocol had to be followed even after a patient had been discharged from the hospital. It was just not enough for a patient to return home. They had to remain in quarantine for the next 14 days. The public had to understand and cooperate during the challenging emergency. the officials said. There were enough volunteers for every containment zone and a WhatsApp group was actively engaged in helping residents procure essential goods. There might be little inconveniences, which they had to bear for some more time, they added. After persuasion, the protesters dispersed. Police said letting out residents in a containment zone would mean violation of the protocol. They appealed to the media to highlight the hardships faced by frontline health workers.
23 April 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Aavin staff suspended||Three employees of Aavin have been placed under suspension here. Following complaints that there were discrepancies in milk procurement and handling of agents accounts, an internal inquiry revealed alleged malpractice and attempts to embezzle funds. The General Manager, M. Ramanathan, suspended three persons identifies as Indumathi, Dinakarapandian and Chandran. Further investigation is on.
23 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Good response to Honesty Shop in Erode||A novel initiative called as Nermai Angadi (Honesty Shop) where the public can pick up required snacks from an unmanned shop functioning near 80-feet road at Periyar Nagar and drop the cash in the box has received good response from the public here. With bakeries and shops selling snack items closed in the district due to spread of COVID-19, a youth Anandan has come up with the idea of running the shop for the benefit of the local people and road users. With support from JCI Erode Dynamic, he has been running the shop for over a week from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. everyday where snacks, chocolates, biscuits and bread packets are available and price mentioned in the packs. “People have to walk in to the shop, chose the product they needed and drop the money in the box”, he said and added that tender exchanges are kept in the box every day. He said that the idea originated after he found people waiting for long hours in queue to purchase snacks from shops that functioned from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. “Here, people need not wait and they can purchase the required items easily”, he said and added that accounts were always correct. Products in the shops are regularly filled by him and the revenue generated is used to purchase the products, he added. “Since the response from the public is good, I have plans to continue running the shop after the lockdown period ends”, he added.
23 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Farmers warned against providing wrong information||District Collector C. Kathiravan has asked farmers not to provide wrong information regarding crop loss to the administration and added that action would be taken against such persons. Regulated markets at Erode and Perundurai to auction turmeric resumed after 20 days on Wednesday as personal distancing norms and wearing mask were strictly followed at the markets that were visited by farmers, traders and loadmen. Mr. Kathiravan visited the market at Erode at Semmampalayam and held discussions with members of the Erode Turmeric Merchants and Godown Owners’ Association. Addressing media persons, Mr. Kathiravan said that while 24 tonne turmeric was auctioned at Perundurai, while 30 tonne was auctioned at the market in Erode. He said that farmers will be allowed to place lots in the committee and they can view the auctioning process online. He said that a farmer from Pudupalayam in Perundurai has claimed that he had suffered loss of Rs. 1.4 lakh as there were no buyers to procure bananas. But inquiries revealed that he did not cultivate bananas and provided wrong information. “Action will be taken against him”, he added. Mr. Kathiravan said that a report carried in a media said that marigold was dumped along the road as there were no buyers. “It is completely false as flowers are being procured. The administration and traders are also purchasing cabbage from farmers in Talavadi”, he said and asked farmers and the public not to provide wrong information. “Provide us correct information so that we can serve you better”, he added.
23 April 2020||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||UDF, BJP seek HC help to stop data sharing with U.S. company||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and BJP State president K. Surendran on Tuesday filed two separate public interest petitions in the Kerala High Court seeking a directive to the State government to stop uploading the data of COVID-19 patients and those under surveillance on the server of Sprinklr or any server to which the U.S.-based company has access to. In his petition, the Opposition leader sought a declaration that SARS-CoV-2 positive patients and those under observation whose data had been uploaded on the U.S.-based company’s server were entitled to get reasonable compensation for the loss and impairment suffered by them. The deal with the company was in violation of their fundamental right of privacy guaranteed by the Constitution, thus causing substantial loss and injury to them. He contended that the sensitive data of the quarantined and isolated persons were illegally collected through ward-level field workers without authority of law and their informed consent. Therefore, they were entitled to get compensation. Contending that sharing of health data with a U.S.-based company was violation of the fundamental right and security of the COVID-19 patients and suspects, the BJP State president sought a Vigilance inquiry into the execution of the master service agreement on the sharing of database by the State government with the company. Both the leaders sought to quash the data sharing agreement signed with the company. Meanwhile, United Democratic Front (UDF) convener Benny Behanan demanded an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the Sprinklr deal. Addressing mediapersons at the Thrissur Press Club on Wednesday, Mr. Behanan said the investigation by a two-member committee, ordered by the government, into the deal was just an eyewash. The government had not discussed with the Opposition the appointment of the committee.
23 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Misfortune befalls these nomads||When Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the COVID-19 lockdown on March 22, A. Chandran, a ‘Boom Boom Maatukaran’ from Madurai district’s Sakkimangalam did not anticipate that his bull would go without any food for a week. Mr. Chandran belongs to a nomadic tribe of Boom Boom Maatukarargal — a group of people who use bulls as props in their performances to entertain people. Usually, male representatives from the community and their bulls dress in bright and shiny colours. The men often sing, dance and predict people’s fortunes as they pass through villages. There are 55 families from this tribe who have settled in Sakkimangalam for over half a century now after migrating from Andhra Pradesh. These Telugu-speaking nomadic tribes have travelled to Kanniyakumari, Tirunelveli, Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar and Tiruchi and Dindigul districts in search of a living. Usually, they earn between Rs. 100 and Rs. 300 each day. Mr. Chandran says that the lockdown and the spread of COVID-19 have dented their income and any future prospects of travelling for a living for at least the next three months now. Most importantly, the lockdown has eliminated sources of fodder for their 75 bulls - their lifeline. “The Tamil month of Masi is special for our community. Wherever we are, we come back to Sakkimangalam to pray to our Gods here. Our intention is to get back to work around Tamil New Year. However, the lockdown has happened,” he says. Mr. Chandran says that when the initial announcement of the lockdown took place, everyone in his community thought that it would end by April 14. “We had bought just enough fodder for two weeks to ensure that the 75 bulls belonging to our community could eat,” he says. However, the extension meant that they had to search and beg for fodder. For one week between April 13 and April 20, the animals did not have any food. Fortunately through this time, several kind-hearted individuals, the State Government and representatives of the district administration provided enough rations for the tribal people. All 55 families also received Rs. 1,000 each from the State government. With this amount, some families bought ‘karuvalam pull’ for the cows as a substitute for straw. Many others, however, were not fortunate. Only on April 21 did a majority of the families get the substitute fodder for the animals. This may, however, not be enough to sustain the bulls in the long run. S. Karuppiah, another member of the tribe, says that the intervention of persons in politics, affluent neighbours and revenue department officials has been of great use to their people. Secretary of TENT Society, a non-governmental organisation, which works with nomadic tribes in Madurai, R. Maheswari, says that the 55 families of Boom Boom Maatukarargal are the only ones in South Tamil Nadu. “Other such pockets of people are in Thanjavur, Krishnagiri and Tindivanam. It is important that their livelihoods should be secured and their culture saved,” she says. Ms. Maheswari says that if the Government provides them loans for starting businesses or gives them menial jobs, children from the community could have a better future. “Already, a total of 40 children from the community are going to school. To avoid dropouts post-lockdown, loans will help,” she says.  Regional Joint Director of Animal Husbandry Department D. Suresh Christopher said that he had informed the local veterinarian to identify the number of bulls and the families. “In two days, we will provide around five kg of straw every day to them after sourcing them from a local paddy farmer so as to facilitate easy transportation,” he said.
23 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Four persons test positive for COVID-19 in Madurai||A total of four people, including two working as cleaners at Government Rajaji Hospital here tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. The count of cases in GRH stands at 50. Two personnel from a private agency providing manpower to the GRH — a 25 year-old man and a 37 year-old person were tested positive. While the former worked as a supervisor, the latter was involved in disinfection work. The two members did not show any symptoms. They were working as part of the second fortnightly shift in the COVID-19 ward and were tested on Tuesday. Two other members from Anna Nagar and Vandiyur who displayed signs of COVID-19 tested positive. Collector T. G. Vinay said both of them were from areas which are already part of the containment zone. Currently, there are 16 active containment zones in Madurai district. “We found them through the process of contact tracing,” he said. He said a man from Mathur area in Madurai was discharged from the GRH even though the State-level bulletin did not reflect the numbers. Speaking to the press, the Collector said that Narimedu, Melamadai, P and T Nagar, Mahaboobpalayam, Anaiyur, Kuppupillai Thoppu Street and Maditchiyam under the Madurai Corporation had been declared as containment zones. Melur, Tirumangalam, Usilampatti, Kallampatti, Karayapatti, Chokkalingapuram, Mathur, Elumalai and Keelamathur areas too were on the list, he said. “Vegetables and other essential commodities will be sold directly to homes. Anyone who leaves their house will be violating the National Disaster Management Act and Section 144 and can be booked,” he said.
23 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown hits TASMAC loadmen hard||The COVID-19 lockdown has burdened families of workers involved in loading and unloading of Indian-made foreign liquor bottles at TASMAC godowns in the State Over 2,500 loadmen working in the 43 godowns and a similar number of workers who do their job for unloading at TASMAC shops have lost their livelihood ever since the shops were closed on March 24. “We were earning around Rs. 500 to Rs. 600 a day. And it always remained a tight-rope walking to run the family with this income,” says S. Ayyanan, 55. Hence, Mr. Ayyanan, who works at the TASMAC godown in Manalur in Sivaganga district, never misses even a single working day to make ends meet for his family of four. “All loadmen, being illiterate, never had the habit of saving money for the rainy days and hence, our problem has compounded these days,” says his colleague, M. Muniasamy, 42. Both the loadmen have two school-going children each. Between the two, Mr. Muniyasamy ‘s plight is better as his wife too was working till the lockdown in a local mill. He has managed with whatever little the family had. But, Mr. Ayyanan has already started borrowing from his neighbours. “How long do you think the Rs. 1000 and essential commodities distributed through ration shops can last for a family of four?” he asks. “How much can we starve? The price of essential goods, including the vegetables, has gone up these days. Except for brinjal and ladies finger, nothing is cheaper these days,” he says. Both the families have cut down on everything, but basic food to survive. “But, I cannot say no to my children, who ask for biscuits. We eat lesser these days so that children can eat more,” Mr. Ayyanan says. His wife has even started to cook less quantity of food. “When the liquor bottles from TASMAC shops were brought back to prevent burglary, we got work for four days amidst lockdown. And that money is now helping me to keeping us remain afloat,” says Mr. Muniyasamy. “The plight of almost all the loadmen is the same across the State. We have not got any relief, except for that given through ration shops. Our request for quick relief to the TASMAC loadmen has not been heeded so far,” says R. Pandi, CITU secretary, Tamil Nadu Sumaithookkum Thozhilar Sammelanam.
23 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses bail plea||Justice P. Velmurugan of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday dismissed the bail petition of J. Moomin Ali from Ramanathapuram district who was arrested and remanded in judicial custody on April 9 for assisting eight Indonesians involved in religious propagation during the lockdown period. The judge heard the plea via videoconferencing. Earlier, the Ramanathapuram Principal District Judge had denied bail to him. The Indonesians came to India prior to the lockdown to participate in a religious conference in Delhi. Subsequently, they visited places in and around Ramanathapuram for religious propagation. When the lockdown was announced, prohibitory orders were issued under Section 144 of the Cr.P.C. Hence, a complaint was lodged by a Village Administrative Officer against the Indonesians and the petitioner for violating the prohibitory orders.
23 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Found murdered||A. Rasu of Uthapuram, 60, was found murdered in a farm under Elumalai police station limits on Wednesday. Police said Rasu’s son R. Karuppiah, 40, who went to the farm in Thazhaiyoothu foothills, found his father lying dead with cut injuries on his head. Investigations are on.
23 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Stop flying kites: TANGEDCO||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (TANGEDCO), Madurai circle, in a statement, asked youth and children to stop flying kites here on Wednesday. Kites often get stuck in electric poles, lines and transformer boxes - affecting power supply. The department says that it has already issued a press statement banning the flying of kites. “During times of COVID-19, it becomes difficult and dangerous to fix the lines.”
23 April 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Puducherry records second highest testing rate in country||Puducherry, which has kept its tally of active COVID-19 cases to three since the first case was reported in Mahe over three weeks ago, has the country’s second highest testing rate under the conservative criteria prescribed by the Union Health Ministry and ICMR. With 102 RT-PCR tests per lakh of population the Union Territory is second only to Delhi with a ratio of 120 tests per lakh of population, S. Mohankumar, Director of Health, said. Jipmer, which has been designated a COVID-19 hospital by the Union Health Ministry, has conducted 1,528 RT-PCR tests since January 27, which includes 1,319 tests from Puducherry and the rest from Tamil Nadu. Of this, the results of about 40 samples from Puducherry are awaited. "We are now keeping a close watch on the containment zones," Dr. Mohankumar said. So far, five places in the city have been designated containment zones - Ariyankuppam, Reddiarpalayam, Thiruvandarkoil, Mudaliarpet and Kottakuppam. The repeat testing for COVID-19 patients at the IGMCRI was coming up for one patient on Thursday and two others on Friday and the results were expected by the end of the week. Meanwhile, Puducherry has deferred deployment of rapid testing on the advice of the Government of India following widespread reports about false values. The Centre has provided 3,800 rapid test kits for Puducherry. Earlier, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said in a press conference that there was no shortage of ventilators across hospitals, including Jipmer. As of now, 27 ventilators out of a capacity of 78 machines were set apart for potential COVID-19 patients. The door-to-door visits undertaken by health worker teams had reached out to 2.51 lakh families (a population of about 9.54 lakh). The entire population would be covered in a day or two, the Minister said.
23 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Essentials distributed to conservancy workers||Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh on Wednesday distributed essential commodities to 1,813 conservancy workers who were involved in COVID-19 precautionary measures in the city.
23 April 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||‘Sand mining rampant’||Making use of the curfew, a gang has been illegally mining sand from the Vaigai near Manamaurai, it is learnt. The sand miners use 10 tipper lorries and earthremovers. Since officials are focussing on COVID-19 prevention measures and people are staying indoors, the illegal mining from midnight to 5 a.m. is going unnoticed. Environmental activists say a 55-km river stretch passed through Sivaganga district, along Tiruppuvanam and Manamadurai. This clandestine activity would severely affect the water carrying capacity of the river and people who depend on the Vaigai for drinking water and irrigation, they say. They say action must be taken against police and mines officials for conniving with the miners. It is a mystery that the lorries transporting sand are not intercepted in any of the 33 check posts. The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court had, in a recent direction, instructed all Collectors and Superintendents of Police in southern districts to ensure that there were no sand mining activities after a petition against illegal sand mining was filed by a person in Ramanathapuram district.
23 April 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||3 held with illicit arrack||The Prohibition Enforcement Wing Wednesday arrested three persons involved in brewing and sale of illicit arrack at Kansapuram near here. During a raid, a special team found some persons engaged in brewing around 200 litres of arrack in eight earthen pots. There were also packed plastic cans containing arrack. Police arrested R. Rajesh, 33, of Kansapuram, G. Ramar, 54, of Koomapatti and T. Velvelmuthu of Kansapuram and seized three motorbikes. The trio were sent to judicial custody. Police are on the lookout for three more persons.
23 April 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Notices issued to urea retailers||The Agriculture Department has issued notices to a few urea retailers following detection of certain violations in sale. According to sources, a special team led by Deputy Director, Directorate of Agriculture, Chennai, Amudhan, visited urea retailers in Budalur, Orathanadu and Pattukottai taluks on Tuesday when they found some violations in two shops at Budalur. Warning notices were issued to these shops suspending sale of urea at these outlets and seeking explanations from shopkeepers under provisions of Fertilizer (Control) Order, 1985. The team also visited Kumbakonam and Thiruvidaimaruthur taluks on Wednesday. They found some discrepancies in the stock position at a cooperative society and in two private outlets. Subsequently, notices seeking an explanation from the outlets were issued and the license holders were informed that necessary action would be initiated against them. As on date, 5200 tonnes of Urea, 4000 tonnes of DAP, 2900 tonnes of Potash and 4200 tonnes of Complex fertilizer were available for sale at private retail outlets and at Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies in this district. While cultivation of paddy as summer crop had been taken up on 19985 hectares, ‘kuruvai’ had been taken up on 2765 hectares, ‘chithiraipattam’ pulses on 113 hectares, cotton on 2112 hectares and sugarcane on 4397 hectares in Thanjavur district, sources added. Meanwhile, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) said that shortage of urea had affected farm operations. Urging officials to initiate necessary steps to ensure availability of urea in adequate quantity, the CPI(M) district secretary G. Neelamegam in a petition to Collector M.Govinda Rao demanded immediate resumption of works under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. He said that there was severe scarcity of vegetables and groceries in villages and urged the district administration to introduce mobile vending services of essentials in rural pockets. He wanted door delivery of ration goods, face masks and vegetable packs through social activists and government staff.
23 April 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Residents can apply for smart cards, says Collector||Theni Collector M. Pallavi Baldev on Wednesday said residents in the district could apply for smart card to procure essential commodities through the public distribution system. Residents seeking to get a smart card can do so by dialling the deputy tahsildar offices in the district without physically approaching the e-seva centre or revenue offices, she said in a press release . The village administrative officer concerned would collect the identity cards such as Aadhar card, among others, and take it up for processing the application for smart cards. Prospective applicants should contact the follwing numbers - Deputy Tahsildar (Theni): 04546-255133, Periyakulam:04546-231215, District Supply Officer (Andipatti: 94450 00332, Uthamapalayam: 04554-265226 and Bodi: 04546-280124. The applicants should be a resident of the district and have an independent kitchen, the release added.
23 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Drumstick prices crash||Despite a good harvest of drumstick this season, the lockdown and its restrictions on movement of goods carriers have dealt a severe blow to the fortunes of drumstick farmers of Aravakurichi in Karur district. Aravakurichi is one among a few places in the State, where drumstick is cultivated as a major crop. Drumstick has been raised on about 6,000 acres in Aravakurichi and adjacent villages such as Palayam, Vellodu, Eesanatham, Pungapadi and Palayam. The speciality of the crop is that drumstick tree can bear fruits even beyond 10 years. Since the crop can sustain severe drought condition, farmers raise the trees in as many acres as possible in the rain shadow region. Though the trees yield throughout the year, except a few months, the peak harvest period is restricted to three months from March. During this period, farmers send their harvest to different parts of the country. According to farmers, the yield this season has been good. But the lockdown and restrictions on movement of good carriers and the strain on supply chain have dealt an unexpected blow. The curfew restrictions were imposed at a time when farmers began to harvest drumsticks. They were caught unawares when the curfew was introduced in different parts of the country as almost all traders from Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala and Chhattisgarh cancelled their orders thereby causing great disappointment. “The first 10-day period of the curfew was tough as we were bewildered. We had no other option but to dump matured drumticks as cattle feed,” said K.P.K. Kuppusamy, a farmer cum trader in Aravakurichi. He said the price of one kg of drumstick hovered between Rs. 2 to 3 as against the normal price of Rs. 20 a kg, during the first two weeks of curfew. Farmers sold their produce at throwaway prices as they had to clear stocks on a day-to-day basis as they could not afford to keep them unsold. The situation improved a bit after the State government stepped in to lift the curbs on movement of vehicles carrying agricultural produce. However, there were still problems in inter-State movement of goods. Moreover, the harvest season reached its fag end. As on Wednesday, one kg of drumstick was sold at Rs. 15 at Aravakurichi and Rs. 20 a kg in retail grocery and temporary markets in Tiruchi.
23 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Eight more persons test positive||Eight persons, all contacts of individuals who had travelled to New Delhi to take part in a conference, tested positive for COVID-19 in central region on Wednesday. While five patients from Thanjavur are admitted to the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, one from Tiruchi and two from Ariyalur are being treated at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Tiruchi. In Tiruchi, a total of 590 contacts of 39 people, who had attended the single-source event in New Delhi in March, have been traced and tested so far. An additional 60 were tested of which 59 were negative. The lone patient, who tested positive on Wednesday, is a relative of a man who had travelled to New Delhi. The 54-year-old man hailing from Thuvarankuruchi was kept under home quarantine and was admitted to the hospital after he developed fever and other symptoms. He is responding well to treatment, official sources said. As the MGMGH is a designated COVID-19 hospital, 16 positive patients from Tiruchi, three each from Perambalur and Ariyalur and one from Pudukottai are being treated here.  Thanjavur Five more contacts of the persons having travel history to the single-source event held in New Delhi in March tested positive for COVID-19 virus in Thanjavur district on Wednesday. According to official sources, three persons from Neivasal and one each from Adhiramapattinam and Kumbakonam were found to be infected with the novel coronavirus and were admitted at the COVID-19 special ward at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. Out of the five, three were women aged 29, 34 and 45 years old and the two men were 36 and 25 years of age. As many as 6,93,447 people from 1,63,368 households, in localities where the positive persons hailed from in the district, have been screened for COVID 19 symptoms. None has been found with symptoms so far. Meanwhile, 128 family members of the patients, who tested positive, have been quarantined and test results of 108 are negative and the results of 20 are yet to arrive. A total of 490 of their contacts were also tested and 412 are negative and 78 are under process.  Ariyalur A 12-year-old boy and a 36-year old man tested positive for COVID-19 here on Wednesday. Both patients are contacts of the Sendhurai girl who had tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. The girl’s boss at the medical shop where she works had attended the single-source event. The 12-year-old boy is a neighbour of the girl and the man is his father’s friend. After the results arrived on Tuesday night, both patients were shifted to the Tiruchi MGMGH on Wednesday. Contact tracing in the district has led to 528 residents being quarantined in their homes. A total of 2236 migrant labourers are being quarantined in their respective factories. At the isolation ward in the GH, 12 patients were admitted and samples were lifted. Throat swabs were lifted for 60 other contacts. Results are awaited for a total of 72 individuals. Three patients from the Thanjavur Medical College and five from Karur Medical College Hospital were discharged on Wednesday.
23 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sale of grocery bags begins||Sale of grocery packs, with 19 items, began at ration shops on Wednesday. Sale of bags, priced at Rs. 500 each, has been arranged in the ration shops in view of the lockdown. Each bag contains toor dal, urad dal, channa dal, garlic, pepper, cumin, mustard, tamarind, onion and other essential commodities. Collector S. Sivarasu said that the move was aimed at preventing people from coming out to buy essentials. The items had been purchased by the Department of Cooperation and packed in bags so as to be distributed through ration shops. For a family of four, each kit will be sufficient for a week. Though the cardholders could buy as many bags as possible, each card holder could buy a bag each in the initial stage. Due to supply chain break down, prices of a few essential items had one up. Several daily wage labourers could not go for work due to lockdown. The sale of bags would be of great support to all people particularly the poor. The move would ensure price stability in the market too. Mr. Sivarasu said that the cardholders should ensure personal distance while visiting Public Distribution System shops. They must wear face mask while coming out. Minister for Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare S.Valarmathi inaugurated the sale at a ration shop in Thiruvanaikovil on Wednesday.
23 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Delivering fruits at the doorsteps||It is a hot summer morning and Ravi Kannan is seen whizzing past the length and breadth of the city delivering fruits to customers in apartment buildings and residences. He makes note of each delivery in a slip of paper which lists out the number of deliveries left. One would assume that he has been doing so for years but he began selling fruits only since the lockdown. Prior to it, his primary job was to provide cable TV service to residents. Mr. Kannan has been a cable TV operator for over 25 years. When his customers were finding it difficult to buy fruits during the lockdown, he could not sit idle. “Many of my customers are almost like my family. They have helped me in times of need, especially with raising my two sons and I have done my job well for them. During the lockdown, many expressed their inability to get fresh fruits. I have decided to do this,” he says. He goes to Gandhi Market at 2 a.m. to purchase fruits and packs them in cloth bags at his home. The customers usually place orders the previous night. He purchases some fruits in bulk too and assists his friend who has set up a stall at the temporary market at S.I.T. College grounds in Ariyamangalam. He mans the stall with his friend from 6 a.m. and sets off for deliveries at around 10 a.m. “I do not charge an extra rupee for the deliveries. I sell them at Rs. 10 over the rate I purchase them at the market. I make no profit from the deliveries,” he says. His deliveries are completed by 12 p.m. when he returns to S.I.T. College grounds to help his friend pack up. He has been widely appreciated on social media, especially city-specific groups on Facebook where residents have been sharing experience of the lockdown. He is popularly known as ‘Cable Kannan.’ “My regular customers have been referring me to their friends and relatives in the city and I am busy serving people at this time.”
23 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC drivers equipped with PPE||The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation has equipped its drivers operating special services to transport health department staff from various places to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital here daily with Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to protect themselves against the corona virus. It has asked the drivers to operate the services from nine places including Thuraiyur, Pettavaithalai, Thuvarankurichi, Thuvakudi, Manapparai, Lalgudi and Manachanallur . The move, in addition to supply of masks and hand sanitisers, was one more measure to ensure safety of drivers, say senior officials. The drivers were operating the specials in the morning to transport health department staff from their respective locations to the hospital and ferry them back to their places in the evening as per an order from the Collector. PPEs have been provided to the drivers operating such specials in Ariyalur, Thanjavur and Karur districts also. These buses were being completely sanitised at respective depot before they leave in the morning and after the vehicles return to the depots in the evening. The vehicles were being operated on contract basis.
23 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Plumbers, electricians in dire straits||For G.Mohanraj, 31, of Woraiyur in Tiruchi, an electrician-cum-plumber, the past 30 days has been the harshest period of his life as he had been rendered jobless. With an ailing and aged mother to take care of, his daily wage of about Rs. 450 was crucial to keep the family afloat. With no savings left, after having married off his two sisters, the lockdown has caused a severe crisis in the family. “We have been struggling to keep ourselves afloat. We have run out of groceries. We have been eating at Amma Unavagam some days. The house owner has been considerate and has not pressed for the rent of Rs. 3,000. But I don’t know how long we can survive this way,” he says. Though Mr.Mohanraj and his ilk are normally in high demand, many people hesitate to call plumbers or electricians for work in their houses or establishments. “They don’t want to allow outsiders on their premises due to fear of virus spread. Even when a few call us for emergencies, we are not able to go as the police stop us en route,” he says. His late father had worked hard to help him earn a diploma in electrical engineering. Ever since his father’s death, Mr.Mohanraj has been the family’s sole bread winner. But now he is not sure whether things would return to normal even after the lockdown is lifted. Like many in his field, Mohanraj had not registered himself with the Construction Workers Welfare Board and has not been able to get the relief announced by the government for unorganised sector workers. Being a member of Tiruchi District Electricians, Plumbers and Rewinders Society is some solace. The association and its secretary, V.Murugesan, have been arranging supply of some basic commodities to poor workers. “But how long can they help us. If they allow me to do at least one or two work, I will earn a few hundreds to keep things going,” says Mr.Mohanraj. The association has petitioned the district administration seeking permission to allow workers to attend to at least emergency works. “There are people calling us desperately in situation such as a drinking water motor failure. But our members are not able to go out due to lockdown restrictions,” he says. The association had requested the administration to issue passes or allow workers with identity cards issued by the society to attend to emergency work. But so far, their plea has not been accepted. According to Mr.Murugesan, there were 950 members in his society and many more outside it. “The extension of the lockdown has aggravated their financial crisis. We are trying to support poor members as far as possible by distributing some essentials but that is not adequate. Only a handful of members have got the relief given through the welfare board,” Mr.Murugesan says. Some of the members of the society are contractors who run small electrical or rewinding shops. “I have a shop and employ four persons. But since the shop is closed, I don’t know how will I manage to pay salary to the employees,” says PA.Laser Rajendran, president of the society. Many plumbers and electricians, who are daily wage earners, are being pushed into a debt trap as they have to take loans to keep families afloat, he says. A majority of plumbers and electricians are semi-skilled and semi-literate and have not registered with the welfare board. “The government should support plumbers, electricians and rewinders even if they are not members of the board,” says Mr.Murugesan.
23 April 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||ART drugs distributed to HIV patients||The district AIDS Prevention and Control Unit has been distributing medicines to HIV positive persons during the lockdown through a mobile-clinic. The people would receive enough medicines for two to three months through their local link Anti-Retroviral Therapy (link ART) centres, or the nearest Primary Healthcare Centres, officials said. S. Martin Manivannan, Project Manager, Tiruchi district AIDS Prevention and Control Unit, said a system has been put in place under which drugs would reach the patient as many of them have to travel long distance to acquire them. Prior to the lockdown, the patients would have to travel to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital where the District ART Centre is functioning. Nowadays, through a mobile clinic, the drugs are transported to these Link ART centres. However, the link ART centres, along with the local PHCs, have become the primary location to ensure regular follow-ups of patients. “At the ART centres, patients are administered drugs, checked for side effects and their body’s response. They are also provided counselling and awareness on prevention of possible infections, all of which used to be done at the GH earlier.” In Tiruchi district, about 6,000 patients are being given ART drugs regularly. “During the lockdown, we have an additional 200 patients who belong to other states and are stranded in Tiruchi. We ensure they receive their medicines regularly too,” he said. Tiruchi district has 11 ART centres, the highest number of such centres across the state, which help to facilitate the process, he said. Patients, many of whom do not have the means, do not have to travel long distances even though the drugs are essential. “We are giving new patients the drugs for a month while patients who have been taking them for a relatively long period get medicines for up to three months,” he said.
23 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man goes missing from Tiruppur GH||A 50-year-old man who was brought to Tiruppur Government Hospital on Tuesday to be tested for COVID-19 went missing. According to police and hospital sources, the man was a migrant worker from Uttar Pradesh, who had walked over 200 km from Kochi in Kerala to Tiruppur. As he sat down exhausted near Velampalayam in the city on Tuesday, local people called a 108 ambulance and he arrived at the GH around 1 p.m. The doctors took samples of his blood and asked him to have an X-ray test. However, he went missing from the hospital premises by 1.30 p.m. Hospital sources said he appeared to be stable and showed no external symptoms of COVID-19. Sources with the Tiruppur City Police said on Wednesday that all the police stations had been alerted to trace his whereabouts.
23 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Student designs ‘wearable art’ to spread COVID-19 awareness||A student from the NIFT-TEA College of Knitwear Fashion, Tiruppur, has designed a ‘wearable art’ to spread awareness on COVID-19. G. Sowmy Karthika, a second year student of the Department of Apparel Fashion Design, said that her design intended to depict the dangerous nature of novel coronavirus. The design was inspired by pufferfish or porcupinefish, which contains a neurotoxin that is 1,200 times more potent than cyanide, and the fruit of castor oil plant ( Ricinus communis) , which is spiny and contains poisonous seeds, she said. The costume was made using knitted cloth and cardboards were used to make the spikes. “I also provided some stuffing to give it a 3D look,” Ms. Karthika said. Though some of the materials were not available due to lockdown, she said the costume was stitched within a day. This COVID-19 wearable art was designed for children of around 12 years old, indicating the vulnerability of children to the disease, she said.
23 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Order for laying HT lines cancelled||District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Tuesday cancelled the orders with the Power Grid Corporation of India for laying high-tension power lines in Tiruppur district owing to complaints on lack of personal distancing among workers. Official sources said that the orders were given on the condition that personal distancing must be maintained among workers to prevent spread of COVID-19. The works were being carried out in Dharapuram, Palladam and Kangeyam. Power Grid Corporation of India has to re-apply for permission after the end of lockdown period.     The residents of Mangalam in Tiruppur district staged a road roko on Wednesday after youths from the locality were detained by police for alleged violation of COVID-19 lockdown. The residents also demanded reopening of grocery shops that were shut following declaration of COVID-19 containment zones. The protest was withdrawn nearly two hours after the Mangalam police assured the residents that no cases would be registered against the youths, sources said.
23 April 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||‘Avail cash relief’||Members of Fishermen Welfare Board who have not received cash relief can contact the office of Assistant Director (Fisheries). The board is distributing Rs. 1,000 during the lockdown period. If the money has not been deposited in the savings bank account, the members should approach the office of AD Fisheries at Velsamy Nagar with their membership and Aadhar cards and bank account details, Collector R. Kannan said in a statement. They can also obtain details by calling 04562-244707 or 93848-24387 or 93848-24447.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||28 COVID-19 patients discharged in Erode||As many as 28 COVID-19 patients who recovered after treatment were discharged from the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai on Wednesday. Addressing mediapersons on the hospital premises, Collector C. Kathiravan said that 70 persons tested positive in the district, including four members of a railway doctor’s family in Coimbatore and one person from Tiruchi, who is a native of Erode district. “So far, 65 persons recovered and were discharged while one person died at the hospital. Currently, four persons continue to undergo treatment”, he said. He said that once the four persons test double negative, they would also be discharged. Mr. Kathiravan said that no positive cases were reported in the district in the past nine days and lauded the coordinated efforts of corporation, health, police, revenue, NGOs and other departments for their efforts in the past one month in carrying out various measures. Also, 10 others who tested negative and completed their quarantine period were also discharged. Meanwhile, six Thailand nationals who were kept in a separate ward are to be produced in the court on Thursday as their custody ends. The Erode South Police had registered a case against them for violating visa norms and being involved in religious preaching that eventually led to the spread of COVID-19 in the city. Of the six, three tested positive while others tested negative. The judicial magistrate, through videoconferencing, remanded all the six to custody till April 23 and permitted them to be in the hospital.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DLSA launches counselling for domestic violence victims||In an effort to prevent cases of domestic violence against women, children and the elderly, the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) in the Nilgiris has launched an initiative to provide counselling for victims and also devised a mechanism to intervene in cases of serious abuse. Women, children and the elderly who are victims of abuse can contact the numbers released via mobile messaging application, WhatsApp, and furnish details such as their name, age, gender and also details about the person who is subjecting them to violence or abuse. Secretary of District Legal Services Authority, Nilgiris district, and sub-judge, K. Suresh Kumar, said that there had been a noticeable increase in the number of complaints about domestic violence since the lockdown. “The courts and lawyers’ offices are not functioning either. So, there needed to be a mechanism to ensure women, children and the elderly, who are vulnerable to domestic abuse and violence have a mechanism to turn to so that they feel safe,” said Mr. Suresh Kumar. “After victims get in touch with us, counsellors will contact the victims and ascertain whether the police needs to intervene, or whether the disturbances can be solved with counselling sessions,” said Mr. Suresh Kumar. T. Devakumari, District Social Welfare Officer (in-charge) of Nilgiris, said that the office has received 10 complaints of domestic disturbances since the lockdown was affected, while of the 10, only one case required the intervention of the local police. “We have all the facilities to take care of victims of abuse, be they women, children or the elderly, at our short-stay homes or at homes for the elderly,” said Ms. Devakumari, adding that the mechanism which has been put in place will hopefully prevent serious cases of violence against women, children or the elderly from occurring. People wanting to get in touch with the officers designated as part of the initiative can contact them via WhatsApp at the following phone numbers – 99430-40474, 99430-89307, 98433-47417, 96559-88869 and 98946-40012.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: Why blood matters||As respiratory droplets enter the body through inhalation or by contact, the virus goes down the throat to the lungs, and from there it goes to various organs namely, liver, kidney and bone marrow and sometimes may cause multi-organ failure, death depending on the viral load. Blood system The blood system consists of red cells, white cells, and platelets and they are floating in the plasma. While red cells are necessary for oxygenation, defects in red cells (low haemoglobin) can cause anaemia or hypoxia. White cells act as a defence to prevent outside attacks from organisms, and a defect here, impairs immunity. Platelets are needed to arrest bleeding, and a low platelet count can cause excessive bleeding. Finally, the plasma, which is about 55% of blood by volume. It is mostly water but also contains antibodies, clotting factors and proteins. These cells form in the bone-marrow, which is also affected by COVID-19, causing impairment of production of the blood cells, by the following mechanisms: Directly infect blood cells and bone marrow stromal cells, and induce auto-antibodies and immune complexes to damage these cells. This can cause changes in patients, such as thrombocytopenia (low platelet count), anaemia due to poor oxygenation in the affected lungs and lymphopenia (low lymphocyte count) due to immune deficiency. Doctors and scientists say there is now a reason to believe that the virus attacks the oxygen-carrying capacity of the red blood cells in the body. The patient is technically drowning from lack of oxygen with the red blood cells in the body not having enough capacity to carry oxygen because of the attack from the virus. Whenever the lung parenchyma does not function, oxygen cannot reach the red blood cells, resulting in hypoxia (severely low oxygenation) and death. As we don’t have new antivirals or any specific drugs for this disease at present, treatment, convalescent plasma transfusion, an old technique for combating infectious diseases was recommended, for COVID-19 patients who are likely to get critical and on ventilator support. It is not a blood transfusion, rather, the donated blood component is plasma, a yellowish liquid that containing antibodies but is devoid of red cells. Age, co-morbidity It is hard to know why and how the virus will affect any individual person. Though most people infected with the virus will present with few or mild symptoms, others may find themselves relying on ventilator to breathe or no longer breathing at all. The factors that increase a person’s chances of having severe symptoms from COVID-19 as researchers understand them now, are: Age, co-morbidities or other medical conditions including diabetes, heart disease, chronic lung disease and cancer, genes, since COVID-19 attaches itself to a particular receptor on the outside of cells called ACE2, which it uses to invade a cell.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Disinfectants sprayed using paraglider in Valparai||In a novel attempt to prevent the spread of COVID-19, a group of volunteers sprayed disinfectants aerially while paragliding in Valparai on Wednesday. The initiative was carried out by members of Udumalpet’s VHF Repeater Club, an amateur/ham radio club based in Udumalpet, Tiruppur district. V. Uthamaraj, the programme coordinator for Valparai taluk, said that the volunteers received a no-objection certificate from the Tahsildar on Monday, conducted a trial session on Tuesday and started spraying disinfectants from Wednesday morning. The pilots – Raja Gnana Prakasam, M. Sanjayraj, M. Mohanraj and J. Jaya Niranjan – took turns to spray the disinfectants over the residential areas using the paraglider, he said. “Each trip takes around 25 minutes,” he said, subject to flying conditions. The initiative was implemented in Valparai on Wednesday after it was implemented in Pollachi by the same team of pilots in March, Mr. Uthamaraj said. The spraying is done twice a day on mornings and evenings. Mr. Prakasam explained that the pilots use a two-seater power paraglider, in which one of the seats was removed to accommodate a 35-litre-capacity tank filled with sodium hypochlorite solution. A 12 V DC motor is activated mid-air, which allows the liquid disinfected to be sprayed through the propeller. “It will be sprayed as micro-droplets from the tank,” he said. According to Valparai Tahsildar S. Raja, the disinfectant is sprayed aerially only over residential areas, where movement of people are minimal due to the lockdown. “No skin irritation or any other side effects will be caused because of this initiative,” he claimed. Pollachi Sub-Collector R. Vaithinathan said that this aerial spraying of disinfectant using paragliders was initiated in Pollachi as early as on March 20. “Distancing and disinfecting are the two Ds through which we can tackle COVID-19,” he said, adding that this initiative complements the existing precautionary measures taken by the district administration. Given the topography of Valparai, places which are not reachable for disinfection through roads are covered through these paragliders, he said. By seeing these paragliders spraying disinfectants, people “gain confidence” and also do not step outside their homes unnecessarily, Mr. Vaithinathan said. In the whole of Pollachi sub-division comprising Pollachi, Anamalai, Valparai and Kinathukadavu taluks, only four active cases of COVID-19 are present and 17 patients have recovered as of Wednesday, the Sub-Collector noted.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Return of the native: massive exodus from Mumbai’s Dharavi to Tirunelveli||A massive exodus from Mumbai’s Dharavi — one of the largest slums in Asia — towards native districts, particularly Tirunelveli, in southern Tamil Nadu is unfolding in the wake of COVID-19 and subsequent lockdown. For instance, more than 10,000 people hailing from the southern part of Tirunelveli district, who settled down in Dharavi a few decades ago, are returning in a hurry after the pandemic threatens to overwhelm the sprawling slum with seven lakh residents in an area of just over 2.10 sq km. The reason is not far to seek. With each house measuring between 100 to 200 sq ft, it is impossible to maintain physical distancing that has become mandatory and touted as the only possible solution to check the spread of infection. With no formal transport available, they rely on personal vehicles, mostly two-wheelers, to reach their native towns in the far south. On receiving information about the panic migration, Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish has deployed a testing unit and quarantine centre at Raja Puthukkudi near Gangaikondan bordering Tirunelveli-Thoothukudi district on the national highway to screen those coming from other districts and States. “We are testing everyone coming from hotspot States,” Ms. Shilpa said. “Two persons arrived from Maharashtra on a bike on Tuesday and their blood samples were tested on the spot. Only after it showed negative and health workers advised them not to move out of their homes for at least the next two weeks were they allowed to proceed further.” Besides police teams guarding the post and maintaining vigil along the national highways, plainclothes personnel have been posted along rural roads to intercept the migrants taking the relatively idle roads in a bid to escape scrutiny and screening. Police have been asked by the Collector to strengthen their sources particularly in villages under Valliyoor and Nanguneri from where a sizable population migrated to Mumbai. She has also instructed them to check all vehicles returning to the district after unloading vegetables in Kerala and other places. On Tuesday, police received information that a group of people was coming to Aavudailyaalpuram near Koodankulam in a pick-up vehicle. The patrol party intercepted the small van at Valliyoor and found 24 people huddled inside. During inquiry, it came to light that they were returning to their native district from Chennai. All of them were taken to a government hostel near Valliyoor. They have been kept in isolation after collecting blood and throat swab samples from them. “While police have been alerted to refresh their sources in every village of the district, the village administrative officers have also been put on alert to track new arrivals in area under their jurisdiction,” Ms. Shilpa said.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||33 more persons test positive for virus in T.N.||A total of 27 patients — two from the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, three from Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, five from Karur Medical College Hospital, two from Sivaganga Medical College Hospital, nine from Raja Muthiah Medical College Hospital and two from private hospitals — were discharged. So far, a total of 662 persons have been discharged across the State. There were no deaths. A total of 59,023 samples have been tested in the State, of which the day’s count was 5,978. A total of 53,072 persons have been tested so far. Testing of 1,937 samples is under way. “The cases are increasing in Chennai, and this is worrying. So, we had a meeting with the Chief Secretary on Tuesday, and have decided to post additional officers in the city. Strict containment measures will be taken up across the city,” Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said. Officials of the Health Department said that the COVID-19 situation was under control in the State. A total of 1,878 persons were admitted to isolation facilities, while 23,760 persons were under home quarantine. A total of 155 persons were lodged in government quarantine facilities.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cargo train services between Rajkot and Coimbatore||Salem Division of Southern Railway has announced that two pairs of special parcel cargo trains will be operated between Coimbatore and Rajkot from Thursday to transport essential commodities during the COVID-19 lockdown. Train No. 00926 Rajkot - Coimbatore Parcel Cargo Special will leave Rajkot at 5.30 p.m. on April 23 and 30 and reach Coimbatore at 2.30 p.m on April 25 and May 2. Stoppages will be at Ahmedabad, Anand, Vadodara, Bharuch, Ankleshwar, Surat, Vasai Road, Panvel, Pune, Daund, Solapur, Wadi, Secunderabad, Dharmavaram, Krishnarajpuram and Erode. Train No. 00927 Coimbatore - Rajkot Parcel Cargo Train will leave Coimbatore at 4 a.m. on April 26 and May 3, which will reach Rajkot at 12.25 a.m. on April 28 and May 5. This train service will stop at Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Krishnarajapuram, Dharmavaram, Secunderabad, Wadi, Solapur, Daund, Pune, Panvel, Vasai Road, Surat, Ankleshwar, Bharuch, Vadodara, Anand and Ahmedabad, a release said. The train services will each have five high-capacity parcel vans and one luggage-cim-break van. For parcel bookings, commercial inspectors of Salem Division shall be contacted at 90039 56955 (Coimbatore), 96009 56238 (Tiruppur), 96009 56231 (Erode) and 90039 56957 (Salem).
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||855 held for violation||The police arrested 855 persons who violated prohibitory order in Coimbatore on Tuesday. The police seized 716 vehicles from them. The city police arrested 83 persons who did not wear mask in public places. Coimbatore rural police a slapped fine of Rs. 2.01 lakh on people who violated prohibitory order. Coimbatore city police on Wednesday said that they have started marking colour codes in vehicles that are stopped at check points. The police conducted vehicle checks at 12 permanent check posts and 22 temporary check points. They made yellow bar marking on 1,788 two-wheelers, eight autorickshaws and 445 four-wheelers. Coimbatore rural police had already introduced the system.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A panoramic view||
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||King of fruits||
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Long arm of the law||
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Freight train with 126 empty wagons operated||A freight train, amalgamated by joining three freight trains comprising four locomotives, 126 empty wagons and three brake vans, was successfully operated from Erode Railway Junction to its destination in South Central Railway on Wednesday. Called ‘Anaconda’ train as the length is about 2 km, the train started at Erode at 6.50 a.m. and reached Jolarpettai at 10.30 a.m. after which it was handed over to Chennai Railway Division for proceeding towards its destination. Sources said that this is the first time that Salem Division is operating the train with higher number of empty wagons as usually a freight train is operated with 40 wagons. Since the train runs through pre-planned paths, it is given priority over other trains and is expected to reach the destination without any stoppages.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rotary donates ventilators to CMCH||Rotary Club of Coimbatore Uptown donated two ventilators to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Wednesday. Minister of Municipal Administration and Rural Development S.P. Velumani handed over the ventilators to CMCH Dean P. Kalidas in the presence of Coimbatore north MLA P.R.G. Arunkumar. A release said that one more ventilator will be handed over to CMCH around the first week of May. The total value of the three ventilators is around Rs. 23 lakh.
23 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||NITM starts pilot tests||Pilot testing of throat swab samples for COVID-19 began at the ICMR National Institute of Traditional Medicine (NITM) in Belagavi on Wednesday. The procedure will be formally inaugurated on Thursday. Scientists at the institute have successfully conducted reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) of 11 samples. The procedure will be inaugurated on Thursday, zilla panchayat chief executive officer K.V. Rajendra told The Hindu . He said this would enable immediate testing of suspected cases and the results would come within a few hours.
23 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Families in Padarayanapura anxious about detained kin||age dAround a hundred women gathered outside JJ Nagar police station on Wednesday demanding information about their kin who were rounded up on Tuesday by the police as part of investigation into the violence at Padarayanapura on April 19. The police had a tough time containing the situation and had to threaten legal action against the women for violating lockdown norms, before they dispersed. Residents were detained for questioning reportedly based on information given by the accused and CCTV visuals. However, police made only seven fresh arrests since Tuesday taking the total arrests to 126. “We are questioning several people. Those who are innocent will be released,” said a senior police official. Meanwhile, the police claim that several accused have fled the area jumping the barricade. The detentions have sparked fear and anger in the community as residents claimed they have no information about their family members. “I am worried about my three sons who are in their early 20s and work at a furniture shop. They were detained on Tuesday. I have been running from pillar-to-post trying to find out where they are,” Neha Sultana, a resident, told The Hindu , adding that the JJ Nagar police directed her to CCB who sent her back to the local police. What has also angered the residents is that the police have detained men, mostly youths, who lived in areas far away from where the violence erupted on 10 Cross, Arafat Nagar. Dilshad Begum, a resident of 13A Cross, said her son Sadiq Pasha was detained when he had gone out to buy hypertension tablets for her. “As he was returning home, the police were rounding up men on the street. He ran home, but the police barged into the house and detained him. When I asked why, they said if he was innocent, why did he run,” she said. Meanwhile, several residents of Arafat Nagar, eyewitnesses to Sunday’s violent protests denied some of the allegations made in the five FIRs that the JJ Nagar police have registered. “We were present and saw the incident. What happened was wrong and the police should take severe action against those who participated in it. It is true that a constable was slapped, barricades and tin sheets put up to seal the area were pulled down. A shamiana used by the police as a checkpost was also pulled down and some furniture damaged. But it is false that there was stone pelting or that they wanted to kill the police and health workers,” said a resident, who wished to remain anonymous. Several residents pointed out the contradictory statements issued by Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao on the night of violence that none of the officials were attacked or injured, while the FIRs filed just a few hours later said otherwise. Mr. Rao refused to comment. “It is true that our men have suffered minor injuries, one constable was also slapped.But minor injuries also constitute assault against a public servant and is a serious offence,” said a police official.
23 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Four-month-old among nine new cases||Nine new cases — including a four-month-old baby from Kalaburagi and the mother — have been detected on Wednesday taking the total number of positive COVID-19 cases in the State to 427. The baby is the youngest patient to date in Karnataka. Among the new cases, while five are from Kalaburgi, two each have been reported from Bengaluru Urban and Nanjangud, Mysuru. Of the Kalaburagi cases, one has Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI), and the remaining four are contacts of previous positive patients. Of the two positive cases from Bengaluru Urban district, which had not reported any cases for the last three days, one is a 54-year-old labourer from Bommanahalli slum, who has no contact or travel history. “This person reported with SARI symptoms and has tested positive. We have identified his 24 primary contacts and 50 secondary contacts. Further contact tracing is on,” said Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar. Addressing presspersons on Wednesday, the Minister said a total of 3,279 samples were tested on Wednesday. Rapid antibody tests Even as the validation of the rapid antibody blood-based test strips is under way at NIMHANS, the Health Department has decided to wait for a “green signal” from the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) before taking a call on using the strips, said Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare). Following reports about the poor accuracy of the rapid test strips, the ICMR has asked all States to hold on for two days. The validation is likely to be completed on Thursday. The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has directed Surveillance Officers of all States to formulate patient data privacy norms. “Personally identifiable data should be shared with discretion and strict privacy should be ensured,” stated a NCDC circular. In another circular, the Director has exempted government employees, who are pregnant and those with children aged less than a year, from COVID-19 duties. The services of such employees can be used for non-COVID duties. A State-level technical expert committee has recommended that cases of Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and SARI, which have got similar symptoms like COVID-19, should be screened at the initial stages of symptoms so that morbidity and mortality due to COVID- 19 can be arrested in the community.
23 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||17 key sectors to benefit from decision; work on projects can begin outside cities||The State government’s relaxation of lockdown norms, announced on Wednesday, focusses on 17 core services/sectors, while allowing the district administration, including the BBMP, to decide on where to operate additional activities and provide further relaxations in their jurisdiction. The notification issued by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, however, says that the onus of ensuring safety measures such as social distancing is on these authorities while operating additional activities. The notification has also allowed construction activities related to road, irrigation projects, buildings and all kinds of industrial projects, including MSMEs, in rural areas and semi-rural areas outside municipal corporations and municipalities. Similarly, construction activities have been allowed in industrial areas where workers are available on-site and there is no need to bring them from outside. It has allowed movement of all goods transport, including cement, steel, bricks, gravels, tiles, and paints. While the truck movement is allowed for delivery of goods, shops repairing trucks and highway dhabas are allowed to remain open. It has allowed works under MNREGA with conditions like workers should practice social distancing and wear masks. The notification has also allowed plantation works in coffee and tea estates with a workforce of 50%. Activities related to ports and air cargo are also allowed, while private security personnel are exempted from the lockdown norms. Anganwadi activities With respect to anganwadis, it has allowed distribution of food items to the beneficiaries such as children, women, and lactating mothers once in 15 days. With focus on social sector, it has allowed the authorities to carry on with disbursal of social security schemes such as old-age, widow, physically challenged and freedom fighters pensions and provident fund services. Hotels, guesthouses and homestays, which are housing tourists stranded due to COVID-19, have been allowed to carry on their operations. While the operation of power and water utilities would continue without any hindrance, coal, oil and gas sector too has been allowed to continue with its work.
23 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NHAI increases toll on airport road||In the middle of the lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has increased the toll on the route leading to Kempegowda International Airport (KIA). Toll for cars travelling from the city to the airport via Sadahalli toll plaza has been increased from Rs. 90 to Rs. 95 for a single trip. The return journey toll fee has been increased from Rs. 135 to Rs. 140. Those without FASTag will end up paying Rs. 190. The monthly pass for cars has been increased from Rs. 3,020 to Rs. 3,125. The new rates came into effect on April 1, but motorists and truck drivers learnt about it only on April 20 when the NHAI resumed toll collection. The Central government had temporarily suspended toll collection between March 25 and April 20. The increased toll will impact air passengers after commercial flights resume at KIA, especially those using cars and taxis. In the absence of a public transport system to the airport, barring Vayu Vajra services by the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), lakhs of people rely on cars to reach the airport every day. The NHAI has increased toll for buses. A cash-strapped BMTC may transfer the burden to air passengers travelling in Vayu Vajra services. In addition to KIA, the BMTC operates other services via Sadahalli toll gate. For buses, the NHAI has increased the single trip toll fee from Rs. 280 to Rs. 290, for return journey from Rs. 420 to Rs. 435 and monthly pass has been increased from Rs. 9,330 to Rs. 9,665. President of the Federation of Karnataka State Lorry Owners and Agents’ Association G.R. Shanmugappa criticised the move. “The transport sector is facing a lot of financial difficulties due to the lockdown. Every year, despite an increase in the number of vehicles using toll roads, the NHAI has been increasing toll,” he said. An official of the NHAI said, “Revision in toll fees is a yearly exercise. The revised rates came into force on April 1.”
23 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Ordinance promulgated to protect frontline health staff||The Karnataka government on Wednesday promulgated The Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Ordinance-2020 that provides for initiating stringent action, including provision for imprisonment, against those who violate restrictions during the outbreak of epidemic, attack or obstruct frontline health staff and cause damage to public or private property. The ordinance comes close on the heels of violence in Padarayanapura of Bengaluru when the police and BBMP officials tried to take some secondary contacts of a deceased COVID-19 patient into quarantine on April 19. The police have registered five FIRs and arrested 126 persons in connection with the episode. The ordinance, which was promulgated soon after the Union Home Ministry came out with guidelines in this regard, says the offender shall be liable for a penalty of twice the value of public or private property damaged as determined by the Deputy Commissioner after an inquiry. Recovery of penalty If the penalty is not paid by the offender, then the amount shall be recovered under provisions of the Karnataka Land Revenue Act, 1964, as if it were to be arrears of land revenue. The Deputy Commissioner can even attach the property of such offender in due course. Also abetment of offence would attract imprisonment of up to two years and a penalty of Rs. 10,000 or both. Similarly, if the offence under this ordinance is committed by a company, it shall be liable for punishment. The BJP had urged the government to promulgate such an ordinance on the lines of the legislation in Uttar Pradesh soon after the Padarayanapura episode.
23 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 850 NGOs are helping State govt. in COVID-19 fight||In its fight against COVID-19, the State government has gotten help from 859 NGOs and civil society groups and at least 14,000 volunteers. Fifty-five NGOs have partnered with the government to supply cooked food and food rations in Bengaluru and its periphery alone. Apart from volunteers, who are also disseminating information and awareness along with distribution of food, nearly 1,000 “expert” volunteers have been deployed for activities that are commensurate with their skill sets, qualifications, and experience. While some are working directly with beneficiaries, many are working with government departments that are involved in relief work that include distribution of dry rations and prepared food. So far, they have accounted for about 2.8 lakh cooked meals and about 1.69 lakh dry ration kits. The committee for coordinating response from NGOs and corporates for COVID-19 related activities, which has received over 21,000 distress calls from across the State till now, has been diverting calls since April 16 to the BBMP or the district administration. “The call could be for food by migrant labour or construction worker or students studying in Bengaluru who are in trouble. These issues would be flagged to government department and NGOs, which assist in resolving in the issue,” committee’s Chairman and Additional Chief Secretary (Energy) Mahendra Jain said. Since the lockdown was announced nearly a month ago, the committee has received more than 3,000 distress calls from students, mainly from other states studying in Karnataka.
23 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘What quick relief can be given to needy advocates?’||The High Court of Karnataka has asked the Bar Council of India and the Karnataka State Bar Council (KSBC) to inform about what immediate relief can be extended to the needy members of the Bar who are suffering due to lack of income. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarahtna issued the direction on a PIL petition, filed by H.C. Shivaramu, a former chairman of the KSBC and former president of the Advocates’ Association, Bengaluru. Though the advocates are considered as an “elite” group in the society, the petitioner pointed out that there are many depend on daily income but they are deprived of it at present as courts are closed. The petitioner also sought release of Rs. 50,000 each to the needy advocates as ex gratia from the BCI Advocates’ Welfare Fund and the KSBC Advocates’ Welfare Fund under “the scheme for financial assistance to indigent and disabled advocates” of the BCI. Claiming that the Delhi government has sanctioned Rs. 50 crore to the Delhi Bar Council for offering assistance to the needy advocates, the petitioner sought directions to the State and Union governments to grant Rs. 50 crore each to the KSBC Welfare Fund.
23 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Apthamitra helpline, app launched||To empower people in the fight against COVID-19, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday launched the Apthamitra helpline [toll-free number 14410] and the Apthamitra mobile app. The helpline is dedicated to deal with only COVID-19-related queries, including telemedicine, counselling and facilitating testing and treatment for those in need. This will be complemented by the general helpline 104 for health issues other than COVID-19, 108 for health emergencies, and 155214 for food-related problems, stated a release by the Health and Family Welfare Department. The app is for those seeking advice for telemedicine from doctors directly. The line is aimed at helping identify those having Influenza-like Illness (ILI), Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI), COVID-19 like symptoms or having high risk of getting infected. The two also intend to identify persons with low risks, but with some symptoms similar to COVID-19 and provide them telemedicine support with OTC medicines and counsel them about the need for self-quarantine. These platforms are also intended to be used for analysing the ILI incidences to help make decisions on graded relaxation of lockdown norms. The helpline that works from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. operates from six centres: four from Bengaluru and one from Mysuru and Mangaluru.
23 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP council approves 2020-21 budget||Uniform distribution of food kits to all wards, free distribution of masks and sanitisers, extension of 5% rebate on property tax till June, providing insurance cover for grave diggers and crematoria workers, forming a committee to frame rules for collection of improvement charges and conversion of B khatas to A khatas were some of the suggestions during the discussion on the 2020-21 budget of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The BBMP council, which discussed the budget via video conference on Wednesday, passed a resolution approving the budget with an outlay of Rs. 10,899.23 crore that was presented on Monday by L. Srinivas, chairperson of the Standing Committee for Taxation and Finance. The BBMP Commissioner is expected to incorporate the suggestions of councillors before sending the budget to the government for approval. The council also passed a vote-on-account resolution to utilise 30% of the budget to meet essential expenditure in anticipation of the State government approving the civic budget. Senior councillors, including former mayors B.N. Manjunath Reddy and B.S. Sathyanarayan, spoke about revenue that could be expected if the BBMP frames rules for the conversion of B khatas into A khatas. BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar described the budget as progressive.
23 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RTCs suffer revenue loss of more than Rs. 816 crore||Four road transport corporations in the State [the KSRTC, the BMTC, the NWKRTC and the NEKRTC] have suffered revenue loss of more than Rs. 816 crore owing to the lockdown. A release stated that the KSRTC has incurred Rs. 314 crore revenue loss after it stopped operation of both intra-State and inter-State services. The NWKRTC suffered loss of Rs. 172 crore, the NEKRTC Rs. 180 crore, and the BMTC Rs. 149.34 crore. Recently, the corporations had appealed to the State government to provide financial assistance to pay the April salary of the staff.
23 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru hospital’s licence cancelled||A private hospital’s licence has been cancelled and ordered to be seized by the Bengaluru (Urban) district administration on Wednesday for allegedly not informing the government of a suspected COVID-19 case and resisting quarantine. The incident is connected to Patient-419 from Hongasandra in the city, who tested positive on Wednesday. “The said patient had complaints of respiratory issues, cold and cough, and was admitted to Venu Healthcare Centre, Hongasandra, on April 18. Despite strict instructions, the hospital did not flag the case to the government in time. They treated him for a day, and later referred him to Jayadeva Hospital, who in turn got him tested. He has now been confirmed to be COVID-19 positive,” said G.N. Shivamurthy, Deputy Commissioner, Bengaluru (Urban). Further, while tracing the primary and secondary contacts of the patient in question, it was revealed that he first reported himself to Venu Healthcare Centre. “When health workers went to get the doctors and other healthcare staff who interacted with the patient into quarantine, Dr. Venugopal, who owns the hospital, locked the hospital from outside, and hid inside with three nurses trying to resist quarantine. They have now been put under quarantine,” Mr. Shivamurthy added. “Being a doctor himself, he not only did not flag the case to the government, but also resisted quarantine. So I have cancelled the licence of the hospital and I have directed my officials to seize the hospital,” he said.
23 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Challenge to get economy back on track’||T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, Chief Secretary, Government of Karnataka, on Wednesday said that one of the biggest challenges for the State will be to bring its economy back on track as revenue sources have almost dried up. He was speaking at a webinar on ‘Coping Strategies for COVID-19’, organised by Synergia Foundation. Containing the spread of the virus due to migration and people travelling within and between States will be a challenge once lockdown restrictions are lifted, he said. Arvind Kasturi, head of community healthcare at St. John’s National Academy of Health Sciences, who was part of the event, underscored the importance of providing healthcare to all patients and not just those with COVID-19. The State currently has the infrastructure to handle 20,000 cases. “We have had just over 400 cases till now. In the worst case scenario, experts have warned us of an increase in cases by 20,000. We are prepared for it. However, we have certain conflicting opinions and different projections by experts on the number of cases that might spike,” Mr. Bhaskar added.
23 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Many shelterless persons not ready to move to camps’||A large number of shelterless persons living in temporary accommodations in the city are not ready to move to relief camps as many feel safe from the threat of COVID-19 at their present location, the State government told the High Court of Karnataka. There are only 411 shelterless persons, identified from April 10 to 18, housed in 10 relief camps set up in government hostels in the city as the BBMP did not move other shelterless people against their will, the government said. The government submitted a report in this regard as the court on April 16 directed the government to examine the BBMP’s action on finding that the civic body had no plan or policy to identify vulnerable and homeless persons and provide them food even after 22 days of lockdown. Though the BBMP had no written policy in this regard, the government said the civic body had issued standing instructions across all zones and wards to ensure that cooked and ready-to-eat food is distributed to the needy and deserving, without limitation as to whether they were migrants or not, so long as they were vulnerable. “This instruction, though not in writing, has been implemented quite significantly right from the inception of the lockdown, in coordination with various NGOs,” the government’s report said. A special Division Bench said the Bench will examine the government’s report on April 24.
23 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Councillors question food kit distribution||While lauding measures taken by BBMP to tackle the spread of COVID-19, councillors from the opposition Congress raised questions on alleged disparity in distribution of foodgrains kit, apart from the quality of products during the 2020-21 budget discussions on Wednesday. Former Ruling Party Leader M. Shivaraju alleged that the rice and dal provided were of inferior quality. Gurappanapalya councillor Md. Rizwan pointed out that several kits were being sold surreptitiously.
23 April 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private sector too chips in||From providing biscuits and soaps to aid to prepare COVID-19 units, help has also been coming from the private sector in various forms, besides donations to relief fund. While the Tata Group is helping convert C.V. Raman Nagar Hospital in Bengaluru into a COVID-19 isolation hospital, the University of Trans disciplinary Health Sciences and Technology and Bosch are providing a 100-bed hospital for COVID 19. The Azim Premji Foundation is involved in relief work in 10 districts in Karnataka. Among other relief materials that the State has received include, 50,000 bed sheets and pillow covers, 50,000 units of insulins, 64,000 biscuit packets, 11,000 litres of sanitisers, 15 lakh soaps, 5.65 lakh N-95 masks, 1.5 lakh 3-ply masks, among others.
23 April 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Immunisation to resume in non-containment zones||All immunisation services, except birth dose, that were suspended in the wake of COVID-19 lockdown will now be resumed in all health facilities in non-containment zones. The services should be carried out following strict infection prevention and control measures and social distancing, stated a circular issued by R. Ramachandran, Mission Director, National Health Mission. Guidelines for vaccination and safe immunisation practices have also been issued.
23 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP calls for MLA’s arrest||BJP demanded the arrest of Chamarajpet Congress MLA B.Z. Zameer Ahmed Khan claiming that he had a role in the violence at Padarayanapura. They demanded that he be booked under the National Security Act. “The followers of Mr. Ahmed went on the rampage,” said N. Ravikumar, general secretary, BJP-Karnataka and also demanded the Congress expel him immediately. MLA Zameer Ahmed, on Tuesday, said his statements were misinterpreted by some politicians. “I condemn the incident. But we need to move beyond communal divisions and fight COVID-19 unitedly,” he tweeted.
23 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Uttara Kannada officials issue e-passes||At a time when fake passes have become a nuisance for the police in implementing the lockdown effectively, the Uttara Kannada district administration has started issuing e-passes with QR code to prevent misuse. With 11 COVID-19 cases reported so far, the district has enforced strict lockdown. It has issued e-passes to help people involved in essential services and needy persons. But considering complaints about fake passes being used to move around in restricted areas, the authorities came up with the idea of introducing e-passes with QR code. “We started the system of issuing e-passes with QR code to ensure that the system is transparent. And we also wanted to make it foolproof so that misuse is prevented,” Deputy Commissioner of Uttara Kananda district K. Harish Kumar told The Hindu . The Uttara Kannada district unit of NIC (National Informatics Centre) has provided technical support for the initiative. “The software was developed by our colleague Niju Abraham. We have given access to panchayat development officers, the police and tahsildars to accept applications and make entries on the portal for e-passes. If the pass is for movement within the taluk, then the tahsildar will issue it. Anything outside will be decided by the Assistant Commissioner and Additional Deputy Commissioner,” Shreekanth Joshi, head of the district unit of NIC at Karwar, said. Old passes Those deployed at check-points can use their smart phones to scan the QR code and enter the captcha to know the genuineness of the pass. And for the passes issued earlier, there is another option. They can visit the websitehttp://117.215.132.25/epassand feed the e-pass ID number to verify whether the pass is genuine or not.
23 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Police station shifted||COVID-19 pandemic has forced the shifting of a police station in Hubballi. After the city recorded its sixth case (seventh in Dharwad district) of the pandemic, the locality in which the positive patient resided has been sealed down. Since the Kamaripet Police Station under Hubballi Dharwad Police Commissionerate is in close proximity to the area, the station has been shifted temporarily. The police authorities said that as the station comes within 100 m radius of the positive patient’s residence, the whole locality had to be sealed down and it would pose practical problems for normal functioning of the police station. And, it would also be a violation of the seal down order, they said. Consequently, the authorities have now shifted the police station to the basement of Hebich Memorial Hall near Kittur Chennamma Circle.
23 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Five more fresh cases reported in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi district, which had reported India’s first COVID-19 casualty, has continued to record positive cases almost on a daily basis for the last few days creating a fresh wave of panic and anxiety among residents. With five more cases reported on Wednesday, the total number of novel coronavirus-infected persons in the district rose to 35, which included four deaths and three patients discharged upon recovery. This was the third day in a row that the district reported positive cases for the disease. The district saw five cases on Monday and three cases and a death on Tuesday. The new cases are a four-month-old male child (P-424) and a 26-year-old female (P-425). Both are contacts of P-395 (a 19-year-old male who was a contact of P-205, a 55-year-old man who died of the disease on April 14). One of the other three cases, P-422, is a 57-year-old male who was admitted to designated the hospital for Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) and the source of his infection is not yet known. Patient 421 is a 46-year-old female who was a contact of P-222 (a-38-year-old female and a contact of P-177) and P-423 is a 35-year-old female and a contact of P-393 (a 30-year-old female who was a contact of P-205 who died of the disease on April 14). The administration, by Wednesday evening, completed survey of 35,822 houses. It has collected samples of 2,181, of which 998 turned negative and the results for 1,146 are awaited. Two samples were not tested for technical reasons. To boost the morale among residents, the security forces, led by Deputy Commissioner of Police Kishor Babu, conducted a flag march on the arterial roads in the city on Tuesday evening.
23 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||15 containment zones||The district administration has set up 15 containment zones in different parts of Kalaburagi district, where positive cases are reported. Of the 15 zones, 11 are in Kalaburagi city. The 11 zones in the city are Umar Colony, Yadullah Colony, Qamar Colony, Adarsh Nagar, Mominpura, Sangtraswadi, Rehman Colony, Ghatge Layout, J.R. Nagar, Shaikh Roza and Mehboob Nagar. As many as four containment zones are set up in Shahabad town, Kavalga K, Honna Kiranagi village and four wards in Wadi town in the district.
23 April 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||Pourakarmika dies while on COVID-19 duty||A 45-year-old pourakarmika died while spraying disinfectants at Kalkuni village of Mandya district on Wednesday. The deceased, Basavaraju, was attached to the Kalkuni Grama Panchayat of Malavalli taluk, sources from Kirugavalu police station said. According to the sources, he was deputed to spray disinfectants at the village when he suddenly collapsed and died. The incident shook the villagers, who suspect that the deceased might have not used safety gears such as face mask and gloves. Mandya District Health Officer Dr. H.P. Manche Gowda ruled out the possibilities of the disinfectants killing Mr. Basavaraju. The grama panchayats spray sodium hypochlorite mixed water to prevent the spread of novel coronavirus. The quantity would be bare minimal, he told The Hindu . The Department of Health and Family Welfare, however, would look into the incident, he added. The district has recorded 12 COVID-19 positive cases and of them 11 are from Malavalli. Hence, the authorities concerned are taking preventive measures on a warfooting to curb the spread of COVID-19 pandemic.
23 April 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Forest Department warns public against harming bats||The Forest Department has issued directives against harming bats or destroying their habitat due to the misconception about its link with the COVID-19 outbreak. Responding to reports in the media suggesting that fruit bats are harbouring the virus and concerns by people about possible transmission, PCCF (Wildlife) Sanjai Mohan said many living creatures harbour viruses and bacteria and they do not get transmitted to humans. The recent discovery of COVID-19 in South Asian bats poses no known health hazard to humans. He said that even the ICMR head of epidemiology has clarified that there was no proof of COVID-19 transmission from bats to humans. On the contrary, bats perform a vital ecosystem service as pollinators, seed disperses and insect pest controllers and killing bats was against the law, according to officer. He said wildlife trade and stressing wild population was at the root of virus spillover and one should wait for more research to address the problem. All the DCFs across the State have been directed to inform the public against harming bats.
23 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Police take out route march||To appeal to the people to remain indoors to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the police took out a route march on the main streets of the city on Wednesday. Superintendent of Police K.M. Shantharaju kick-started the route march at Ashoka Circle. A police vehicle carrying a huge figure of coronavirus was also part of the route march. Songs in Kannada on precautions to be taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19 were played from a loudspeaker fitted on a vehicle. As many as 21 four-wheelers, including those used by the police personnel for highway patrolling, and 250 two-wheelers passed through Amir Ahmed Circle. O.T. Road, Seegehatti, Lashkar Mohallah, Bapuji Nagar, Balaraj Urs Road and Kuvempu Road during the route march. At Gandhi Bazaar and Durgigudi, residents showered petals on the police personnel. They also clapped as a mark of appreciation to the service rendered by the police personnel in the battle against COVID-19. Additional Superintendent of Police H.T. Shekhar and Deputy Superintendent of Police Umesh Ishwar Naik took part in the route march. Meanwhile, youths who had been for their morning walk at Swamy Vivekananda Extension on Wednesday were made to do push-ups and squats by the police personnel for violating the lockdown order. Police personnel also cautioned a few senior citizens roaming around in the locality of stern action for stepping out of their houses without any valid reason.
23 April 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Two more test positive for KFD in Shivamogga||Two persons tested positive for Kyasanur Forest Disease(KFD), also known as monkey fever, in the district on Tuesday. A 48-year-old woman from Henni locality in the Jog-Kargal Town Panchayat limits in Sagar taluk has been identified as one of them. She has been admitted to the general hospital in Sagar city and her health condition is said to be stable. The blood samples of another 32-year-old farmer from Henni who had displayed symptoms of KFD have been sent to Viral Diagnostic Laboratory in Shivamogga. The blood samples of a 32-year-old woman from Bastikoppa village in Tirthahalli taluk also tested positive for KFD. With this, the total number of positive cases in Shivamogga district since January 1 has risen to 160.
23 April 2020||Tumakuru,KARNATAKA||Minister promises to work towards bringing back stranded students||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar said on Wednesday that he will speak with the Education Minister of Madhya Pradesh and make arrangements to bring back over 40 students from Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas who are stranded in M.P. The class 9 students, who were part of an exchange programme, are unable to return to their families in Chitradurga and Tumakuru owing to the lockdown.  The Hindu had written about their plight on April 16. Speaking on the premises of Siddaganga Mutt in Tumakuru on Wednesday, Mr. Suresh Kumar said he will also speak to the students stranded in M.P. and ask officials to look into the matter.
23 April 2020||Tumakuru,KARNATAKA||SSLC examination after revision classes: Minister||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar, before interacting with students of Siddaganga Mutt in Tumakuru on Wednesday, announced that the government will hold the SSLC examination only after conducting revision classes. He urged students not to fall prey to rumours. He said that for the past two days, he has been speaking to SSLC students over the phone and they have insisted on the exam being conducted as they have all worked hard. They said that they should not be made fun of throughout their lives for passing the SSLC without writing the examination and be labelled, “Corona students” and “Corona SSLC.” The government will be in a position to decide on when to start revision classes for all 8.5 lakh class 10 students only on May 3. He assured students that the government will give them time to prepare for the examination. Dooradarshan Chandana channel will start telecasting revision classes for class 10 students in the next three days, he said.
23 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||One need not be rich to help others||Being generous and large-hearted need not be the exclusive preserve of the rich. Sharadakka, a fisherwoman, has provided five kg of rice to 140 poor people at Nergi in Vadabhandeshwara (Malpe) ward here. Sharadakka, who lives in a thatched hut at Baputhota, had saved her earnings. Due to the lockdown on account of COVID-19 pandemic, people in nearby Nergi area, who were mostly into fishing, saw their earnings dip. Speaking to The Hindu , Sharadakka said: “I could not bear to see the plight of my neighbours. I thought I should help them, so I purchased 700 kg of rice and distributed five kg to each house.” A modest Sharadakka said: “What is the point in saving money. I am not going to take it with me after I die. I thought I should help people at this time.” “I am not a rich person. But one need not be rich to help others. The other day, I got some rice from the ration shop. I gave it to some migrant workers from Vijayapura,” she said. Sharadakka has been purchasing fish at the Malpe Fisheries Harbour and selling it ever since she was young, when she used to accompany her parents in the same profession. Selling fish is a challenging profession as the returns vary from day to day. “On a day I may earn Rs. 200, and yet, on a good day, I earn Rs. 500. It is a tough life,” she said. Sharadakka has four sons and two daughters. Her husband is suffering from ill-health and stays at home. Her sons work on boats at the fisheries harbour.
23 April 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Candle-light march withdrawn||The proposed candle-light march and the plan to discharge duties sporting black ribbons by the district unit of IMA in Yadgir against assaults on health workers scheduled on Wednesday was withdrawn after the Union and Sate governments passed ordinances to punish such culprits. In a release here on Wednesday, Veeresh Jaka, IMA secretary, said that the IMA welcomed the governments’ decision.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Penal action||Any person who violates lockdown norms would be liable for penal action under sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, besides section 188 of the IPC. Such violations may attract imprisonment varying from one to two years besides penalty, the order warns.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Online teaching for students||Though the revised order makes it clear that all educational/coaching and training institutions should remain closed, it has asked them to maintain academic schedule through online teaching. It has also asked the educational establishments to make the maximum use of Doordarshan and other educational channels for teaching purposes.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Metro work||The revised notification has allowed construction activities of Bengaluru metro by BMRCL. But it makes it clear that workers should be available on-site instead of bringing them from outside. Metro project work has come to a grinding halt due to COVID-19 restrictions.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Social distancing here too?||
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||A big hand||
23 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Couple die in cylinder blast||An elderly couple died after a cooking gas cylinder exploded at Chettikulangara, near Mavelikara, on Tuesday night. The deceased were identified as Raghavan (80) and his wife Maniyamma (74). The Mavelikara police said prima facie it appeared to be a case of suicide. “We have found two cylinders, including an unexploded one, in their bedroom. A probe has been launched into the incident,” said an official. A portion of the house was gutted in the blast. (Suicide Prevention Helpline Number: DISHA- 1056.)
23 April 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Vigil in areas bordering Tamil Nadu||The district administration has intensified the vigil in border areas with more number of cases of COVID-19 being reported in the neighbouring State of Tamil Nadu. Though Idukki district is in the Green zone area, there are chances of new cases emerging with the border routes remaining porous, says an official at the Collectorate. There is increased traffic movement on roads and more people are turning up in towns. The police had to make specific announcements to close outlets such as fancy shops, textiles and those selling footwear and such non- essential items. Ban orders Meanwhile, the District Collector has extended the ban orders imposed on wards that share border with Tamil Nadu. Border roads with the neighbouring Kottayam district, also in the Green zone, are closed. Inter-district travel is allowed only for government officials on essential duties and for medical purposes. The crowd control model in Munnar, implemented by Devikulam Subcollector S. Prem Krishna, has succeeded in avoiding crowds even while allowing people to move in the town for buying essential items. After spotting a number of people the town in the initial days of the lockdown, the Subcollector announced Section 144 in the town. Police check-posts were set up at the entry points to the main market and passes issued from there. Those who stayed more than an hour inside the market were penalised. Traders were also issued identity passes. Mask was made mandatory. Special squads were deployed for identifying people who violated lockdown norms. All reaching the town were tested with thermal scanners. Drone surveillance was put in place. A police officer says around 2,500 persons reached the town during the past two days. According to him, physical distance among people that was ensured proved to be a success.
23 April 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Hand over Edakkal caves to ASI, say greens||Environmentalists in Wayanad district is planning to approach the Kerala High Court urging the intervention of the court to conserve the Neolithic petroglyphs on the walls of Edakkal caves on Ambukuthy hills by handing over the historical monument to Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). The government had taken control of the caves in 1986 after a series of agitations led by environmentalists in the district under the aegis of the Wayanad Prakruthi Samrakshana Samiti when rampant granite mining was posing a threat to the very existence of the historical monument, said N. Badusha, president of the organisation. Now, the monument is under the control of the State Archaeology Department and tourism activities are being managed by the District Tourism Promotion Council. But they were yet to adopt any measures to conserve the caves, Mr. Badusha said. The mushrooming of resorts on the hills by drastically altering the topography and rampant mining activities were the major threats being faced by Edakkal caves, he added.
23 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Three more KFD cases||Three cases of Kyasanur Forest Disease (KFD), also known as monkey fever, were reported from the Begur area under the Appapara Family Health Centre at Thirunelly grama panchayat in Wayanad on Wednesday. It is a viral disease transmitted to humans through a species of ticks usually found on monkeys. The patients, including a 49-year-old man undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, and two tribal women, undergoing treatment at the General Hospital here, are in stable condition. Their samples sent to the Manipal Centre for Virus Research tested positive for KFD, District Medical Officer R. Renuka said.  The Health Department had launched a vaccination drive and 5,000 doses of the KFD vaccine was available, she said. “As many as 19 KFD cases were reported in the district this year, of which 15 patients had recovered. The disease had claimed two lives,” she added. Earlier cases The first case of the disease in the district was reported in 2013 and another confirmed case was reported in 2014. The virus wreaked havoc in the district in 2015 when 102 cases were reported and 11 persons died of the disease. Nine cases were reported in 2016. Though two suspected cases were reported in 2017, not a single case was reported in 2018. But seven cases, including two deaths, were reported in 2019.
23 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Action against letting elderly persons step out of homes||Wayanad District Collector Adeela Abdulla has said legal action will be initiated against family members who permit elderly persons, above 65 years of age, to step out of homes. Speaking after touring the district on Wednesday, Ms. Abdulla said it had come to the notice of the district administration that elderly persons were being sent out by some families to procure provisions, including those from ration shops. At a time when the COVID-19 pandemic is posing a serious threat to humanity, elderly persons will only be endangering themselves by venturing out of homes, Ms. Abdulla said. The Collector also inspected shops and hotels and fined owners of establishments that failed to follow lockdown norms.
23 April 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Triple lockdown in Kannur containment zones||The police have intensified vigilance in Kannur, which has been classified as a red zone, with more people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Inspector General of Police, North Zone, Ashok Yadav said a triple lockdown came into effect on Wednesday focussing on containment zones having more COVID-19 cases and primary and secondary contacts in the district. At present there were 11 containment zones in the district, most of them in the Thalassery subdivision. However, more places would be listed as containment zones, he said. Mr. Yadav said the entire district came under the general lockdown, while the second lockdown was for the containment zones which had more positive cases. Such areas would be contained and isolated from the rest of the district. These areas would have only one entry and exit point, while the other roads would be closed. People in the containment zones would not be allowed to move out of their houses and essential items would be delivered to them. They could order essentials contacting local bodies. The third lockdown would focus on the primary and secondary contacts in the containment zones. “We are in the third stage where the primary and secondary contacts, who are more prone to the infection and can spread the disease, are identified and stringent vigil is kept to ensure that they stay at home,” he said. Guards would be deployed at containment zones to ensure that people stayed at their homes. Around 10 guards had been deployed and a mobile patrol would visit at least 15 houses.The primary and secondary contacts would be provided an app, Swayamraksha Kannur, by which they could contact the police control room.
23 April 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Seven more test positive in district||The district administration and the Health Department have debunked the chances of a social spread, even as seven more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. With this, the total number of COVID-19 cases rose to 109 in the district. District Collector T.V. Subash said of the seven positive cases, four persons had come from Dubai. A woman who was in hospital observation had travelled from Hazrat Nizamuddin, while two others, including a nine-year-old girl, in home observation received the disease through contact. Mr. Subhash said 63 people were identified as asymptomatic cases. Among them, 53 had come from abroad. “The reason for a surge in the disease is because more people who did not show any symptoms were tested,” the Collector said. This was decided after 10 members of a family were found infected, he said. He said many people tested positive in the district after 28 days in quarantine, which was against the universally accepted 14 days of surveillance. Mr. Subhash said test results of 214 people were awaited.
23 April 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Hilly hamlets of Kannur, Kasaragod in grip of dengue||At a time when Kannur and Kasaragod districts are fighting COVID-19, dengue, a vector-borne disease, is plaguing the hilly hamlets in the districts. The Health Department with the support of local bodies has launched a vigorous campaign to check the spread of the disease. Most of the cases are in Kannur. The district has reported 33 dengue cases so far since January, with 33 suspected cases getting reported this month alone. District Surveillance Officer Dr. Shaj said several cases had been reported in the hilly hamlets of Alakode, Pullingome, Naduvil and some regions of Irrity. He said an action plan had been formulated by the District Vector Control unit, which had identified the hotspot areas. Preventive measures, including fogging, were being carried out in the areas with the support of local self-government bodies, he added. In Kasaragod There were five confirmed cases in Kasaragod in the past two months. There are 60 suspected cases. Most cases were reported from the eastern hilly hamlets including Vellarikundu and Chenagla. District Surveillance Officer A.T. Manoj said the public should ensure that their surroundings are kept clean to prevent the spread of the disease.
23 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Area-wise sample collection to check spread of COVID-19||Health officials are all set to begin surveillance to check community spread of COVID-19 in the district through a step-by-step process. The focus will be on one zone in the district at a time by taking 10 samples from an area. Maradu municipality will be the first zone where sampling will take place. The Health Department would identify 10 persons from Maradu by following the guidelines on selecting persons, said N.K. Kuttappan, District Medical Officer. They would be taken to the Karuvelipady Taluk Hospital to take swab samples. The department would collect samples from other areas three days a week. According to District Collector S. Suhas, Division 8 of Chullikkal and Division 65 of Kathrikadavu are the two hotspots in the Kochi Corporation area. The two areas will not be given any concessions in the lockdown till May 3. Chullikkal-Panayappilly areas constitute Division 8, while Kaloor South and Kathrikadavu constitute Division 65. Mulavukad panchayat and other divisions of the corporation have been removed from the list of hotspot areas. The hotspots were decided after consultation with the police and the Health Department. The information was also conveyed to Chief Secretary Tom Jose in a videoconference. All the lockdown norms needed to be followed in the hotspots, Mr. Jose said. Hotspots could change according to circumstances, he added. The Chief Secretary also asked the District Collector to take action against those who are found travelling in trucks illegally. 134 in observation Eleven more persons were put in home quarantine for suspected SARS-CoV-2 infection on Wednesday, while 17 were released, taking the total number to 134. Five persons were put under hospital isolation. There are now 15 persons in hospital isolation. No new COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Wednesday.
23 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Report on pollution of Periyar by May 10||The State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) on Solid Waste Management will submit a detailed report to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) on the worsening pollution levels in the Periyar by May 10. The decision comes close on the heels of the discolouration and declining water quality levels in the river even during the lockdown period. “An updated report on the ecological condition of the Periyar river will be filed before the tribunal after the lockdown is lifted,” said A.V. Ramakrishna Pillai, chairman of the committee, on Wednesday. Mr. Pillai said foolproof investigations were required to spot those behind the pollution of the river, which remained a major drinking water source for lakhs of people. “The State Pollution Control Board should find out whether industrial discharge into the waters had taken place during the lockdown period,” he said. He did not fully subscribe to the board’s findings that septage and failure of the Irrigation Department to maintain lean flow might be the reasons for the recent discolouration and pollution of the river. “The board should find out whether any unauthorised units are functioning in the lockdown period,” he said. The report to be filed before the NGT will have recommendations for the rejuvenation of the Periyar. The tribunal had entrusted the committee to initiate measures to ensure the lifeline of waterbodies in the State. Protest staged Activists of the Periyar Malineekarana Virudha Samiti staged a protest at Eloor on Wednesday against the alleged failure of the State Pollution Control Board (PCB) in checking increasing incidents of discoloration and fish kill in the Periyar. Samiti spokesperson Purushan Eloor said four incidents of fish kills and repeated discoloration of water were reported during the lockdown.
23 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Bus operators seek relief package||With 12,000 private buses in Kerala keeping off the road following the lockdown enforced to check the spread of COVID-19, their operators have sought a substantial relief package from the State government to make good the loss they incurred and to recondition their buses to resume operations when the lockdown is scaled down. Like the approximately one lakh bus workers, the operators too are severely affected by the crisis. All the more since around 70% of the owners are employed as crew in their own bus services. “This is apart from the nearly one lakh people indirectly employed in the sector, at workshops, shops selling spare parts, etc.,” says T. Gopinathan, general secretary, All Kerala Bus Operators’ Organisation. “Apart from ferrying around one crore commuters daily, the private bus industry contributes nearly Rs. 200 crore to the government in the form of vehicle tax every year. In addition, the State and Centre get approximately Rs. 1,200 per bus every day as sales tax on diesel. This alone works out to around Rs. 1.50 crore a day. All this must be accounted for while announcing a relief package,” he says. Woes galore Mr. Gopinathan says most buses are parked on open grounds or fields and the summer heat would have affected the condition of tyres. This situation arose because the lockdown was announced sans notice and the vehicles would have to undergo extensive repairs. All this would entail an expense of nearly Rs. 30,000 per bus. Yet another Rs. 30,000 would have to be paid per bus as quarterly tax. All this was recently communicated to the Planning Board, in response to a questionnaire sent by the agency, he adds. “Even worse, only one commuter can be accommodated in a seat, to ensure social distancing. And people might not prefer private bus services as their mode of travel for a long time even after the lockdown is lifted owing to the virus scare,” says Lawrence Babu, secretary, Kerala State Private Bus Operators’ Federation. He demands fixing of higher fare for the period when only one passenger will be permitted on a seat. The payment of vehicle tax should be eliminated from April 2020 to March 2021, as has been granted to the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation. The sales tax on diesel must be reduced for private buses. The government must also announce a one-year interest-free moratorium on vehicle loans, they say.
23 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||A yeoman service in Corona times||Over the last 25 days of the lockdown in the State, Theruvoram, a voluntary organisation founded by Murugan S., had picked up 607 people from the streets of Ernakulam, Alappuzha, Kottayam and Thrissur. Mostly hailing from far off States like Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand, and Gujarat as well as from the neighbouring States of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, these people had probably landed here on trains before the Covid lockdown. “We have seen many of them roaming aimlessly, perhaps because of mental health problems or they have nowhere to go. We pick them up, give them a bath and take them to designated centres in each district with the help of police,” Mr. Murugan said. These destitute people, who stay mostly near bus stands and railway stations, could also be a potential health risk to the community. The police and the social justice departments are supporting the NGO. The district administration is helping them in documenting the rehabilitation work. Theruvoram has two ambulances donated by Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited and the Association of Malayalam Movie Artists. “Fr. Davis Chiramel of Kidney Federation joined us one day when we were bathing one of these people,” he said. “However, we have a hand-to-mouth existence,” said Mr. Murugan. Six people, including two drivers, are involved in the work. Every day he spends Rs. 8,000, a major share of which is used for the ambulance fuel and food, besides gloves, masks, and soaps. He has been feeling the pinch after the lockdown, he said. Most of the people picked up from the streets are taken to public healthcare institutions, including General Hospital in Ernakulam, medical colleges in Alappuzha and Kottayam, and the Mental Health Hospital in Thrissur. ‘Theruvoram’ Murugan, as he is fondly called, can be contacted on the phone 7561041036.
23 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||e-book on pandemic goes into second edition||A pulmonologist from the State has brought out a ready reference e-book on COVID-19. The book titled ‘International Pulmonologist’s Consensus on COVID-19’ was published on March 14. “Over the past one month, a lot has changed in the way we approach COVID-19. So the team of pulmonologists regrouped to bring out the second edition,” said Dr. Tinku Joseph, chief editor.
23 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Contest for homestead farmers||The Farm Information Bureau is holding a photography and videography contest for those engaged in homestead farming under the Jeevani - Nammude Krishi, Nammude Arogyam programme. Those engaged in farming activities either in their backyards or on terraces of their homes can send photographs or videos of their activities to their respective agriculture offices attached to the panchayat or other local bodies before May 10. For more details, contact — 0471-2314358 or 9383470288.
23 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Contact traced in midnight operation||Information received late on Tuesday night regarding a youth in Kottayam who had accompanied a person who tested positive for COVID-19 kept the Health Department on its toes even late at night. The two had arrived from Dindivanam in Tamil Nadu carrying a load of watermelons. One had got down at Palakkad. When he turned positive, action was taken to trace the person who had travelled with him. Intercepting the truck the youth was driving around 1.30 a.m. here on its way back to Palakkad after unloading goods at the Kottayam market, the Health Department took the youth to the General Hospital in an ambulance. The Health Department found that he had made contact with 17 people in Kottayam market, including a shop owner.
23 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC quashes bail condition||The Kerala High Court has set aside a bail condition to deposit Rs. 25,000 in the Chief Minister's Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF) imposed by the Thalassery Sessions Court while granting bail to an accused in a criminal case. The court quashed the order after holding that such a condition is improper and unjust. The order was passed by Justice C.S. Dias allowing a petition filed by Chinna Rao Swayamvarappu of Hyderabad, who is an accused in a criminal case, seeking to quash the bail condition. The Thalassery Sessions court had ordered depositing Rs. 25,000 in the CMDRF as one of the bail conditions and asked him to produce the receipt before the court.
23 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Five tribespeople arrested for poaching||Five tribespeople were arrested here on Tuesday for allegedly poaching wild animals from the Malayattoor Forest Division. The arrested were the residents of a tribal hamlet in the Thundathil forest range in the Malayattoor region. A patrolling team of officials seized the carcass of a Travancore tortoise and monitor lizard from the accused. They were produced before court and later released on bail, officials said.
23 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||High alert in Kulathupuzha||While all border villages, including Kulathupuzha, which has been declared a hotspot, remain on high alert, authorities are finding it difficult to trace the contact history of the person (P10) who tested positive on Tuesday. The 31-year-old from Kulathupuzha had visited Puliyankudi on April 4 and stayed there before returning on April 6. “The person was into substance abuse and currently he is showing severe withdrawal symptoms. Since he was also a supplier, he is not very keen on revealing all his contacts. The person is asymptomatic,” said an official on Wednesday. According to the Health Department, though the possibility of a cluster cannot be overruled, many persons in the high-risk category are testing negative. “We have identified 18 primary contacts and 29 secondary contacts. While five persons who come under the high risk category have been moved to medical isolation, the rest are staying at a corona care centre. We are planning to screen the entire population,” said Deputy District Medical Officer (Deputy DMO) R. Sandhya. Since prohibitory orders are in place at Kulathupuzha and two other border villages, only medical stores and shops selling essential commodities were allowed to function on Wednesday. According to the route map issued by district administration, the patient had travelled in a vegetable truck and walked through the Venture estate at Aryankavu to reach Puliyankudi. “His uncle who has been staying with him in the same house visited many places in the village,” said Kulathupuzha village panchayat president P. Lailabeevi. Random checks The sentinel surveillance team formed to prevent community spread has started random checks in the district. On the first day the team visited Kollam District Hospital and primary health centres in Thrikkadavur and Palathara. It will head for Kulathupuzha on Saturday.
23 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Fresh case in Kottayam district||Days after being classified as a Green zone for COVID-19 outbreak, Kottayam is back in focus again with a 65-year-old woman from the district being tested positive for the virus. The woman, who had landed in New Delhi from Australia on March 20, had reached the State border at Kambamettu in Idukki on April 16 and was put on home quarantine. A virology examination of her serum sample, collected at the Taluk Hospital in Nedumkandam, has now been tested positive. Meanwhile, the patient’s husband who had travelled along with her from the national capital by the same car has tested negative for the virus. The woman is currently admitted to the corona care centre at Kambamettu and may soon be shifted to the Government Medical College in Kottayam, officials say.  17 people At the same time, the Health authorities carried out a massive search operation and traced 17 persons, who had come into direct contact with a fellow traveller of a COVID-19 patient. The episode began to unfold on Tuesday midnight when the Health Department official received information about the person, a truck driver who had come to Kottayam with a load of watermelons from Dindivanam in Tamil Nadu. The truck driver travelled till Palakkad with a person who had tested positive for the disease and was undergoing treatment there. By the time they traced the truck driver, the person had already returned from Kottayam after disembarking the load at the marketplace here. He was soon shifted to Ernakulam General Hospital for sample collection and then to Palakkad General Hospital. Based on the inputs received from him, the Health officials also traced the 17 persons comprising the owner and employees of a shop and head load workers at the Kottayam market who had come into direct contact with the person and asked then to remain in home quarantine. The primary samples collected from these persons have been sent for a virology examination and the results are expected to come by Thursday.
23 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Pre-monsoon sanitation drive||A meeting convened by District Collector P.K. Sudheer Babu here has finalised an action plan for the pre-monsoon sanitation drive in Kottayam. As per the plan, the sanitation activities for each ward should be carried out in consultation with officials in the local bodies concerned. The waste-dumping hotspots in different locations should be identified and cleaned up. The plan also envisages sanitation drives at all residential areas and at locations where community kitchens operate.  The workers are requested to ensure adequate protection during clean-up drives at public places.
23 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MG University plans exams from May 18||Mahatma Gandhi University has decided to resume its examinations from May 18. As per the revised schedule, the sixth and fourth semester undergraduate (UG) examinations will resume on May 18 and 19 respectively. The fifth semester examinations of UG courses (private registration) will commence on May 25. The practical examinations of the sixth and fourth semester undergraduate students will be held on May 25 and 28 at the respective colleges. Second semester examinations of the UG courses will be held from the second week of June. The fourth semester examination of postgraduate programmes will begin on May 25 while the practical examinations are scheduled to commence on June 8. Practical examinations Meanwhile, the university plans to complete the practical examinations for second semester examination in June. A detailed timetable for the examinations will be published soon. The valuation of answer sheets will be completed in a week from June 1 through home valuation system. According to officials, a revised timetable for the examination has been prepared expecting relaxation in the lockdown restrictions. As part of the COVID-19 preventive measures, the examination and answer sheet evaluations will be carried out strictly in accordance with the instructions of the government and the Health Department. Colleges would be advised to take necessary precautions, they said.
23 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Pandemic at its peak in GCC nations||Despite imposing stringent measures to contain the spread of COVID-19, the number of positive cases across the six Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries has been rapidly increasing with hundreds of detection recorded with each passing day. With economic activity coming to a grinding halt following the lockdown in West Asia, Non-Resident Indians, especially those from Kerala, are the worst-hit. “We have no idea when this lockdown will end. Initially, the government imposed the restrictions for 17 days. Now it is almost a month,” Hashim Ali, a resident in Riyadh, said. The situation at labour camps in Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Qatar is getting worse. Shabby dormitories and unhygienic sanitary standards in some industrial areas are a cause of concern. Besides, flattening the pandemic curve has been the biggest challenge for all the governments. Pathetic condition  Likewise, the condition of blue-collar workers residing in thickly populated areas is pathetic. Indians who had reached the UAE on tourist visa are desperate to return. After the COVID-19 pandemic subsides, many middle-class expatriates are planning to send their families back home. Health authorities believe that COVID-19 is likely to peak in the GCC countries only in the first week of May based on various projections. “At present, only persons showing symptoms and elderly are being tested. Others also opt to take paid tests costing 550 dirhams (approximately Rs. 11,450),” said P. Noushad, an IT professional awaiting the COVID-19 result, in Dubai. Free tests The UAE has planned to convert government buildings, warehouses, and exhibition halls into medical facilities. Abu Dhabi is conducting free tests to workers in Mussafah industrial areas. Meanwhile, Bahrain has extended the closure of most public recreational activity till May 7. Its government has converted a car park at Manama into a temporary intensive care unit with 130 beds. Hosting of Iftar banquets has also been banned. However, small family gatherings are allowed. Oman, which has extended the lockdown in the capital Muscat to May 8, has also banned mass gathering for Ramzan. Already the UAE and Saudi Arabia have banned mass prayers during the Islamic holy month.
23 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Medicos test positive in Kozhikode||One nurse and an undergraduate student at Government Medical College, Kozhikode, were among those tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in district on Wednesday. Another medical student, a native of Kannur, too had been found infected here. According to District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, the total number of COVID-19 patients from Kozhikode has now gone up to 22, half of whom have recovered. Two residents each from Kannur and Kasaragod too had been under treatment here and were discharged. The nurse, who tested positive for the virus, is an employee of a private hospital in Kozhikode city. She had attended to the Edachery resident, who was infected earlier and was under treatment at that hospital. It is assumed that she got the infection from him. She was on duty from April 5 to 8 and on leave for the next three days. She, along with other staff who attended to him, had been put under quarantine after the Edachery resident was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on April 11. She came to the private hospital along with her father by their car on April 20 morning, gave her body fluid samples for lab tests, and returned home. She was shifted to the isolation ward attached to the Government Medical College Hospital on Wednesday after the test results were declared. She doesn’t have any symptoms and her condition is reported to be stable. The second infected person had travelled by the Nizamuddin-Thiruvananthapuram Express on March 20. She alighted at the Kozhikode railway station on the first platform at 6.30 p.m. on March 22. She was asked to be under home quarantine for two weeks by the screening squad at the station. The Health Department later asked her to continue it for 28 days after it was found that she had been in the same coach with an Alappuzha resident who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on April 3 after attending a Tabligh Jamaat conference in New Delhi. She completed the quarantine and returned to the medical college to join house surgeon duty on April 20. She was tested positive for the virus during a screening. She is asymptomatic and had been shifted to the isolation ward.
23 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Infection fears allayed||The authorities at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, have allayed fears about the possibility of infection from two medical students there who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. According to T. Jayakrishnan, co-coordinator, regional cell for the prevention of epidemics and infectious diseases, these students had neither attended duty at the hospital nor interacted with patients. Since their samples tested positive for the virus after 28 days and as they were asymptomatic, they were unlikely to infect others. He said they were part of a group of students who had gone on a tour to north India in March . They returned to Kozhikode from Nizamuddin in Delhi on March 22. They were under 28-day home quarantine after some of their co-passengers were found to have been infected. None of these students had any symptoms. They were scheduled to start their house surgeon duty on April 21 and were asked to undergo a screening and give a declaration on their travel history. Since they had travelled by the Nizamuddin-Thiruvananthapuram Express, their throat swab samples were sent for lab tests. When it turned out to be positive for SARS-CoV-2 for two of them, both were shifted to the isolation ward.
23 April 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||4-month-old girl contracts disease in Malappuram||A four-month-old girl from Payyanad near Manjeri was tested positive for COVID-19 on Wednesday. The child was admitted to Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. The health authorities are examining the context from which the child contracted the virus, said District Medical Officer K. Sakeena. The child with a weak heart was being treated at the medical college for the last three months. The girl suffered breathing difficulty on April 17 and was shifted to a private hospital at Manjeri. On finding signs of pneumonia, the doctor suggested that she be transferred to the medical college. But she was admitted to another private hospital at Manjeri, where she got treatment until April 21. When she suffered an epileptic seizure, the girl was shifted to the medical college at 3.30 a.m. on April 21. Her sample was taken for testing. On Wednesday, she was tested positive for COVID-19. As many as 4,126 persons in the district were in quarantine on Wednesday.
23 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Woman turns negative after 21 tests, 42 days||The health authorities here heaved a sigh of relief with a 62-year-old woman who has been remaining at the isolation ward at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry for the past 42 days testing negative for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. According to District Hospital sources, it was the 21st clinical examination of her throat swab that tested negative. The woman from Vadasserikkara, near Ranni, who had contracted the disease from her relatives who came from Italy, was admitted to the hospital on March 9 and tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 the next day. Though a test result of her throat swab sample received on April 2 was negative, she was tested positive again in the next test, sources said. They said the patient’s throat swab was sent to the virology laboratory in Alappuzha for clinical examination for the 22nd time on Wednesday. She could be declared cured only on the basis of the results of that test, sources said. No new cases No new cases of COVID-19 were reported in the district on Wednesday.
23 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ordinance for skipping ward delimitation likely||The State government is set to promulgate an Ordinance for conducting local body elections without delimiting wards. The proposal comes in the wake of the COVID-19 threat and the entire government machinery getting focussed on virus containment measures. Earlier, a decision was made to add one ward to each local body and skip a full-scale delimitation, mainly due to financial and time constraints. A delimitation commission comprising secretaries was to take up the task and complete it within a specific time well ahead of the elections due in October. But the virus outbreak has upset all such plans. Local governments are playing a pivotal role in containment, especially contact tracing, surveillance of those who have been quarantined and also managing the community kitchens opened for various sections in their ambit. Even execution of Plan projects have been deferred to channelise the might and resources of local bodies for aiding the virus control activities of the government. Poll roll verification Taking forward the poll roll verification and allied activities of delimitation has become well nigh impossible for local body secretaries who are fully involved in such activities and hence the decision. But the government is bound to discharge the constitutional responsibility of holding the elections in October so that the newly elected governing bodies would assume office before November 11. Hence, the only option left is to conduct the elections on the basis of the existing wards. Since the legal process has already been set in motion and the delimitation procedures had been progressing as per schedule till the virus outbreak, the government would have to promulgate an Ordinance specifying that it would shelved due to the contingency. The government is learnt to have conducted high-level consultations before deciding to shelve the delimitation process. The previous delimitation held in 2015 had covered only about 10% of the local bodies and the exercise was largely confined to the panchayats that were carved out either through merger or redrawing of boundaries. A final decision on promulgating the Ordinance would be made within the next two days, sources said.
23 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Thanalidam to house those released from jail||A 59-year-old Kottayam native who was released from the Viyyur jail faced a predicament — he had no family to speak of and did not know where to go. It was then that the Social Justice Department came to his aid. The man, who suffers from heart problems, is the first resident of Thanalidam, an institution at Valakom, Kollam, that will house people who come out of jails but have nowhere to go to. Those released from jail on special parole against the backdrop of COVID-19 will also be rehabilitated at Thanalidam, to be run by the Pathanapuram-based voluntary organisation Gandhi Bhavan, Minister for Social Justice K.K. Shylaja said in a statement. Funds for the institution will be met under the Nervazhi project of the department. Probationers under the supervision of district probation officers who have no family or friends to take them, former prisoners who have no fixed abode, undertrials on bail and those sent on parole will be housed in the halfway home till they can find temporary or permanent accommodation. Police assistance Two ex-prisoners from Kozhikode — a 56-year-old and a 25-year-old — and a 22-year-old probation from Kollam too have expressed interest to shift to Thanalidam. Owing to the lockdown, they will be shifted there with police assistance. Men between the ages of 18 and 70 who are not bedridden or have mental health problems will be housed at Thanalidam. The admission will be done on the basis of letters from district probation officers or jail superintendents. A probation subcommittee led by the District Collector will have to approve the admission. Individual care plans will be prepared for each of the residents of the halfway home, taking into account their strengths and weaknesses to aid their rehabilitation and prevent return to a life of crime. Livelihood training and jobs will be provided to them. The department, in association with other government wings, will ensure that each resident can have a house, job, and family of their own for reintegration into society.
23 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Varkala, Malayinkeezhu removed from hotspot list||The Varkala municipality and Malayinkeezhu grama panchayat have been removed from the list of COVID-19 hotspots, District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan has said. With this, the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation region remains the lone hotspot in the district. The City police are maintaining strict surveillance in the Corporation limits, District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay said. Inspections are progressing at Maruthur, Kazhakuttam, Vazhayila, Kundamankadavu, Pravachambalam, and Mukkola — the designated entry points to the city, Mr. Upadhyay said.  Meanwhile, the City Police has registered cases against 62 persons under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, for failing to wear face masks. Inspections in this regard will continue in the days ahead, Mr. Upadhyay said. The lockdown restrictions will continue to be strictly enforced. The public should not step outside unnecessarily. While venturing out, mouth and nose should be covered using masks or handkerchiefs, he said. Cases were registered against 133 persons for violating lockdown rules, and against 124 others under the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance. The police also seized 75 vehicles.  On Wednesday, 156 more persons were placed under disease surveillance in the district even as 149 other completed the 28-day observation period without exhibiting symptoms. As on Wednesday, 1309 persons are in home quarantine while 38 people are under surveillance in various hospitals and 47 others, at corona care centres.  Aswas scheme The district panchayat has announced a healthcare scheme under which kidney patients in rural Thiruvananthapuram will be provided free dialysis at the government hospitals in Nedumangad and Neyyattinkara. The panchayat has set aside Rs. 2 crore in its Budget for the initiative, christened ‘Aswas’, district panchayat president V.K. Madhu said.
23 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Pinarayi sees conspiracy to besmirch his government||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan says he saw a conspiracy to lay down a smokescreen of lies to besmirch his government and hound him personally. The plotters had attempted to create an impression that the CM and his family had a corrupt motive in engaging the U.S.-based data analytics firm Sprinklr Inc. Mr. Vijayan on Wednesday put up a fierce defence of his government’s actions by challenging the Opposition to come up with evidence of wrongdoing. The government had hired Sprinklr to crunch health data to inform its containment strategy better. He dropped a strong hint that a coterie of persons linked to the media had allied with powers intent on besmirching him and the government. Congress legislator Eldos Kunapally’s allegation that his (Pinarayi’s) daughter had business links with Sprinklr was sheer “absurdity”. He said it was the political culture of the Opposition to strike personally lucrative contracts away from the public eye. “I do not share their habits.” The High Court had made no adverse observation about the government when it considered a petition questioning the necessity and legality of the Sprinklr agreement. The HC had raised a set of questions, which some sections of the media had inaccurately portrayed as queries inimical to the government. The State would give its answers soon. He sought to set the record straight on his often fraught relationship with the media. A few publications had attempted to create an impression that some officials had at the instance of the CM prevented journalists from quizzing him on the government’s contract with Sprinklr. “Both of us know that is not the truth. I had pointed out that it was 7 p.m. and we could meet again on Wednesday. I have never shown any intolerance towards journalists or hostile questioning,’’ he said.
23 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||11 more test positive in State||Eleven more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the State on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases reported so far in Kerala to 437. Kannur accounted for seven of the new cases, Kozhikode two, while Kottayam and Malappuram districts reported one case each. One patient from Palakkad tested negative and has been put on the recovery list. Five of the new cases were persons who had returned from abroad and three cases had contracted the disease through contact with imported infections. Two house surgeons and a nurse at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, are also amongst the 11 new cases reported on Wednesday. The house surgeons have a history of train travel from outside the State. Of the 437 COVID-19 cases reported so far, 308 have recovered from the disease. At present, 127 are undergoing treatment in various hospitals. A total of 29,150 people are currently in the State government’s COVID-19 surveillance network, of which 346 are isolated in hospitals, while the rest are in home quarantine. The State has tested samples from 20,821 persons, of which 19,998 have returned a negative result. Welcomes Ordinance Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, in his media briefing on Wednesday, said the State welcomed the Central Ordinance amending the Epidemic Diseases Act, making attacks on doctors and health workers a cognizable and non-bailable offence with stringent provisions, including imprisonment up to seven years and hefty fines. He also announced incentives for Accredited Social Health Activists engaged in COVID-related field work round-the-clock for the past two months. ASHAs have been engaged in COVID-related special work, which involves collecting information from the field on the number of persons who have returned from abroad and other States, those above 60 years, those with chronic non-communicable diseases, and ensuring that these persons received appropriate medical care. The government will give them honorarium and incentives from March to May regardless of the norms. This apart, during the COVID season, they will receive an additional incentive of Rs. 1,000 every month. The 26,475 ASHAs will benefit from this decision of the government, Mr. Vijayan said.
23 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A soothing touch in the time of the pandemic||Suresh (name changed), who used to work as a casual labourer, has not moved much from his bed in the past few months, ever since his body was half-paralysed. His wife, who underwent a bypass surgery recently, can only be of limited help due to her health condition. Both of them, living at Kunnukuzhy here, wait eagerly for the government’s palliative care team to arrive for their periodic visits. This week, a team of doctors from the nearest primary health centre, nurses, ASHA workers and health inspectors brought along food too, having understood their plight on a previous visit. In Kerala, the first State to have a palliative care policy since 2008, the palliative care workers of the local bodies have been working tirelessly to take care of the bed-ridden, by taking all precautions during the COVID-19 outbreak. “We cannot avoid house visits, because many depend on us. Many of the bed-ridden patients use the catheter for passing urine, which has to be changed periodically. They also develop bedsores. Some of them have wounds which have to be dressed periodically. In some houses with children, the family members have requested us politely to postpone our visits until the pandemic passes. Even in such cases, the ASHA workers keep a tab on them to ensure that medicine are regularly supplied,” says Arunima, a staff nurse. Each of the local bodies in the State has considerable number of patients under their care now. Honorarium The nurses are provided an honorarium of Rs. 15,000. According to M.S. Sheji, health inspector with the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, the civic body takes care of 4,806 patients regularly, with 10 units deployed for the work. “As per the government’s norms, each team has to take care of at least eight patients daily, but these nurses end up visiting more than 20 sometimes. The nurses are putting up a spirited work despite the meagre honorariums,” says Mr. Sheji. Extra visits “There are some patients who need special care, whom the teams try to take care with extra visits. For instance, there is this family where the mother is in the third stage of cancer, being taken care of by two school-going girls, because their father, a security guard at an apartment, has not been able to visit them since the lockdown started,” Mr. Sheji says.
23 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Lockdown gives wings to schoolchildren’s imagination||Week after week of staying home and waiting for the COVID-19 pandemic to blow over, imaginations have gone into an overdrive making a checklist of things to do when life assumes some semblance of normality. Aadiraja M., a Class 8 student of SH Mount HSS, Kottayam, conveys in a few words the helplessness of being stuck inside four walls in his story Koodu . Through a small door, he can see a bird soar high, its lilting song entertaining him, its dance and its plumes tempting him. But he cannot follow the bird to do any of that. For, like a bird in a cage, he finds himself trapped. Koodu is just one of the stories, poems, and articles penned by schoolchildren in the State that give an insight into how they see the pandemic and how it has affected their immediate world and that at large. Oru Kakkakazhcha by Dhyana Krishna A.S. describes a crow gazing down at familiar city sights and seeing largely deserted streets, fewer vehicles zipping by, and air that is not reeking of decomposing waste. In a touching account, Aleefa P. in Nanni Corona Nanni writes of how for the first time ever, children run up to a father without any fear in their eyes and Vishu is marked by his love, and not drunken bouts of violence. It concludes with their thanks to the virus, which has brought the family together. Compelling works The 76 stories, 148 poems, and 76 articles that have found their way into three collections comprise the first volume of students’ works brought out by the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) from nearly 10,000 entries received till April 16 as part of the General Education Department’s Aksharavriksham programme to promote their creativity and independent thinking during the lockdown. The entries related to COVID-19 were selected by a committee of SCERT faculty and experts after a two-tier selection process. 40,000 entries Till date, 40,000 entries have been received and posted to SchoolWiki from where these reach the SCERT. SCERT Director J. Prasad says the quality of the entries were a testimony to the talent of students in State schools. The works have been uploaded on the department portals and brought out in book form to take the students’ works to the masses.
23 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation’s online classes a big draw||The city Corporation’s online classes in various art forms for the public have begun drawing visitors. As part of the project, the civic body, in association with the Culture Department, has been organising training in various disciplines for 700 people at 10 centres.  Fellowship winners The classes are conducted by the winners of the Corporation’s Diamond Jubilee Fellowship. With the lockdown preventing the classes from taking place, the Corporation have decided to open online classes in folk song, violin, classical music, Mohiniyattam, Koodiyattam, Payyannur Kolkali, drawing, sculpture, applied arts, new media, and drama. The classes are being streamed on the Diamond Jubilee Fellowship Thiruvananthapuram Corporation Facebook page. One class on each discipline is conducted every week. According to a press release from the Corporation, it plans to continue the online classes even after the lockdown owing to public demand.
23 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM for vigil on borders||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Wednesday flagged the need to seal inter-State borders better. He said inter-State pedestrian and vehicular movement, mostly two-wheelers, had shifted to byroads, earthen paths, and railway tracks after the national lockdown began. The movement of people between Kerala and Tamil Nadu posed a grave threat to the pandemic containment strategy of both States. He said there was fewer number of people and vehicles on roads on Tuesday. The State would allow cargo lorries, including refrigerated trucks and container vehicles, to enter or leave the State after strict examination on inter-State borders.
23 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Agri dept. to promote tuber crops||The Agriculture Department has joined hands with the Central Tuber Crops Research Institute (CTCRI) to promote cultivation of tuber crops for ensuring food security in the State, given the COVID-19 situation.  Jeevani programme The department plans to expand the cultivation of tapioca, colocasia, sweet potato, and lesser yam over the next two months as part of the Jeevani programme launched to promote the cultivation of vegetables, according to Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar. On Wednesday, the Minister handed over planting materials to farmers at a function held at the CTCRI at Kariavattom.
23 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI(M) takes lead for veggie cultivation||As many as 5 lakh members of the CPI(M) started the process of setting up kitchen gardens to mark World Earth Day on Wednesday. This was part of an initiative led by the party to increase the extent of vegetable cultivation in the State, a party release said here. A movement for attaining self-sufficiency in vegetables was launched in November 2014. Polit Buro members, S. Ramachandran Pillai and M.A.Baby and M.V. Govindan, K.N. Balagopal, and P. Rajeev planted saplings to mark the event at the AKG Centre here.
23 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||28 fast-track special courts to come up||The State government will set up 28 fast-track courts in 14 districts for speedy trial of rape and POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) cases. The Cabinet on Wednesday cleared the establishment of the special courts for a period of two years and approved the creation of posts for the purpose. The Cabinet also decided to constitute a Cabinet subcommittee to study the Jalajeevan Mission project and submit recommendations for its implementation in the State. The Minister for Water Resources will be the convener of the committee, with the Finance Minister and Local Self-Government Minister as members.
23 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Green army||A rap song composed by the Green Army volunteers of the city Corporation, showcasing Kerala model of overcoming adversities, has gone viral in social media. The song titled ‘Thirichuvaravu’ was written by Green Army volunteers L.S. Sajin and Bivin Vijayakumar, while the music was composed by G. Vishwajith.
23 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Extra incentive for ASHA workers||The government has sanctioned honorarium and incentive from March to May for Accredited Social Health Activist (ASHA) workers who are on full-time duty in COVID-19 prevention activities, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. an extra incentive of Rs. 1,000 a month will be given from March during the COVID period. The 26,475 ASHA workers in the State will benefit from the government decision.
23 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Thunderstorm warning||The State would continue to receive summer showers till at least Sunday, according to IMD forecasts. The IMD has also issued a thunderstorm warning for the State. Parts of Kerala are likely to experience thunderstorms accompanied by gusty winds till Sunday. Isolated heavy rainfall warning has been issued for Kottayam (Thursday), Malappuram (Friday and Sunday) and Idukki (Saturday).
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Livelihood matters||
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Shoots of hope||
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Guest harvesters||
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Bridge of tranquillity||
23 April 2020||CHENNAI,ANDHRA PRADESH||MGR Medical University makes ‘vaccine candidate’||After three weeks of research, the Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University has developed a vaccine candidate against SARS-CoV-2 through ‘reverse vaccinology’, the institution’s Vice-Chancellor, Sudha Seshayyan, said on Wednesday. In the first phase, the university developed a synthetic polypeptide that can bind the viral genome, and is all set to move to the next phase of research. “It is a process called reverse vaccinology. We worked with the viral genome sequence using bioinformatics. We have identified a synthetic polypeptide which can bind the viral genome. In the next stage, we will have to test this polypeptide on tissue cell lines. We are planning for that, and designing protocols. Testing on tissue cultures will start after approval from regulatory agencies,” Dr. Seshayyan said. The university is yet to name the polypeptide, she added. Dr. Seshayyan, along with the heads of the Departments of Immunology and Microbiology and Epidemiology and a research student of the university, devised the model. “This is only the first phase but we have found that it is 70% the correct vaccine candidate. The work will take at least a year. We are going to collaborate with a U.S.-based centre for pre-clinical and clinical studies,” she said. Explaining the process of ‘reverse vaccinology’, she said, “Earlier, we had to do a viral culture in the laboratory to develop a vaccine, and this was time-consuming. It will take time to find out the protein in the virus. The ‘reverse vaccinology’ technique has been available for the last 10 to 15 years. We now have the facility to unwrap the entire genomic sequence. We have the genomic sequence with us. With this, we know what molecules make the genomic sequence.”
23 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spurt in cases triggers panic||The spike in the COVID-19 positive cases in Chittoor district, with 40 cases reported in Srikalahasti town alone, has led to panic among the people of various walks of life, particularly in the rural areas. The district administration has declared Nindra, Pichatur, and Narayanavanam mandals as red zones in addition to the already existing mandals of Nagari and Vadamalapeta. During the initial stages, it was limited to the heart of Tirupati and Srikalahasti. Now the virus has made its way into the rural areas in the eastern mandals and people have started to feel the importance of lockdown. Unlike in the previous weeks, the gathering of people, aged above 60 and children, has thinned. During the relaxation period, almost all the medical shops witnessed a rush of people seeking tablets to improve their ‘resistance power’. After the widespread telecast of the demand for ‘hydroxychloroquine’ tablets in the U.S., Europe and Latin American countries and that India is geared up for the massive supplies, a number of people started asking the staff of medical shops to get the tablets for them. Hari, who works at a medical shop in Nagari town, said people ask for the hydroxychloroquine in different ways. “The educated and those thorough with watching TVs ask them with the name. Some people from rural areas term it as ‘corona tablets’. Some others say they wanted the tablets as it was suggested by some in the TV shows and newspapers.” But, the medical shops strictly avoid providing them any such medicine. They categorically say that they have not received any stocks of the said medicine. “A big doubt among the people is that when India has supplied huge stocks of the tablets, how is it that they are not available here. We can’t explain to them anything. Just we say — no such tablets,” Mr. Hari added.  Unhealthy trend A medical officer in the Nagari Assembly constituency expressed serious concern at the people taking medicines as they wish, “hoping to prevent the virus from entering them.” He said that instead of taking precautionary measures as advised by the government, people were taking ‘unnecessary’ precautions. They are reportedly maintaining a regimen like taking paracetamol and tablets meant for cold for seven or nine days. During the last three weeks, the medical shops are placing repeated orders for the multivitamin capsules, protein powder and injections used to boost nervous system. A medical shop owner said: “We are helpless. It has come to our notice that some elderly people with chronic diabetes and hypertension are said to be taking double the dose, thinking that it would boost their immunity. But at this stage of global pandemic, we can’t come out with any suggestions. It’s for the medical fraternity to supervise or issue warnings.”
23 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six policemen among 7 new COVID-19 cases in Chittoor||Six police personnel among seven people were tested positive in Chittoor district on Wednesday. According to the COVID-19 task force officials, of the seven new cases, one person from Srikalahasti town had a travel history from Chennai to Srikalahasti on March 10. All the six police personnel were on duty in Srikalahasti. Three of them are residents of Varadaiahpalem, BN Kandriga and Puttur mandals. The task force, in coordination with the revenue, police and health departments, has announced the residential localities of the affected persons in various mandals as containment and red zones.  Contact tracing District Medical and Health Officer M. Penchalaiah said rapid action teams had been pressed into service in all the areas coming under the red zones. “Identification of all those who have come in contact with the positive patients, including the family members, relatives and neighbours, is under way. They all will be sent to quarantine facilities,” he said. Action plan Deputy Superintendent of Police (Puttur) D. Murali Dhar said one positive case was identified from the RTC Colony in Puttur. “We have declared the areas from Ambedkar Circle to Kalyanapuram as red zone. The revenue officials are also chalking out a plan of action to meet the requirements of the people living in the red zone,” the DSP said. The action plan will be ready by Thursday morning, hwe added.
23 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cyber stalkers in State have no place to hide||The lockdown has certainly kept everyone, from celebrities to the common man indoors, but it is emerging that cyber criminals have taken advantage of it, spreading panic and indulging in rumour mongering besides stalking innocent women. Within just seven days of launching a mobile WhatsApp helpline, the Crime Investigative Department of the AP Police has received 7,129 messages (12 pm, April 22), 1,029 voice calls, and a vast number of them relate to defamatory content with strident requests for action. Police have identified 84 complaints fit for registration of cases under various provisions of the IT Act and IPC. Deletion requests The posts are varied, some of them are obscene, some are against the government, some are communal in nature and some are just defamatory and abusive. Police have been sending deletion requests, and adding the names of cyber criminals to the list of suspects on the watch list. The overwhelming response to ‘Staysafe Staysmart’ mobile-based helpline launched by the CID is helping the police aggressively trace the stalkers, and take action. A simple message to WhatsApp number 90716-66667, is all that the police need, to pin down the culprits, name them and act against them. The sender gets a unique reference number which he/she can use to check the status of their complaint on the app. “Cyber stalking has become a menace. Be assured, and safe, as cyber bullies are being tracked and their online activity is under the invisible eye of the A.P. Police. If a post on any social media handle is defamatory and bordering on infringing on personal dignity attracting provisions of IPC and the IT Act, people can send a message on WhatsApp. Police talk to the complainant over the phone and after a check, send the details of the complaint for a police station in their area for further action. A team of 15 members is monitoring the helpline. We are also adding a mobile app and a dashboard to this mobile app,” Additional Director-General, CID, P.V Sunil Kumar told The Hindu on Wednesday. The action proposed to be taken is also posted on the APCID Twitter handle- https://twitter.com/APCID9071666667.
23 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur dist. sees 19 new cases||The district continues to record a high number of COVID-19 positive cases with as many as new ones 19 recorded on Wednesday, taking the total to 177. Eight persons tested positive in Guntur — Kummari Bazaar (3), Butchaiah Thota (1) and Srinivasarao Thota (4) — Narsaraopeta (6), Dachepalli (3), Chilakaluripeta (1) and Nakerikallu (1). Minister for Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, who conducted a review meeting, alerted the local administration, saying the number of positive cases could go up in the days to come with testing picking up pace. So far, RT-PCR tests have been conducted on 5,367 persons of which 5,190 turned have out to be negative and the rest positive. There seems to be a pattern in the city as most of the cases were reported from the Kummari Bazaar, Anandapet, Srinivasarao Thota and Butchiata Thota areas which had registered cases in the last week of March. Testing of primary and secondary contacts of positive persons points to the possibility of community spread, but the district administration has stopped short of admitting it. Mr. Srinivas highlighted the need for rigorous enforcement of red zones and said the next few days would be crucial in the prevention of the spread of COVID-19.
23 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA vows to stand by chilli growers||On a sultry afternoon on Wednesday, Chilakaluripet MLA Vidadala Rajani was busy visiting chilli fields near Nadendla village. A group of farmers met her and expressed concern over their fate as the peak season is coming to an end, but Asia’s largest chilli yard in Guntur has been closed down due to the lockdown. They told her that the only option before them was storing the produce in cold storages. “We are worried as the owners are charging Rs. 200 per chilli bag per day, and we will be incurring huge losses as the market is closed,’’ says a farmer. The YSRCP MLA assured them that she would take up the issue with the district administration and warned the cold storage owners that they would face action if they increase charges.
23 April 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||KRMB okays drawal of 67 tmcft water for A.P. and TS till May 31||The Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) has approved the indents of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana for utilising over 67 tmcft water available in Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar reservoirs for meeting drinking water needs from April 21 till the end of the water year on May 31. According to officials, no allocation was made for irrigation as standing crops in the two States under all the irrigation systems based out of the two inter-State reservoirs are in the final stages of harvesting. Of the indents approved for drinking water needs, 14.925 tmcft has been allocated to AP and 52.207 tmc ft for Telangana. The three-member committee comprising the Member-Secretary of the board and Engineers-in-Chief of the two States met here on Tuesday and discussed the indents furnished by them on April 12 (AP) and April 16 (Telangana) before giving its approval. As per the data available with the river board, 67.717 tmcft of water is available in the two common reservoirs above the levels agreed. Of the available quantity for drawal, 4.536 tmcft is in Srisailam and 63.181 tmcft in Nagarjunasagar. The gross storage as on April 22, however, is 36.980 tmcft in Srisailam and 194.422 tmcft in Nagarjunasagar. The indents approved now include utilisations already made by the two States from June 1, 2019, to April 20, 2020. “Discrepancies, if any, in the utilisation figures could be reconciled by the project authorities by informing it to the river board,” the board said in the release order. On the supply of drinking water to Chennai, the board said water drawn from Pothireddypadu head regulator for the purpose including losses is 9.445 tmcft with equal sharing by the two States. The remaining 4.445 tmcft would not be accounted for in the utilisations of AP and agreed by the two ENCs. AP did not agree to the view of Telangana that water drawn in excess of its eligible share by AP this water year be compensated by it in the next water year. According to the data, AP has utilised 536.921 tmcft water from Pothireddypadu (including supply to Chennai), Handri-Neeva and Muchumarri lifts, Nagarjunasagar Left Canal, Right Canal and Krishna Delta System. Similarly, Telangana has utilised 245.894 tmcft from Kalawakurthy lift, Nagarjunasagar Left Canal, Alimineti Madhava Reddy Project, Hyderabad Water Works and Mission Bhagiratha.
23 April 2020||Hyderabad/Chennai/Bengaluru/Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana reports one death, T.N. records 33 fresh cases||With two more persons succumbing to COVID-19 in Guntur district and 56 new cases as of Wednesday morning, the toll in Andhra Pradesh touched 24 and the tally of positive cases was 813. On the brighter side, 24 patients – eight from Guntur, five from Anantapur, four each from Nellore and Kadapa, two from Krishna and one from Visakhapatnam – were discharged from hospitals after recovery. So far, 120 have recovered, and active cases stand at 669. Acknowledged hotspots Kurnool and Guntur districts reported 19 new cases each taking the tally in the districts to 203 and 177 respectively. The State claimed that it was ahead of other States in the COVID-19 tests per million, conducting 813 tests as of Wednesday. So far, 41,512 samples had been tested and in the last 24 hours, 5,757 samples were taken up. Among them, 3,082 were tested using TrueNat kits, the Health Department said. Rajasthan, which was leading until Tuesday, is now in the second position with 809 tests per million. Baby tests positive Nine new cases — including a four-month-old baby from Kalaburagi and the mother — were detected on Wednesday taking the total number of positive COVID-19 cases in Karnataka to 427. The baby is the youngest patient to date in Karnataka. Among the new cases, while five were from Kalaburgi, two each were reported from Bengaluru Urban and Nanjangud, Mysuru. While one had severe acute respiratory illness, the other four were contacts of previous positive patients. Of the two positive cases from Bengaluru Urban district, which had not reported any cases for the last three days, one was a 54-year-old labourer from Bommanahalli slum, who had no contact or travel history. The Minister said a total of 3,279 samples were tested on Wednesday. Validation of the rapid antibody blood-based test strips is under way at NIMHANS, and the Health Department would wait for a “green signal” from the ICMR before using them, said Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare). The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) has directed Surveillance Officers of all States to formulate patient data privacy norms. A State-level expert committee recommended that cases of Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI), with symptoms similar to COVID-19, should be screened at the initial stages to arrest morbidity and mortality due to COVID- 19. 10 Hyderabad cases One person died and COVID -19 cases in Telangana touched 943 as 15 more were detected on Wednesday. Of the 15 positive cases, 10 were from GHMC area, three from Suryapet, and two from Gadwal. Till April 22, there were 725 active cases, 194 were discharged, and 24 people had died. 11 positive in Kerala Eleven more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kerala on Wednesday, taking the total number of cases to 437. Five new cases were persons who returned from abroad and three got the disease from imported infections. Two house surgeons and a nurse at Kozhikode Medical College were among the 11 new cases.  33 test positive in T.N. Tamil Nadu reported another 33 cases on Wednesday, taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,629. The day also saw the discharge of 27 patients from hospitals across the State. The majority of fresh cases were contacts patients. Only three patients - a woman in Dindigul and two men in Madurai - were primary cases for whom detailed investigation was on. Ten districts reported new cases. Among the 33 cases, 15 were in Chennai. Officials said four more mediapersons - from two television channels - tested positive and were admitted to isolation wards. The city now accounts for a total of 373 COVID-19 cases. There were two patients, including a 12-year-old boy, in Ariyalur. Madurai had four patients, while Thanjavur had five new patients. There were two cases in Tiruvallur, and one each in Dindigul, Kancheepuram, Tiruvannamalai, Tiruchi and Villupuram, according to the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. ‘Worrying’ “The cases are increasing in Chennai, and this is worrying. So, we had a meeting with the Chief Secretary on Tuesday, and have decided to post additional officers in the city. Strict containment measures will be taken up across Chennai,” Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar said. Officials of the health department said as of now, the COVID-19 situation was under control.
23 April 2020||JAGTIAL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown hits harvest, sale of Jagtial mangoes||The king of fruits, mango, and of them, the Benishan or Banganapalli variety, which is widely grown in Jagtial district, and exported to north India, is losing its market following the lockdown. Marketed as “Jagtial mango - Telangana” in north Indian cities like -- Delhi, Chandigarh, Ahmedabad, Kolkata, Lucknow, Gwalior and Srinagar, the locally produced mangoes have been acclaimed for its quality, taste and long shelf-life. However, the prevailing lockdown and the non-arrival of migrant workers from Bihar, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh to Jagtial for grading and packing works is likely to have an impact on the export of the delicious fruits. Mango farmers suffered a big blow due to unseasonal rains during November- December 2019. It damaged the crop at the flowering stage. Usually, the crop arrives by the first week of April, but due to unseasonal rains, it got delayed, and started arriving at Chalgal fruit market in Jagtial from Saturday. Some traders purchased the crop in the fields itself. But, they too are facing labour shortage to pluck and packing, besides they are unable to transport them. About 4,000 migrant workers from other States, who have expertise in grading the fruits and packing them properly, have not arrived due to the lockdown. The crop is cultivated on 33,000 acres in the district. Last year, the yield was 1.1 lakh metric tonnes. This year, the yield is likely to come down to 66,000 metric tonnes. District Horticulture Officer Pratap Singh said harvesting was delayed by unseasonal rains.
23 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||House sites identified for distribution||The East Godavari district officials have finalized more than one lakh (1,00,211) house sites to be distributed among the beneficiaries in the Kakinada Revenue Division. In a review meeting with the officials here, East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy has directed them to begin the sanction of the house sites through the lottery method. “The levelling and jungle clearance of the proposed sites should be done with immediately,” he said, asking them to co-ordinate with the NREGA authorities. District Revenue Officer Ch. Sattibabu, Kakinada Revenue Divisional Officer A.G. Chinni Krishna, and other officials were present.
23 April 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials told to help weavers tide over crisis||Chief Minister Y.S.Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials concerned to immediately intervene to provide succour to handloom weavers who are struggling to market their products and access raw material, due to the lockdown clamped down in the wake of the pandemic. The Chief Minister also asked the Director of the Department of Handlooms and Textiles to arrange for supply of yarn and other inputs for the weavers identified under the Nethanna Nestham scheme to continue their operations unhindered. He was responding to a memorandum submitted by All India Handloom Rights Forum State secretary B. Jwala Narasimham, who pointed out that there were no takers for the sarees and their other products in Chirala. Weavers were in dire straits as over 81,000 looms in the State including 7,000 looms in Prakasam district were idling now, he said. The Chief Minister had also urged the officials to verify the credentials of the about 1,000 handloom weaver cooperative societies which were dysfunctional and take appropriate action, said Mr.Narasimham, who received a communiqué from the Chief Minister’s office on Wednesday.
23 April 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prakasam sees four new cases||Four more persons from Ongole have tested positive for coronavirus in Prakasam district in the last 24 hours. With this, the number of infected persons increased to 48 in the district, COVID-19 nodal officer J. Richards said. The four persons were from the COVID-19 hotspot area of Islampet and nearby Bilal Nagar. All of the persons have either come back from Delhi or are primary contacts of returnees. The family members of the infected persons were shifted to quarantine centres for observation. Ongole accounts for 30 cases in the district. Collector P. Bhaskar who rushed to the Government General Hospital to take stock of the situation, said that from now, testing of swabs of the patients would be done in the district itself. As many 280 samples could be tested in a single day, he said after inspecting the machines installed at the GGH for the purpose. He directed the staff to shift the dialysis unit to the Women Empowerment Centre here as the kidney patients were at a greater risk of contracting the disease. In Nellore, the health officials heaved a sigh of relief as five persons got cured of the disease. As many as 59 persons are under treatment. Two persons, including a doctor, had succumbed to the disease in the district. Meanwhile, the industries department cancelled the licences of 64 industrial units relating to manufacture of essential commodities in the red zone in SPSR Nellore district. It released guidelines for operation of other units in the 'green zone'. No worker from the 'red zone' would be allowed to travel to a unit in the green zone, Industries Joint Director N.S.R.C.M. Prasad explained.
23 April 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six test positive in E. Godavari||As many as six persons, including four from Rajamahendravaram city, have tested positive for COVID-19 in the East Godavari district on Wednesday. With this, the tally has gone up to 32 in the district. In an official release, Municipal Commissioner Abhishikt Kishore said: “Of the four, some had attended the Tabligi Jamaat meeting and the others came in contact with them upon their return. All of them belong to the Jenda Panja Road area. Two others are from the Rajamahendravaram rural area.” Additional Health Officer at the Rajamahendravaram Municipal Corporation (RMC) M.V.R. Murthy told The Hindu over phone that the age group of the four persons including one girl is between 15 and 25. B. Susheela, District Medical and Health Officer, has added that all the six patients have been admitted to GSL Hospital here for further medical treatment. “As many as 70 persons, who are believed to be secondary contacts of those who had tested positive on Wednesday, have been admitted to the Government Hospital here,” said Dr. Susheela. Meanwhile, the RMC has declared one km area from the Jenda Panja Centre the containment zone. For any queries or support, people can dial 0883-2421498 or 95023-81111.
23 April 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||Child sale racket busted, infant rescued in city||Officials of the Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Department busted a child selling racket. They rescued a 15-day-old baby boy, reportedly sold for Rs. 16,000. The Integrated Child Protection Scheme (ICPS) staff lodged a complaint with the Machavaram police. They reportedly recovered the amount from the infant’s mother. The infant was admitted to the Old Government General Hospital (Old GGH). The condition of the baby was stable, said hospital deputy superintendent J. Nageswara Rao. A few days ago, Anganwadi workers during a door-to-door survey under Sector-2 in Vijayawada, identified a 20-year-old unmarried woman, who was eight months pregnant. They noticed that the woman’s mother, who was deserted by her husband, was also pregnant. Suspecting a racket, the Anganwadi worker lodged a complaint with the Disha Centre, which probed the issue. The woman was admitted in the GGH and delivered the baby boy on April 7. They got discharged after a week, and the woman reportedly gave the baby to a private security guard in the hospital by accepting Rs. 16,000, on April 17. Complaint lodged “The mother and the baby were discharged on April 15 in a healthy condition. The Disha Centre and ICPS staff alerted us over the involvement of a private woman security guard,” Dr. Nageswara Rao told The Hindu on Wednesday. According to sources, the woman security guard concealed the infant with her mother, who was staying at Dolasnagar at Mangalagiri in Guntur district. “The Anganwadi worker supplied nutritional diet to the mother as she was weak. After the delivery, the staff noticed that the baby was missing. During questioning, the woman spilled the beans. Instructions have been given to our officers to probe deeply into the case,” said WD&CW Director Krithika Shukla. Machavaram Circle Inspector G.V. Vinay Mohan said the ICPS staff lodged a complaint and a case has been registered under appropriate sections. However, no arrests have been made, the CI said.
23 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||6 days salary cut for next 5 months in Kerala||Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the government is temporarily setting aside a part of the salary of State employees to help it tide over the COVID-19-induced financial crisis. At a briefing on Wednesday, Mr. Vijayan said the State government would deduct the salary of employees for six days every month for the next five months. The cut also applied to public sector units, government-aided and quasi-government institutions. Ministers, legislators and members of various boards would give up 30% of their monthly salary for the next year. Expert panel mooted The government would constitute an expert committee to study the economic fallout of the pandemic and suggest means to come out of economic recession. Mr. Vijayan said the pandemic had adversely impacted the global economy. The outbreak happened when the country's economic growth had slowed from 9% to 5%. It had laid low the economies of wealthy nations. COVID-19 had hit Kerala close on the heels of the catastrophic floods in 2018 and 2019. The State's impressive 7.5% growth rate could plummet. Remittances from non-resident Keralites had already slumped, he said. Tourism and construction had ground to a halt. Exponentially increasing unemployment had robbed people of purchasing power. Kerala is predominantly a consumer State and had to import its food and a range of essential commodities. Ensuring food security was paramount, he added. Mr. Vijayan unveiled a plan to restart the economy by focusing on self-sufficiency in food production. The government would not allow fallow land to languish without cultivation. The State would adopt cage farming to grow mussels, clams, crabs, shrimps and lobsters. It would also promote fish farming in inland water, lagoons and water bodies, he said.
23 April 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD stops release of funds to districts||The TTD has decided to withdraw the release of Rs. 1 crore to every district in the State. The decision comes in the wake of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) guidelines on April 15 with regard to certain relaxations to the workers and daily wage earners in the areas not declared as containment zones. Free food packets The TTD had earlier pronounced allocation of funds to enable the district administrations to take up distribution of free food packets to migrant workers and the destitute persons in their respective regions. But with the new guidelines coming into force from April 20, the TTD decided to hold back the release of funds. TTD EO Anil Kumar Singhal said the decision was taken in consultation with TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy and member-trustees. He said the TTD had decided to stop distribution of free food packets in and around Tirupati, a task it had been doing since the pronouncement of lockdown. He, however, said the requirements of the poor and needy would be taken care of.
23 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Massive sprayers flagged off||The Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT) has deployed advanced chlorinating equipment for sanitising red zones in a short time. Manufactured by BHEL, the huge trucks equipped with the sprayers can diffuse sodium hypochlorite through eight sprayers at a time, saving several man hours and improving efficiency in the city divisions, officials said. The vehicles were flagged off by MLA B. Karunakar Reddy on Wednesday evening, in the presence of Superintendent of Police A. Ramesh Reddy, at the latter’s office. The MLA later distributed essential commodities offered by Tirupati Hotels and Restaurants Association to ASHA workers, health assistants and other frontline staff. Mr. Karunakar Reddy and Mr. Ramesh Reddy said prayers would have to be conducted indoors during Ramzan, and asked people not to throng the mosques. In an interactive meeting with Muslim religious leaders, the MLA advised them to explain to the community members the havoc caused by the coronavirus and the importance of social distancing to curtail the same. He recalled that similar steps had been initiated in Srikalahasti, which registered the highest number of cases in the district.
23 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Amara Raja partially resumes operations||The Amara Raja Group has partially commenced manufacturing operations at four locations in the district, following the notification issued by the State and Central Governments to this effect. The firm has put in place a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) to ensure social distancing and hygiene. The new SOP released by the company stresses on a ‘new way of life’ that calls for radical behavioural changes on aspects like usage of transport, cafeteria, amenities, common areas and offices. “Our teams have put in place a robust system to commence operations while safeguarding the well-being of our employees. We have been implementing several initiatives from the start of the crisis to combat the contagion, which now becomes our new SOP,” vice-chairman Jayadev Galla said. The focus is now on social distancing, screening and monitoring, disinfection and sanitisation, containment plan and prevention and awareness, he said. The SOP document advocates installation and use of ‘Arogya Setu’, the mobile application launched by the Union Government, besides enabling a digital platform called ‘WE@AR’ to communicate and engage with its 16,000-plus employees. Mr. Galla said that the company is also taking care of the health and basic needs of the 800 migrant workers and their families at their campuses.
23 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||2,500 tonnes of fruits procured directly from farmers, distributed to households||In a timely move, the Tirupati Urban Development Authority (TUDA) procured 2,500 tonnes of fruits from farmers and distributed them among the general public in Tirupati on Wednesday. The decision was hailed as a win-win move for both the farmers who were unable to sell their produce due to the lockdown, and for the public. Farmers in the district were disillusioned as tonnes of harvested fruits were lying idle, waiting for buyers. TUDA’s decision came as a huge relief for them. TUDA chairman and government whip Chevireddy Bhaskar Reddy on Wednesday embarked on the task of procuring the large consignment of fruits from farmers for distribution among 1.60 lakh households in Chandragiri constituency. The agricultural marketyard in Tirupati was agog on Wednesday, when loads of sweet lime, water melon, bananas, musk melon and papaya were loaded on trucks and dispatched to various mandals in the Assembly segment. “Every household will get fourteen kilograms of fruits as ‘immunity boosters’ to guard against COVID-19,” Dr. Bhaskar Reddy said. He had already distributed masks, sanitisers, essentials, 10 kg of vegetables, ten eggs and and 15 Vitamin C tablets to each household, apart from making thermal scanners, PPE kits, 70,000 kg of bleaching powder available for the safety of field staff. The entire stock would be distributed by maintaining social distancing norms, he said. Much before the standing crops showed symptoms of withering and the farmers turning restive over non-availability of transport due to the lockdown, the entire stock was procured from orchards and vegetable growers in the district. “This step of meeting demand and supply has certainly benefited both the seller and buyer,” Dr. Bhaskar Reddy observed.
23 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||10 COVID patients in Tirupati discharged||Ten patients undergoing treatment at the COVID-19 hospital on SVIMS campus were discharged on Wednesday after they tested negative. All the patients were admitted at this hospital on April 2 under YSR Aarogyasri scheme as they tested positive for coronavirus. After being treated for several days, they were again made to undergo tests on April 17 and 18, and their samples tested negative. While presenting their discharge certificate, doctors led by SVIMS Director and Vice-Chancellor B. Vengamma advised them home quarantine for 28 days. Of the 10 patients, four are from Tirupati, while three from Kadapa, two from Renigunta and one from Nagari. The patients were treated by a team led by Alladi Mohan, head of medicine at SVIMS. Now, there are 20 patients undergoing treatment at the hospital, all belonging to Chittoor and Kadapa districts. The discharged patients expressed their hearty gratitude to the medical team, paramedical staff and sanitary workers for their exemplary service in taking care of them during their fortnight-long stay at the hospital.
23 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tiruchanur fete off limits for devotees this year||In view of the COVID-19 situation, the annual Vasanthotsavam (spring festival) at Sri Padmavathi Ammavari Temple in Tiruchanur here will be performed ‘Ekantham’ (in private) from May 6 to 8. As the TTD’s restriction on darshan continues as part of the measures taken to check the spread of coronavirus, the festival will be performed sans devotees. Snapana Tirumanjanam (celestial bath) will be given to the processional deity of Goddess Padmavati everyday between 2.30 p.m. and 4.30 p.m. and the procession will be taken out from 7 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. on the temple’s inner precincts, within the compound on the three days. In a press release, the TTD announced cancellation of Kalyanotsavam and Sahasra Deepalankara Seva from May 5 to 8, Ashtottara Sata Kalasabhishekam on May 7, Tiruppavada Seva on May 7 and Lakshmi Puja on May 8.
23 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Efficacy of South Korean kits satisfactory, officials tell Jagan||Amidst doubts over the efficacy of the COVID-19 rapid test kits procured from China, the officials have told Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy that the kits procured from South Korea and used in the State proved to be satisfactory. Mr. Reddy was reviewing the COVID-19 status in the State at a meeting with the officials on Wednesday. The officials informed Mr. Reddy that as the sample tests conducted using the Chinese kits were not satisfactory, kits were procured from South Korea. Meanwhile, Mr. Reddy directed the officials to ensure adequate number of oxygen cylinders in the COVID-19 hospitals. ‘Increase ICU beds’ He further directed them to provide medicines to the patients (other than COVID-19) identified through the telemedicine programme. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the officials to conduct tests on all the 7,578 persons at the quarantine centres and increase the number of ICU beds at the hospitals in Anantapur, Prakasam and Nellore districts. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that lockdown relaxation should be applicable to only ‘green’ clusters and rules should be followed strictly in the ‘red’ and ‘orange’ zones. Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana and K. Kanna Babu, Chief Secretary Neelam Sawhney, Medical and Health Special Chief Secretary K.S. Jawahar Reddy, and DGP D. Gautam Sawang were present on the occasion. Testing ratio Meanwhile, the State claimed that it was ahead of other States in the COVID-19 tests per million ratio by conducting 813 tests as of Wednesday. So far, 41,512 samples had been tested. In the last 24 hours, 5,757 samples were tested. Among them, 3,082 samples were tested using the TrueNat kits, the Health Department said in a release here on Wednesday. Rajasthan, which was leading the country in this regard until Tuesday, is now in the second position with 809 tests per million.
23 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||English medium: State govt. to file petition in apex court||The State government will file a Special Leave Petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court challenging the High Court verdict on its plan to introduce English as medium of instruction from classes 1 to 6 in all government schools from the next academic year. “We are committed to introducing English as part of reforms to uplift the suppressed and oppressed classes. We will leave no stone unturned to fulfil the promise made by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy,” Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh told The Hindu on Wednesday. An order issued late on Tuesday night said as the court had observed that the freedom of selecting the medium of instruction should be given to the children and their parents rather than some school committees in primary sections, the Department of School Education has undertaken the task of eliciting parents’ choice. “We had submitted to the court the resolution of nearly 45,000 parents’ committees. Somehow, the court concluded that we did not give a choice to the parents. We want to conduct one more exercise through village volunteers,” said Mr. Suresh. Model format The Commissioner of School Education has prepared a model format which will be circulated among parents by the District Education Officers and the Mandal Education Officers through Village Secretariats. The district Collectors have been asked to instruct village and ward secretariats to elicit the the choice of the parents/guardians by strictly adhering to the protocols prescribed for COVID-19. Mr. Suresh said there was no reason for people to worry about the fate of Telugu which would continue to be a compulsory subject. “The government is clear in its plan to set up one Telugu medium school in every mandal headquarters. Students going to these schools will be given transport allowance. We also intend to continue other vernacular medium schools such as Urdu and Tamil,” he said. “We have made elaborate arrangements for English medium schools such as training the teachers and even printing new books. English medium schools will be a reality from the next academic year,” the Minister said. “After addressing the parents’ choice issue, the government will file an SPL in the apex court,” he said.
23 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna Kishore repatriated||IRS officer Jasti Krishna Kishore, former CEO of Andhra Pradesh Economic Development Board (AP-EDB), who was suspended by the State government late last year, has been promoted as Principal Commissioner of Income Tax (PCIT) Officer on Special Duty (OSD) in the office of Principal Chief Commissioner of I-T in New Delhi, according to a Central Board of Direct Taxes release. Mr. Kishore was charged with misappropriation of funds when he was on deputation with the EDB as CEO but the Central Administrative Tribunal had revoked his suspension and ordered his repatriation to the Centre. In fact, he was trying to revert to his parent department (I-T) after the regime change in Andhra Pradesh (A.P.), but corruption charges were slapped on him in the due course. Mr. Kishore was the only official from A.P. who was appointed as Director of Invest India in 2018.
23 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||More fever hospitals will be set up in Guntur: Minister||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas has said that more fever hospitals with ventilator facility would be set up in the red zones in Guntur district, as the number of COVID-19 positive cases has gone up to 177. Speaking to the media after making a field visit along with Ministers M. Sucharita (Home) and Mopidevi Venkataramana (Marketing) on Wednesday, Mr. Srinivas said the district had 37 quarantine centres with 3,816 isolation rooms and the necessary medications had been made available. More ventilators “To deal with the emerging situation, new fever hospitals are being set up in the red zones. Besides, 200 more ventilators are being made available,” said the Minister and instructed the officials to implement the lockdown norms strictly. He also appealed to the people to stay indoors. A special officer has been deputed to the district for monitoring the situation and additional special teams would be assigned to take care of the red zones. “Orders have been issued to conduct another round of household survey in the red zones to identify the foreign returnees or those who visited Delhi and had contacts with infected persons elsewhere,” he said. Mr. Venkataramana further said that the Marketing Department had been purchasing agricultural produce and various food items and supplying the same to the public at affordable prices. Interest-free loan Ms. Sucharitha said the State had been under lockdown for almost a month and the government had taken all the measures to bail out the farmers by purchasing their produce. “Women SHGs are also being given zero-interest loans,” she added.
23 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||55-year-old woman tests positive after death||A 55-year-old woman, who was shifted to hospital by the police and died later, tested positive for coronavirus. The Disha Police Station SI and the cyber expert, who helped the woman, and their contacts have been sent to home quarantine. They would be subjected to COVID-19 test, said Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao, and patted the SI for responding to the situation. A 55-year-old woman was seen waiting at the Police Control Room (PCR) to go to a hospital on April 20. The Disha Police Station SI and the cyber expert quickly responded and shifted the woman and her husband to the ESI Hospital in their vehicle, but the doctors declared her brought dead. During investigation, it emerged that the patient was suffering from loose motions and had gone to a private hospital, where they denied admission. Officials of the Old and the New Government General Hospitals had also reportedly refused to admit the woman.
23 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Address livelihood concerns of Gulf returnees, Naidu urges Centre||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has urged Union Minister for External Affairs S. Jaishankar to initiate measures to ensure the safety and livelihood of Indians returning from Kuwait. “The Centre may direct the respective State governments to take appropriate steps to provide food, shelter, medical aid and livelihood to the returnees,” Mr. Naidu said in a letter he wrote to Mr. Jaishankar on Wednesday. He said many people, most of them migrant workers, had lost their jobs in the Gulf countries in general and Kuwait in particular. These countries were attractive destinations for the semi-skilled and unskilled workers. Consequent to the imposition of lockdown in these countries in view of COVID-19 outbreak, the workers lost their livelihood, he told the Union Minister. Kuwait’s offer “Countries such as Kuwait are preparing to send the migrant workers back to India. Kuwait is providing free air tickets to those without work permits, or whose permits or visas have expired. Around 15,000 Indians have come forward to avail themselves of the offer. Around 3,000 Telugu people have joined deportation camps and another 2,000 Telugus have applied for exit clearance (temporary passport),” Mr. Naidu said in the letter. In discussions held with several Non-Resident Telugu people, a concern was raised that other Gulf countries might soon follow suit and start repatriating Indian workers, he said. “This may lead to a new crisis here, as many returnees may not find livelihood . It is pertinent for the Government of India to be well prepared to handle the impending crisis,” Mr. Naidu observed.
23 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Setting an example during the lockdown||The Ministry of Women and Child Development, Government of India, has appreciated the good work done by Anganwadi worker Sakirabai of Eepuru village in Guntur district. Ms. Sakirabai, a differently-abled person, distributed groceries, nutritional food, ‘balamturam’ and adjudged as the best Anganwadi worker. “Kudoos to Sakirabai of Andhra Pradesh, who is setting an example by delivering ration and ‘balamrutam’ to the beneficiaries at the door steps with commitment and devotion during the lockdown,” the Union Ministry said on Twitter on Wednesday. Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Director Krithika Shukla said that Ms. Sakirabai successfully implemented the ‘Take Home Ration’ and followed the instructions of the State and the Central governments during COVID-19. “The Anganwadi worker distributed the nutritional diet to pregnant and lactating women and children aged between 0 and 5 years, on her tricycle. Sakirabai supplied the ration twice in Eepuru ICDS Project limits in Guntur district,” Ms. Shukla told The Hindu . The woman has set a record and received laurels for her good work in implementing ‘Poshan Abhiyaan’, a Central government sponsored Scheme. Ms. Sakirabai would be awarded suitably for her dedication and passion in discharging the duties during the pandemic, the Director said. “In all 55,5607 Anganwadi Centres are functioning in Andhra Pradesh, in which 53,799 workers are employed. About 22 lakh children and 6.2 lakh pregnant and lactating women are benefited under the Poshan Abhiyaan Scheme,” Ms. Krithika said.
23 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter Board invites applications for establishment of colleges||The State Board of Intermediate Education (BIE) has invited applications from registered educational societies/trusts for establishment of private unaided junior colleges in the State for the academic year 2020-21. A statement issued on Wednesday by the Board secretary V. Ramakrishna said the new colleges would be sanctioned wherever viability was available. There was, however, no viability in the municipal corporation limits in the State, he said, adding the list of viability was available on the BIE website. According to Mr. Ramakrishna, the managements will have to upload the prescribed application Form-I online for establishment of the proposed junior college from the official websitehttp://bie.ap.gov.inof APBIE from April 23. The online application processing fee of Rs. 500, along with prescribed inspection fee (rural areas: Rs. 10,500, municipalities: Rs. 27,000) should be paid through online mode only. The interested educational society/trust should visit the said website and choose their viability mandal/municipality area. After payment of the application fee through the online link, a user ID and password will be given to their registered mobile. After logging in, they will have to fill the online application form and upload the document as mentioned in the form. After payment of the inspection fee, the managements can download the ‘BIE Geo-Tagging’ app in their smart phone and photos of the college building, classrooms, labs, library, playground etc. can be uploaded using this app.  The BIE has also invited online applications for extension of provisional affiliation for the year 2020-21. The online application form will be available in the official website of the Board from April 24 and managements can login with their college code (user id and password is the same) Last date The last date for submission of the application forms is June 1. Any fee once paid to the BIE, will not be refunded. No offline payments will be accepted.
23 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police officer turns Samaritan, distributes food, essentials||Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Central Zone, P. Nagaraja Reddy served food to more than 1,000 migrant labourers during the lockdown period. Apart from implementing the lockdown, the ACP was seen distributing groceries to the poor and needy, and food packets to the homeless and migrant labourers who were trekking on the highway. Mr. Reddy supplied masks, sanitisers, soaps and clothes to the migrants and asked them to follow the lockdown protocol to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The officer was seen carrying dignity kits, groceries and food packets in his vehicle during patrolling on Wednesday. “I am a police officer and a human being too. I was pained on seeing the hardships of the migrants, homeless and the poor, and decided to extend some help to them. Many people are suffering from hunger during the lockdown,” the ACP said while packing food packets at his office.
23 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Pay full pension to all retired govt. employees’||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu on Wednesday wrote a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, seeking immediate disbursal of 100% monthly pension to all retired government employees. “Pension is not a gift or bounty, but an entitlement earned by the retired employees due to their long and sincere and unblemished services. Thus, pension assumes the nature of property accrued by the long services of employees. In this context, ‘property’ cannot be deferred without the due process of law under Article 300A of the Constitution,” said Mr. Naidu.  ‘No provision in law’ There is no provision in the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897; the Disaster Management Act, 2005 or regulations framed under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 which empowers it to curtail the rights of pensioners to receive full benefit, he said. “The government not only was trying to violate the rights of pensioners by deferring pension, but also putting them under severe hardship during the lockdown period,” said Mr. Naidu.
23 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM orders aid for fishermen stranded in Gujarat||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said he had a telephonic conversation with his Gujarat counterpart Vijay Rupani about the safety of the fishermen belonging to Andhra Pradesh stranded in Gujarat. Following the lockdown, the fishermen are stranded and adequate food supply and other basic facilities was ensured to them, a release issued here on Wednesday stated. The State government has also contacted Central government officials who assured safety of the fishermen. Speaking at a review meeting here on Wednesday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the officials concerned to provide a financial assistance of Rs. 2,000 to each fisherman stranded in Gujarat to meet their basic needs. The officials concerned have also been instructed to coordinate with the Gujarat government in this regard.
23 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Come clear on issues raised by Kanna, says Pawan||The YSRCP leaders are concentrating more on their political rivals than containing the spread f coronavirus, JSP president Pawan Kalyan has said. The YSRCP leaders resorted to character assassination of BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana for questioning the alleged corruption in the procurement of COVID-19 testing kits, he said on Wednesday. The ruling party should, instead, give an explanation on the issues raised by the BJP leader, Mr. Pawan Kalyan said. Stating that it was not the time for politicking , he said serving the needy was the need of the hour and the nation should make a collective effort to overcome the crisis.
23 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NRI team in city to help doctors, poor||Anoop Nandanoor, COO and Director of U.S.-based public relations Helper Foundation, is in the city along with a young team to help the people in need of assistance in this hour of crisis. The group, professionals from different fields settled in the US, has provided oxygen installation system to the GGH in Guntur and PPE kits to members of Andhra Pradesh Junior Doctors’ Association (APJUDA). The team is also talking to the officials to identify the areas where they can contribute their mite. Dr. Anoop can be reached over phone No. 001 408-856-4878 or through e-mail helper@helper.foundation.
23 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown: fish prices soar in city||The 61-day annual ban on fishing by motorised boats and the lockdown imposed to check the COVID-19 pandemic have resulted in the steep rise in the prices of fish in the city. Only a few traditional boats are allowed to venture into the sea during the annual ban that began on April 15 to allow breeding of fish in the entire east coast. Fish lovers in the city now rely on the freshwater fish brought from the Godavari River, Raiwada Reservoir and ponds. With many people are working from home due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the demand for fish is also very high. People grab whatever stock is available in the market during the relaxation time to buy essentials in the morning hours, a senior official of Fisheries Department said. Transportation issues Fishermen say that unlike previous years, they find it difficult to transport the stock owing to the lockdown. With the gap between the demand and the supply widening, the prices of fish have gone up. Rohu (silavati) and katla, which was available somewhere between Rs. 140 and Rs. 150 a kg are now being sold for Rs. 180 to Rs. 200 in MVP Colony, Thatichetlapalem, Akkayyapalem, Jail Road, Dandubazaar, Gajuwaka and other markets. Vanjaram (big size), among the most sought-after fish, which used to be available at Rs. 600-Rs. 700 per kg is now being sold for Rs. 800-Rs. 1,000. Konam is also in high demand and it is being sold for Rs. 1,000-Rs. 1,200 depending upon the availability, while white pomfret is priced at Rs. 1200-Rs. 1,400 as per kg. The prices of small size prawn has gone up from Rs. 200-Rs. 250 a kg to Rs. 300-Rs. 400. The tiger prawn is also short in supply due to the ban on mechanised boats. Small fishes like netalu and kanagarti are now available at Rs. 200 to Rs. 400 per kg, which was available at Rs. 150-Rs. 200a kg before the annual ban. Even Bangarapapa is now being sold for Rs. 400-Rs. 500.
23 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One more patient discharged||One more COVID-19 patient, who was being treated at GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences and Research (GIMSR), was discharged on Tuesday, as per health bulletin released on Wednesday. With his discharge, the total number of persons discharged is 19 and active cases in Visakhapatnam district has been reduced to two. According to doctors from GIMSR, the person from Poorna Market area has been discharged after his reports tested negative. The two active cases include the recent COVDI-19 case of one 55-year-old woman from Tamil Nadu, who tested positive on April 19. Doctors said that condition of all the two patients is stable and there could be more discharges very soon. It may be remembered that the district had reported 21 positive cases till date and there was no death. The district administration has identified several containment zones, including Poorna Market, Allipuram, Railway New Colony, Thatichetlapalem, Gajuwaka and Narsipatnam, where lockdown is strictly implemented.
23 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man ‘murders’ son-in-law||Unable to bear alleged harassment from his son-in-law, a man reportedly murdered him by beating him with an iron rod at Tenugupudi village under Devarapalle police station limits, on Tuesday night. The accused surrendered before the police. The deceased was identified as D. Krishna (35), an auto driver of Tenugupudi village. According to Devarapalle Sub-Inspector P, Narasimha Murthy, Krishna was married to D. Venkata Lakshmi, daughter of Raja Babu (55) about 13 years ago and the couple had two daughters. Police said that Krishna used to come home drunk and beat his wife and daughters regularly. Vexed over her husband’s behaviour, Venkata Lakshmi had reportedly attempted suicide in October 2018. On April 21 night, Krishna reportedly came home drunk and started to beat the trio. After he left home, Lakshmi called her father Raja Babu and said that she was unable to bear her husband’s harassment and would end her life. Raja Babu convinced his daughter not to take any hasty decision and promised to take up the issue with his son-in-law. Coming to know that Krishna was sleeping in an isolated place near his house, Raja Babu went there and reportedly attacked him with an iron rod. Krishna died on the spot. Police have registered a case and investigation is on.
23 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two children drown in tank||Two children reportedly drowned in a tank near Bakkannapalem area under P.M Palem police station limits here on Wednesday evening. According to reports, five children went to play at an isolated spot near P.M Palem last bus stop area. Two among the students, Bhagya Sagar (15) and Veerabhadra (14), reportedly entered into the water for swimming and drowned. Police have fished out their bodies and sent them for post-mortem. P.M Palem Inspector Ravi Kumar has registered a case.
23 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||11 village volunteers booked for ‘taking part in birthday fete’||Elamanchili police on Wednesday registered cases against 11 village volunteers who reportedly celebrated one of their colleague’s birthday in an open place and violated lockdown orders on April 21 night. Inspector of Elamanchili police station, B. Narayana Rao said that despite lockdown imposed due to COVID-19 outbreak, the 11 grama volunteers have celebrated a birthday party and ignored social distancing in a mango orchard on Tuesday late night at Elamanchili. The police have registered a cases under Section 188 and 269 of the IPC.
23 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Essentials distributed to migrant workers’||A total of 9,435 migrant workers from various States, who were stuck in different mandals of the district due to the lockdown, were provided essential commodities, according to District Collector V. Vinay Chand. The commodities were purchased at prices fixed by the price monitoring committee, under the supervision of Joint Collector L. Shiva Shankar, District Manager Civil Supplies and the Super Bazaar MD. Each worker was given 10 kg rice, 1 kg red gram, 3 kg wheat flour, one litre oil, 500 gm salt, 250 gm chilli powder, 250 gm turmeric powder, 2 kg onions and 2 kg potatoes. The migrant workers included: 5,837 from Odisha, 1,055 from Bihar, 1,032 from Jharkhand, 736 from West Bengal and 328 from Uttar Pradesh apart from other States like Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Assam, Punjab, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand and Haryana. ‘Humane gesture’ The Collector said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has adopted a humanistic approach and allocated funds for purchase of essential commodities for the migrant labourers in view of the lockdown.
23 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State govt. pensioners seek 75% of pay for April||With the instructions issued by the Director of Treasuries and Accounts (DTA), pensioners will get only 50% of their pension in in May, according to Andhra Pradesh State Pensioners’ Association. Visakhapatnam district branch president D.D. Prasada Rao and general secretary P. Suryachandra Rao appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to consider payment of 75% pension to all pensioners and 90% of pension to the Class IV pensioners for April.
23 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Allot land for ESI hospital, BMS urges State govt.||Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) has urged the State government to immediately allot 10.25 acres adjoining the already sanctioned 8.5 acres for construction of ESI hospital at Sheilanagar. BMS national vice-president Malla Jagadiswara Rao told The Hindu on Wednesday that the ESI Corporation had already cleared the proposal for building a 500-bed hospital-medical college in the city. “The work on the project could not start as the State government has not handed over adjoining land of 10.25 acres to facilitate construction of a super-speciality hospital,” he said. He said a 100-bed ESI hospital was now functioning at a rented building at Arilova and another had been taken on hire for operating as a dispensary at Parawada.
23 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Essentials distributed to auto drivers||Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy on Wednesday gave away essential commodities to auto drivers at Chandana function hall at Venkojipalem. Minister of Tourism and Culture Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao hoped the gesture would help them during the lockdown. Deputy Transport Commissioner Rajaratnam participated.
23 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Take steps to bring migrant fishermen back home: TDP||Expressing concern over the plight of about 5,000 migrant fishermen from the North Coastal districts stranded in Gujarat, Karnataka and Kerala, Visakhapatnam South MLA and TDP (Urban) president Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar sought the intervention of the State Governor. The MLA said owing to lack of basic amenities and mental agony two fishermen died. On of them, Magupalli K Raju, died at Veraval in Gujarat, Mr. Ganesh Kumar said.
23 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CII-Yi chapter hands over 200 face shields to JC||The city chapter of CII-Young Indians (Yi) handed over 200 face shields to Joint Collector L. Siva Sankar for use by the COVID hospital staff in Visakhapatnam on Wednesday. CII-Yi procured the face shields from AP Medical Technology Zone. Young Indians is also working towards helping individuals affected by lockdown.
23 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSR Telemedicine available from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.||Medical services will be available in YSR Telemedicine and those in need or their relatives should call the tollfree No. 14410 from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m., according to District Coordinator of Dr YSR Arogyasri Healthcare Trust Dhavala Bhaskara Rao. Any medicines required will be sent to the residence of the patient in the evening on the same day.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doorstep service||
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fish eye||
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Entering the battlefield||
23 April 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Change in bank timings||Banks in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district will work between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. starting April 23. Orders to this effect were issued by KB Asifabad Collector Sandeep Kumar Jha, according to Lead District Manager Chenchuramaiah. Meanwhile, the Adilabad district administration is also considering a request by tribals to increase working hours in banks. At meetings held with tribals, Collector A. Sridevasena was informed that due to heavy rush, many customers were unable to withdraw money from their accounts. Ms. Sridevasena urged all tribals to start working under the rural job scheme in respective villages. She said payment to the job card holders will be made within 15 days.The Project Officer of Integrated Tribal Development Agency, Utnoor, Bhavesh Mishra, assured tribals of purchasing ippa flowers through the Girijan Cooperative Corporation.
23 April 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||14 houses gutted in Abbugudem||As many as 14 thatched houses were gutted in a major fire that broke out at a tarpaulin sheets manufacturing unit at Abbugudem village in Annapureddypalli mandal on Wednesday. Though none was injured in the incident, the blaze caused heavy damage to property, sources said. Fire suddenly broke out in the tarpaulin sheets unit in the afternoon and the flames, aided by strong winds, soon spread to the thatched houses adjoining the site. On noticing thick smoke billowing out of the unit, the inmates of the surrounding houses rushed out of their homes in panic. Police personnel on COVID-19 duty in the village immediately reached the spot and evacuated all those living in close proximity to the fire accident site to a safer place. By the time fire tenders reached the spot, nearly six lakh tarpaulin sheets at the unit were reduced to ashes. Household articles and other belongings in more than a dozen thatched houses were destroyed by the fire. The cause of the blaze could not be ascertained immediately. In a statement, Collector M V Reddy said all the 14 families, those rendered homeless in the fire accident, have been shifted to a temporary shelter in the village. As interim relief, Rs. 8,000 and essential commodities, including 20-kg. rice have been disbursed to each displaced family, he said. A detailed inquiry has been ordered to determine the cause of the blaze.
23 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CS stresses need for planned approach in contact-tracing||The State government has directed the district collectors to take up contact tracing in a planned manner to ensure that the spread of COVID-19 is checked. Immediately after a person is reported COVID-19 positive, the officials concerned should take steps to locate the areas he/she visited and their contacts to identify the people likely to be affected and ensure that they are quarantined. Samples of the possible contacts should be sent for analysis to detect affected people, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar said. On the instructions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, the Chief Secretary, accompanied by DGP M. Mahender Reddy, Health department Special Chief Secretary A. Santhi Kumari and other senior officials, visited containment areas in Vikarabad, Jogulamba-Gadwal and Suryapet and reviewed the measures being taken to check the spread of the virus. Waste disposal After a review meeting at Gadwal, Mr. Somesh Kumar said steps should be initiated to ensure that there is no inward/outward movement in the containment areas while steps should be taken to ensure that there is no scope for gathering of people in these areas in line with the prescribed COVID-19 protocols. Disposal of waste generated in the containment areas should be entrusted to biomedical waste management agencies. Mr. Mahender Reddy stressed the need for coordinated efforts between different departments working under the supervision of the district collectors concerned. The responsibilities of each official should be clearly demarcated and works should be taken up accordingly. The police department is geared up to provide all necessary help to the departments/agencies concerned in the enforcement of lockdown and maintenance of quarantine centres. Ms. Santhi Kumari enquired about the steps being taken to collect samples and maintenance of quarantine centres. At Vikarabad, the Chief Secretary said the district has reported 38 COVID-19 positive cases, but there is no cause for concern as the government has initiated all steps needed to contain the virus. He exhorted the officials concerned to work as a team under the supervision of the district collector and superintendent of police in ensuring that no new cases are reported from the district in the coming days.
23 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Only GHMC officials will serve essentials’||The government is making preparations to step up efforts to feed the poor and homeless by increasing the number of free meals being served per day at Annapurna kiosks in the city. 1.45 lakh meals per day Sharing the details, Principal Secretary of the Municipal Administration and Urban Development department Arvind Kumar said that a total of 1.45 lakh meals were being served per day as of now through these kiosks run by the Akshaya Patra Foundation. This is more than three times the number of meals served before the lockdown, which stood around 40,000 per day. Before lockdown began, only lunch was being served at the price of Rs. 5 per plate at Annapurna canteens. Once the lockdown began, to address the needs of people who are rendered homeless in the city, and those who have been pushed into destitution owing to lack of work, free meals are being served every day, both for lunch and dinner. Mr. Arvind Kumar visited the Akshaya Patra Foundation premises at Narsingi on Wednesday, and inspected the mega kitchen, which is being upgraded to serve 2 lakh people per day. Responding to the story by The Hindu titled ‘No clarity about private philanthropic initiatives’, Mr. Arvind Kumar explained that the government has taken a policy decision not to allow anyone other than GHMC officials to serve food or distribute essentials in the city. While no formal orders have been issued so far, private distribution is being discouraged as is could be potential source of virus spread, he said, citing an instance where a COVID positive person was revealed to have had the history of distributing relief for the poor. Contact trailing involves tracking every person who received the relief from his hands, and considering the number of persons who are out on the streets distributing food and dry rations, it could prove to be a daunting task, Mr. Arvind Kumar said. Besides, hundreds of people are coming on to the roads in vehicles carrying relief material, which is not advisable in view of the disease spread and the purpose of the lockdown will be defeated, he added. Instead, those who wish to provide relief in any form may contact GHMC control room at 040-21111111, to deposit food or dry rations. Likewise, those in need may dial the same number for assistance. Already, about 85% of the calls received by the control room are from persons either donating or seeking food, he said.
23 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Govt. staff in containment, buffer zones told not to attend offices||In a move to contain the increasing spread of coronavirus, the State government has issued fresh guidelines to its employees on the issuance of passes and other precautions to be taken in tune with the Ministry of Home Affairs instructions during the lockdown period. This is to ensure not to dilute the containment and safety measures. The new guidelines issued include not allowing any person/employee residing in the containment zones to go out, including attending office. In a memo issued by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on Tuesday, no employee residing in the containment zones and also buffer zones, three kilometres around the containment zones, be allowed to attend the office. Minimum staff Along with ensuring minimum staff to attend the office on a rotation basis as indicated earlier, the memo instructs the heads of offices to make seating arrangements in the office concerned - both in sections and rooms - by maintaining at least six feet distance between every employee on duty on a particular day. Besides, the office in-charges have been told to ensure that disinfection protocols are followed in the office premises as also in rooms/chambers and arrange soap/sanitisers for frequent hand wash/rub by the staff on duty. Sans six feet distance Enquiries made with a few government offices in the peripheral areas (within GHMC limits) revealed that in several offices, the six-feet distance between the seating of two employees on duty is not being followed and the staff are not being provided with soap or sanitiser to wash/rub hands frequently. “As there’s no arrangement of even soap, the staff on turn duties are forced to make hand wash/rub arrangements on our own,” an employee with an office engaged in field visits to detect irregularities in sale of all material, including food and quality check in works executed by government departments, told The Hindu . The guidelines also instructed the office heads to ensure that no employee with higher risk - older employees, pregnant women staff and those having underlying medical conditions (co-morbidity) - be called to office, unless it is essential. Sending physical files/documents to other offices has been advised to the extent possible by making use of official email. Passes with clear dates Regarding the issuance of passes, the memo makes it clear that dates/days on which the employee’s presence is required in the office be mentioned on the pass. Gathering of five or more employees at any place in an office be avoided and visitors be discouraged to meet employees unless inevitable. Even the delivery of post/courier be taken at the entry point of the office premises itself. The authorities are also advised to sanction leave to any employee if he/she makes a request for self-quarantine as a precautionary measure.
23 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Taking telemedicine a step further||At a time when most private practitioners of medicine (doctors), including those in rural areas, have discontinued their practice with the fear of contracting the highly infectious coronavirus, the initiative of telemedicine is proving to be helpful to those in need of professional intervention, including those in containment zones. While some districts have started the service by roping in doctors located elsewhere, the Mahabubnagar district administration has made notable amends by drawing the service of doctors available within the district. They include specialists in the private sector. Taking telemedicine a step further, the service launched in Mahabubnagar district on April 12 involves free movement of persons in need of hospitalisation as also delivery of medicines, if asked for in case they are not in a position to buy the prescribed drugs on their own. Dual purpose “We have launched the service with the dual purpose of serving people in rural areas who are denied medical advice during the lockdown and also meeting the medical needs of people in the COVID-19 containment zone,” District Collector S. Venkata Rao told The Hindu . Explaining that medical and health professionals tied up with the novel service, the district officials said a total of 26 doctors working in public health centres and 47 specialists having their own private practice or working in private hospitals in Mahabubnagar were linked with the service and a call centre (08542-226670) was established for the purpose. Besides, 210 Auxiliary Nursing Midwives (ANMs) were linked to the service to screen the call requiring a doctor’s advice. On getting a call from a person in need of health advice, the data entry operator would connect the call to an ANM after collecting the details of the person on the call and the ANM would forward the call to a doctor, if need be, for proper medical advice. After the doctor prescribes the drugs, the call would be linked to one of the pharmacies enlisted if the patient wants delivery of medicines. The call centre works 24×7 with personnel manning it on three shifts. A total of six ambulances — two provided by the medical and health department and four by the Indian Medical Association — are specially tied up with the telemedicine service and are stationed in the Collectorate to attend to calls. 254 calls in 10 days “In the first 10 days, a total of 254 calls, including 60 from the containment zone, were received and medicines were delivered in eight cases. Also, 41 persons were shifted to hospital – 35 to government and 6 to private hospitals for referral services,” the District Collector explained.
23 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bright side of lockdown: the Earth is healing||The lockdown has brought untold misery to millions, but it is heartening to note the positives from the protracted shutdown. Owing to a significant drop in the earth’s ambient seismic noise, smaller magnitude earthquakes could be detected and there has been a noteworthy reduction in air pollution levels as vehicular traffic is low, construction and industrial activities have been halted, pointed out secretary, Ministry of Earth Sciences, M. Rajeevan, on Wednesday. In a webcast to the scientists and staff of the CSIR-National Geophysical Research Institute (CSIR-NGRI) on the occasion of ‘50th International Earth Day’, Dr. Rajeevan, spoke on ‘Earth’s response to COVID-19 pandemic lockdown’ and the impact on the Earth’s movement, air pollution and weather observation. With the conclusive reduction of aircraft observation count and NO2 levels in the air during the lockdown, it could be said that the Earth is slowly and surely healing, he said. Earlier, NGRI Director V. M. Tiwari remarked that to fight this global pandemic, several countries have imposed lockdown, which is also leading to some unexpected consequences like a sudden drop in carbon emissions, reduction in NO2 concentration in atmosphere compared to this time last year. Now the questions are: Will reduction of atmospheric pollutants due to pandemic lockdown allow to quantify how aerosols impact the climate? Or will the lockdown have a lasting impact on the environment and climate, he said.
23 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Humanity speaks in testing times||The historic Sree Ramachandra Swamy temple near the Hyderabad Airport witnessed some unusual visitors who are otherwise seen in the Masjids. No, they didn’t come for prayers there but to showcase that humanity cares neither for a religion nor the race. A young Muslim man, Aamer Javed, landed in the temple to provide provisions to the families residing in the temple complex, much to surprise of those living there. He noticed an appeal by a local Muslim resident on the social media that families in the temple were going without food and landed up with ration and food essentials. The temple, which is also known for film shootings, was devoid of any activity due to lockdown and those residing were running out of money due to the absence of devotees. Aamer was already occupied with food essential distribution in several areas and he says no one in the temple complex hesitated to take the provisions from them. “It reflects our culture and how we are bound as human beings and as Indians,” he says. Aamer Javeed, who is heading the Telangana Congress Research Department, says a few incidents or individuals cannot divide Indians but the rapidly developing atmosphere of hate must be fought with positivity. In fact, his act received appreciation from the civil society, with prominent faces from the State and national politics such as TPCC chief Uttam Kumar Reddy, former Union Ministers Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor also tweeting their appreciation.
23 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR breaks bread with GHMC staff||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao, on Wednesday, had community lunch with the sanitation and entomology staff and Disaster Response Force (DRF) employees of GHMC, in appreciation of their services during lockdown. The lunch was arranged at the DRF training centre opposite Sanjeevaiah Park, where the Minister served food to the workers and inquired about their well being. He cautioned them to be careful while discharging their duties, besides inquiring about their families. Praising them for working on a par with doctors and police, he appealed them to spread the message about importance of maintaining hygiene and distance in containing coronavirus. He also asked the entomology workers to be well prepared with an action plan regarding mosquito eradication for the ensuing monsoon season. Minister Srinivas Goud, Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, Deputy Mayor Mohammed Baba Fasiuddin, legislator Balka Suman, Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar, and others partook of the lunch along with the minister.
23 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Supermarket timings in city still baffle shoppers||After a brief confusion over supermarkets across the city closing early, people who went to buy groceries on Wednesday heaved a sigh of relief as they found them open post-afternoon. On Tuesday, several consumers were flummoxed when they found supermarkets had downed shutters around 11.30 a.m. Some, like Syed Ali Javeed, a lawyer and resident of Jubilee Hills, was stopped twice at checkposts by police who informed him that grocery shop timings have been changed from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. “I saw the supermarket near my house closed. So, I took a different road to go to another. I was stopped at a checkpost where the policeman said that grocery shopping timings are between 7 a.m. and 11 a.m. On my way back, I was stopped again at the Jubilee Hills checkpost, where the cop told me the same thing,” he said. Twitteratti reacted to this. “Went to ratnadeep today and all of a sudden at 2pm they come and close the store and say it's a new order like where was the order? What's the curfew time still want a clarification from the govt (sic),” Rahul Reshaph. Journalists too said that they faced similar problems when they went to buy essential supplies. Reacting to the issue, Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar on Tuesday issued a statement: “There is some fake news/rumour that shops were closed. There is no notification for such a closure of essential items’ shops. Hyderabad City Police is committed to ensure that all essential items are made available to all.” On Wednesday, however, supermarkets operated well post-noon. The move came as a breather for all those who thought that stores selling essential supplies would be shut at 11 a.m. “I went to a supermarket on Road Number 7 in Banjara Hills around 9 a.m. after what had happened yesterday. There, I was told that they would remain open even after 11 a.m.,” said Roshan Mirza, a businessman. However, residents of the Old City said that several shops were closed around 12 noon. “Several shops in my locality were closed. I don’t why there is so much confusion,” S.Q. Masood, a resident of Kalapather, said.
23 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IICT to start COVID-19 testing||Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR)’s Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) is on its way to become another testing facility for the COVID-19 samples in Telangana. About half a dozen scientific personnel from the institute have been identified to be sent to the neighbouring CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) for getting trained in the exercise and once it is through, screening for coronavirus will be taken up at the institute, enhancing the overall testing capacity, said IICT director S. Chandrashekar on Wednesday. IICT has been functioning with limited staff during the lockdown period but the section handling the COVID-19 battle has been functioning round the clock in its quest to find the appropriate Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) which is a precursor for making the drug or testing kit. It handed over the API for making anti-viral drug Favipiravir to Indian pharmaceutical giant Cipla a few days ago. Scientists from the pharma firm had come from Mumbai to check the API process and took the sample sufficient enough for tablet-making to reach the next level of obtaining necessary approvals from the Drug Control Authority of India. The premier institute is also in an advanced stage of coming out with an indigenous Real-time RT-PCR - Reverse transcription polymerase chain test kit for COVID-19. Dr. Chandrasekhar said almost 80% of the material which goes into making the kit has been developed in-house by the institute scientists led by Anthony A. Backward integration of the Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) drug is also under way and sourcing of the raw material is under way currently. Once that’s done, the country, which is already a leading producer of the drug and exporting to several countries, may not have to depend on China for the key starting materials, said the director.
23 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||IIIT-H to teach its entire Spring semester online||The International Institute of Information Technology-Hyderabad (IIIT-H) will teach its entire Spring semester online, perhaps a first for any educational institute in the country, apart from evaluating and assessing the students based on their previous semester records with minimal changes to reduce the fear of exams. Meanwhile, it has prepared the faculty to teach online as well as adopting new tools to assess the students, said IIIT-H director P.J. Narayanan. “We are confident that the ongoing Spring semester will be concluded completely by the end of May. The graduating B.Tech and M.Tech students will have their requirements completed practically on schedule giving them time to attend to other things including remote internships and other opportunities,” he said. The institute started online classes on March 23. Prof. Narayanan said faculty were trained on the various technological solutions, Microsoft’s cloud-based solutions for e-mail and other services that were adopted earlier including supported version of Teams, a tool suitable to run online classes. Access class at will “A big plus was the ability to record the classes including audio, video, slides, digital blackboards. Students could access the video later even if they couldn’t attend the live class. Faculty were requested to keep notes and other study material on the LMS platform Moodle for students to access at will,” he said. The challenge of conducting exams and assessment were overcome with the faculty coming up with different solutions. They decided to do away with formal final examinations; distribute its weightage to less stressful and more hands-on components like assignments, projects, quizzes and reports, thus reducing stress on students. A new grading system has been evolved and it is decided to award only A, B, C, and W grades for these courses, leaving out A-, B-, C-, and D grades. The W (withdraw) grade has replaced the F (failed) grade as it would hurt students. The W grade students can meet the requirements later, Prof. Narayanan said, adding, “The faculty members are urged to be generous to push those who may have got an A- otherwise into the A range and not down to a B. Students worry about grades and their impact on future prospects in normal and distress situations.” One step further, each student is given the option to keep the A/B/C letter grade as awarded or replace them with a P (or Pass) grade, after the grade is announced. “Pass grades satisfy the requirements of the individual course towards the programme requirements, but do not count in grade-point average calculations. A student who performed badly due to extraneous reasons can opt for this without his or her GPA being adversely affected,” he pointed out. Disadvantaged students For students who cannot take part meaningfully in the online phase of the courses due to poor connectivity, sickness to self or family or other reasons will be evaluated separately whenever it is safe. A combination of alternate evaluation and grading methods will be employed for them with a combination of assignments, projects, oral examinations, reports, etc. They will not be disadvantaged in any manner by this.  The faculty members are urged to be generous to push those who may have got an A- otherwise into the A range and not down to a B. P.J. Narayanan, IIIT-H director
23 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR moves record essential item parcels||South Central Railway (SCR) by transporting 1,507 tonnes of parcels between April 8 and 17, has become the second highest transporter of parcels amongst all zones on Indian Railways. It has also earned Rs. 6.51crore running 49 special parcel trains. Parcel special trains are being run between Secunderabad-Kakinada, Secunderabad-Renigunta, Renigunta-Hazrat Nizamuddin, Secunderabad-Howrah, Hyderabad-Amritsar; Secunderabad-Mumbai CSMT. Several other parcel trains linking various cities including Yeshvantpur, Mumbai, Chennai and New Delhi, which pass through the zone, also are serving the purpose of parcel transportation of milk, vegetables, fruits, medicines and other material besides enabling transport of food items like fish, eggs and lemons. General Manager Gajanan Mallya said on Tuesday that a comprehensive plan of action was chalked out to run parcel express trains basing on the demand pattern and to also ensure availability of essential commodities in various cities and towns. Transport of medical goods and medicines was also high on the priority list with emphasis on precise schedule to run these trains at high average speed to the levels of passenger carrying express services to guarantee delivery on time. “We are taking every care to co-ordinate with other zones to serve the purpose of analysing commodity-wise traffic demands and requirements at stations to plan for stoppages en-route,” he said.
23 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BOCW cess funds remain out of bounds for Telangana||The State government is faced with a piquant situation as far as the funds accumulated through the Building and Other Construction Workers (BOCW) Cess is concerned. The BOCW welfare board has transferred an amount of Rs. 335 crore a couple of days ago as its share towards relief measures extended to workers by the government like supply of 12 kg rice and Rs. 1,500 cash each for the registered workers holding white ration cards. The board has adequate funds at its disposal for taking up relief measures for workers registered with it, but is unable to do so. According to senior officials, almost six years after bifurcation of the State, fixed deposits amounting to more than Rs. 400 crore earmarked as the State’s share after bifurcation of the board, are lying in the banks and these cannot be withdrawn. Falling under Schedule VII of the AP Reorganisation Act 2014, the division of assets and liabilities of the Board had been amicably completed few years ago, but funds deposited during the united State are yet to be transferred to the Telangana account. The funds of the Welfare Board in the united State had been apportioned between the two States in population ratio and Rs. 119.11 crore in the PD accounts had been transferred to the State’s account after constitution of the Telangana BOCW welfare board. The State’s share of fixed deposits was pegged at Rs. 407.11 crore and that of AP fixed at Rs. 569.65 crore out of the total Rs. 976.77 crore in the FD account. The State’s share is in addition to Rs. 20.20 crore received through online remittances of the cess between June 2, 2014 and September 27, 2014 when the funds were credited to the joint account before the constitution of the Telangana welfare board. This apart, the State’s share of cess of another Rs. 16.7 crore received in the form of DDs and cheques too was not transferred so far. The neighbouring State [Andhra Pradesh ] has also not transferred Telangana’s share of bank balance to the tune of Rs. 11.73 crore into the State’s account in spite of requests made at the joint meetings of the senior officials. “These amounts are locked. Neither Telangana nor Andhra Pradesh can withdraw these fixed deposits on their own,” a senior official told The Hindu . Several representations were made to the neighbouring State to ensure transfer of State’s share of funds from the joint account to Telangana, but in vain. “We planned to have meetings to ensure release of these funds so that they can be utilised for workers welfare, especially during the time of crisis like the present. But given the lockdown enforced across the country, there is no scope for meeting of the two States at least in the near future,” the official said.  Given the lockdown enforced across the country, there is no scope for meeting of the two States at least in the near future. Official
23 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC seeks info on welfare of differently-abled persons||Telangana High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to explain the steps taken to redress the difficulties of differently-abled persons during the lockdown. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice A. Abhishek Reddy instructed the government to file an affidavit on the matter by May 8. The bench was hearing a PIL petition filed by lawyer K. Shiva Nagesh seeking a direction to the government to issue passes to differently-abled persons and their attendants to attend to medical and other emergencies in the lockdown period. The bench said that non-governmental organisations extending help to differently-abled persons should be encouraged and every section of society, including private institutes, must take it as their social responsibility. District officials should have a list of physically challenged persons and co-operate with them in resolving their issues. The petitioner’s counsel K. Pavan Kumar informed the bench that there were close to 43 lakh physically challenged persons of different categories in the State as per 2011 census. Due to the sudden lockdown imposed by the government following incidence of coronavirus, they were facing difficulties. Though the government had set up helplines, not all persons were receiving the required response, the lawyer said. Advocate General B.S. Prasad informed the bench that the government had already created a toll-free number. Measures were initiated to look after all physically challenged persons in the State, he said. Some issues raised by the petitioner were far from the facts and the government would file a detailed counter, he said. The bench suggested to the government that such helpline or toll-free numbers should be publicised through print and electronic media. Physically challenged persons should be given priority at hospitals for treatment, it said.
23 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Row over COVID patient’s burial||People living near a graveyard at Nampally objected to the burial of a COVID-19 patient on Tuesday. While the man died on Tuesday afternoon, the furore took place when he was taken for burial on Tuesday night. According to Habeeb Nagar police, after formalities were completed at the hospital, the body was brought to a graveyard near the Hazrat Dargah Yusufain in Nampally. However, residents living within the premises of the graveyard objected and entered into an argument with the relatives. “The patient’s forefathers were buried in that graveyard. So, it was natural for the family to bring the body there. But, the locals said that since they stay there, their children move around near the graves and they were afraid the burial would pose a health hazard. We pacified them,” inspector P. Shiva Chandra said. He added that later the burial was carried out as per the procedures laid down by the government regarding COVID-19 dead bodies. “A mosque in the vicinity and several lanes were disinfected,” he said.
23 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four of a family found dead||Four persons of the same family were found dead in a house on Wednesday under Meerpet police station limits. Police identified the victims as Girish (30), Harish (23), Suvarna Bai (55) and Swapna (27). The incident took place in Alaguda. According to police, three victims were found in the same bedroom, while the fourth one was found in the kitchen. Police said ropes were found in separate rooms indicating that the four must have hanged themselves in different rooms. Police are investigating how all the bodies were moved to the bedroom. A paper pasted on the door reads ‘please open this door’. Rachakonda Commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat said, “We have found ropes in different rooms and are investigating how bodies were moved to one room. The suicide note says the family was in some financial problems and also talks of some black magic. We can’t say anything till we get the post-mortem report,” Mr Bhagwat said.  (Roshni - Suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000.)
23 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS to mark foundation day in a novel way||The foundation of the Telangana Rashtra Samiti (TRS) on April 27 will be a different affair in the midst of COVID-19, and the party wants to use face mask to spread awareness on the deadly virus and the precautions to be taken in tune with the lockdown guidelines. ‘Sport a mask and distribute the same to the needy in as many as possible in your areas’ will be the theme but strictly not in groups. The TRS MP, Santosh Kumar Joginapally tweeted on how the party celebrations are likely to be this year asking the party followers to distribute masks. “So, on April 27, marking our party #FoundationDay, I urge all my compatriots to sport a mask & distribute as many as possible in your areas, very strictly not in groups. Let’s take this up on War-Footing. No one shall go without mask from now. You can share photos with Mask,” he tweeted. Mr. Santosh Kumar said face mask is an imperative tool to muffle this torment, and according to a study with everyone mask-on in the society, there is mere 1.5% chance of spreading the virus, he said. “Be it on your face until we destroy #COVID19 entirely,” he said.
23 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Uttam moots COVID-19 tests for journalists||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy has urged the government to facilitate COVID-19 tests for journalists who opt for it and also demanded that the media personnel reporting the pandemic should be given incentives on the lines of Health, Police and other departments. Speaking after distributing food grains and essential commodities among 157 print and electronic media journalists in Huzurnagar of Suryapet district on Wednesday, he said in view of many journalists testing positive for coronavirus in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, it would be better if the government facilitates as there is a demand from the journalists. He said media organisations have a greater responsibility to highlight the problems of the poor and the needy during these times of crisis so that the State and Central governments can take effective remedial measures immediately. “If the media does not typically report, the shortcomings and lapses of corona relief measures and agriculture procurements, the authorities may not be aware of the reality on the ground,” he said. He said it is highly unfortunate that in Telangana most of the media organisations are giving huge coverage to the government announcements, but ignoring the responsible role being played by the Opposition in both extending relief measures and pointing out shortcomings in government's relief measures. “It is extremely unfortunate that Chief Minister Chandrasekhar Rao has adopted an aggressive and threatening attitude towards media organisations and targeting journalists who are doing critical reporting of COVID-19 related issues,” he said.
23 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Act tough against persons obstructing lab operations’||Telangana High Court on Wednesday directed the police to take necessary action against persons obstructing the operation of a private chemical laboratory in Banjara Hills, which was conducting tests for coronavirus along with other diagnostic services. Owner of central laboratory of Tenet Diagnostics moved the High Court alleging that the building owner forcibly and unlawfully closed its gates and barricaded the main entrance. He stated in the writ petition that the building owner, with whom he had an agreement, issued notice to vacate the premises within two months. The building owner, in the notice, cited that other occupants of the building were worried for their health and safety as personnel of the lab were conducting coronavirus diagnostic tests. The petitioner’s counsel S. Niranjan Reddy assured the court that the lab management had taken all precautions to ensure all its employees and other occupants of the building were insulated from contracting the virus. The Government Pleader for Home informed the court that already a case was registered against persons who tried to stall operations of the lab. The petition was posted to May 8 for next hearing.
23 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Police beat me up: auto driver||An autorickshaw driver who was on his way to fill gas in a small cooking stove on Tuesday claimed that he was beaten up by the police. A video clip of the incident went viral on social media. The video clip purportedly shows the man surrounded by cops talking to him. It also shows him using expletives and then throwing the stove. Witnesses said that the incident took place in Etebar Chowk, near Gulzar Sweet House. Mir Chowk inspector said, “It is a small issue. He was not beaten, but started arguing. ”
23 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Case against student for cuss words against police||A 20-year-old engineering student was booked for allegedly violating lockdown rules and using unparliamentary language against police when he was stopped for not wearing mask. Malkajgiri police identified the student as S. Aditya Reddy, a resident of PVN Colony. According to the police, the accused was moving on the road without wearing a mask at BJR Nagar around 8.40 p.m. on Tuesday. When a police patrol team stopped him to tell him about the importance of wearing a mask during lockdown, he allegedly questioned the police’s authority, used foul language and fled. Later, police went to his house where he again used unparliamentary language. A case under Section 353 of IPC was filed.
23 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||UVC-based disinfection trolley launched||An UVC-based disinfection trolley for rapid cleaning of hospital was unveiled by International Advanced Research Centre for Powder Metallurgy and New Materials, and University of Hyderabad with help of Mekins Industries. UV light in the wavelength between 200 and 300 nm is capable of inactivating microorganisms, such as bacteria and viruses, disinfecting both air and solid surfaces.
23 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TCS ties up with TSCHE for free courses||TCS iON, a strategic business unit of Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), has partnered with Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) to make college students job-ready. Under this, a set of curated courseware, accessible through TCS iON Digital Learning Hub, will be made available free of cost to four lakh students across 1,500 institutions of higher education from this academic year. The courses are accessible any time, anywhere and on any device, through the TSCHE website. TSCHE chairman T. Papi Reddy said TCS iON will equip students with necessary skills to compete in the job market.
23 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Union Health official visits containment zones||Deputy director, Health and Family Welfare, Government of India, Chandrashekhar, on Wednesday, inspected COVID-19 containment zones in the city, and expressed satisfaction about their management. He toured three containment zones in Chandrayangutta, and inquired about number of houses inside the zone, delivery of essentials, and social media group created in order to coordinate the services, besides fever survey, sanitation and disinfectant spraying.
23 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man booked for spitting on road||Nacharam police filed a case against a man for spitting on the road. According to the police, Md Naseeruddin (38), a resident of Tarnaka, who hails from UP, was moving on the road near VST Colony around 8.30 p.m. on Tuesday.
23 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BJP seeks help to farmers; hails ordinance to protect docs||BJP State president Bandi Sanjay on Wednesday once again appealed to the State government to come to the rescue of farmers having issues at various paddy procurement centres. There is an urgent need to provide financial assistance to farmers who suffered losses in the recent heavy rains, he said, and observed that every district seemed to have its own unique set of problems associated with agriculture. Mr. Sanjay, in a press statement, also hailed the ordinance brought forth by the Central government to prevent attacks on medical and para-medical personnel during these COVID-19 times and charged that such cases have become common here.
23 April 2020||HYDERBAD,TELANGANA||First batch of UoH personnel trained||The first batch of about eight technicians from the University of Hyderabad (UoH)’s School of Life Sciences, are currently undergoing training at the CSIR-CCMB to scale up the testing capacity for COVID-19. The one-day training is mostly about precautions to be taken when handling the virus as the technical staff will be working at the Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD). A total of 15 technical personnel have been identified for the training, and testing by the UoH personnel will be done in a separate BSL-2 laboratory at the CDFD, where they will be involved in the data entry sample sorting and dividing in coordination with other testing labs. The first batch will be working in the night shift of 2 a.m. to 8 a.m., informed a university spokesperson on Wednesday. UoH has been selected as a testing centre as part of the many testing centres established by research institutes and laboratories of various ministries and departments, universities, IITs, IISERs, and other institutes of eminence. The Hyderabad cluster consists of CDFD, National Institute of Animal Biotechnology and CSIR-IICT in addition to UoH with CCMB being the coordinating institute.
23 April 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Vehicles with ‘emergency services’ stickers seized||The Karimnagar Commissionerate of Police have cracked the whip against persons moving around various parts of the town with fake stickers pasted on their vehicles as “COVID-19 emergency services” by seizing 1,500 vehicles on Wednesday. Following reports of hectic movement of vehicle-owners with fake “emergency services” stickers during the lockdown and curfew period in the town, the police launched a special drive since Tuesday night.   Additional DCP (law and order) Srinivas and Additional DCP (admn) Chandramohan personally conducted the vehicle-check operations. In a press note here on Wednesday, Commissioner of Police VB Kamalasan Reddy said that they would deal firmly against the violators of lockdown and curfew. Appealing people to remain indoors, he said that only one person from a family should come out during the relaxation period for purchase of essential commodities.
23 April 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Pat for Suryapet Collector, SP||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar on Wednesday appreciated the efforts of the district administration in containing the disease spread, and expressed confidence that Suryapet’s curve would soon be flattened. Informing that the COVID-positive count has reached 83, the top bureaucrat observed that the district with a population of about 13 lakh, when compared to the positive count-population ratio of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, was on the higher side. For purposes of better organisation and support, a few appointments such as Officer on Special Duty, Special Officer (COVID-19) and arrangements in the health and medical department were made, he said. Mr. Somesh Kumar arrived here, along with Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy, Health Principal Secretary A. Santhi Kumari and other senior officials, to examine the ground situation and measures taken by the administration. The group walked the Kothagudem vegetable market street, looked at maps of the clusters and links of contact-tracing, and later reviewed the situation at the Collectorate. “The Collector and SP have organised the contact tracing exercise well. Review of existing contacts and 100% primary contact-tracing will continue with use of technology. People should not panic but follow government advice strictly,” Mr. Somesh Kumar said. Ms. Santhi Kumari instructed medical teams to be prompt in conducting household surveys, testing samples and reporting events. The Chief Secretary said all developments in the district will be monitored on an hourly basis and expressed confidence that the numbers would soon come down. District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy and Superintendent of Police R. Bhaskaran participated in the review.
23 April 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||New incumbents for key posts in Suryapet||Suryapet Deputy Superintendent of Police M. Nageswar Rao literally had his share of the cake. A cool cake which was given to him as a Good Friday gift, in fact, turned things bad for him. Police sources confirmed to The Hindu that Mr. Rao had accepted a cake from a town resident who was later listed as a primary contact of the Kothagudem vegetable market, the district’s notorious COVID-19 cluster, and also tested positive. The baker, a 28-year-old resident, out of affection for Mr. Rao, prepared a cake and gifted it to him on Good Friday, April 10. The subsequent day, when the primary contact list was out, the youth was taken to an institutional quarantine centre. On April 13, the diagnosis declared him COVID-19 positive. According to a senior police officer, “The baker handed over the cake to the home guard, who later gave it to the DSP. Home guard is the primary contact and DSP is a secondary contact.” Following the diagnosis reports, the DSP did not report for duty and remained in home quarantine. Mr. Rao was transferred out of Suryapet on Tuesday and is to report to the Office of the Director-General of Police, and a Special Branch ACP rank officer S. Mohan Rao will be the new DSP. Changes were effected in two other important positions in the town "for lax in conduct of the lockdown and for smooth functioning of administration”. DM&HO Md. Niranjan will be replaced by B. Samba Siva Rao, from Mahabubnagar, also in-charge DM&HO Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri, who is now given full additional charge. Town inspector K. Shiva Shankar was transferred to Nagarkurnool, he will be replaced by A. Anjaneyulu, from the office of the Inspector General of Police of Rachakonda Commissionerate.
23 April 2020||New Delhi,||One death and 92 new COVID-19 cases in city; active cases decrease||One death and 92 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Wednesday, taking the toll to 48 and total number of cases to 2,248, according to the Delhi government health bulletin. Of the total cases, 724 people have recovered and there are 1,476 active cases. On Wednesday, 113 people recovered and the total number of active cases decreased compared to Tuesday. Also, Delhi has 213 “non-traceable” cases, according to the central government. Earlier in the day, the All India Government Nurses Federation wrote to Home Minister Amit Shah stating that nurses and other healthcare workers are facing problems in crossing the Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border to reach hospitals and other healthcare facilities, including COVID-19 centres. The United Resident Doctors Association demanded also permanent protection for doctors under the law and not a “temporary relief”. Ramzan month “Holy month of Ramzan is starting from April 24-25 and some of inmates may be observing fasting, all District Magistrates are advised to supply them food as per their schedule to avoid any confusion at the last moment,” read a Delhi government order regarding COVID Care Centres. “Uber Taxi has offered services of 200 taxis for 12 hours free of cost to the Delhi government till May 3 to help manage COVID-19. An order has been issued to use these vehicles to transport non-COVID, non-critical patients to and fro hospital in coordination with CATS Ambulance Helpline 102,” an official statement read. Containment zone The Delhi government on Wednesday added two more areas, both in south Delhi, to its list of containment zones, taking the total number of such zones in the city to 89. A containment zone has a stricter form of lockdown and entry and exit of people are not allowed in these zones. Also, people in these zones are not allowed to step out of their houses and authorities help in supply of essentials and official carry out door to door screening in these areas.
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Central Vista: former top officers of MEA express concern||The Centre’s plan to convert North Block and South Block into museums as a part of the larger revamp of the Central Vista has some former top officers of the Ministry of External Affairs, which is located in South Block, concerned about preserving the historic nature of the offices in the building. Former Foreign Secretary Nirupama Rao, who retired in 2011, on Monday said in a series of tweets that the proposal. She said the Central Vista was emblematic of New Delhi and the “stately sweep and openness” of the area should remain. “And making North and South Blocks into museums ? I hope not. These stately buildings are an embodiment of the living history of our Republic. They have not reached expiry date. As a citizen and a former civil servant, I am disturbed (sic),” she wrote. In response to a Twitter user, she said the Foreign Secretary’s room was “one of the most beautiful historic offices there could ever be”. Ex-Foreign Secretary Sujatha Singh, who retired in 2015, agreed with Ms. Rao, saying that South Block had had a “ringside view of history”. “Most officers who have worked in South Block will think it’s not a good idea to turn it into a museum. It is a part of our history, our history after 1947. It does need maintenance and a more efficient use of space,” she said. Architects could be asked to redesign the interior for better utilisation of space. On the larger revamp of Central Vista, Ms. Singh said since the area “belongs to the people” and acted as the green lungs of New Delhi, it should be left undeveloped. Another former top officer, Kanwal Sibal, who retired as Foreign Secretary in 2003, said there was need to balance tradition and modern requirements. “All these buildings have a history and to that extent, there is some nostalgia. Undoubtedly, the Foreign Secretary’s room is exceptional. It is a difficult choice to make - preserving a building that may not be functional or redesigning to make it more suitable to modern use,” he said. North Block and South Block, with their wide corridors and layouts, were suitable for museums. Giving examples of changing uses of historic buildings, he said the Old War Office in London was now being developed into high-end apartments and the French Ministry of Finance was relocated from the Louvre in Paris to give more space to the museum. K. Shankar Bajpai, a former ambassador and secretary in the MEA who retired in 1986, said he was “very sad to hear” about the project. “These [North and South Block] are not easy buildings to maintain and run. But they are part of our history,” he said. While there were certain issues in working there, “umpteen governments have functioned” the same way. “I don’t understand why this is considered necessary,” he stated. The proposed Central Vista redevelopment project announced by the Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs in 2019 includes the construction of new office buildings for all Ministries along the 3-km-long vista or Rajpath. The draft masterplan drawn up by the architects of the project, Ahmedabad-based HCP Design, Planning and Management, shows North and South Block being re-purposed as museums after shifting out the offices of various Ministries to the new secretariat buildings.
23 April 2020||New Delhi,||Officials trace contacts of mandi trader who died of COVID-19||People who had come in contact with the Azadpur Mandi trader who died of COVID-19 on Tuesday were traced by Wednesday evening, the District Magistrate has said. Their samples will now be collected and sent for testing, he added.  The drive to trace the high risk contacts of the 57-year-old trader had been initiated on Tuesday evening, the official said. The trader, who worked at Azadpur Mandi, Asia’s largest fruit and vegetable market, tested positive for the virus on Monday and passed away from the infection on Tuesday.  The Delhi government had earlier announced that the vegetable market would remain open 24 hours in order to ensure smooth supply of provisions and allow for easy adherence to physical distancing guidelines.
23 April 2020||New Delhi,||Nurses, family allege lapses by govt. hospital after COVID-19 death||Following the death of a 40-year-old woman with kidney problems, after which she was tested positive for COVID-19 in Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital, doctors and nurses of the hospital claimed there was more than a day’s delay to quarantine the staff. A doctor and a nurse also alleged multiple lapses on the hospital’s part including not providing proper isolation for the woman, once she was suspected of having the virus, which could have infected other patients and staff too. Meanwhile, the woman’s husband, who is differently abled, told The Hindu that the government-run hospital did not do dialysis and didn’t immediately inform them that she had tested positive. The woman died on Saturday and was tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. It was only on Wednesday, the hospital ordered 57 doctors, nurses, and technicians, to be quarantined and samples were being taken, according to a hospital order. “Both her kidneys were not functioning. Once she was suspected of corona, they did not do dialysis,” the woman's husband said. “ Jab se uska test hua, doctor aur guard log use aise dekh rahe the jaise koi bhoot aagaya ho emergency [ward] main ,” he said. “The hospital authorities [On Tuesday] asked me and our two children to get tested. But we were turned away from another hospital,” the husband, who is a street vendor in Jahangirpuri said. ‘Lapses’ by hospital Though the hospital said in the order that the patient was admitted in an “isolation cubicle” in the emergency ward, a doctor and a nurse said that there was no “proper” isolation. “The cubicle is part of a 35-odd-bed emergency ward. The cubicle has about six beds and while the woman was admitted, there were at least three more patients. Also, the woman’s sister stayed in the cubicle,” the doctor told The Hindu.  “Isolation should have been proper and the family should not have been allowed to meet her. Also, the oxygen supply came from a common line and it could infect other patients,” the doctor added. The nurse said that the doctors were not using full-body PPE kits while attending to the woman, though she was suspected of COVID-19. Medical Director of the hospital, M.M. Kohli, and Secretary of Health and Family Welfare Department, Padmini Singla, did not respond to phone calls and messages. “On Tuesday, we had sent emails to the Hospital Director, Health Secretary and CM’s office that quarantine is not done. But they quarantined the staff only on Wednesday. This is blatant negligence on the part of the authorities,” said Jagdish Kulhari, President of Federation of Delhi Govt. Nurses.
23 April 2020||New Delhi,||YMCA distributes 1 lakh ration, food packets||The Young Men's Christian Associations (YMCAs) on Wednesday crossed the 1-lakh mark in the number of ration and food packets distributed to the needy in the last one month in the wake of the novel coronavirus pandemic. Volunteers, staff and members of the YMCAs have been providing food, household provisions and safety kits in collaboration with district and local officials in various areas, the National Council of the YMCAs of India said. According to a statement issued by the organisation, volunteers also reached out to the homeless, and packages containing 5 kg wheat flour, 2 kg rice, one litre oil, sugar, pulses, salt and biscuits were distributed to families engaged as daily wage labourers, rickshaw-pullers and domestic workers. “Our YMCAs work closely with the local community in their normal work on vocational education, sports and cultural activities. So, it is only natural that in such a time of national crisis, we should lend a hand to the less privileged members of our communities,” said Bertam Devadas, National General Secretary of the YMCAs in India. While the YMCA multi-sports complex project at Faridabad distributed food packets to a shelter home, the National YMCA Project, Vythiri, provided relief material to the tribal community. Similarly, around 500 COVID-19 safety kits were distributed to needy families across the Kanyakumari district by the YMCA Marthandam Project, said Mr. Devadas.
23 April 2020||New Delhi,||Give financial assistance to civic bodies: Bidhuri||Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Delhi Legislative Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, on Wednesday urged Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to immediately give financial assistance to the North, East and South Delhi Municipal Corporations. As the first step, Mr. Bidhuri said, the Delhi government should immediately release the grant-in-aid and transfer duty for the first quarter of the financial year 2020-21. This, the LoP said, had already become due and must be paid without loss of time in view of outbreak of COVID-19. Mr. Bidhuri claimed that he had, at two personal meetings and a recent videoconference, made requests to the Chief Minister to provide financial assistance to three civic bodies at the earliest, but to no avail. “The financial condition of the North civic body is the most serious. Due to the acute shortage of funds, it has not been able to pay salaries to staff. The government help thousands of the civic bodies’ COVID-19 warriors come out of the grave financial crisis,” he said.
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Do not charge for power for three months: Cong.||The Delhi Congress on Wednesday reiterated its demand that the Delhi government should provide relief to the people of the city by not charging them for electricity for three months. “Due to the ongoing lockdown, people have been forced to sit at home and many are falling short of money to even buy essential goods. Shops, showrooms, businesses, factories and other establishments are shut, but people have been getting power bills to the tune of thousands of rupees on account of fixed charges,” said Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar. He added that the traders and businessmen have suffered double blows due to the lockdown, as on one hand, their businesses have come to a grinding halt, and on the other, they have to pay the wages of their employees. “Over and above, they have been given hefty power bills in the name of fixed charges, and therefore business people are in great distress,” Mr. Kumar said. He also announced that a ‘Congress Ki Rasoi’ would be launched on April 23 at the DPCC office to provide healthy and nutritious meals to the needy. Mr. Kumar alleged that the Delhi government has failed to provide healthy, nutritious and hygienic food to the poor and needy.  Traders and businessmen have suffered double blows due to the lockdown... they have been given hefty power bills in the name of fixed charges Ch. Anil Kumar Delhi Congress chief
23 April 2020||New Delhi,||40 quarantined as CRPF man tests positive for virus||Around 40 people were placed in quarantine after a 43-year-old nursing assistant of the CRPF tested positive for COVID-19 in Noida. The constable posted in Jammu and Kashmir’s Kupwara was on leave. Due to the ongoing lockdown, the constable joined the medical unit of the CRPF in Noida, close to his local base on April 6 after his leave got over. “Due to the unprecedented situation, the personnel who were on leave were asked to join duty at their nearest location. He developed some symptoms on April 17 and a test confirmed the infection on April 21,” a CRPF official said. The constable has been admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Hospital here and around 40 persons who came in contact with him have been placed under quarantine. The official said it was not clear how he contracted the infection.
23 April 2020||New Delhi,||71 officers sent into quarantine as policeman tests positive||After a Delhi Police Head Constable tested positive for COVID-19, 71 officers have been advised quarantine for 15 days, the department said on Wednesday. The Head Constable tested positive on Monday, they said. A senior police officer confirmed that the 71 officers who came in contact with the Head Constable before April 10 have been asked to go into quarantine as a preventive measure. So far, more than 13 police personnel have tested positive for COVID-19.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Movement restricted||
23 April 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Racket in fake gutka, pan masala unearthed||Continuing demand from addicts despite ban on gutka and pan masala during lockdown is being used by makers of fake products to make money. A racket in fake gutka and pan masala was unearthed by the police in Odisha’s Berhampur during raids conducted on Monday and Tuesday in the city and its adjoining areas. Five persons allegedly involved in the racket were arrested. Seven other members of the gang managed to evade arrest, police sources said. Police investigation is on to nab them. Demand for even fake products is quite high. In Berhampur gutka pouches with printed price of Rs. 5 are being sold at Rs. 10 or more. Receiving information about a fake gutka and pan masala unit operating at Sihala village on outskirts of Berhampur, the police had started investigation in the area. On Monday, a police patrol team was able to nab five persons who were transporting 11 gunny bag full of fake gutka and pan masala. Interrogation of the arrested led to a storage unit at Desibehera Street of Berhampur on Tuesday from where large quantity of raw material used for manufacture of fake gutka and pan masala pouches of various brands was seized.
23 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Procurement of crop very slow: Hooda||Former Haryana Chief Minister and Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Wednesday spoke to Chief Minister Manohar Lal to express his concern over alleged mismanagement in the ‘mandis’ (market yards) during the ongoing procurement of rabi crop across the State. Mr. Hooda said that he drew the Chief Minister’s attention to the emerging crisis and the chaos in the ‘mandis’ and urged the BJP-JJP government to take immediate steps for effective and smooth purchase of crop by coordinating with the grain merchants. “The speed at which the government is buying wheat, it would take 3 to 4 months for the process to be completed. The purchase of mustard is even slower. Farmers are worried about how they will sow the next (kharif) crop. It is important to increase the pace of purchase in the broader interest of the country and the State,” said Mr. Hooda in a statement after speaking to the Chief Minister. Pointing out that the Congress doesn’t want to get involved in politics during this period of pandemic, but it would be a great injustice to remain silent after seeing the condition of farmers, he said. “The farmer feeds the country and all of us. It is the responsibility of everyone, whether in government or the opposition, to raise the voice for the farmer and ensure that they get justice,” said Mr. Hooda. “Grain merchants have launched an agitation in support of their demands while the government is adamant. In all this, the farmer community is suffering and struggling to sell the crop. Even after several rounds of meetings, there was no agreement between the traders and the government. I again appeal to the government and the grain merchants to settle their outstanding issues and ensure the purchase process is completed quickly,” said Mr. Hooda. ‘Provide gunny bags’ He also urged the government to ensure availability of tarpaulin and gunny bags in the ’mandis’ as per the requirement. “There is a severe shortage of tarpaulin and gunny bags due to the lockdownand the government officials are asking farmers to cover wheat-laden trolleys. With the ongoing inclement weather grains could get damaged if it rains, adding to woes of farmers,” he said.
23 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Anganwadi workers go the extra mile||As the battle against COVID-19 continues, anganwadi workers in Punjab are not just turning out be an essential link between the public and the government, but are fearlessly shouldering responsibility with the front-line warriors. Manpreet Kaur, an anganwadi worker from Patti Dhaliwal Sudhar village in Ludhiana district, told The Hindu over phone that she and other helpers have been distributing homemade masks by visiting houses across the village. “Those who can’t afford to purchase or make masks, they are on our priority list. These masks are stitched by many women in the village. I myself stitch them at home and then distribute them to vegetable vendors, migrant labourers,” she said. Ms. Kaur believes that this is not the time to run away from one’s duty. “I feel even more obligated towards society. I feel lucky as I believe that ‘Guru Maharaj’ has chosen me to serve his people. Since the outbreak, I have been going door to door in the village to identify COVID-19 patients in synergy with the health department. I had been collecting details about travel history of people. I tell people to stay at home unless it’s very urgent,” she said. “Doctors, police, nurses – all are working without fear and so am I,” she said.  Nutritional food “I have been providing ration to the children and nutritional food to pregnant women right at their doorsteps,” said Shamsher Kaur of village Kamaali district in Fatehgarh Sahib. “I am also informing the people about the ways to keep the novel coronavirus at bay by regularly washing hands and covering mouth as well as nose while sneezing and coughing. Also, many of us are distributing sanitary napkins to promote menstrual hygiene.”
23 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Law is for everyone, it has to be followed: Shanta Kumar||Amid a controversy over the entry of two BJP MPs in Himachal Pradesh from New Delhi last week, senior party leader and former Union Minister Shanta Kumar has said that law is for everyone and has to be followed. “... a few friends have raised right question about our two MPs. About this, I am absolutely clear that law is for everyone and law has to be followed,” he wrote on his Facebook page. “They (MPs) have stated that they had obtained due permission,” he added. Hitting out at the BJP MPs, Himachal Pradesh Congress Committee president Kuldeep Rathore on Wednesday told The Hindu that it seems there are two different yardsticks being followed in the country for implementing the law. “While the BJP MPs could travel despite restrictions, but several labourers and students are stranded within and outside the State. This is most unfortunate,” said Mr. Rathore. “It’s not only the Opposition but even the BJP leaders have pointed fingers at BJP MPs’ entry into the State. Veteran leader Shanta Kumar too has raised question about their (the two MPs) entry,” he added. Disregarded PM’s appeal Mr. Rathore said the two MPs even disregarded the appeal by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Last week, two BJP MPs — Ram Swaroop Sharma (Mandi constituency) and Kishan Kapoor (Kangra) — were allowed to enter Himachal Pradesh. In their defence, both said they had obtained necessary permission to return to the State and did not violate any lockdown law.
23 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Policeman hurt in Aligarh stone-pelting||A constable was injured during stone-pelting in the Bhujpura area of Aligarh on Wednesday morning when the police tried to pacify two vegetable vendors, official sources said. “The vegetable market of the area opens from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. during the lockdown. When a police team went to enforce the lockdown, they found two vegetable vendors fighting with each other. When the team tried to pacify them, some people started throwing stones at the police. In the process, one police constable received minor injuries,” said District Magistrate Chandra Bhushan Singh. “The miscreants are being identified and an FIR will be registered against them. Meanwhile, the administration has decided that the Bhujpura vegetable market will remain shut on Wednesday. The residents could buy vegetables from the exhibition ground vegetable market in the morning slot,” he said. Situation tense Local sources said the situation was tense in the communally sensitive area. Some locals alleged that one community joined forces with the police and pelted stones at the other. “Some differences were brewing between vendors of the two communities in the area. On Wednesday, the problem started because of the high-handedness of the chowkidar posted at the vegetable market,” said a local resident, refusing to be identified. Superintendent of Police (City) Abhishek Kumar said he didn’t receive any evidence to suggest any communal angle in the incident. “If somebody has any evidence or complaint against a policeman, he can come to us,” he said. In another incident, a vegetable vendor in the Jalalpur area of the city died two days after he was allegedly hit by a policeman on his back with a baton. The locals protested by putting his body on the road, demanding action against the policeman. Mr. Kumar again said there was no evidence of involvement of a policeman in the case. “We have asked the locals to come up with any information that they have. It took some time to convince them to send the body for post -mortem.” He added that the constabulary has been instructed not to indulge in high-handedness. Meanwhile, Aligarh registered two more COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday.
23 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Concern over threat to scribe in Arunachal||The media fraternity in Arunachal Pradesh has expressed concern over a barrage of online attacks at a senior journalist for reporting on a spike in wildlife hunting in the State due to COVID-19 lockdown. The Arunachal Press Club, Arunachal Pradesh Union of Working Journalists, and Arunachal Electronic & Digital Media Association have in a joint statement asked the police and the State administration to take note of the threats to Tongam Rina, the associate editor of the Itanagar-based The Arunachal Times.  Ms. Rina had reported on wildlife officials identifying animal and reptile hunters from viral videos. The report allegedly rubbed a few the wrong way.
23 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Brothers killed after release from jail||Two men freed a week ago following the Supreme Court’s directive to decongest jails were killed in western Assam’s Baksa district during a scuffle with villagers they allegedly used to torment. The incident in Athiabari village happened on Wednesday morning. Police said brothers Biswajit and Haradhan Das were sent to jail in an adjoining district two months ago for a series of criminal activities. “They reached their own village today (Wednesday) morning and ran into a group of angry villages,” Baksa SP Thube Prateek Vijay Kumar told The Hindu . The brothers were killed in the scuffle that ensued, he added.
23 April 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 provides relief to Kolkata man||It was relief and joy in Ashgar Ali’s two-room household in central Kolkata’s Park Circus as he was released from the Goalpara detention centre in Assam on Tuesday evening following a recent Supreme Court order to reduce the duration of detention of those held as foreigners in the light of the COVID-19 outbreak. The SC order was passed to prevent overcrowding of the detention centres. Mr. Ali’s family thanked the Supreme Court for the order. Confusion over spelling The Kolkata-born carpenter (51) was held on July 14, 2017, in Guwahati following a confusion in the spelling of his father’s name. His younger brother Arshad Ali earlier told The Hindu that their father’s name Sk. Moral was changed to Md. Jarif as it is ‘unusual’ to have a surname ‘Morol’ (village head in Bengali) as he was never a village chief. While Mr. Jarif filed an affidavit in a Judicial Magistrate court in Kolkata in 2015 arguing that he is a Kolkata-born Indian national, his son was detained in Guwahati. “But following the Supreme Court’s order, we felt that he could be released as he was in prison for no reason,” said Zeeshan Ali, nephew of Mr. Ali, who coordinated with the lawyers. The SC is in furtherance to an order in May last when it directed all detainees who completed three years in detention centres be released. In last Monday’s order, the Court said in “regard to the present circumstances prevailing in the country” and considering that permission has already been given to release prisoners who completed three years in detention centres “we see no reason why the period should not be reduced from three years to two years”. Mr. Ali was released with a bond of Rs. 5,000 and two sureties. The government could not finally identify Mr. Ali’s country of origin or deport him and hence the release, said observers. “Asgar Ali’s declaration as illegal foreigner underscores the loopholes in the NRC process,” says Mohammad Reyaz, assistant professor at Kolkata’s Aliah University, who followed the case. The Court’s order will help many to “come out of detention,” he said. “However, the rationale of keeping someone in jail and then releasing him after a few years as he cannot be sent to any country as he is an Indian citizen is in contravention of basic human rights.” Mr. Ali is asked to visit a police station to be intimated of the follow-up legal process, post lockdown.
23 April 2020||Lucknow,||U.P. govt. to allow homeward journey of stranded people||The Uttar Pradesh government will allow other States to take home their residents if they want, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said on Wednesday. “If the governments of other States wish to recall their citizens stranded in Uttar Pradesh because of the lockdown, our government will give permission and cooperate,” the Uttar Pradesh CM said during a review meeting on novel coronavirus with senior officials. He also said the students brought from Rajasthan’s Kota should be told to stay quarantined in their homes through the CM helpline 1076. The CM said he will personally contact them and enquire about their well-being. Taking stock of the situation, he also told officials to take strict action against those violating the lockdown and not adhering to the social distancing norms. “A lockdown means total lockdown,” he said. The CM told officials to take all necessary precautions for the holy month of Ramzan, beginning next week. He said it should be ensured that there is no gathering at the time of “sehri” and “iftar” (early morning and late evening meals), an official press release said. 10 virus-free districts Mr. Adityanath was informed by officials that 10 districts, earlier affected by the disease, have no active case now. As of now, 32 districts of the total 75 are free from novel coronavirus, the CM was told. Mr. Adityanath, however, directed officials to remain extra vigilant and reiterated the need to test all those involved in the supply of essentials.  Testing labs Aligarh, Saharanpur and Moradabad districts are sensitive and so testing labs should be set up there, he said. He also directed to seal private hospitals that do not follow safety norms and guidelines. The Chief Minister said industrial units in the districts not affected by the virus should be allowed to function as per the guidelines of the Centre.
23 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||Youth jumps into canal in U.P. after police seize his motorcycle||A 22-year-old student with a farming background allegedly jumped into a canal in Sitapur district after he was distressed over the police seizing his motorcycle when he was returning home after purchasing pesticides for farming. The family of Vimal Kumar Verma have accused the police of harassing him and compelling him to take the extreme step. On Tuesday, Vimal, a resident of Saraiya Mahipatisingh village in Sadarpur, went in his brother’s motorcycle to Mahmudabad town to withdraw money from a bank and purchase pesticides for the menthol crop. However, while returning, Vimal’s bike was intercepted by the police at a checkpoint near a bus station, said Rahul Kumar, his uncle. “Vimal’s motorcycle was seized by an inspector of the Mahmudabad police station because he did not have the vehicle documents with him and failed to provide a proper explanation,” said Additional Superintendent of Police (South) Sitapur, Mahendra P. Chauhan. ‘Purchase bill shown’ Mr. Kumar said that since the bike was recently purchased, Vimal was not carrying the full documents with him. But he showed the vehicle bill and other items purchased by him to the police, said Mr. Kumar. “But the police did not listen to him even when he requested with folded hands. They also abused and hit him,” said Mr. Kumar. After the police seized his vehicle, a distressed Vimal allegedly sent a message to his uncle Kumar’s phone informing him about the incident and that he was going to jump into the Sharda Canal. “As per his message, we went to the location, on the bank of the canal, and found his things, mobile, purse, chappal and gamcha,” said Mr. Kumar. Vimal’s elder brother Nirmal Kumar said the bike he was driving belonged to him (Nirmal). “I had got it as dowry,” he said. Mr. Nirmal said Vimal was a second-year B.Sc student, possessed a sound mind and helped his family in outdoor work associated with farming. “Police compelled him to do this,” said Mr. Nirmal. ASP Chauhan said further action will be taken after a probe by the circle officer of Mahmudabad. Divers were deployed to retrieve the body but it was yet to be recovered.
23 April 2020||Washington,||Trump set to sign immigration order||President Donald Trump confirmed he would sign an order later on Wednesday partially blocking immigration to the U.S., in a move he argues would protect workers from the economic fallout of the COVID-19 pandemic. Immigration is a key issue for Mr. Trump's conservative base, which he is keen to energise ahead of the November election. “I will be signing my Executive Order prohibiting immigration into our Country today,” he said in a tweet. The President said on Tuesday that he would stop the issuing of green cards — permanent residency permits — for 60 days, but would exempt temporary workers such as seasonal farm labourers. “It will help put unemployed Americans first in line for jobs as America reopens,” he said on Tuesday. “It would be wrong and unjust for Americans to be replaced with immigrant labour flown in from abroad.” About 22 million Americans have lost their jobs since the outbreak forced a global shutdown. The U.S. is the world’s hardest-hit country, and health care infrastructure in hotspots such as New York has struggled to cope. ‘Divert attention’ The executive order on immigration will likely spark court action to reverse it, and has raised hackles among his Democratic opponents. Texas lawmaker Joaquin Castro slammed what he called “an attempt to divert attention away from Mr. Trump’s failure to stop the spread of the coronavirus and save lives”. The Supreme Court has in recent months offered several significant victories to the Trump administration on immigration. A month ago, the court allowed the federal government to maintain a policy that will send more than 60,000 asylum seekers back to Mexico. Mr. Trump added in his tweet on Tuesday that “even without this order, our Southern Border, aided substantially by the 170 miles of new Border Wall & 27,000 Mexican soldiers, is very tight”. Mr. Trump’s administration is keen to get America back to work and has said there are enough coronavirus tests for each State to move to “phase one” of a gradual reopening, ending some stay-at-home restrictions. But several State Governors have complained of a lack of testing capacity and a fear of sparking a fresh surge in infections.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Chinese media target West for its handling of virus crisis||Trevor Noah, the host of The Daily Show , has won praise on the Chinese Internet for his searing criticism of the Trump administration’s mishandling of the COVID-19 pandemic. So has Jerry Kowal, an American who makes Chinese-language videos chronicling the dire situation in New York. China’s response to the virus has its own sharp-eyed critics at home, and they have found a vastly different reception. One resident of the virus-struck city of Wuhan, who writes under the name Fang Fang, documented despair, misery and everyday life in an online diary and has endured withering attacks on social media. The pandemic unfolded dramatically differently in China from the way it has in the rest of the world — at least, if one believes state-run Chinese media. Chinese news outlets used words like “purgatory” and “apocalypse” to describe the tragic hospital scenes in Italy and Spain. They have run photos of British and American medical workers wearing garbage bags as protective gear. A lot of the same miseries happened in China, but those reports were called “rumours” and censored. For the Communist Party, keeping up a positive image for the Chinese public has long been an important part of maintaining its legitimacy. That facade was broken during the outbreak in late January and February, as dying patients flooded hospitals and medical workers begged for protective gear on social media. Some people started asking why the government suppressed information early on and who should be held accountable. The death of Li Wenliang, the whistleblowing doctor in Wuhan, on February 6 galvanised many Chinese people into demanding freedom of speech. Online sentiment became much more sceptical, and many young people openly challenged the party’s message. Then the U.S. and other countries bungled their own responses, and China’s propaganda machine saw an opportunity. Free flow of news Using the West’s transparency and free flow of information, state media outlets chronicled how badly others have managed the crisis. Their message: Those countries should copy China’s model. For good measure, the propaganda machine revved up its attacks on anybody who dared to question the government’s handling of the pandemic. For many people in China, the push is working. Wielding a mix of lies and partial truths, some young people are waging online attacks against individuals and countries that contradict their belief in China’s superior response. The website of Global Times , a tabloid controlled by the Communist Party, added Chinese subtitles to a video from Mr. Noah’s show that featured President Donald Trump and many Fox News personalities, showing how for weeks they played down the risks of the coronavirus. The subtitled video was widely distributed by Chinese official news outlets. Many of them used the same headline: “Blood is on their hands and they should all be sued!”Nytimes
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Amid pandemic crisis, President returns to his favourite agenda||With his decision to temporarily suspend issuance of green cards, U.S. President Donald Trump has taken his administration’s war on immigration to the next level. The Republican President said it’s needed to protect American jobs at a time when the unemployment crisis in the U.S. is worsening amid the COVID-19 pandemic. What does it mean? On Monday, Mr. Trump had tweeted that he would “suspend immigration” to protect American jobs. On Tuesday, he said in a press briefing that the executive order, which is still being written, would suspend issuing new green cards for 60 days, but would spare guest worker programmes. The New York Times reported that Mr. Trump had considered stopping new immigrant visas, but backed off in the face of protests from businesses. Now, the order would not impact immigrants already living in the U.S. or those who come on temporary visas for work or travel, including H-1B visa holders and temporary farm workers. American citizens will still be able to bring their spouses and children to the U.S., but the relatives of the current green card holders or those who want to apply for green cards based on a job offer would be blocked, according to administration officials. Mr. Trump has said that after 60 days, the policy will be evaluated “based on economic conditions” in the country, which he would personally assess. Between October 2018 and October 2019, the U.S. had issued about 5,77,000 green cards. Rationale behind ban About 22 million Americans lost jobs over the past month as the pandemic has devastated the economy. “By pausing immigration, we will help put unemployed Americans first in line for jobs as America reopens. So important,” said the President, explaining the rationale behind his decision. Administration officials painted the move as a healthcare emergency step. National Security Adviser Robert O’Brien said on Tuesday, before Mr. Trump’s briefing, that the President’s decision was to protect the American people’s health. Political calculations The administration has already restricted immigration to the U.S. in the wake of the pandemic. It has barred travel to the U.S. from China and much of Europe and sealed off the land borders with Canada and Mexico for non-essential travel. In March, the State Department suspended visa processing at its Consulates and Embassies overseas, which has practically brought issuance of new visas to a halt. Illegal immigrants being apprehended on the country’s southern border are being sent back. The administration has also announced visa sanctions on countries that do not take back their citizens being deported from the U.S. With the new move, Mr. Trump has not only tightened his immigration policy but also sent the boldest message yet to his support base that the President is committed to crack down on both legal and illegal immigration, a hot issue among the conservative and right-wing voters. It also gels with Mr. Trump’s strategy of building counternarratives to the mounting criticisms of his administration’s handling of the virus crisis. The U.S. has the most number of confirmed infections — 8,26,250 cases so far and rising. The country has also seen at least 45,150 deaths. Mr. Trump faces criticism for failing in moving fast in containing the outbreak in the early days and in mobilising resources to fight its spread. But he has rebuffed such criticism and blamed China and WHO for the crisis. He first called the virus “Chinese virus” and then suspended funding for the WHO. He attacked the “stay-at-home” orders issued by State Governors and even endorsed protests organised by his supporters to end the restrictions in States. Now, by suspending immigration, he’s back to his favourite agenda in an election year in the midst of the severest economic crisis in decades.
23 April 2020||Chennai,||Global remittances will see a sharp fall: WB||Global remittances are projected to experience their sharpest decline in recent times — 20% — owing to migrants losing jobs and wages because of the COVID-19 pandemic, the World Bank Group said in a report released on Wednesday. The pandemic and declining oil prices are likely to reduce remittances from the U.S., the U.K., and EU countries to South Asia, resulting in a projected fall of 22% in remittances to $109 billion. This is in stark contrast to 2019 when they grew by 6.1%. At risk In India, remittances for 2020 are projected to fall by 23% to $64 billion. They grew 5.5% in the previous year to $83 billion, the report, “COVID-19 Crisis Through a Migration Lens”, said. Remittances are crucial in low and middle income countries, financing household and family expenses — such as on higher education. As studies have shown that higher remittances improve nutritional outcomes by increasing investments in higher education, a fall in these remittances puts these outcomes at risk, warned the Bank. This is especially true at a time when households were tackling food shortages and financing livelihood needs. “Remittances are a vital source of income for developing countries. The ongoing economic recession caused by COVID-19 is taking a severe toll on the ability to send money home and makes it all the more vital that we shorten the time to recovery for advanced economies,” World Bank Group President David Malpass said in a statement. The sharpest decline was for Europe and Central Asia — where Russia is a strong source of income and the ruble had weakened against the U.S. dollar. Sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia were next in terms of projected declines. Low cost While remittance costs for some channels in South Asia are below 3% — the SDG (Sustainable Development Goal ) target and South Asia has the lowest remittance costs of any region — in some corridors in South Asia, they were above 10% due to a lack of competition, regulatory concerns and low volumes. “Quick actions that make it easier to send and receive remittances can provide much-needed support to the lives of migrants and their families. These include treating remittance services as essential and making them more accessible to migrants,” the brief’s lead author, Dilip Ratha, said.
23 April 2020||Tehran,||Military satellite launched, claims Iran||Iran said it put its first military satellite into orbit Wednesday, making it an emerging “world power”, as U.S. President Donald Trump issued a new threat. The Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps broke the news of what it said was its own satellite launch, hailing it as a milestone for the country’s space programme. “Today, we are looking at the Earth from the sky, and it is the beginning of the formation of a world power,” the Guards’ commander Hossein Salami said, quoted by Fars news agency. U.S. President Donald Trump took to Twitter on Wednesday to say he had “instructed the United States Navy to shoot down and destroy any and all Iranian gunboats if they harass our ships at sea”. Sepahnews, the Revolutionary Guards’ website, said the satellite dubbed the Nour — meaning “light” in Persian — had been launched from the Markazi desert, a vast expanse in Iran’s central plateau. The satellite “orbited the Earth at 425 kilometres” above sea level, said Sepahnews. Iranian state television aired footage of a rocket blasting off into sky. The rocket bore the name Qassed, meaning “messenger”, in what appears to be the first time Iran has used a launcher of this type.
23 April 2020||Washington,||Second wave in U.S. may be worse, says CDC chief||A second wave of the novel coronavirus in the U.S. could be even more destructive because it will likely collide with the beginning of flu season, one of the country’s top health officials said on Tuesday. Robert Redfield, director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), called on Americans to use the coming months to prepare — and get their flu shots. “There’s a possibility that the assault of the virus on our nation next winter will actually be even more difficult than the one we just went through,” he was quoted as saying in an interview with The Washington Post published late Tuesday. “We’re going to have the flu epidemic and the coronavirus epidemic at the same time,” he said. The U.S. has recorded at least 8,26,250 confirmed cases of COVID-19 since the start of the pandemic, according to a tally from Johns Hopkins University, with 45,150 deaths — the most reported of any country. Flu season Mr. Redfield said the virus arrived in the U.S. just as regular flu season — which itself can strain healthcare systems — was waning. If the two diseases had peaked at the same time, he told The Post , “it could have been really, really, really, really difficult” for health systems to cope. Getting a flu shot ahead of next flu season, he said, “may allow there to be a hospital bed available for your mother or grandmother that may get coronavirus”.
23 April 2020||Berlin,||Germany to test vaccine||Germany has authorised its first clinical test of a vaccine for the novel coronavirus, the country’s regulatory body said on Wednesday, green-lighting trials on human volunteers for an RNA vaccine developed by German firm Biontech and U.S. giant Pfizer. “The Paul-Ehrlich-Institute... has authorised the first clinical trial of a vaccine against COVID-19 in Germany,” said the regulatory body PEI. The trial, only the fourth to have been authorised, was a “significant step” in making a vaccine available, the institute added.
23 April 2020||Washington,||Missouri sues Chinese leaders||The U.S. State of Missouri has sued China’s leadership over the coronavirus, prompting an angry rebuke from Beijing Wednesday over the “absurd” claim. Missouri is seeking damages over what it described as deliberate deception and insufficient action to stop the pandemic. The state lawsuit comes amid calls in Congress to punish China. Missouri — led by the Republican Party — filed a lawsuit in a federal court seeking in damages and an injunction on continuing actions by China that are alleged to include hoarding of protective equipment.
23 April 2020||Taipei,||Taipei, April 22, 2020 (AFP) -||Taiwan’s President Tsai Ing-wen apologised Wednesday for “major shortcomings” within the military after a cluster of COVID-19 infections emerged on a Navy vessel that returned from a mission to Palau. So far 28 people on board the frigate Panshi have tested positive.AFP
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||The village is still relevant||The upheaval caused by the novel coronavirus should inspire a review of past choices and policies. Some of these policies had gained so much acceptance that one felt there was no point left in questioning them. Public health and education are two areas in which India took a decisive turn in the 1990s. When several States decided to stop giving permanent appointment letters to doctors and teachers in the mid-1990s, they were guided by an ideological shift at the national level towards allowing health and education to be opened up for private enterprise. This was viewed as a major policy reform, a necessary part of the bigger package of economic reforms. They were presented as a package, offering little choice for specific areas. Taking a back seat The new buzz was public-private partnership. It covered everything from roads to schools. The form it took made it amply clear that the state would take a back seat after issuing a set of rules for private operators while the state’s own infrastructure will shrink. Soon enough, cost-effective measures became the priority in both health and education. Chronic shortage of functionaries became the norm while young persons learned to wait for years for vacancies to be announced. Working on short-term contracts, with little security or dignity, became common. As we begin to imagine the post-coronavirus scenario, a key question to contemplate is whether we should revisit the policies put in place during the 1990s. Some will doubtless argue that the clock cannot be put back, and that we should not waver from the path we had chosen, no matter what hardships people have to endure. Certain policies were specific to domains such as health and education. Others were more like frameworks within which policies for specific areas emerged and evolved. One such framework had to do with villages. For a long time, a view had been gathering support that villages were no more viable as sites of public investment. A generalised logic had surfaced to justify and thereby encourage emigration from rural areas to cities. According to this logic, providing basic amenities such as running water, electricity and jobs to rural people becomes easier if they move to a city. This kind of thinking had considerable academic support. Modernisation was a dominant paradigm of social theory that saw nothing wrong in the growth of vast slums in mega-cities and depletion of working-age people in villages. Some social scientists did not mind declaring that the village as we had known it in Indian history was on its way to extinction. They argued that agriculture, the main resource of livelihood in the countryside, was no longer profitable enough to attract the young. And handicrafts too were destined to die, they said, as craftsmen and women cannot survive without state support. Only pockets of support survived the powerful wave of market-oriented economic reforms. All such arguments and the data they were based on provided a comfortable rationale for policies that encouraged emigration of a vast section of the rural population to cities. It was something ‘natural’ that happens in the course of economic development in countries like ours. Students were taught that shrinking of rural livelihoods was a universal phenomenon and it was, therefore, inevitable in India. Acceptance of historical destiny implied that we could simply sit back and let history take its familiar course. The only thing the welfare state might do was to mitigate the misery of the masses. As they faced the decimation of the rural people’s economy, safety nets could be thrown at them to provide subsistence-level provision of food, literacy and disease control. Special measures were designed to select the ‘best’ among rural children and make them competitive enough to survive in the urban world that was treated as mainstream. Imbalance and invisibility This general framework justified discriminatory funding in every sphere, including health and education. No serious public investment could be made in villages. Even as medical education and teacher training became increasingly privatised, the availability of qualified doctors and teachers willing to work in villages dwindled. Ideologically-inspired pursuit of economic reforms swept State after State, leaving little room for dissent or longer term thinking. A veneer of welfarism was maintained. It allowed the expansion of essential facilities of a rudimentary kind in villages. They served as sites for special schemes for the poor and provided minimalist provisions. The goal was to keep the poor alive and occupied. Privately-run facilities burgeoned, creating an ethos that boosted commercial goals in health care and schooling. Stuck between state minimalism and commercial entrepreneurship, villages lost what capacity they had for regenerating their economy or intellectual resources. No words can compete with recent pictures that cast a delayed doubt on this policy scenario. These are pictures of urban workers marching with their families to their native villages hundreds of miles away. There is more than one way of interpreting these pictures. On one hand they encapsulate desperation and apprehension. On the other, these same pictures reveal a story that generations of policy makers and scholars have been reluctant to acknowledge. The photographs captured by the media show men, women and children walking on highways designed to provide high-speed connectivity to cities. In the absence of trains and bus, these families decided to embark on foot. With no prospect of work and income, they felt vulnerable in their shanty towns. They wanted to go home. In the city where they had lived for years, they were part of the informal economy which offers no protection against exigencies. The new urban architecture denies them visibility too. That is perhaps why no one thought about them till they emerged on the wide highways. Obsolete debates The novel coronavirus has demonstrated how unsustainable this socio-economic arrangement was, apart from being ethically indefensible. It was characterised by sharp and growing regional disparities. No matter how hard we will try to rebuild the world as it was before the virus struck it, its unsustainability will not go away. It is rooted in the structural imbalance between the urban and the rural on one hand and the predominance of a skewed vision of economic growth on the other. In this vision, the village has no future other than becoming a pale copy of the urban and eventually dissolving into it. Once upon a time, there were debates over the nature of India’s rural society — on whether it was intrinsically good or bad. These debates are no longer relevant. The village is, however, still relevant, at least for the vast number of urban workers. Similarly, while the problem of defining a village in an academic sense has ceased to matter, its existential reality has asserted itself, and we need to recognise this assertion. If we do, we might agree to notice a problem in policies that do not acknowledge the right of villages to flourish as human habitations with their own distinctive future. They deserve to have new sites and forms of livelihood. They also deserve systems of health and education that are not designed as feeders to distant centres. Initiatives in this direction will make both cities and villages more sustainable and capable of coping with the kind of crisis we are currently facing.  Krishna Kumar is a former Director of the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT)
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||There may be no going back||May 4 is the date marked on many calendars, the day we in India hope some semblance of normalcy may return to our lives. We may well have to wait a lot longer — lockdown or no lockdown — if the “normalcy” that people across the border in China are returning to, after two long months of isolation, is anything to go by. From January 23, when 50 million people in Hubei province were kept in one of the biggest quarantines in history, much of China, where the COVID-19 pandemic first began, was placed under some form of restrictions. By one estimate, more than 750 million people were effectively under a strict lockdown. Since late March, as the number of cases outside of the Hubei epicentre in China began to subside, some restrictions were eased. On April 8, the government said Hubei would finally end its 76 days of isolation. The new normal As offices, restaurants and even trains resume service, people in China are, however, finding that the normalcy they were waiting to return to is, in fact, anything but normal. The shadow of COVID-19 is still hanging over every aspect of daily life. In constant fear of the possibility of a second wave of infections, authorities are continuing with a range of physical distancing measures as a precaution. For the rest of the world too, this may be the new normal that awaits us. An April 14 study by Harvard researchers suggested physical distancing measures may be here to stay, perhaps on an on-and-off basis, until 2022, because one-time lockdowns will not be enough to control the pandemic. Some are suggesting this could continue even longer until the world achieves ‘herd immunity’, which most scientists say can only be achieved through widespread vaccinations, which could take years. The post-COVID-19 world may be here to stay for a while yet. Conversations I have had in recent days with acquaintances in Beijing and Shanghai have painted a picture of what this world may look like, a world where all those new words and phrases that have now become a part of our vocabulary – nucleic acid testing, social/physical distancing, and temperature screening – are becoming an integral part of day-to-day life. A friend who works in a start-up in Beijing’s Zhongguancun tech district told me offices now have to choose which employees go into work every day. Offices are reorganising their staff so every department is split into several teams, to ensure that one infection won’t paralyse the entire team. In some buildings, offices cannot hold more than a specified number of people on a given day, which may range from five to 10 depending on the size of the office, according to rules imposed by the property management. Health is no longer a private matter. Your health QR code is now the most important passport to get you anywhere in any Chinese city. An app that every citizen has to download marks you green (safe), while orange or red may mean you can’t enter a shopping mall or restaurant. The colour depends on your travel history and who you have been in contact with, among other things. Then there is temperature screening. Getting half-a-dozen temperature checks a day is now the norm. Building authorities check every employee’s temperature every time they enter or leave the building. So do shopping malls, railway stations and airports. A high temperature means an ambulance may be called and you’ll have to go to hospital, whether you like it or not. If you are running a fever, even if you don’t have COVID-19, you may not be able to board a subway, or catch a train, or enter a shopping mall. Some businesses require every employee to take a nucleic acid test before returning to work. And of course, you cannot leave home without a face mask. Not wearing a face mask in public is now a punishable offence. Social gatherings aren’t what they used to be. Weddings are being put on hold. Restaurants have reduced the number of tables by half, and you can only seat three at a table. In some restaurants, you will be sprayed with disinfectant before entering. Forget about ambience, too — plastic sheets separate every table. In China, the way people eat isn’t what it used to be either. On April 12, the National Health Commission said diners will have to be served meals in separate dishes. So if three diners order a dish, it will be served to each separately to prevent the risk of infection. Shops and restaurants are opening, but many other establishments remain closed. Bars and pubs now firmly limit the number of patrons who can be present at any given time. Some bars in China are openly barring foreigners, because of what the government calls a rise in “imported infections”, which is fanning a new kind of health-triggered xenophobia. Transformative changes While some businesses have opened, gyms, swimming pools, cinema halls, and not to mention most schools and colleges, remain shut. Perhaps the most transformative changes are being seen in education and tourism. Some 300 million Chinese students in schools and universities are now taking classes online every day, and all kinds of new e-learning platforms, teaching everything from classical music to Pilates, are now booming. Travel and tourism have been the hardest hit. In Beijing, starting April 12, a nucleic acid test certificate has to be produced when you check into a hotel. If you don’t, you can’t get a room. (If you’re a foreigner, you may not get a room anyway, according to the policies some hotels are following). Inter-city travel is now a costly exercise. Travelling to another city for work may bring you a 14-day mandatory quarantine when you return home. Then there is air travel. Travel for pleasure may become a thing of the past. And forget about travelling in pleasure. In China, most airline passengers are now decked out in not just masks, but full hazmat suits and goggles. Some airlines, such as Emirates, have started testing passengers for COVID-19 before boarding. Results are issued in 10 minutes. As a result of the continued closures and restrictions, many businesses are floundering. To get consumers to support them, some cities in China are now issuing 30-day spending vouchers to encourage people to support small businesses and retail. They are also making two-and-a-half-day weekends the norm – perhaps one small sliver of a silver lining to hold on to amid all the dark clouds. ananth.krishnan@thehindu.co.in
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||A time for planetary solidarity||Self-help gurus say it takes 21 days to develop a new habit. However, in a crisis, we may learn quite a few overnight. The microscopic SARS-CoV-2, by causing a global pandemic, has forced much of humanity to cease everyday practices and jump-start new ones. It has also reminded us of certain tenets that we have always known. For instance, it is possible for individuals, communities, and nations to respond to a planetary crisis within days. The nature of the response in different settings, however, depends on leadership, the quality and strength of local institutions, resources deployed and the ability to deliver straightforward and meaningful messages regarding behavioural change. More reassuringly, empathy for fellow travellers around the world turns out to be at least as widespread as avarice and insularity. Compassion and structured forms of support by different kinds of non-state actors have been amply demonstrated across the world, with people enduring personal threats to life to assist the most vulnerable. As in any crisis, the poorest — daily-wage workers, the homeless, migrants and operators of micro-enterprises — are the worst affected. Even so, in the present instance, their fate is especially dire. Any person whose livelihood is directly connected with their physical labour has been left with zero options unless they are somehow connected with health care, food or sanitation. It is the old privileging of mental over manual labour, but the inequities and disparities are starker now in and in more brutal circumstances than ever before. Learning lessons For knowledge workers, one of the new social norms being created is extensive Internet use for learning and work. While some of this was happening earlier, the scale of international video meetings and virtual classes taking place now is unprecedented. In certain sectors such as accounting, desk-based research and software development, working remotely turns out to be profitable to companies. There are some guidelines to infer from this. The drastic reduction in flights, for instance, has affected the airline industry adversely but also highlighted the fact that many flight trips during ‘normal’ times are in fact unnecessary. Before the pandemic, business meetings, including international conferences and climate change meetings, were responsible for a bulk of flight travel. For example, a return flight, economy class, from Delhi to New York releases about 0.9 tonnes of carbon dioxide (it is twice as much in premium economy). This is half of India’s per capita annual emissions. The same can be said of many vehicle trips. The lockdown has shown that up to half of these trips are dispensable, especially if commuting and education trips can be cut down severely. For a sizeable fraction of the workforce, conducting tasks from home ought to be encouraged, better organised and provide more freedom for people, not less. It should be the norm in many sectors and people could work from home at least half the time, thus reducing travel needs, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and simplifying child care and other domestic services. An even more revolutionary approach to education and learning is conceivable. Online schooling and college education without paywalls is already available, but if it were expanded to develop open access schools and universities, the scam of high admissions fees can be altogether eliminated. Industrial production and electricity generation also do not have to go back to pre-COVID-19 levels. Life under lockdown has already demonstrated that there are essentials, superfluous items and luxuries. Responsible consumer action and new social norms to limit the last two can make a dent on greenhouse gas emissions while promoting simpler and potentially happier ways of life. Fundamental change There are many encouraging signs of truly ‘green’ alternatives to the current economic system and the beliefs that govern it. Becoming sustainable is vital for ensuring that the worst effects of climate change — another planetary crisis lurking just over the horizon of the present one — also do not fall on the already underprivileged. Unfortunately, the popular version of ‘green growth’ is flawed because it assumes that normal business activity can be made more sustainable merely by adding renewable technology and trees to it, for instance. But such spiritless measures often harm economic or social welfare even if they improve environmental outcomes. Sustainability will need not just decoupling economic growth from pollution but ultimately decoupling planetary welfare from economic growth while fostering social progress. U.S. President Donald Trump’s $2-trillion stimulus plan turns out to be mostly another corporate bailout. India cannot afford to do the same. The true losers are low wage and daily wage earners, who need assistance along with the farming community. Vehicle manufacturers, fossil-fuel companies, airlines and large businesses and even banks should not even be on the bailout queue. For the vast majority of the working class, the provision of universal basic income would be the first step towards reducing their precarity. Such change requires bold measures to reduce financial speculation and the hoarding of wealth by the rentier class by reintroducing the estate tax and putting brakes on high-speed trading, for instance. A transformation of work is also needed for the entrepreneurial class, where greater flexibility, coordination and access to markets are made easier. In addition, social measures must be strengthened to protect the health and safety of the poorest. \Public hospitals need to be improved and have the capacity to respond to pandemics and related crises. Access to care in the emergency and beyond should be equally available to all. By focussing on the delivery of basic services, we will discover new opportunities for equitable action. What is also quite clear, and shared with the climate change crisis, is that if you ignore science, it will come back to bite you. Mixed and confusing messages from the government add fuel to a flaming pandemic. Ignoring or denying the science of climate change does the same. United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres said: “This is, above all, a crisis that calls for solidarity.” That implies building shared programmes of knowledge and action for collective welfare, not fortress worlds. Sujatha Byravan is a scientist based in Chennai. Sudhir Chella Rajan is Professor, Indian Institute of Technology-Madras
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Pre-retirement judgments and post-retirement jobs||The Constitution has been conceived to provide a pride of place to the judiciary. Constitutional appointees to the Supreme Court have been guaranteed several rights in order to secure their independence. Chapter 4 of Part V of the Constitution deals with the Supreme Court, and Chapter 5 of Part VI deals with the High Courts. The salaries of judges and their age of retirement are all guaranteed in order to secure their independence. They cannot be easily removed except by way of impeachment under Articles 124(4) and 217(1)(b). They have the power to review legislation and strike it down. They can also question the acts of the executive. All this makes it clear that the framers of the Constitution envisaged an unambitious judiciary for which the only guiding values were the provisions of the Constitution. The Gogoi example It was thought that on retirement from high constitutional office, judges would lead a retired life. Nobody ever expected them to accept plum posts. But the clear demarcation between the judiciary and executive got blurred as many judges over the years began to accept posts offered by the government. A few years ago, a former Chief Justice of India (CJI) was made a Governor by the ruling BJP government. Now, we have the case of a former CJI, Ranjan Gogoi, being nominated by the President to the Rajya Sabha and taking oath as Member of Parliament. During his tenure as CJI, Justice Gogoi presided over important cases such as Ayodhya and Rafale where all the decisions went in favour of the government. This gave rise to the impression that his nomination was a reward for these ‘favours’. Thus his appointment — and that too within a few months of his retirement — not only raised eyebrows but drew severe condemnation from varied quarters. People are fast losing confidence in the so-called independent judiciary. In 2013, former Union Minister Arun Jaitley, who was also a senior Advocate, ironically said on the floor of Rajya Sabha: “I think, we are going a bit too far now, in every legislation, in creating post-retirement avenues for Judges. Almost everyone, barring a few notable, honourable men, who are an exception, wants a job after retirement. If we (Parliament) don’t create it, they themselves create it. The desire of a post-retirement job influences pre-retirement judgments. It is a threat to the independence of the Judiciary and once it influences pre-retirement judgments, it adversely impacts on the functioning of our Judiciary.” It is in this context that the appointment of Mr. Gogoi has to be perceived. An interview that Justice Gogoi gave after assuming office as member of the Rajya Sabha made the situation worse. When asked whether his nomination was a quid-pro-quo for his having delivered judgments in favour of the Central government, his answer, that he was not the only judge but there were other judges too, was damaging. His view that membership of the Rajya Sabha was not a job but a service, and that once the President nominated him the call of duty required him to accept it, only created the impression that the judiciary is pliant. A bare reading of Article 80(3) of the Constitution only envisages the President to nominate “persons having special knowledge… in literature, science, art and social service” as members to the Rajya Sabha. It is difficult to imagine that the Constitution-makers had in mind a retired CJI while framing this provision. Undoing the damage Therefore, appointments of persons who have held constitutional office will undermine the very constitutional values of impartiality in the dispensation of justice. It will also go against the clear demarcation of separation of powers. It is true that there are no rules which stood in Justice Gogoi’s way of being appointed to the Rajya Sabha. But such matters cannot be left to the individual vagaries of judges. If post-retirement appointments are going to undermine confidence in the judiciary and in constitutional democracy, it is time to have a law in place either by way of a constitutional amendment or a parliamentary enactment barring such appointments. This is the only way to secure the confidence of the people and prevent post-retirement appointments. Judges can be compensated by being given their last drawn salary as pension. Also, the age of retirement for judges can be increased by a year or two. This will undo the damage caused by post-retirement jobs. It is important to remember that judges are constitutional servants, not government servants. N.G.R. Prasad and K.K. Ram Siddhartha are Advocates, Madras High Court
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||No transparency in West Bengal||While the global media is painting a medical apocalypse, sections of the Indian media fear that reporting the Central and State governments’ specious image management during this extraordinary viral outbreak will come with consequences. Meanwhile, front line health workers — doctors, nurses and trainees, who are under-equipped and not always fully appreciated — look like lambs to the slaughter. As the fight against more infections rages, stoic and selfless, hospital staff continue to do what they are trained to do.  Delays and data issues In West Bengal, the medical fraternity claims that the State is reporting fewer cases as only a minuscule proportion of the population is getting tested. Recently, at least three healthcare workers, including interns, tested positive for the virus after delivering babies of COVID-19-positive mothers in the Kolkata Medical College and Hospital. The Gynaecology Department at the hospital was aware that the patients were COVID-19 positive, but were themselves tested for the disease only a week later. Such delays are dangerous. West Bengal has acquired the dubious reputation of conducting the least number of COVID-19 tests among the larger Indian States (62.7 per million of population). To make matters worse, its methodology for aggregating ‘asymptomatic and those under observation’, ‘sick’ and ‘deaths’ leaves important questions unanswered. Doctors complain that the Standard Operating Procedure for COVID-19 death certification has not been followed. In Kolkata Medical College and Hospital, for instance, when doctors clinically assess a person to have died of COVID-19, and is yet to be lab-tested (test results may take up to two days), the bodies in their highly infectious states have been released to family members for last rites. No tests are being conducted posthumously outside of the specialised (Level 4) hospitals converted for treating COVID-19 positive patients, doctors say. With the testing rate low, we don’t know if there are COVID-19 deaths outside Level 4 hospitals. How many are succumbing in general wards, homes and villages? Who is checking? West Bengal’s numbers come under further doubt as the State government is instructing doctors to be cautious while recording COVID-19 as the cause of death in the case of those patients who have other underlying medical conditions. This is not in keeping with international standard practices. In the U.K., doctors record a wider set as having succumbed to COVID-19, including deaths strongly suspected as being by COVID-19, even if no laboratory test has taken place, or if there are co-morbidities such as kidney, lung or heart disease. West Bengal authorities are telling doctors to do the opposite. As more healthcare workers test positive, their calls for testing much more are stonewalled. Authorities, they say, have “no intention” of doing enough tests. This is unconscionable, a galling failure of the State government’s duty of care towards medical professionals and the public. Then there is the newspeak: how do surveillance, quarantine and being under observation differ? Do these numbers (31,023) include those in self-isolation? Who collects, collates and checks these figures from hospitals and District Collectors’ offices before they reach the panicking public? Is it only up to the hospitals to track COVID-19 deaths? More questions than answers Is there bureaucratic delay in reporting or are there other unforeseen limiting circumstances such as a State budget shortage or delays from the Central government in releasing funds? If there are inevitable delays, how long will the delays be on average? Can the gaps be narrowed and closed for better estimates? Can the true numbers then be higher? There are many questions, but no answers. The lack of transparency indicate that true figures are being suppressed to appear low. Why is Mamata Banerjee’s Cabinet and the Centre unable to answer such specific questions even though citizens and businesses are eager to know? Divya Guha is a Kolkata-based independent journalist
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Exploiting a pandemic||United States President Donald Trump has announced that he would be using an executive order to suspend, for 60 days, legal immigration into the country that he has a little more than six months left to govern through his first term in office. In a tweet, he said this was in light of “the need to protect the jobs of our GREAT American Citizens”, even though the order is not expected to halt visa processing for many thousands of temporary employees, potentially including a sizeable number of Indian nationals in the H-1B skilled worker category; and seasonal workers in areas like landscaping, agribusinesses, and service jobs in hospitality, who fall into the H-2B category. The executive order, which he is expected to sign this week, will also likely carve out exemptions for certain categories of essential workers, including those in health care and who have a critical role to play in fighting the ongoing pandemic, and those who seek to immigrate via their immediate relatives. The question that Mr. Trump’s action begs is whether this is a genuine attempt to mitigate the impact of the accompanying economic crisis for American workers, or whether it is a diversionary tactic designed to shore up the President’s flagging political capital in the wake of what many have described as his ineffective crisis management strategy. For example, what impact does the White House expect this policy to have on the job market given that immigrant and non-immigrant travel into the U.S. has anyway fallen considerably over the past month, as the coronavirus toll has soared in the country to over 8,26,000 people infected and over 44,000 dead? Second, why target immigrants, who are anyway vastly outnumbered each year by job-seekers entering though the temporary visa route, when the approximately 22 million Americans who have filed for unemployment in recent weeks have done so less due to immigration and more due to the cessation of business activity in the face of the pandemic? One possibility is that the executive order is only the first of several policy salvos that the Trump administration will introduce to bolster the collapsing U.S. labour market. Yet if such a comprehensive strategy does not emerge in the coming weeks and months, then that only suggests that the President has pivoted to his signature campaign issue of immigration — like he did effectively during the 2016 election — to animate his core constituent base of blue-collar workers across the ‘red states’ of the country. If the latter theory about Mr. Trump’s motivations for announcing an immigration ban is true, then not only should Americans expect that his administration’s bumbling early response to the crisis and reckless attempts to open the economy prematurely will impose a deadly human cost on the population but also that his strident policy rhetoric on immigration will exacerbate the deep divisions in American society in the months ahead.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Script of unity||Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s reminder that COVID-19 does not recognise “race, religion, colour, caste, creed, language or border” before striking, was axiomatic but essential. The pandemic has fanned the flames of communalism instead of dousing them, as it has compounded economic woes. The Prime Minister has recognised the calamitous rage of the virus when he called for “response and conduct” that “should attach primacy to unity and brotherhood”. He cannot be more right about the fact that countries and societies can no longer afford to face off with one another and the future can be secured only through togetherness and resilience. He spoke against the backdrop of criticism of the apparent communal strand in the response of some sections to the COVID-19 challenge. The U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom and the UN expressed concern over stigmatisation, in India, of a particular community. India sought to reject these concerns as external interference, which they were. But then, as he noted, the virus threat has made borders irrelevant. There have been reports of religious discrimination towards patients. The situation was aggravated when a vocal section of the Indian diaspora, often touted as proponents of India’s interests in their host countries, was seen as Islamophobic in the UAE. Such odious digital behaviour routinely goes unquestioned in India, but in the UAE, the response has been quick. Many have lost their jobs for posting hateful content and this culture of diatribe now looms over a critical bilateral relationship that Mr. Modi has personally nurtured. The Indian Ambassador to the UAE reminded expatriates that discrimination was against “our moral fabric and the rule of law”. Indeed. The narrative of the pandemic as a communal conspiracy against the nation began to take shape immediately after a Tablighi Jamaat congregation in Delhi in March turned out to be a prodigious source of the contagion. The Centre and the Delhi government appeared to be using the unfortunate episode scripted by an irresponsible and ignorant group to fend off scrutiny of their own shortcomings. A section of the media continues to play a dishonourable role in amplifying it. In an environment that is already rife with fear and uncertainty, the official communications strategy must focus on building trust and offering reassurance. The extremely inadequate messaging has led to stigmatisation of patients and their families, and despicable incivility towards even the bodies of unfortunate victims. All this makes the Prime Minister’s statement timely. His call for unity in the face of this calamity must be translated into firm action, and a good place to begin is the government’s own messaging.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Visvanath – batsman of the year||G. R. Visvanath, the Mysore State cricketer, is very much a national hero to-day. He received the biggest ovation for any player when he made his maiden appearance at the Brabourne Stadium in Bombay in the semifinal of the Ranji trophy championship between Bombay and Mysore last month. His 95-run knock in the second innings, played on Holi day, was described by one critic as having “heralded spring.” The cricket season in the country had been a plentiful one. Amidst a mass of performances in batting the one that stands out is the century knock of Visvanath in the third Test match against Australia at Kanpur. This singular performance entitles Visvanath to the encomium of the batsman of the year. Visvanath’s century was in the second innings of his maiden Test. Though he was out for a “duck” in the first innings, in cricket parlance he has earned a name in the record book as having scored a century in his Test debut. In the first innings, Visvanath making his first entry into a Test match arena, was hustled by A. N. Connolly with a variety of deliveries— two quick ones, two bouncers and, then, a slower ball, which the young man touched for a catch at short leg by Redpath.
23 April 2020||New Delhi,||Facebook, Jio to work on ‘major projects’||Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg on Wednesday said that following the Rs. 43,574 crore investment in Jio Platforms, the two firms would work together on ‘major projects’ that would open up business opportunities for people in India. In a Facebook post, Mr. Zuckerberg said, “With communities around the world in lockdown, many of these entrepreneurs need digital tools they can rely on to find and communicate with customers and grow their businesses. This is something we can help with — and that’s why we’re partnering with Jio to help people and businesses in India create new opportunities.” He added that India, which is home to the largest communities on Facebook and WhatsApp, and a lot of talented entrepreneurs, is in the middle of a major digital transformation, and organisations such as Jio have played a big part in getting hundreds of millions of people and small businesses online. “This is especially important right now, because small businesses are the core of every economy and they need our support. India has more than 60 million small businesses and millions of people rely on them for jobs,” he said. Separately, Facebook’s chief revenue officer David Fischer, and VP and MD, India, Ajit Mohan, said in a joint blog that the $5.7 billion, or Rs. 43,574 crore, investment in Jio Platforms, makes Facebook its largest minority shareholder. The two executives of the U.S.-headquartered firm added that India was in the midst of one of the most dynamic social and economic transformations the world had ever seen, driven by the rapid adoption of digital technologies. In just the past five years, more than 560 million people in India had gained access to the Internet. “Facebook’s goal is to enable new opportunities for businesses of all sizes, but especially for the more than 60 million small businesses across India. They account for the majority of jobs in the country, and form the heart and soul of rural and urban communities alike,” they said. The focus of Facebook’s collaboration with Jio, they added, would be creating new ways for people and businesses to operate more effectively in the growing digital economy. For instance, bringing together JioMart with the power of WhatsApp, can enable people to connect with businesses, shop and ultimately purchase products in a seamless mobile experience. “India is a special country for us. Over the years, Facebook has invested in India to connect people and help businesses launch and grow. WhatsApp is so ingrained in Indian life that it has become a commonly used verb across many Indian languages and dialects... And Instagram has grown dramatically in India in recent years as the place where people follow their interests and passions,” Mr. Fischer and Mr. Mohan said in the blog. Noting that in less than four years Jio had brought more than 388 million people online, the Facebook executives said, “We are excited about furthering our investment in India’s vibrant digital economy. Our efforts with Jio will be focussed on opening new doors and fuelling India’s economic growth and the prosperity of its people. We look forward to working with Jio, and to future collaborations in India to advance this vision.”
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Offer govt. buy-back for medical supplies by MSMEs’||The Centre should come out with a stimulus package to restart the economy after prolonged period of lockdown, says commercial vehicle maker Ashok Leyland MD and CEO Vipin Sondhi  in an interview . Excerpts:   What steps should the government take to help the country come out of the crisis? A calibrated and safe exit from the lockdown would be a practical approach to restart economic activity. While the first quarter would certainly be affected, a phased recovery will help us get the economy back on track. An economic stimulus package would be critical to kickstart economic activity after this long period of disruption. Supply chains need to be re-started, migrant labourers need to come back to work (in a systematic and safe manner), and consumer demand needs to be triggered. Another initiative that can be taken in this time is to incentivise MSMEs to produce medical supplies with a buy-back arrangement from the government. What measures do you suggest to bail out cash-starved MSMEs? MSMEs form the key element of the product supply chain, be it agri-processing, textiles or auto-ancillaries. They need support from the government and some measures to be considered would be — easy access to working capital and liquidity, interest-free and collateral-free loans; incentive for MSMEs to help them pay salaries and wages to their employees in these times; ensuring all pending payments to industry / MSMEs are cleared immediately by the government departments and PSUs. We, at Ashok Leyland, have prioritised settlement of dues to MSMEs and instituted a process to pay the MSMEs five days prior to the statutory payment due date. Drivers have abandoned trucks. Is there an adequate number of drivers to retrieve the trucks and the products? The truckers should ensure that the supply chain of these essential supplies is not disrupted and the communities affected by the lockdown are cared for. We, in turn, need to care for these truckers and some of the measures the government could take to assist the drivers are — providing minimum wages to the drivers, instituting a driver risk allowance for the next 6-9 months which can be charged to the customer, akin to service charges in a restaurant, and incorporating a transport cess which can be used for their welfare. To ensure that their health and safety are cared for, insurance coverage could be provided to the drivers and the working conditions could be mandated. For drivers who are transporting essentials across the country, assistance needs to be provided in the form of food, water, essentials, and service support at pit-stops along the highways. Funding for pit-stops could be routed through the CSR budgets of companies.
23 April 2020||COIMBATORE,||Loyal gears up to fight COVID-19 battle||Even as the country is battling the COVID-19 pandemic, Loyal Textile Mills had started working on masks and personal protective gear almost two months ago following a meeting that the representatives of the Union government had with textile industries. It was decided to focus on affordable and reusable, high-standard products. Made in the garment factories of the company at six locations in Tamil Nadu— Sattur, Kovilpatti, Arasanur, Cuddalore, Mayavaram, and Madurai — and supplied under its brand Supera Shield (SS), the masks come in four variants. The PPE kit includes a wrap-around gown, a coverall, head and shoe covers, face shield, gloves and a biodegradable disposable bag. Devadas Dhamodaraswamy, chief technology officer of the firm, told The Hindu that the company started with a single-layer knitted mask which undergoes silver nano ion anti-bacterial treatment. Variety of masks The company now produces SS 72, SS 96 and SS 99 types of masks. Supera Shield 72 is a three-layer woven fabric mask made of combed, BCI-certified organic cotton. The inner layer has anti-bacterial-treated fabric, outer layer gets water-repellant treatment and the middle layer is treated with silicon. For SS 96, the middle layer is replaced with non-woven, five-ply melt-blown composite for higher bacterial filtration efficiency. The SS 99 mask has a middle layer that is PU barrier. It provides 99% efficiency. These are all surgical mask types, he said. “We plan to focus on the SS 96 and SS 99 masks and later, look at export opportunities, too,” he said. Since chairperson Valli Ramaswamy and director Vishala Ramaswamy want to come out with reusable N95-equivalent masks, the company is developing such products too. Loyal sources the basic fabric from Nashik and the PU from Taiwan and these are outsourced for lamination. It has a capacity to produce 75,000 masks and 1,000 PPEs a day and is in the process of ramping up capacity to produce two lakh masks and 5,000 PPEs a day. Responsible pricing “The price of SS 99 is Rs. 30 a piece, excluding the transportation and GST costs. Our chairperson wanted socially-responsible pricing,” he added. In the case of PPEs, Loyal has worked with its in-house and IIT Delhi researchers, doctors at AIIMS and the World University of Design, New Delhi. “We have supplied seven lakh pieces of masks in the last one month and nearly 4,000 pieces of PPEs in the last one week,” A. Velliangiri chief executive officer of the company added.
23 April 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Permit retail in non-virus zones’||Retailers Association of India (RAI) has asked the government to allow the opening of establishments such as shops and malls dealing in non-essential items along with restarting of manufacturing activity in non-COVID-19 zones, stating without retail consumption, manufacturing will have little meaning. Committing to adhere to the highest safety standards in terms of social distancing and hygiene, the association has pleaded for a gradual opening up of retail units to boost consumption and ensure job retention. Retailers have also asked the government to provide subsidy of up to 50% for payment of the salary of employees earning up to Rs. 25,000, 25% additional working capital credit line to pay salaries, working capital loans of three months of sales at a very low rate of interest and a moratorium of six to nine months for repayment of loans which will help in achieving normalcy in nine to 12 months. They said all earlier loans should get a similar moratorium and GST across the board for retail should be reduced to boost consumption and reboot the economy. Open shops, multiplexes “Twenty-five million people working in the sector will be impacted if shops selling non-essential goods remain closed. If retail does not open, then manufacturing will be [hit]. Malls, shops and multiplexes must open,” said B.S. Nagesh, chairman, RAI. He said RAI has come out with safety standards to be implemented across all retail units to provide safe shopping experience to customers.
23 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Fund-raising to get easier for stressed firms||Markets regulator Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has made it easier for listed, stricken companies to raise money from potential investors. SEBI has relaxed the pricing norms for preferential allotment by such companies while also exempting investors in such issuances from making open offers if they acquire a substantial stake in the listed entity. “It has been represented that the pricing guidelines are too onerous for any financial investor to consider investments in a stressed company,” stated the SEBI discussion paper. The regulator has proposed that preferential allotment can be done at a price that is not less than the average of the weekly high and low of the volume weighted average prices of the shares during the two weeks preceding the relevant date. Erosion in share value Typically, a preferential allotment is priced on the preceding 26 weeks share price movement which is practically difficult for stressed companies since the shares see massive erosion in their value. Further, the regulator has proposed that if an investor had acquired more than 25% in the company by way of preferential allotment, he will be exempted from making an open offer for further 26% shares. However, as a safeguard, SEBI has proposed that the allotment can only be made to entities that are not part of the promoter group and the resolutions related to the allotment and the exemption from making an open offer will have to be approved by a majority of minority shareholders. Lock-in period Further, the shares allotted will have a three-year lock-in period. Meanwhile, for a company to qualify as a stressed entity, it should comply with at least two of the three criteria, namely default on its payment obligations for two consecutive quarters, credit rating of listed securities downgraded to D and existence of inter-creditor agreement in terms of Reserve Bank of India (Prudential Framework for Resolution of Stressed Assets) Directions 2019 dated June 7, 2019.
23 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Indices surge as Jio turns Facebook friend||Indian benchmarks gained over 2% on Wednesday on the back of strong gains in Reliance Industries and an overall positive trend in most Asian markets. The 30-share Sensex gained 742.84 points, or 2.42%, to close at 31,379.55. Index heavyweight Reliance Industries was the biggest contributor to the day’s gains, surging 10.30% as Facebook announced it will pick up almost 10% stake in Reliance Jio. The Nifty closed at 9,187.30, up 205.85 points, or 2.29%. The India VIX index dipped a little over 5% on Wednesday. In the broader market, however, selling pressure was also visible as 1,135 stocks declined against 1,254 that gained. The Sensex pack comprised 16 gainers with stocks such as Nestle India, IndusInd Bank, Maruti Suzuki, Hindustan Unilever and Hero Motocorp gaining between 3% and 4% each.
23 April 2020||Mumbai,||Rupee recovers after hitting fresh lows||The rupee hit a fresh low on Wednesday but recovered later, supported by a rise in domestic equities and some weakness in the dollar. The rupee opened weaker at 76.90 a dollar compared with the previous close of 76.83 and then touched an all-time low of 76.92. The previous all-time low was reached earlier this month when the rupee touched 76.87 to a dollar. The rupee finally closed the day at 76.68, up 15 paise from the previous close. The Sensex closed up 742.84 points, or 2.42% higher, compared with the previous close. Currency dealers said there would be pressure on the rupee going forward as the domestic unit should breach the 77-a-dollar mark in the near term “Despite some gains in today’s session, the sentiment still remains skewed on the downside as the global economy is reeling under the impact of COVID-19 and there is no end in sight to this pandemic. “In case the level of 77 is taken out, then rupee looks to quickly resume a downhill move towards the 77.50 mark. On the flip side, the zone of 75.30-75.20 will act as a strong hurdle for the domestic currency,” said Sugandha Sachdeva, analyst, Religare Broking.  If 77 level is taken out, then rupee looks to quickly resume a downhill move towards 77.5Sugandha SachdevaAnalyst, Religare Broking
23 April 2020||Mumbai,||Kotak bank to raise up to Rs. 7,800 cr. equity capital||Private sector bank Kotak Mahindra Bank will be raising between Rs. 7,500 -7,800 crore equity capital by issuing 6.5 crore shares, the lender informed the exchanges. “... the board has accorded its approval for raising of capital by way of issue of equity shares, by the bank for up to 6,50,00,000 equity shares of Rs. 5 each, through a private placement, follow-on public offering (FPO), qualified institutions placement (QIP) or a combination [of both],” the lender said. “At current market prices, the bank can raise anywhere between Rs. 7,500 crore and Rs. 7,800 crore, which will boost its tier-I capital by 300 bps [basis points],” said Rajiv Mehta, an analyst with Yes Securities. “This will also help the bank to fortify its balance sheet to take on any provisioning arising out of the COVID-19 shock.” The fund raising will also help the bank’s promoter Uday Kotak to reduce his stake. According to the plan approved by the Reserve bank of India, Mr. Kotak has to reduce his stake to 26% from 29.9% by September 30. The fund raising will help Mr. Kotak to dilute stake by 1%. “With the current dilution of 6.5 crore shares, promoter’s stake will come down to 29%. He is holding 57 crore shares in the company. The overall share capital is 192 crore. So, 6.5 crore shares will only be a dilution of 1%,” Mr. Mehta said.
23 April 2020||Mumbai,||RBI, PSBs staff 1-day pay to go to PM CARES||A day’s salary of employees of the Reserve Bank of India as well as those of public sector banks will now be deducted by default for contribution to the PM CARES Fund, banking industry sources said. The employees who do now want to contribute their one day’s salary will have to inform within a specific date. “It has been decided that an amount of encashment of one day’s privilege leave and deduction of one day’s salary of every employee (payable in the month of April 2020) of every staff member will be collected by HRMS Department and contributed to the ‘PM CARES Fund’,” a circular issued by the State Bank of India said.
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||TRAI invites comments on SUC review||The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) on Wednesday sought comments from stakeholders on the need to take a relook at the current methodology of assessment of spectrum usage charge (SUC) payable by operators in case of sharing of airwaves. Currently, the SUC rate for each licensee post-sharing of spectrum increases by 0.5% of Adjusted Gross Revenue. However, the Department of Telecom received representations that the incremental SUC should be applied only to the particular spectrum band which has been allowed to be shared between the two licensees and not on the entire spectrum held by the licensees.
23 April 2020||Chennai,||AITD institutes award for young IRTS officers||The Asian Institute of Transport Development (AITD) has announced an award of Rs. 50,000 to young IRTS officers for development and managing SETU. This platform offers an opportunity to provide transport solutions in this hour of crises. AITD, headed by K.L. Thapar, IRTS, is an institute based in Delhi working on transport issues. It has got consultative status with the UN.
23 April 2020||Chennai,||IOB unveils working capital loans for agriculture sector||Public sector lender Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) has launched an exclusive credit facility for agriculture and allied activities. Titled WCDL-Agri (working capital demand loan – agriculture), these loans will be available to all existing borrowers enjoying cash credit/OD facilities, from sectors such as agriculture, poultry, dairy, fisheries and allied activities, said the bank. Borrowers will not be charged any processing fee or pre-payment penalty.
23 April 2020||Chennai,||Venkat was all style, grace and ruthlessness||He is picture perfect with his bowling action when you scan through old photographs. His long mane flowing back, him classically side-on with the pivot and the hip-drive, and the ball, with serious revs, leaving his supple fingers in a manner that is timeless. Srinivas Venkatraghavan was an amalgam of style and grace, impeccable but also ruthless on the field. Venkat turned 75 on Tuesday and it marked an important landmark in a riveting journey that saw him donning different roles with panache and sincerity. Nine roles “I thank the Lord for the opportunities he gave me and I was fortunate to have nine different roles in my career, and I enjoyed each one of them equally,” said the off-spinning great in a conversation with The Hindu . A member of the legendary Indian spin quartet that peaked in the 70s, Venkat also captained India in a Test series in England and at two World Cups. He was, among others, an administrator, selector, manager, coach, match-referee, a part of a bio-mechanical panel, and a famous international umpire. “I am the only one to captain one’s country at Lord’s and also umpire at the Mecca of cricket. I am immensely proud of that,” he said. Venkat looked back with affection and happiness at his former spin partners, Erapalli Prasanna, Bishan Bedi, and Bhagwat Chandrasekhar. Great bonding “Exchanging ideas with them was wonderful. When one of us had an off-day, the other would step up. We had great bonding.” Venkat, who spun the ball sharply, was both parsimonious and attacking. There was this bite and bounce for him off the surface because of his height, high-arm action and work on the ball. Venkat played a major role — he scalped 22, choking the run-flow and making inroads — in India’s sensational maiden Test series triumph in the West Indies over Garry Sobers’ formidable side in 1971. Then, Venkat performed a crucial role as a foil for an inspired Chandrasekar as India ambushed England in England for its first Test series win in the Old Blighty. Venkat gave skipper Ajit Wadekar control from one end, and also captured 13 wickets. Changed dynamics Venkat, though, is hesitant to compare eras. “There are some fine young spinners now. The dynamics of the game has changed.” He said, “For instance, I have seen Sunil Gavaskar face some menacing West Indian fast bowlers at their peak on the quick Caribbean pitches. And when Gavaskar took on the Aussies at Perth, the pitch was real fast, not like now.” He added, “Now, you cannot hold that against Sachin, because he did not get to face those bowlers on those wickets.” Similarly, Venkat wonders what Don Bradman might have accomplished had he played on covered pitches. Quest for perfection Venkat’s was a quest for perfection — he was outstanding at gully — in the various roles he took up. “I did not reach perfection all the time, but I tried,” he said. A complete cricketing personality Venkat certainly is. He is still only 75.  “I am the only one to captain one’s country at Lord’s and also umpire at the Mecca of cricket. I am immensely proud of that
23 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Cricket’s unsung workers face a struggle for survival||The months of April and May typically see a host of competitive matches featuring young cricketers representing their coaching academies. The reputed academies ensure that proficient umpires and scorers are in charge of these games. This demand has helped the likes of A. Mathan Kumar, a qualified TNCA scorer who took to the profession when he moved to the city to pursue his graduation.   But the current shutdown has meant coaches, markers / groundsmen, umpires and scorers are now left in the lurch during what is their peak earning season. While scorers receive about Rs. 700 per day for their services, umpires are paid between Rs. 1,500 and Rs. 2,000. “Scoring helped me fund most of my education and I even managed to send money home sometimes. Because college is shut during these months, we would officiate for nearly 30-45 days,” said Kumar, an M.Sc student (Sports Biomechanics and Kinesiology) at the Tamil Nadu Physical Education and Sports University. Ajanth Kumar, a non-qualified umpire, has been officiating in college and academy tournaments for the last few decades. “This shutdown has dealt a severe blow to me,” he said. “I depend only on cricket for my monthly income and this is when we are the busiest. The cricketing fraternity trusts my quality and fairness, and wants my services to officiate in matches which are important for kids.” It is even tougher for markers and groundsmen, who — barring the few that receive monthly retainers — depend on daily allowances. G. Mahendran, a former groundsman who has since turned into a throwdown specialist, said, “Groundsmen are the most hardworking people and this has come at the wrong time. They depend on this to put food on their plate.” Mahendran, who was with TNPL side Dindigul Dragons, has been affected, too. He said he is staring at a loss of about Rs. 1.5 to 2 lakh. “I work for five to six hours a day and can earn a few thousand rupees. Thankfully, the hard work I did before this will help me stay afloat for a while, but if this extends, even I will be in trouble.”
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘In chess, you don’t have to turn a pro’||“I get worried if 12-13-year olds want to take up full-time chess careers. In all professions, uncertainty is very high and parents should give their children the flexibility to decide what they want to do.”  The advice, from five-time World chess champion Viswanathan Anand, came during his online interaction with Sports Authority of India administrators on Wednesday. Answering questions from Bad Soden in Germany, Anand said, “Children should not make a decision on a full-time career, in chess, till the age of 18 and till you finish your studies. In chess, you do not have to turn professional.” In response to another question, Anand said, “Online chess has always been popular but we are hearing far more of it now because of the pandemic and the lockdown. “However, what needs to be seen now is if we can improve the level of these online competitions. In a few weeks from now we will compete in the Online Nations Cup which will see teams from four countries and two continents participating. With technology, everything is possible now.” Speaking on the importance of fitness for chess players, Anand pointed out, “Fitness is not a problem when you are young, but it becomes a factor when you start getting older. Go for a week to a SAI facility and take up fitness with athletes from other sports.”  Parents should give their children the flexibility to decide what they want to do
23 April 2020||KOLKATA,||AIBA mulling bringing headgears back for boxers||Noticing the growing concern among support staff about head injuries to boxers, the International Boxing Association (AIBA) is deliberating on bringing back the headgear for male amateur boxers. Dr. Karanjeet Singh, who represented the Asian Boxing Confederation (ASBC) in an inter-continental medical commission meeting of the AIBA in Laussane last month, felt that it would be a wise decision. “Over the last six-seven years, the number of cuts on the head and face has increased due to the absence of headgear. The agenda of the meeting was to find medical reasons to reinstate headgear and reduce concussion and cuts on the face,” Karanjeet told The Hindu . “We presented some facts which we have noted here in India. For example, in the boxing league there were 15 per cent injuries in close to 100 bouts (for men) while there was no injury in the National camp, where we had about 500 bouts in 31 sparring sessions from November 15 to March 18, in Patiala. “The use of headgear is compulsory during training and trials. Even professional boxers wear headgear during training. The other point is without the headgear, incidents of head-butting have increased. It inflicts serious injuries on boxers.”  According to Karanjeet there were favourable opinions in the meeting about the return of headgear for men. Coming to injury management during lockdown Karanjeet said, “It is important to stay hydrated and avoid muscular cramps and spasms. The boxers should follow the coaches’ advice and train accordingly while staying safe at home.”
23 April 2020||KOCHI,||Blasters sign Vicuna as new coach||The Kerala Blasters FC has appointed Spaniard Kibu Vicuna as its new head coach for the Indian Super League on Wednesday evening after announcing that it was parting ways with Dutchman Eelco Schattorie. The 48-year-old Vicuna guided Mohun Bagan to the I-League title last month. That was Bagan's last season in the I-League and the Kolkata giant has now merged with ATK and will play in the Indian Super League later this year as a combined side. “We'd like to thank Eelco for his efforts and services during his tenure and wish him the best for the future,” the club said, earlier in the day. Schattorie had come to Kochi after having guided NorthEast United to the semifinal the previous season. But Blasters finished only seventh in the last ISL, with four wins from 18 matches. The Blasters' pre-season preparations last year had been poor — the club was forced to cancel a few matches in the UAE — and a number of its stars were injured, and Schattorie frequently blamed these for the team's disappointing results. The club had signed Lithuanian Karolis Skinkys as its sporting director last month.
23 April 2020||New Delhi,||Anand to helm Indian team in Nations Cup||Five-time World champion Viswanathan Anand is set to lead the strongest possible Indian team while former champion Garry Kasparov returns to join the elite chess players when the six-team Online Nations Cup takes place from May 5-10. As per the announcement made by FIDE, Russia, United States, China, India, Europe and “Rest of the World” forms the field in this $180,000 event. Chess.com will provide the playing platform. Kasparov is set to captain Europe. Initially, Vladimir Kramnik was named to be “captain”of the Indian team. But the Russian clarified his position and declined to accept the role. World champion Magnus Carlsen, too, will not be part of this event. Humpy, Harika included India’s squad will comprise Anand, Vidit Gujrathi, P. Hari Krishna and B. Adhiban. Since it is mandatory to have a woman player in the team, K. Humpy and D. Harika will complete the squad. The final list of participants, from all teams, will be released shortly. Each match will comprise four boards, including one reserved for the women. The matches will follow the rapid format — 25 minutes on the clock plus 10-second increment for every move. After the league stage, the final will be held on May 10.  Since it is an online, cash-rich event, FIDE-appointed international arbiters will keep an eye on the players to ensure they don’t get any help from an outside source. The players’ webcam, computer screen and their location will be under constant supervision. In a statement, the FIDE President Arkady Dvorkovich said, “The reasons why an official tournament like this has to be conducted online are very unfortunate — but we are happy to see that chess is providing solace to millions of people who are under a home lockdown.”
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Caruana in second spot||Fabiano Caruana and Ian Nepomniachtchi bounced from one-point deficits to complete 3-2 wins over Ding Liren and Maxime Vachier-Lagrave in the third round of Magnus Carlsen Invitational online chess tournament on Tuesday. After the first two games ended in draws, Liren took the third to move within a draw of winning the best-of-four game encounter. But Caruana, who now shares the second spot, drew level by winning the fourth. In the tie-break Armageddon game, Caruana played black and was declared the winner for denying his rival a win with white pieces.   The results: Third round: Fabiano Caruana (USA) bt Ding Liren 3-2; Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) bt Maxime Vachier Lagrave (Fra) 3-2.   Standings (after three rounds): 1-2. Magnus Carlsen (Nor), Fabiano Caruana (USA) (5 points).   3-5. Maxime Vachier Lagrave (Fra), Hikaru Nakamura (USA), Ding Liren (Chn) (4 each).   6. Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus) (2), 7-8. Alireza Firouzja (Iri) and Anish Giri (Ned) (0 each).
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||IOA takes stock of situation||The Indian Olympic Association (IOA) preparations committee, headed by Lalit Bhanot, held a meeting with NSF representatives on Wednesday to take stock of the situation in light of the COVID-19 and decide the way forward towards Tokyo 2021. While there was unanimity that the younger athletes who have already qualified for the Olympics would benefit from the delay by gaining experience, there would be others who may not be able to sustain another year, indicating there might be a change of course in terms of player selection across sports. “Athletes who have been carrying injuries and who have already matured may find it difficult to carry on for another year under extreme conditions. Some have already taken maximum load to peak in 2020, they may find it difficult to sustain…” the Federations maintained. It was decided that training would be restricted to within the country at least till the end of this year, and only at SAI Centres, after discussing the requisite protocols and guidelines with SAI and sports ministry. Help was also sought to decide on extensions to coaches and other staff on a priority basis.
23 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Indian paddlers need their own training centre||Team India coach Brett Clarke of Australia said Indian table tennis needs to have its own training centre like the ones in Germany, Portugal and Denmark if it hopes to be one of the top countries in the sport. “It can be anywhere in India. Maybe in Delhi or somewhere where all the top players, especially the youth can train. It is a must. Then players don’t have to spend lots of money to train abroad. We can also bring in players from other countries like China and South Korea with help from the [Indian] Government,” said the 47-year-old while speaking to Sports Authority of India coaches and players via teleconference on Wednesday on the topic of ‘Advancing Indian Table Tennis through Coach Education’. Brett said Hurricane rubbers — from China — can be used by Indian players on their paddles to get better results, even if it is slightly different from the one used by top Chinese paddlers. The Olympian said Hurricane rubbers are ideal for strong forehand play. “It (Hurricane rubber) is harder, has a sticky surface and is best for service, receive and forehand. I would like to see 20 % of Indians use this rubber,” he said. According to Clarke, the impact of Chinese rubbers can be witnessed in European players using them now. “[Top German players] Timo Boll and Dimitrij Ovtcharov are using a copy of Hurricane rubbers on their forehand and Japan’s [16-year-old whiz kid] Harimoto Tomakazu might have to use it,” said the former coach of the Australian men’s team.
23 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Best way to beat boredom is to revisit special moments’||London Olympics bronze medallist Gagan Narang is more relaxed than many of his contemporaries. The reason? The enforced break has actually allowed the ace shooter to dig deep into his archive of nature and wildlife photographs. “I feel the best way to beat boredom is by revisiting all those wonderful moments I captured on my camera and by spending invaluable time with my parents,” says the 36-year-old in a chat with The Hindu . “Besides those priceless moments when I bring honours to the country — especially the pride we feel when the national flag flutters as we stand on the medal podium — I feel joy when I am out there in the wild or shooting some of nature’s gifts to us,” he explains. “For any athlete, it is important to be mentally fresh. It is not all about physical fitness. So, I am sure everyone aiming high is conscious of the importance of staying in touch with their respective disciplines and maintaining fitness levels,” says Gagan. “It will be a huge challenge for any athlete to start all over again, after having tuned themselves for a specific Olympics schedule before the Games were postponed to next year,” says the former World Cup champion. “So, the athletes have to stay focused, reset their training programme accordingly, and prepare for the new qualification norms. The ability to take things in your stride is what separates you from the crowd,” he says. Missing his wards What does he miss the most these days? “I miss my young champions. Given the results my trainees at Gun For Glory Academy have produced, it is disappointing to have this kind of break for sure,” he says, hoping the young talent stays focused. “Once this lockdown is lifted, I will be visiting all the centres to resume intensive training sessions to make up for lost time.”
23 April 2020||MUMBAI,||BCCI looks to make inroads into ICC boardroom||The Board of Control for Cricket in lndia (BCCI) is likely to act during the COVID-19 pandemic to not only try and help smaller cricket nations stay afloat financially but also regain its clout within the International Cricket Council (ICC). The chief executives of the ICC’s full members are set to discuss the possibility of deferring the World Test Championship (WTC) and the ODI Super League during Thursday’s meeting of the Chief Executives Committee (CEC). With the CEC preparing to deliberate on a rejigged Future Tours Programme (FTP) assuming a possible resumption of international cricket towards the end of the year, the BCCI is understood to have opened discussions with multiple boards through backroom channels. It is learnt that the BCCI has been offering tours to virtually every full member in the reworked FTP to ensure other boards can generate income through broadcast deals. Significantly for the BCCI, such an arrangement will help it claw its way back into ICC’s boardroom. The BCCI’s influence in the game’s governing body has been on the wane over the last four years with Shashank Manohar at the helm. Although a former BCCI president, Manohar — ICC’s first independent chairman — is perceived to have not let the BCCI have its cake and eat it too, as regards the ICC’s revenue sharing model. As a result, the BCCI has been sidelined in the ICC boardroom. “If other boards are assured of a tour by the Indian team, that income coupled with the appearance money the BCCI pays every board for releasing its players for the Indian Premier League, may result in other members toeing BCCI’s line in the ICC,” said an observer. Manohar’s successor is scheduled to be elected during the ICC Board meeting in June but the pandemic could result in the process being delayed. If the BCCI can garner substantial votes, it can re-emerge as the kingmaker in the ICC in the post-pandemic world.
23 April 2020||New Delhi,||Boxers raise funds for Dingko||Seasoned Indian boxers Vijender Singh and Manoj Kumar have stepped forward to raise funds for Asian Games gold-winning former pugilist Dingko Singh, who is battling liver cancer and will be flown to the national capital on April 25 for radiation therapy. The duo and some other boxers and coaches have connected over a WhatsApp group to raise over Rs. 1 lakh, transferred directly to Dingko’s account through online payment modes.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Vijender live!||Catch India’s Olympic medallist and boxing ace Vijender Singh in a live chat on Sportstar ’s Instagram handle (@Sportstarweb) on April 23 (Thursday) at 6.30 p.m. IST.
23 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Gopi Chand academy’s contribution||Players, coaches and staff of Pullela Gopi Chand Badminton Academy have donated Rs. 2.5 lakh each to the Cyberabad Police, Telangana CM’s relief fund and GHMC (Gachibowli Division) to fight against the spread of Covid-19. “We wish to inform the Cyberabad Police and all citizens that we stand united in the fight against the dreaded virus. Also regularly, we are informing our players, coach, staff and parents to maintain social distancing, hygiene conditions and more importantly stay at home,” said Gopi on Wednesday.
23 April 2020||KOLKATA,||Finance expert-cum-bhajan singer raising funds for lockdown-hit artistes||Ramesh Subramanian likes to call himself “Kolkatar chhele ” (boy from Kolkata), having been born and raised in the Tollygunge area of the city. He moved to Chennai — then Madras — when he was 17, and today, at the age of 47, he is an expert in finance and accounting, having studied at UCLA, Harvard and Stanford. But finance is his day job. Mr. Subramanian is also a bhajan artiste, performing namasankeerthanam across India and the world for the past 28 years despite his professional commitments. Today he is doing his bit for fellow artistes, whose livelihood depends solely on performances, which now stand cancelled or postponed indefinitely due to the lockdown. It was on his initiative that ‘Naamasankeerthanam’, a WhatsApp group of 65 people drawn from across the globe, decided to raise funds for full-time bhajan artistes, including vocalists, mridangam players and dholak players. “Due to the COVID-19 situation, programmes of these artistes have been cancelled for the next three months. As a result, these people are finding it difficult to run their families. “There are about 1,000 such people, of which we have so far been able to help 80 with amounts ranging from Rs. 7000 to Rs. 10,000 each, totally disbursing about Rs. 7,50,000 within a span of one week starting April 2, on the auspicious day of Ramanavami,” Mr. Subramanian told The Hindu . ‘Most deserving’ “We were able to do this due to the commitments we received from over 100 people from across India, the U.K. and the UAE. These are people within the WhatsApp group or connected with them. “We kept the process transparent by asking sponsors to directly transfer funds to beneficiaries. “Albeit a logistical challenge, we chose this path to keep questions at bay. The artistes were chosen by recommendations from various quarters and cross-validated to ensure they were indeed the most deserving,” he said. “A few sponsors have already indicated that they would be willing to make donations for the month of May as well. “We will analyse the needs and take a call on the next steps — we hope reaching out to a wider audience,” Mr. Subramanian said. To raise funds, the group formed a core team that included Shankar Hariharan, C.S. Hariharan, S. Krishnagopal, Bombay Anand, Melarcode Ravi, Palghat Karthik, Palghat Saji, Dubai Mahadevan and Palghat M.R. Ramachandran.
23 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||JNTBGRI to play key role in sequencing of Indian species||The Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute (JNTBGRI) here is gearing up to play a key role in a nationwide project to decode the genetic information of all known species of plants and animals in the country. The Institute has been selected as one of the Biological Knowledge and Resource Centres of the Indian Initiative on Earth BioGenome Sequencing (IIEBS). It will join hands with other premier research institutes to utilise cutting edge technologies for genome sequencing. The Union Department of Biotechnology has allotted Rs. 143.89 lakh for JNTBGRI to take up the project. 24 institutes The whole genome sequencing of 1,000 species of plants and animals will be taken up in the initial phase of IIEBS to be completed over a period of five years at an estimated cost of Rs. 440 crore. The National Institute of Plant Genome Research, New Delhi is the coordinating centre for the nationwide project involving a total of 24 institutes. JNTBGRI Director R. Prakashkumar said the project was part of the Earth BioGenome Project, an international initiative to catalogue life on the planet. “This will eventually lead to the generation of the genetic blueprint of all living forms,” he said.  Described as a “moonshot  for Biology”, EBP aims to sequence the genetic codes of all of earth’s eukaryotic biodiversity over a period of 10 years. The digital repository of genome sequences is expected to provide the critical infrastructure for better understanding of ecosystems and conservation of biodiversity as well as the development of new treatments for infectious and inherited diseases, agricultural products, biomaterials and biological fuels. Dr. Prakashkumar said India’s participation in the EBP would provide a boost for the field of genomics and bioinformatics within the country. “The project will enable collection and preservation of endangered and economically important species. The decoded genetic information will also be a useful tool to prevent biopiracy,” he said. With over 5,000 plant species in its field gene bank and conservatories, JNTBGRI has a major role in conserving the endemic flora of the Western Ghats.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 07:51 IST,||Sudoku - April 23, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Bin there done that?||World over, people are getting dressed for garbage. And no, we are not metaphorically speaking. It’s 6 pm. A young lady wears her false eyelashes and lip gloss, followed by a slinky cocktail dress, high heels and off she goes to take out her trash bin. Nearby, in another street, a bride daintily walks down an imaginary aisle with a corsage in one hand and a bin in the other. Not too far away, Lord Voldemort is out and about, still looking for Harry Potter, while disposing off garbage. Bin nights are all the rage now, especially in Australia where Danielle Askew, a kindergarten teacher, sparked off a trend with her Facebook group called Bin Isolation Outing. Started on March 28, the group has around 978,118 members from all over the world, with most of them sending in entries of their bin day outfits. “We have 20,000 pending posts a day,” says Askew, based in Queensland. Bin Isolation Outing is Askew’s way of keeping the humour going even in these uncertain times. And she never expected the kind of following the page has received. It all started with a meme her friend posted on Facebook. “It read: ‘Isolation day 6. It’s bin night, I’m excited to go out.’ So, I dared her to dress up. I dressed up too and created a page for us to have a giggle,” says Askew. Her choice of outfit: the blue Elsa gown from Frozen , complete with a crown and pearl necklace. Her kindergarten students of course loved it and so did a lot of people on social media. “This page, I believe, has given people something to look forward to and it gives them a reason to dress up,” she says. So far Australia has the most participating members with others slowly trying to catch up. “People have been very creative. It’s amazing watching what they are coming up with.” From pictures and videos (you also see grandmothers on bikes and grandfathers dressed as princesses) to people making an entire production out of their taking-the-bin-out process, this page has it all. A couple made a murder mystery skit, a kid from Colorado strapped on his skiis and waded through fresh powdery snow in his drive way while tagging the bin along, and another family did a jamming session around their trash cans. A few others chose to enact scenes from their favourite Netflix series: Basia McAuley’s post had her daughter dressed as Eleven from Stranger Things and she pretended to use telekinetic powers to move the bin out. The video was shot with the series’ theme music playing in the background. Following the success of this group, a few others have cropped up too. Bill Wilson started a similar page in the UK that has people in swimwear, diving suits, onesies, dressed as cows, the Cookie Monster... There is also a video of a group of residents in Enfield Town (Greater London) dancing to YMCA (while maintaining social distancing) as bins stand guard. Instagram has hundreds of posts with #binnights and #putyourbinsoutinyourballgown. Such is its lure that residents are baking “Bin Night” cakes in its honour. And now there are intense discussions, not over what to get from the grocery store, but what to wear for the next bin night. Do you have your outfit sorted?  Utter rubbish It is believed that garbage bins first appeared in 1875 after garbage collection became an official system in England. That is when the first receptacle was used to store ash from burned waste.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||The bard in lockdown||One of the most obvious aspects of reimagining William Shakespeare on his 456 birth anniversary, (April 23) is to draw parallels between the COVID-19 pandemic and the raging bubonic plague of the Elizabethan era, a time when the legendary playwright was penning some of his best works. The plague surfaced first in London in 1592, to return in a lethal form in 1603 when it wiped out almost 30,000 city dwellers. It revisited in 1606 after an assassination attempt against King James 1 had been foiled. The times were both politically volatile and shrouded in gloom. Some similarities are striking. The plague, caused by infected flea from small animals, was a malady for which a cure was not in sight. Quarantine measures were the best containment option. Mass gatherings were banned and playhouses shut. Violators were punished. In Romeo and Juliet (1595), the messenger, carrying the most vital news of Juliet being alive, is thwarted in his journey by the law keepers in Act 5 Scene 3, Lines 8-11. When the plague raged, London playhouses remained shut for more than 60% of the time. The theatres were also frowned upon by the Puritans. Making a political connect between the two situations, Professor PJ Thomas , Head of the Department of English at St Berchmans College, Changanassery in Kerala says, “Shakespeare lost close relatives and family members — three siblings and a child — to the plague. He wrote many of his tragedies in quarantine but it is Measure For Measure , that is closest to these times. The play is about political corruption. Any disaster is fertile ground for politicians to take undue advantage; it happened in the play, it is happening now.” The year Shakespeare was born, 1564, plague raged close to his home at Stratford-upon-Avon. In the burial register of the Holy Trinity parish church were written succinctly foreboding words: ‘hic incepit pestis’ (‘here begins the plague’). Born into the pestilence, as his parents were in quarantine at his birth, he was never out of its deathly shadow. But strangely not a single character from his plays dies of plague, nor does the disease loom in the backdrop or play a catalyst, except in Romeo and Juliet. Emma Smith, Professor of Shakespeare Studies, University of Oxford, says, “The plague is everywhere and nowhere in his work.” Shakespeare in Venus and Adonis , makes a reference to the disease when the goddess begs Adonis for a kiss, “to drive infection from the dangerous year,” and claims, “the plague is banish’d by thy breath.” Talitha Mathew, former journalist writes, that the plague plays a defining role in Romeo and Juliet . “‘A plague on both your houses!’, cries Mercutio, close friend of Romeo, as he dies in a street brawl between the warring Montagues and Capulets.” Shakespeare’s works bring kings, courtiers and fools on the same stage; the modern pandemic.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||A battle dance against COVID-19||Paper mache seems like an unlikely weapon against COVID-19. Till you realise that in Seraikela, Jharkand, chhau artisans are spiritedly pushing back against the virus using their skills to create fierce, but joyful, masks. In April every year, for more than a century, this community has celebrated Spring with chhau, a masked ritual dance drama. This year, in response to the pandemic and resulting lockdown, the artisans are instead finding inventive ways to create personal protective equipment (PPE). Since there is a current shortage of surgical and N95 masks for frontline workers, all over the world people are designing makeshift masks, repurposing everything from bandanas to Halloween costumes. In this anxious frenzy, the chhau artisans’ work is an encouraging example of how even PPE can be practical, but also celebratory. Amitava Ghosh, the Jamshedpur-based vice president and founder secretary of Kalamandir, which works with artisans facilitating local resource mobilisation and capacity building, has been closely working with the mask makers of Jharkhand. Now, along with Gurgaon-based Leenika Jacob of the Kala Chaupal Trust, Prabhat Kumar Mahatao (who Amitava refers to as the ‘chhau guru’), and the artisans of Seraikela, they have created a prototype of chhau PPE. In this the mask is made the traditional way, layering paper mache, cloth and clay, with an additional three ply fabric used inside to cover the nostrils. Amitava’s days are a whirlwind of activity, despite the lockdown, as they race against time to put the project together, communicating solely through often-patchy phone calls. “The artisans are in a hilly area, so Prabhat takes his phone up when we need to talk. This is the high season for them, from April to September,” he says, adding, “So many are dependent on chhau: dancers, musicians, mask makers, costume makers and face painters. As we were discussing this COVID-19 crisis, the mask makers said, ‘We have no money saved. We have nothing in our hands. What do we do?’” If this works, it could provide an income for not just the Seraikela community, but potentially open up avenues for artisans around the world. “Instead of some commercial organisation mass-producing masks, it is better to support incubation of design for good,” says Leenika, managing trustee at The Kala Chaupal Trust, which focusses on arts, culture and environmental sustainability. She discusses how they are currently mentoring the incubation of cultural masks with multiple artisan organisations, starting with Kalamandir and Seraikela. “There are 450 families depending on chhau in Jharkand. We need to think of how they will survive long term,” says Leenika. She adds that though this is the first set of prototypes, completed just a few days ago, they are promising and have already generated a lot of interest. “They are not absorbent, so you can just wipe them down, which makes disinfection easier,” she says. And while they may seem rather flamboyant in present circumstances, who knows what the future looks like? If masks become a regular feature in wardrobes, then these stylised alternatives will find takers. “I’m envisioning mask parties!” says Leenika, adding, “There is so much you can do with traditional crafts. We are thinking of masks with silk, so weavers find more work. The point is to start ideating out of the box for artisan support.” The energy the idea has generated is encouraging, with Prabhat still regularly hiking up the hilly parts of Seraikela with his phone, so Amitava and Leenika can conference with the artisans, despite the current lockdown. “I have asked them to do a COVID-19 war dance this time,” says Leenika, referring to the fact that chhau traditionally depicts the triumph of good over evil. She adds, “This is our fight against the virus. It’s the chhau mask in a war dance. This is how we are waging our war.”  Contact Kalamandir for more details on 8298229229 and 0657 2320109, or email biponishgjsr   @gmail.com.   A tale of three states There are three versions of chhau. Purulia chhau in West Bengal, Mayurbhanj chhau in Odisha and Seraikela chhau in Jharkand.  The artform features epics and regional legends, using martial art and acrobatic moves.  Mask making began in Charida, West Bengal, about 150 years ago, and these colourful masks depicting faces of boldly painted gods, heroes, birds and animals are still popular today.  Mask makers come from two areas: Charida and Seraikela, as Odisha’s chhau does not use masks.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Magic between the lines||Farmer Falgu is finding it challenging to make his daughter Eila understand that it is important to stay indoors now. And Princess Easy Pleasy is bored out of her mind. The characters from the world of Karadi Tales have been reimagined as e-books in accordance with the times to help children understand the pandemic and deal with everything that comes with it. Says Chitra Soundar, who has written the e-book  Farmer Falgu Stays At Home , “Everyone, including children, is less afraid of things if they understand it. Children need to understand why they can’t go to school or play with their friends or wash their hands often. But they can’t process the hard science and statistics.” Which is where books come in. “Books offer both support and escapism. They can help children learn in different ways, but also let them forget the worries and be lost in the world of the book itself,” she adds. Word power And so literature is coming to our rescue once again, as it has been doing in all our difficult times. Child experts, writers, and publishers across the world are creating reading material on the pandemic for children. Available for free download on the Internet, some of them are gems. A lot of thought has gone into creating these books, for it is most important that we not only educate children on the situation, but are also there for them in these times that they might find rather confusing. In Farmer Falgu Stays At Home , the protagonist tells his daughter: “We can fly a kite in front of our house.” And after a lot of talking, they agree that staying at home can be fun “even if it turned a bit noisy or messy”. “I wanted to remind readers that there is a time to be out and about and there is a time to stay at home and this was one of them,” says Chitra adding, “We can stay at home and spend time together with our families — studying, playing, cooking. I wanted to reassure parents too.” Staying indoors for weeks is not exactly how school-going children would have envisioned their summer holidays. What would the ever-fussy Princess Easy Pleasy do under lockdown? In Karadi Tales’ Princess Easy Pleasy is Bored by writer Natasha Sharma, existing illustrations by Priya Kuriyan have been employed to tell a story that resonates with children who are struggling to stay locked up at home. “I’m so bored,” says the Princess  in her trademark style. Gradually, through the day, the Queen, the chef, the groomer, and the King come up with ways to engage her. The Princess writes lists for the King, makes her bed, helps roll dough…“I’m so bored is a common refrain in children, particularly now,” says Natasha, adding that she decided to address this throughPrincess Easy Pleasy. “The book presents children with ideas for activities they can do at home, that can be fun and will also keep them busy,” she adds. Help at hand Far far away, a little girl called Sara hopped on to Ario, a dragon, and they took off into the sky. Their mission: to spread word about COVID-19 to the world. In the e-book My Hero Is You , nuggets of information on the pandemic are enfolded in illustrations by Helen Patuck, author/illustrator, on psychosocial interventions with World Health Organisation. The book, targeted at children aged six to 11, has been developed by the Inter-Agency Standing Committee Reference Group on Mental Health and Psychosocial Support in Emergency Settings. It was influenced by surveys from over 1,700 children, parents, caregivers and teachers from around the world. The book is even available in Tamil and can be downloaded on the WHO website. “Children must have so many questions these days — why there is no school, why they must stay at home, and many, many more whys,” says Tina Narang, HarperCollins Publishers India. The publishing house, along with UK-based children’s publishing company Nosy Crow, has brought out the e-book Coronavirus: A Book For Children , that has inputs by Professor Graham Medley of the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine as well as advice from two head teachers and a child psychologist. The book has illustrations by acclaimed illustrator Axel Scheffler and Tina says it will “help children comprehend the nature of the pandemic in a simple and engaging manner.” Adults too are having it tough. Mumbai-based children’s author and illustrator Divya Thomas, who has written Go Away Coronavirus , says that she wrote it when she felt particularly low. “Writing makes me feel better,” she says. The eight-page book, with rhyming lines and illustrations, is Divya’s attempt to “distil” all the information available on the pandemic and present it in a “simple, story-telling format”. In it, she talks about how we can now hear birds singing and trees whispering. “Listen…” she writes. Her closing line reads, ‘And remember, we are all going to be fine.’      Chocolate tears  In the filmThe Wizard of Oz, Tin Man was supposed to shed machine oil tears. But chocolate syrup was used instead since it did not photograph well.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||To the centre of the Earth||This is the story of some of the world’s deepest mines at 11,000 feet, gold glinting off walls lit by carbide lamps; of a colonial enterprise that succeeded at an unimaginable cost; a story of a town whose heyday is revisited with nostalgia.  In Search of Gold , a 30-minute documentary directed by 38-year-old Basav Biradar in 2019 and released recently, traverses the history of the Kolar Gold Fields that produced 800 tonnes of gold, and its adjoining townships located 100 kilometres from Bengaluru, from its founding in the late 19th Century, closure in 2001 to now. Produced by Sahapedia with extraordinary camerawork by Tarun Saldanha, and still photography by Biradar and Venkatesan Perumal, the documentary opens with KM Divakaran, president, Bharat Gold Mines Limited Industrial Employees Co-operative, presenting a case as to why the mines should be reopened, citing a 2013 Supreme Court order. Biradar, a documentary filmmaker who also teaches Indian Cinema and Modern Indian Theatre at Azim Premji University, says, “I was drawn to KGF after visiting it. Even if the mines are not reopened, they should be preserved better as part of our industrial heritage.” It portrays tranquil jade green boulevards peppered with birdsong and gracious red-tiled buildings. It moves past rusting shafts such as Gifford and Edgar, Victorian club houses, deserted trade union offices, bungalows, football fields, cyanide heaps and trains that pass through. Gayatri Chandrasekhar, author of Grit and Gold, speaks on how John Warren and Michael Lavelle were the pioneers before John Taylor and Sons established a thriving company in the 1880s. By the late 1920s, there were five mines — Champion Reef, Nundydroog, Oorgaum, Mysore and Balaghat — employing nearly 35,000 people administered by the Mysore State. Janaki Nair, historian and author of Miners and Millhands: Work Culture and Politics in Princely Mysore, says, “The company had absolute powers, expelling people from mines and the State. There was no Trade Union Act till 1942 although it was passed in 1926 in British India.” Labour from the distressed districts of Salem and North Arcot in Madras Presidency was preferred, seen in photographs descending the depths using candles. Officials and engineers were European and supervisors and foremen were Anglo-Indians. KGF was also a study in caste and trade affiliations with the Communists, with the Self-Respect and Dravidian movements wielding their influence. According to Samipillai and Chandran, mine workers with a legacy here, death followed the men everywhere. They died from rock bursts and exposure to dust, choked in the slush and fell into sinks, and sang songs that reflected a sense of the pit — ‘Yellow gold streaking through rocks is prised out by labouring lions’ and yet could not afford even a nose-pin for their women. They also suffered the ignominy of the daily strip-search to prevent smuggling. When it closed, 3,000 workers were on roll. The Anglo-Indians who lived in Robertsonpet, named for a British Resident, look back at their days in KGF as a time tinted in gold. Well-known writer Bridget White Kumar and residents like Pamela Steiner speak of Christmas parties and band dances. As the credits roll and the camera pans a town that is now a sepia-tinted memory, the song ‘If you ever go to Ireland...’ plays. Biradar asks Steiner what keeps her in KGF. “Memories,” she says. For that rare sense of the old-world alone, this documentary should be watched. The documentary streams on YouTube.  Celebrated in song The Rowan Tree band that focusses on the musical heritage of Cornwall releasedKolar’s Gold,a mixed media project that tells the forgotten stories of Cornish miners, and their Indian counterparts who worked at KGF from 1890-1940, this year.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||A glimpse of eternal snows||When it comes to beautiful skylines, kaleidoscopic sunsets, bucolic serenity and unadulterated warmth, rustic escapades are the best. My most recent pre-lockdown indulgence was a Himalayan mountain village in the South Gola Range of Nainital district in Uttarakhand.  Located at 7,000 ft, eight kilometres from Mukteshwar, Parvada has only 750 families. It is not a straight-out-of-a-fairytale kind of village, but it whispers tranquillity at every winding turn. To get there, I disembarked at Kathgodam Railway Station. Young Trilok drove me to my destination. “There is no time in the year when you need a fan in Parvada,” said the native. “The summers are windy in the day and chilly in the night, winter temperatures hover between 5C and -8C. And the village received unpredictable snow in February,” he added. I had booked my stay at Parvada Bungalows, in Parvada, for three days. It was post-3 pm when I checked in, but it was not too late for a fresh glass of rhododendron juice and a wholesome Pahadi meal. The highlights were bhaang-jeere ki chutney (hempseed and cumin paste), bhat lentil, brinjal bharta , cucumber yoghurt and jhingore ka kheer (barnyard millet pudding). After the hearty meal, I could have easily fallen asleep but the views of the mountain-smothered village and the forests from my room were winsome. I could not wait to walk down the winding roads and was accompanied by Caron, the manager of the home-stay. She directed me towards the “shroth”, a natural source of water which was used for drinking and agriculture. “While potato is grown in abundance, the villagers grow a lot of peach, pears, apples, apricots, plum and walnuts,” she said. We reached a stream where the locals perform Ganesh Visarjan. Before I could head for the upper reaches, it began to rain and I had to forgo the bonfire and snuggle into bed.  The next morning, I spotted a number of birds like the blue jay, Rufous treepie, warbler, and the Himalayan bulbul. Girls in school uniforms were carrying plates full of rice, jaggery and flowers for the festival called Phool Dei, that takes place mid-March. The children extend good wishes to their neighbours by offering them flowers at their door. At the end of the festival, the neighbours pamper the kids with gifts. Bear haven On the second day, I visited Bhalugaad waterfalls. After a drive of 45 minutes, a hike of 1.5 kilometres through stones, streams and bridges took me to the gorgeous falls. This place was opened for tourists a few years ago. In the evening, three local boys came to sing around the bonfire. They had formed a group of more than 40 people, from the nearby villages and aimed at reviving their local music and songs. In the near future, they plan to open a studio in Bhatelia. The next day I headed out towards Jageshwar Dham temple near Binsar valley. The day was bright and on the way I had clear views of the Shivalik ranges. Amidst the dense deodar trees, the complex of more than a hundred 12th-Century stone temples at Jageshwar made for a lovely sight. Jageshwar has a lot of religious appeal for Hindus being the eighth jyotirling . I also visited the Archaeological Museum, a treasure house of 160 rare sculptures, ranging from the 8th-16th Centuries, collected from Jageshwar, Kuber and Dandeshwar temples.  I was back in Parvada to meet women from the village’s SEAKHO group, which teaches local women knitting and crafting, who had come to the home-stay to display their hand-made shawls, caps, stoles, socks, infinity scarves and more. In the evening, Trilok drove me to the Mukteshwar temple and guided me to the purple-pinkish sunset view at Chauli Ki Jaali. That night was about great food and star gazing. On the last day, I attended a yoga class under the guidance of a local teacher. Later in the afternoon, I left by train for Delhi thinking about this village where I had lost a piece of my heart.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Meet the scene stealers||Making travel plans may not be advisable at the moment, especially at a time when taking a trip to the grocery store and avoiding human contact are deemed significant accomplishments. But here is what you can do: watch movies set in scenic locations and marvel at the beauty. Here is a list of five non-English travel movies that might perhaps help you create your itinerary as soon as the pandemic ends.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||A glimpse of eternal snows||When it comes to beautiful skylines, kaleidoscopic sunsets, bucolic serenity and unadulterated warmth, rustic escapades are the best. My most recent pre-lockdown indulgence was a Himalayan mountain village in the South Gola Range of Nainital district in Uttarakhand.  Located at 7,000 ft, eight kilometres from Mukteshwar, Parvada has only 750 families. It is not a straight-out-of-a-fairytale kind of village, but it whispers tranquillity at every winding turn. To get there, I disembarked at Kathgodam Railway Station. Young Trilok drove me to my destination. “There is no time in the year when you need a fan in Parvada,” said the native. “The summers are windy in the day and chilly in the night, winter temperatures hover between 5C and -8C. And the village received unpredictable snow in February,” he added. I had booked my stay at Parvada Bungalows, in Parvada, for three days. It was post-3 pm when I checked in, but it was not too late for a fresh glass of rhododendron juice and a wholesome Pahadi meal. The highlights were bhaang-jeere ki chutney (hempseed and cumin paste), bhat lentil, brinjal bharta , cucumber yoghurt and jhingore ka kheer (barnyard millet pudding). After the hearty meal, I could have easily fallen asleep but the views of the mountain-smothered village and the forests from my room were winsome. I could not wait to walk down the winding roads and was accompanied by Caron, the manager of the home-stay. She directed me towards the “shroth”, a natural source of water which was used for drinking and agriculture. “While potato is grown in abundance, the villagers grow a lot of peach, pears, apples, apricots, plum and walnuts,” she said. We reached a stream where the locals perform Ganesh Visarjan. Before I could head for the upper reaches, it began to rain and I had to forgo the bonfire and snuggle into bed.  The next morning, I spotted a number of birds like the blue jay, Rufous treepie, warbler, and the Himalayan bulbul. Girls in school uniforms were carrying plates full of rice, jaggery and flowers for the festival called Phool Dei, that takes place mid-March. The children extend good wishes to their neighbours by offering them flowers at their door. At the end of the festival, the neighbours pamper the kids with gifts. Bear haven On the second day, I visited Bhalugaad waterfalls. After a drive of 45 minutes, a hike of 1.5 kilometres through stones, streams and bridges took me to the gorgeous falls. This place was opened for tourists a few years ago. In the evening, three local boys came to sing around the bonfire. They had formed a group of more than 40 people, from the nearby villages and aimed at reviving their local music and songs. In the near future, they plan to open a studio in Bhatelia. The next day I headed out towards Jageshwar Dham temple near Binsar valley. The day was bright and on the way I had clear views of the Shivalik ranges. Amidst the dense deodar trees, the complex of more than a hundred 12th-Century stone temples at Jageshwar made for a lovely sight. Jageshwar has a lot of religious appeal for Hindus being the eighth jyotirling . I also visited the Archaeological Museum, a treasure house of 160 rare sculptures, ranging from the 8th-16th Centuries, collected from Jageshwar, Kuber and Dandeshwar temples.  I was back in Parvada to meet women from the village’s SEAKHO group, which teaches local women knitting and crafting, who had come to the home-stay to display their hand-made shawls, caps, stoles, socks, infinity scarves and more. In the evening, Trilok drove me to the Mukteshwar temple and guided me to the purple-pinkish sunset view at Chauli Ki Jaali. That night was about great food and star gazing. On the last day, I attended a yoga class under the guidance of a local teacher. Later in the afternoon, I left by train for Delhi thinking about this village where I had lost a piece of my heart.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Meet the scene stealers||Making travel plans may not be advisable at the moment, especially at a time when taking a trip to the grocery store and avoiding human contact are deemed significant accomplishments. But here is what you can do: watch movies set in scenic locations and marvel at the beauty. Here is a list of five non-English travel movies that might perhaps help you create your itinerary as soon as the pandemic ends.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||The bright side of life||Maya Angelou, an American poet, singer, and civil rights activist once said, “A bird doesn't sing because it has an answer, it sings because it has a song.” I am sure you’ve often heard a sweet, loud and strident t-k-t-k-t-k che-wing, che-wing che-wing mostly accompanied by a crackling rattle around your house. When you stepped out onto your balcony perhaps you couldn’t see who was making the sound. That’s because the Purple Sunbird is tiny. Many confuse this with a hummingbird, which doesn’t live in India. The Purple Sunbird ( Cinnyris asiaticus) flits about all around the year, not as clearly visible as its song identifiable. Come spring, March or April, breeding season begins, and you’ll see the plumage of the males transform into a beautiful dark purple with a metallic purplish-to green-blue head, mantle, and breast — which can sometimes have a maroon shine. It’ll turn back to its original colour approximately by June, once the breeding season ends, with blackish-blue upperparts and yellow underparts, a metallic blue shoulder patch with a glossy bluish-black central band running down from the throat all the way till the abdominal area. The females, however, remain dull brownish-grey to olive-brown above with an indistinct long supercilium (mostly behind the eye) with a pale rump and washed out yellow underparts. This quality of distinct features in sexes is called sexual dimorphism. The Purple Sunbird is mostly found singly or in pairs and sometimes in small groups around flowering trees like the Yellow Oleander, Flame of the Forest ( Butea monosperma ), and Hamelia patens  (a common avenue hedge or small tree in our city). They also feed on the berries of the Peelu tree. They have a fast and direct flight and thus are capable of hovering around flowers like hummingbirds do, to sip on their nectar, helpful in pollinating these trees. They’ll usually perch themselves near the base of the flower. Their diet is nectar-rich, but they may swoop down to pick up insects in flight, feeding on spiders, stealing their web silk to build their own nests. Their size does not deter them from joining other bird species in raucously mobbing predators. In order to woo the females, the males flutter their wings and sing. The bond between the male and female is strong and males do assist in feeding the chicks but the females have a more extensive involvement as only they incubate the eggs. The nests are usually suspended from branches of thorny plants (a defence mechanism to safeguard the nest), but considering the commonness of this bird in urban settlements, we see them making optimum use of wires and other manmade things for nesting quite frequently. They may even choose an indoor space, in places that are not frequented.  The writer is the founder of NINOX - Owl About Nature, a nature-awareness initiative. He is the Delhi-NCR reviewer for Ebird, a Cornell University initiative, monitoring rare sightings of birds. He formerly led a programme of WWF India.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Security risk||An invisible enemy is a difficult entity to guard against, especially if it’s your job to ensure the safety of others. Guards in medical facilities and residential complexes commute to work daily, bereft of public transport, and work through the heat, to ensure that people without masks don’t enter, and when they do, they sanitise their hands.  Mukesh Sharma, 31, AIIMS  Mukesh Sharma reaches his security room at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) , Delhi, by trudging from home about a kilometer or two away. He lives alone, in Kotla Mubarakhpur, a congested low income settlement, preparing his lunch before stepping out at 6 a.m. He goes about his job of checking each person who enters the hospital with a digital thermometer. Some come mask-less. Every day, he knows that he is putting his life in danger – he’s very likely to come into contact with those who have the COVID-19 virus. So he’s cautious. “If one helps others, then others will help you. Our heroic doctors, nurses, and para medical staff are all working hard. If I leave them at this crucial juncture, then they will be demoralised. We have to get rid of the virus from the county, even if that means somebody, including me, has to sacrifice his life,” says Mukesh, who is an employee with Security and Intelligence Services, an agency that posts guards at various locations. “Every day five to seven people come for testing,” he says, with his N95 mask and gloves on. “We wash and dry masks daily. and evvery mask has a number.”   Hiramani Deorari , 44 , Ekta Gardens, I. P. Extension   Hiramani Deorari, who mans a 256-house complex in I. P. Extension, says “If a non-resident comes to the gate we ask him to make a call to the resident and cross-check on the intercom. We check the temperature of healthcare workers who come to provide services to seniors. If they have a temperature, we politely turn them away.” He says the families keep him going with their positive attitude and by following the rules of physical distancing and mask-wearing fairly easily, despite the fact that the markets are closed and there is no house help.  Sattee, 40, Sarvapriya Vihar  Sattee, comes from Mandigram near Chhattarpur daily by scooter. He says he sits out in the open, from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. since there is no guard room. If people visit, “We call residents from the gates. We have been given Dettol soap and a mask. I prefer using a handkerchief, as a mask needs is more problematic to wash. People are still ordering pizza,” he says, puzzled as to why people would want to increase their risk.
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi riots: FIR names former JNU student||Former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student leader Umar Khalid’s name appears in an FIR registered by the police on March 6 over his alleged involvement in the north-east Delhi riots. Mr. Khalid on Wednesday said he has not been contacted by the Delhi police yet. It is not yet clear whether he has been charged under the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.  ‘Conspiracy’ probe On Tuesday, the Delhi Police Special Cell unit investigating a “conspiracy” behind the communal violence in February charged Jamia Millia Islamia students Meeran Haider and Safoora Zargar under the stringent UAPA. Mr. Haider is also the Delhi unit president of the Rashtriya Janata Dal youth wing . On March 6, on a complaint of a Delhi policeman, an FIR under IPC sections of rioting was registered and the former JNU student and Danish, a resident of Bhajanpura, were named. The FIR was registered at the Crime Branch and transferred to the Special Cell for further investigation. The FIR reads that the riots took place in Delhi on February 23, 24 and 25 and were a part of a conspiracy. The plan to organise the riots was hatched by Mr. Khalid and his friends, it reads. In the FIR, it is mentioned that Mr. Khalid made hate speeches and disseminated propaganda in two places to destabilise the visit of U.S. President Donald Trump to Delhi, scheduled on February 25 and 26. As per the FIR, Danish was assigned the task to arrange a mob from outside Delhi. As per their plan, women and children were mobilised to block the road at Jaffarabad metro station that would inconvenience the people living in the vicinity, leading to riots. Advocate Akram Khan, representing Mr. Haider in the case, said that they withdrew his bail application on Monday after the police informed the court that Mr. Haider has been charged under IPC Section 302 (murder). A senior police officer said that Mr. Khalid’s name is in the text of the FIR but he is not an accused “yet” and has not been charged under the UAPA. The case is “under investigation”, he said. Mr. Haider and Ms. Zargar, arrested for allegedly hatching a conspiracy to incite the communal riots in February, are in judicial custody. Ms. Zargar is an M.Phil student in Jamia. In the FIR, the police claimed that the communal violence was a “premeditated conspiracy”. The students have also been booked for the offences of sedition, murder, attempt to murder, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion and rioting. Former JNU student union leader Shehla Rasheed tweeted, “Yet another bogus case! It’s shameful how the government of India is exploiting the lockdown [no protest] to target progressive activists, intellectuals, journalists. Stay strong.”
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Arrests in time of lockdown||As the first month of lockdown draws to a close, large-scale arrests during this time in relation to the February violence in Delhi have eviscerated the fundamental rights of many. In a scenario where courts are effectively shut down, lawyers unable to leave their homes, and the Supreme Court has directed that urgent steps be taken to decongest prisons, it was expected that the police would restrict their powers to arrest persons in cases where it was absolutely unavoidable. In Delhi, however, according to news reports, senior Home Ministry officials insisted that the police must continue making arrests in riot cases under any circumstance. As lawyers working for many of those affected by the violence in north-east Delhi, we have received dozens of reports of these arrests being made, often in brazen violation of constitutional safeguards. Without notice In many cases, the police are detaining people without any notice or information on the grounds of detention and without informing family members. There are cases where family members of suspects were detained for hours as proxies, to threaten and coerce the families to produce the person that the police actually wanted to arrest. Before the lockdown, on receiving such reports, lawyers could meet those locked up in police stations or file urgent applications in court for protecting fundamental rights. With courts being shut, such urgent legal remedies have been foreclosed, leaving arrestees at the mercy of the police. Moreover, these illegal practices — starkly unconstitutional in the best of times — vastly amplify public health concerns today. Family members have had to run from one police station to the next in search of their relatives, expanding their level of exposure and that of those around them. Once in jail, family members have no way to monitor the arrestee’s continued health and safety, as the guidelines passed by the Supreme Court to prevent the spread of COVID-19 prohibit the meeting of prisoners with their family members or lawyers. Due to the lockdown, it is near impossible for lawyers to be present when arrestees are first produced before a magistrate after 24 hours. According to Delhi district court notifications, persons arrested now are no longer produced before courts and are taken directly to temporary courts on jail premises, further hindering access to lawyers. The importance of legal representation at this stage cannot be overstated — to ensure that the grounds for arrest and FIR are supplied to the arrestee and his/her family, that there is material justifying the arrest and that appropriate applications are filed in case of allegations of custodial violence or illegal actions of the police during interrogation. While the apex court had directed that courts use videoconferencing facilities to extend the custody of undertrial prisoners, which must happen every 14 days as per law,district courts in Delhi have notified that this will be done by magistrates visiting the jail. Thus, the arrestees are deprived of legal representation to effectively oppose even the extension of their incarceration. Till April 20, the Karkardooma District Court having jurisdiction over north-east Delhi had not notified a procedure for videoconferencing of urgent applications, making it impossible to file for bail, or any other application to protect the rights of those arrested. The right to liberty enshrined in Article 21 of the Constitution guarantees that the state can deprive a person of their liberty only as per the due process of law. Article 22 declares that no person shall be detained in custody without being informed of the grounds of arrest and shall have the right to consult and defend herself with a legal practitioner of choice. Denying arrestees these rights, and any chance to even argue for their liberty before a court, is a violation that goes to the very core of our fundamental right to life and liberty, rendering it a nullity. As expressly recognised by the nine-judge Supreme Court bench in the 2017 Puttaswamy case, these rights are inalienable and inherent in us by virtue of our humanity alone — they can never be suspended, even during an emergency. There is nothing in the Home Ministry’s lockdown orders nor notifications under the Epidemic Act, 1897 and the Disaster Management Act, 2005 that could justify this evisceration of these rights. It is settled law that arrests during investigation are not meant to punish suspects, and must be made with the sole objective of securing the suspect’s presence during trial and ensuring he/she does not tamper with evidence. Since there is little chance of a suspect absconding or tampering with evidence during a lockdown, the threshold for arrest must be raised. Arrests without a strong basis are particularly unconscionable now, when each new arrest adds to already overcrowded jails and puts jail staff and new arrestees at a grave health risk.  (The authors are advocates practising in Delhi)
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Online exams get JNU approval||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Wednesday said that the Academic Council(AC) had endorsed a resolution over e-mail validating the conduct of online classes and holding online semester examinations keeping in mind the difficulties of following the normal academic calendar due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The statement from the university added that the Academic Council has also authorised the Vice-Chancellor “to approve any additional suggestions/requests that may come from any school or special centre for completing the current academic session and for starting the new academic session.” The JNU Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) said that it takes strong exception to the university administration’s attempt to secure the approval of the AC through e-mail and that the regulations of the university have no provisions of this kind. ‘Illegal meeting’ “The powers of the Academic Council cannot be delegated to the Vice-Chancellor, even by the AC itself,” the JNUTA said, calling the meeting “illegal”. “The JNUTA demands that the proceedings of the AC ‘meeting’ be declared null and void and the issue of completion of the winter semester be discussed in duly convened meetings after proper discussion at all levels,” the teachers said. Internet connectivity The teachers had earlier said that completing the semester online and conducting examinations online would reduce it to a farce and pointed out that several of the students do not have access to proper Internet connectivity at home. The teachers have suggested the use of the summer vacations to complete the winter semester. The JNU Students’ Union had on April 21 written to the Union HRD Minister saying that if classes and exams were to be held online, it would simply be impossible for many students to engage with their academic responsibilities.
23 April 2020||New Delhi,||HC forms panel to deal with post-curbs challenges||The Delhi High Court has constituted a committee for a ‘graded action plan’ to deal with the challenges to be faced by the courts after the lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19 is withdrawn. In a letter to all the district and sessions court judges as also principal judges (family court), the High Court said it may not be practicable to open the courts for everyone immediately after the lockdown is lifted as there are over eight lakh cases pending in the district courts here and around 80,000 in the High Court. The High Court said normalcy is not likely to return overnight and the court functioning can be resumed only in a structured or phased manner which would require formulation of a plan in advance keeping in mind social distancing norms and other restrictions. Urgent matters Following the lockdown, the functioning of the High Court and trial courts have been suspended till May 3 and only the matters of extreme urgency are being heard through videoconferencing.
23 April 2020||New Delhi,||DU Dean against online education, writes to V-C||The Dean of Faculty of Technology at Delhi University (DU) on Wednesday wrote to the Vice-Chancellor highlighting issues with online modes of education and recommended alternative routes. With regard to efforts taken by teachers to extend educational resources through digital platforms, the Dean, Sachin Maheshwari, asserted that they could only supplement classroom teaching and had to be made available to all students. However, he argued that many students of the university would not be able to access computers, smartphones or high speed Internet, thus, being deprived. Besides this, he highlighted that effective teaching and conducting of experiments could not take place through such modes. Mr. Maheshwari also raised concerns of a possible “rat race” wherein restoration of teaching-learning and online evaluation may be proclaimed for “nefarious reasons involving financial, political interests..” This could, thus, prove detrimental to academics, he argued. Mr. Maheshwari said that the need of the hour was to successfully weather the pandemic and consequently cover lost ground with “holistic team efforts”. He also pointed to other institutions such as IITs which had advanced their summer vacations instead of going through online evaluations.
23 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Suspended AAP leader booked under UAPA||Suspended Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) councillor Tahir Hussain was booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) over communal violence in north-east Delhi, a police officer said on Wednesday. Mr. Hussain was arrested by the Special Cell for his alleged involvement in northeast Delhi riots, he said. Mr. Hussain was arrested earlier in connection with the alleged killing of Intelligence Bureau official Ankit Sharma during the communal violence in February.
23 April 2020||April 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Social distancing?||
23 April 2020||New Delhi,||Over 3,000 people held for violations||Over 100 cases were registered and 3,392 people detained in the Capital on Wednesday for violating government orders during the lockdown imposed to control the COVID-19 outbreak, the police said. The data shared by the police show 115 cases were registered under Section 188 (for disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the IPC till 5 p.m. A total of 3,392 people have been detained under Section 65 (persons bound to comply with reasonable directions of police officers) and 259 vehicles have been impounded under Section 66 of the Delhi Police Act, they stated.
