23 September 2020||New Delhi,||Opposition parties walk out of both Houses of Parliament||Opposition parties boycotted Parliament on Tuesday, first walking out of the Rajya Sabha in the morning and later from the Lok Sabha around 4 p.m., protesting against the flawed passage of the two farm Bills in the Upper House on Sunday. Meanwhile, the eight suspended Rajya Sabha members, who had staged an all night sit-in under the Mahatma Gandhi statue inside Parliament, ended their protest. Parliament is expected to adjournsine dieon Wednesday. MPs from the Congress, the Trinamool Congress, the DMK, the TRS, the AAP, the RJD, the NCP, the CPI(M), the CPI and other smaller parties boycotted the proceedings in both Houses. However, the Bahujan Samaj Party, the Biju Janata Dal and the YSR Congress did not participate in the boycott. Though BSP MPs did walk out of the Lok Sabha, they distanced themselves from the rest of the Opposition. A senior leader said the party walked out urging the government to make legal provisions to implement the MSP. In the Rajya Sabha, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the suspension of the MPs could be revoked if they expressed regret. However, this was not accepted by the Opposition. Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad said no one was happy with what transpired in the House over the past two days. “Day before yesterday was the last straw that broke the camel’s back. Bills don’t go to the standing committee or the select committee. I don’t approve of the fight — breaking the microphones, standing on the tables. But it was the last straw,” he said.
23 September 2020||Mumbai,||‘Dignity of the Chair devalued’||Extending support to the protest launched by Opposition MPs against the conduct of Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh in the passage of two farm Bills, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday said Mr. Harivansh had devalued the dignity of the Chair by not adhering to the rule book and hastily clearing the Bills. “The Deputy Chairman should have listened to the protesting MPs who were showing him the rule book and demanding vote on those Bills. But he did not and instead rushed ahead with voice vote. It was obvious that the MPs were outraged,” he said. At a press conference here, the former Union Agriculture Minister said the behaviour of Mr. Harivansh had lowered the dignity of the Chair. “In my 50-years of parliamentary career, never have I seen such behaviour from the Chair. It devalued the dignity of the Chair. The same Deputy Chairman who did not follow rules went to meet the protesting MPs with tea. I am happy that none of the protesters had touched that tea.” He said as a mark of camaraderie to the protesting MPs, he was keeping a day-long fast. Asked about Prime Minister Narendra Modi lauding Mr. Singh’s gesture of bringing tea by invoking the latter’s home State Bihar, Mr. Pawar said, “Even people of Bihar will not like his behaviour. It is surprising to me that the Deputy Chairman claims to belong to the legacy of greats like Karpoori Thakur. It doesn’t matter where a person comes from, what matters is your behaviour.”
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army talks positive but no headway on de-escalation||In a joint statement issued on Tuesday on the sixth round of Corps Commanders talks, India and China said both sides had agreed to “stop sending more troops to the frontline” and “refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground” while agreeing to hold more talks to resolve the standoff. “They agreed to earnestly implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, strengthen communication on the ground, avoid misunderstandings and misjudgements, stop sending more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground, and avoid taking any actions that may complicate the situation,” the joint statement said on the senior military commander-level talks held on Monday. The two sides had candid and in-depth exchanges on stabilising the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), it stated. A defence source said while the disengagement is yet to be agreed upon, the recent talks will ensure there is no further build-up along the LAC. The two sides also agreed to hold the 7th round of military commander-level talks as soon as possible, “take practical measures to properly solve problems on the ground, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in the border area”, the statement added. The talks, which went on for 14 hours, were quite positive despite lack of apparent result, the source said. The talks were held in line with the five-point plan agreed between the two Foreign Ministers in Moscow early this month, another source said. India has pressed for a road map for complete disengagement and de-induction of Chinese troops from all friction points and along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the source added. For the first time, a Joint Secretary from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) was present at the talks. The situation on the ground remains quiet since the Foreign Ministers met, the second source added. Officials had stated that for India, mutual disengagement would not be acceptable, and China would have to pull back its troops from the standoff areas. Shift in objectives A new strategic report has said that China had doubled air bases and defensive positions near the Indian border in three years. The 2017 Doklam crisis appears to have shifted Beijing’s “strategic objectives”, with China more than doubling its air bases, air defence positions and heliports near the Indian border over the past three years, according to the latest report from geopolitical intelligence platform, Stratfor.
23 September 2020||mumbai,||Marathas to get EWS benefits||To pacify the agitating members of the Maratha community, after the Supreme Court’s stay on the reservation, the State Cabinet on Tuesday extended benefits to the community under the Economically Weaker Section (EWS) quota. Till now the Maratha community was not eligible for benefits under the EWS quota as they were categorised as the Socially and Educationally Backward Class (SEBC) and were provided 16% reservation under that category. Two weeks ago, the Supreme Court ordered a stay on this while referring the matter to a larger Bench to decide on the constitutional validity of the reservation. The State government has filed a petition in the apex court seeking vacation on the stay. “The stay on reservation has affected recruitment as well as admission process across the State. Therefore, it was decided to extend the benefits to the Maratha community under the EWS category until the stay on the Maratha reservation is vacated by the Supreme Court,” an official who attended the Cabinet meeting said. Following the Centre’s decision to extend 10% reservation to the EWS, the previous Maharashtra government had implemented it in the run-up to the 2019 Assembly polls. After Tuesday’s decision, the Maratha community will become eligible for benefits under the category. At Tuesday’s meeting, the Cabinet also decided to implement the Rajashri Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Scholarship Scheme for the EWS category, which was earlier limited to the SEBC students. A sum of Rs. 600 crore has been sanctioned for the same and more funds will be made available if necessary. In addition, the Dr. Punjabrao Deshmukh Hostel Maintenance Allowance Scheme for the SEBC has been extended to the EWS. A sum of Rs. 130 crore will be made available for Chhatrapati Shahu Maharaj Research Training and Human Development Institute.
23 September 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 cases cross 2.30 lakh in Bengal||West Bengal on Tuesday recorded 3,182 new COVD-19 cases taking the total infections in the State to 2,31,484. The State recorded 62 deaths in the past 24 hours taking the number of deaths to 4,483. The number of active cases in the State increased to 24,971 and the discharge rate was recorded at 87.28%. Of the 62 deaths on Tuesday, Kolkata recorded seven deaths taking the total number of fatalities to 1,607. On the other hand, North 24 Parganas added 12 deaths in the past 24 hours taking the toll to 1,000. Howrah district recorded five deaths taking the total fatalities to 509 while with six deaths the toll in South 24 Parganas rose to 289. In terms of the number of cases, Kolkata added 534 new infections in the past 24 hours taking the total case tally to 51,189. North 24 Parganas registered 527 cases taking the total number to 46, 234. Several districts in south Bengal recorded more than 100 fresh COVID-19 cases. Despite the rise of cases and deaths, there were instances of violations of norms of physical distancing at various places. Hundreds of political workers joined protests against the two agriculture legislations passed by the Centre, throwing caution to the winds. In another case, hundreds of people gathered in Asansol to greet the mayor of the Asansol Municipal Corporation who returned home after recovering from COVID-19.
23 September 2020||Shiv Sahay singh Kolkata,||‘Can implement schemes if funds routed through Bengal’||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has sent two letters to the Centre, expressing her government’s willingness to implement the PM Kisan Samman Nidhi Scheme and Ayushman Bharat schemes if the funds are routed through the State. The letters addressed to Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Narendra Singh Tomar, and Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on September 9, were made public on Tuesday on the official Twitter page of Egiye Bangla — the State’s digital interface. Earlier in the day, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar raised the issue by tweeting “Why deny @MamataOfficial the benefit of Rs 8400 crores to lac WB farmers by failure to participate in PM Kisan Nidhi. So far every farmer has lost Rs 12,000 that would have come to his bank account. Urge CM – Crocodile tears will not relieve pain of farmers.” In the letter to Mr. Tomar, Ms. Banerjee said the State government has introduced the Krishak Bandhu scheme for financial aid to farmers “Every farmer/sharecropper receives Rs. 5,000 from the government. The scheme envisages a death benefit of Rs. 2 lakh. More than 73 lakh farmers are being covered under this in Bengal,” the Chief Minister wrote. In the letter addressed to Mr. Vardhan, she said Bengal had introduced 100% free treatment, medicines and diagnostics for everyone in government hospitals. In both the letters Ms. Banerjee said funds for both schemes should be routed through the State government.
23 September 2020||Kolkata,||Protests across Bengal over farm Bills||Protests were witnessed across West Bengal on Tuesday over the passage of two agriculture Bills in Parliament. While the women’s wing of Trinamool Congress staged a sit-in demonstration on Mayo Road, leaders of the Left parties took out a rally in the city in the afternoon. Law Minister Chandrima Bhattacharya, Women and Child Development Minister Sashi Panja and South Kolkata MP Mala Roy were among the senior Trinamool Congress leaders present at the protest venue. Along with the passage of two Bills the Trinamool Congress leaders also raised questions on the exclusion of cereals, pulses and oil seeds from Essential Commodities Act. “Farmers are India’s backbone! This is just one step towards Pursuit of Justice for our farmers and we’ll keep moving forward in our battle. We’ll fight this fascism from each corner of the nation, standing beside @MamataOfficial the true warrior, the true warrior safeguarding farmers’ interests,” the Trinamool Congress tweeted from their official twitter handle. Ms. Bhattacharya said that opening up the farm sector for big corporations will break the backbone of the ordinary farmers. Trinamool Congress leaders also held protests in Malda, and Bankura districts. Meanwhile, the Left parties also staged a protest rally in Kolkata. Senior leaders including chairperson of the Left Front Biman Bose participated in the rally. The Youth Congress also organised protests against the legislation at Moulali in Kolkata
23 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State reports 4,125 new cases||The State reported 4,125 new COVID-19 cases and 3,007 recoveries on Tuesday, taking the cumulative case burden to 1,42,756. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours is 38,574, indicating a test positivity rate of 10.6%. With the total number of recoveries reported so far being 1,01,731, the number of patients currently being treated is 40,382. Death toll 572 The State’s official death toll rose by 19 on Tuesday to reach 572. These are deaths which occurred as far back as August 25 till September 21. Of the 19 deaths, 11 are in Thiruvananthapuram district, two each in Kollam and Malappuram and one each in Thrissur, Palakkad, Ernakulam and Kannur districts. Except for 155 cases with a history of travel either outside Kerala or abroad, 3,970 out of the 4,125 new cases reported on Tuesday – 96% -- are locally acquired infections. These include 412 cases wherein the authorities were unable to trace the source of infection and infections reported in 87 health-care workers too. The number of hotspots in the State is 639.
23 September 2020||New Delhi,||EPCA chief asks Punjab, Haryana to act against stubble burning||The Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority on Tuesday wrote to the chief secretaries of Punjab and Haryana stating that early burning of crop residue was taking place and urged them to address the issue “urgently”. The letter specified “42 fire counts” in Punjab alone on Monday. EPCA Chairman Bhure Lal, in letters send to the two bureaucrats, wrote: “It has been brought to EPCA’s notice that early burning of crop residue is taking place in Punjab. According to a SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research under the Central government) estimate, based on harmonising the INSAT-3, 3D and NASA satellite, the fire counts were around 42 on September 21, 2020. The fire counts were around 20 on September 20 and nil on September 15.” ‘Matter of urgency’ Mr. Lal said the government has lost time because of COVID-19, but since the winter season is fast approaching, the issue has to be tackled with “urgency”. “We would request you to set up a control room in which directions can be issued and action taken, both for ensuring that the machineries are within the reach of the farmers as well as ensuring enforcement of the non-compliance that is reported from the field,” wrote Mr. Lal. The letter stated that the effect of stubble burning will be less in Delhi for the next three days because of the wind direction. According to SAFAR, the predominant wind direction is north-easterly and it doesn’t support the transport and accumulation of the effect of stubble burning to Delhi. The AQI of Delhi was in the ‘moderate’ category on Tuesday. Last year, about 9.8 million tonnes of the total estimated crop residue of 20 million tonnes were burnt in Punjab, according to official figures. Similarly, in Haryana, of the total 7 million tonnes, 1.24 million tonnes of stubble were burnt.
23 September 2020||Srinagar,||Leh’s People’s Movement to boycott elections||The People’s Movement, a platform representing various politicians, religious and social organisations campaigning for the Sixth Schedule for Ladakh, on Tuesday announced a boycott of the upcoming elections to the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council-Leh, scheduled for October 16. Announcing the decision at a press conference in Leh, former BJP leader Thupstan Chhewang, who is a member of the group, said, “We have decided not to participate in the LAHDC-Leh polls. No party will file any nomination as part of the boycott. Unless the Sixth Schedule is granted to Ladakh, and LAHDC-Leh and Kargil are granted councils on the lines of the Bodo council [Bodo Territorial Council], we will not allow such polls.”  The People’s Movement has the backing of most of the regional parties in Leh, including the influential Ladakh Buddhist Association. The announcement comes weeks after the BJP supported timely elections to the LAHDC-Leh, which will complete its term in October. The signatories The group’s resolution was also signed by former Rajya Sabha Member Skyabje Thiksey Khampo Rinpochey, former Minister Chhering Dorje Lakrook, former Minister and president of Ladakh Congress Nawang Rigzin Jora, district president of BJP Nawang Samstan and convener of Aam Aadmi Party, Leh, T. Phustsog. The All Ladakh Gompa Association, Anjuman Immamia Ashraf Ali Barcha, Anjuman Moin-ul-Islam and Christian Community have also supported the boycott call. Rigzin Spalbar, former chairman of the LAHDC-Leh, said in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic it was expected that the elections to constitute the 6th LAHDC-Leh would be postponed. “Besides the pandemic, the entire Ladakh is in a state of uncertainty over the preservation of its unique tribal identity, habitats and ecosystem. The elections to LAHDC-Leh, without extending the relevant provisions of the Sixth Schedule of our Constitution, which empowers the councils by vesting it with legislative powers, is meaningless,” he said. Ladakh was carved out as a Union Territory on August 5 last year, but it is without a legislature. Instead, two councils — LAHDC-Leh and LAHDC-Kargil — have been allowed to govern micro issues. “The democratically elected council, representing the popular will of the people of Ladakh, cannot continue to be a toothless and irrelevant ostentatious body like it was made to be in the wake of the formation of UT Ladakh,” Mr. Spalbar said. However, Kargil is yet to support the demand for the Sixth Schedule. “We have always been demanding restoration of statehood. Kargil will not support Leh’s demand,” said Sajjad Kargili, a local leader who contested the previous general election.
23 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Tangedco hopeful of getting Central assistance||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) is hopeful of securing Central assistance under a package of special liquidity infusion for power distribution companies (discoms). “We are expecting the Centre’s nod in a week,” a senior official said, adding that the power utility had revised its requirement from the original estimate of around Rs. 18,000 crore to Rs. 30,000 crore. The package is meant to help discoms clear dues to Central generation and transmission companies, independent power producers and renewable energy generators. The official’s response was sought to ascertain whether the Centre had suspended the approval process in the light of non-revision of power tariff for many years. First tranche by October As and when the Centre clears the State’s request, the Power Finance Corporation (PFC) and the Rural Electrification Corporation (REC) are expected to follow up the matter with their approvals by October 15 and release the first tranche by the end of October. The first tranche would be equivalent to 50% of the amount of assistance approved by the Central government for the State. The balance amount would be given subject to adherence to stipulations laid down by the Centre. The condition on bridging the gap between the Average Cost of Supply and the Average Revenue Realisation is going to be a major issue for the State government, which has dodged power tariff hikes for many years. The increase in the State power utility’s requirement followed the Central government’s decision to provide a one-time permission to two of its agencies, PFC and REC, for extending loans above the ceiling of working capital of 25% of the previous year’s revenue to discharge their liabilities as of June 30, 2020. A communication sent by the Union Power Ministry to the States a few weeks ago recalled that the 25% stipulation was imposed as part of the Ujwal Discom Assurance Yojana (UDAY), a 2015 scheme of the Central government aimed at facilitating the operational and financial turnaround of discoms.
23 September 2020||ARIYALUR,||IOB shifts manager as man alleges Hindi bias||The manager of the Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) branch at Jayamkondam was transferred to its regional office in Tiruchi on Monday, following an allegation by a retired civil surgeon that the former refused to entertain his loan application as he couldn’t speak Hindi. The incident triggered strong reactions from political leaders in Tamil Nadu, who condemned the alleged actions of the manager Vishal Kamble. However, the bank authorities claimed that the loan application was rejected in view of the advanced age of the customer. According to sources, Dr. C. Balasubramanian, 76, had approached Mr. Kamble a few days ago, seeking a loan for building a shopping complex near the bus stand in Jayamkondam. Dr. Balasubramanian, who said he was a long-standing customer of the bank, showed some property documents to the manager for consideration of surety for the loan. However, the manager reportedly asked him whether he knew Hindi and allegedly refused to entertain his application, citing the “language problem”. He claimed he had informed the manager that he knew Tamil and English, but Mr. Kamble had told him that he was from Maharashtra, and could not go through the documents in Tamil due to the language problem. Miffed at his reply, Mr. Balasubramanian has sought an explanation from the bank authorities for invoking “language [as an] issue” while processing a loan application.
23 September 2020||Belagavi,||Doctors ‘assaulted’ by relatives of dead patient||Doctors in the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences have said that they were assaulted by the relatives of a patient who died of COVID-19 for what the latter termed medical negligence. The doctors told the police that two doctors, a nurse and a security guard were verbally abused and physically assaulted by the relatives of the deceased woman on Monday night. They also said that the dead patient’s relatives ransacked the hospital and tried to destroy property. The doctors on duty called police personnel who dispersed the mob and brought the situation under control. Charge denied Meanwhile, the doctors denied the charge of medical negligence made by the patient’s relatives stating that the patient was in a critical condition when she was admitted. “We had to face verbal abuse. One of the patient’s relatives picked his footwear and beat a staff,” they said in their police complaint. The doctors said that they would go on strike if such attacks continued. They have sought protection and action against the accused. Police Commissioner K. Thiyagarajan has assured them of providing adequate security. This is the second such incident where doctors and para-medical staff in the district hospital have been assaulted by the relatives of dead COVID-19 patients in Belagavi. A group had assaulted some doctors in August. A mob had set an ambulance and another hospital vehicle on fire stating that medical negligence had killed that COVID-19 patient.
23 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Woman from Manipur held in drugs case||Continuing their investigation of the alleged role of actor-turned-choreographer Kishore Aman Shetty in drug peddling, the police on Monday arrested Aska (28), a native of Manipur. Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash told reporters that Aska is accused of consuming narcotic drugs. “She tested positive after a narcotic drug test was conducted,” he said. The woman was not in a position to give her statement on Monday. “We took her statement on Tuesday. Notice is being issued to those who are associated with her,” he said. Mr. Vikash said that three police teams are involved in the investigation related to the arrest of Kishore Aman Shetty and Akeel Nousheel who is said to be an aide of the former. “All links of the accused are being investigated,” he said. Aska worked in a spa here. The police said that Aska and another woman were secured on Monday. While Aska tested positive for drugs consumption, the other woman tested negative, the police said.
23 September 2020||MADURAI,||Accused in sexual harassment case gets bail||Taking a serious note of the fact that the CB-CID probing the Nagercoil sexual harassment case was yet a file a chargesheet against the key accused, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday summoned the officers of the State agency. Justice V. Bharathidasan took note of the fact that nearly six criminal cases were pending against Kasi, the key accused, and at least 120 innocent women had been affected. No final report was filed by the CB-CID in these cases. The judge said even though the sexual harassment case was handed over to the CB-CID, so far no final report had been filed. The court directed the DSP, CB-CID, Kanniyakumari, and the Investigating Officer to be present before the court on September 24. The court was hearing the bail petition of by M. Dinesh, an associate of Kasi. The court granted him bail as he had been remanded in judicial custody for more than 90 days.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Back home||
23 September 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra adds 18,390 COVID-19 cases||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 tally rose to 12,42,770 on Tuesday with an addition of 18,390 fresh cases, the State Health Department said. With 392 people succumbing to the infection, the cumulative toll in the State went up to 33,407. A total of 20,206 patients were discharged in the day after treatment, taking the total count of recoveries to 9,36,554, it said, adding that the State now has 2,72,410 active cases. Of the 392 fatalities, 243 patients died in the last 48 hours while 81 others succumbed to the infection a week ago. Another 68 people had died earlier, a Health Department official said. Mumbai city reported 1,628 new cases, which pushed its total case load to 1,87,904, while the fatality count mounted by 50 to 8,555.
23 September 2020||New Delhi,||Protesting MPs rebuff Harivansh’s ‘tea-plomacy’||Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh tried to bring down the simmering tempers of Opposition MPs by bringing morning tea for the eight suspended MPs, who were on an all-night protest on the Parliament premises. He also later wrote a letter to President Ram Nath Kovind and Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu, which was made public, announcing a 24-hour fast. However, the Opposition was none too impressed with Mr. Harivansh’s olive branch, and the protesting members refused to have the tea on offer even as ANI and Rajya Sabha TV captured the entire dramatic episode.
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,||BBMP wards set to increase to 250||A Joint Select Committee of the State legislature, headed by S. Raghu, BJP MLA, has recommended increasing the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) wards from 198 to 250 in view of the increase in population and areas under the civic body’s limits. There is, however, no mention of the number of zonal divisions and increase in the term of the Mayor and the Deputy Mayor in the report. The committee, which held several meetings, submitted its brief special report to Legislative Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri on September 15, and tabled the report in the Assembly on Tuesday. The Speaker has extended the term of the committee till November 10, 2020, to submit its final report. The special report recommended amendment to Section 7 of the Karnataka Municipal Corporation (KMC) Act, 1976, to enable increasing the number of wards to 250. The committee was established after a strong opposition from members of the ruling BJP when the BBMP Bill, 2020, was tabled during the budget session of the legislature in March. The amendment, which would enable the BBMP to come out of purview of the KMC Act, is aimed at bringing about comprehensive change in the administration and governance of the civic body. The KMC Act was formulated 44 years ago and changes in the Bill are aimed at mobilising more taxes and to bring about changes in the functioning of the civic body since it covers 714-sq. km area. The Bill states that the KMC Act was inadequate in administrative and structural matters to govern Bengaluru as it provided limited flexibility and was a common legislation catering to nine smaller city corporations. The proposed Bill is aimed at better coordination among civic agencies such as BDA, BWSSB, Bescom, and BBMP. It is aimed at improving decentralisation, integration of public participation at various levels of municipal governance, and ensuring efficient decision making by municipal authorities. Mr. Raghu told mediapersons that the committee recommended an increase in 52 wards in the BBMP council. Wards would be increased in the existing limits of the BBMP and there was no question of postponing elections to the BBMP council, he added.
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Festival crowds could pose a threat’||NITI Aayog member (health) V.K. Paul on Tuesday warned that India could see an explosion of COVID-19 cases during the festival season if people do not follow COVID-appropriate behaviour. He added that until a vaccine was found, “wearing a mask, following social distancing norms etc. is our best safety mechanism against the virus”. “We have to remember that this pandemic has to be controlled and deaths due to COVID kept at minimum and for this people have to wear the mask as a service to society and the country,” Dr. Paul said.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||For livelihood||
23 September 2020||Mumbai,||Varsha Gaikwad tests positive||Maharashtra Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. Ms. Gaikwad represents Dharavi constituency and was instrumental in bringing down the number of novel coronavirus patients in one of the biggest slums in the country. “During the course of my check-up today, I have tested positive for the coronavirus. I am at present doing well with the blessings and good wishes of all. I request everyone who has come in my contact to be careful and follow protocol. Stay safe. Take care,” she tweeted.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Back in search of work||
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||In search of work||
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Freshers to start university classes from November 1||Students entering colleges and universities for their first year will begin classes from November 1 with the new academic session getting off to a delayed start, according to the University Grants Commission’s calendar for 2020-21, which Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank tweeted on Tuesday. Holiday breaks will be curtailed and classes are likely to run six days a week to compensate for the time lost due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The UGC approved the guidelines for first year students of both undergraduate and postgraduate programmes at its meeting on Monday, according to Ministry officials. Admissions got delayed as schools and colleges were shut in March due to the lockdown, and board examinations as well as entrance tests for professional courses have been postponed multiple times. The delays have also caused admission cancellations and migration of students. The Education Minister has issued directions that full refunds will be given in such cases, until November 30. “To avoid financial hardship being faced by the parents due to lockdown and related factors, a full refund of fees will be made on account of all cancellation of admissions/ migration of students, up to 30.11.2020, for this very session as a special case,” he tweeted. Admission process The admissions process will now be completed by the end of October, although institutions will have one more month to fill up any remaining vacant seats. Classes for the first semester will begin on November 1 and run till the end of February 2021 without any winter break. The teaching-learning process will continue in offline, online or blended mode as is currently happening for second and third year students, depending on continuing COVID restrictions. Students will then get one week off to prepare for first semester exams, which are due to be held from March 8-26. Following a one-week vacation, the second semester will begin on April 5 and continue till end of July. Second semester examinations will be held from August 9 to 21.
23 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Full attendance for govt. offices henceforth||The State government has ordered 100% attendance in its offices forthwith. However, employees who report for work should abide by the COVID-19 protocol strictly. The order issued on Tuesday by Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta was perceived as a bid to restore normalcy and not wait out indefinitely till the contagion abated. The order would also apply to State-owned public sector units. 7-day quarantine The quarantine period for visitors from other States and abroad has been reduced from 14 days to seven days. Visitors should subject themselves to COVID-19 test after the seven-day quarantine period. In-house dining in hotels and restaurants will be permitted.
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Internal Security Division to probe drug racket||The Internal Security Division has launched its own probe into alleged narcotics abuse in the Kannada film and TV industry. Currently, the Central Crime Branches of the Bengaluru and Mangaluru police, and the NCB are investigating the prevalence of narcotics in the industry.
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Assembly sees heated debate over COVID-19||The Legislative Assembly on Tuesday saw a heated debate on COVID-19, with the Opposition accusing the State government of not only being cavalier in handling the pandemic, but also indulging in misappropriation of funds.
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Cases breach two lakh mark in Bengaluru Urban||Bengaluru Urban, which is a major contributor to the spiralling cases of COVID-19 in Karnataka, breached the two lakh mark on Tuesday with 3,082 new cases. With a total of 2,00,728 positive cases, Bengaluru is now the third city in the country after Pune and Delhi to have crossed the two lakh mark.
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police put Umar Khalid in ‘centre’ of riots plot||The Special Cell of Delhi Police in its chargesheet has kept former Jawaharlal Nehru University student Umar Khalid at the centre of the north-east Delhi riots conspiracy and claimed that the plot was hatched by the activist “and his associates”.
23 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Akali rebels approach EC to register new party||Shiromani Akali Dal rebels, led by Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, have approached the Election Commission to register their new political outfit, Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic). Mr. Sukhdev Dhindsa and his son were expelled from the Akali Dal for “anti-party” activities.
23 September 2020||New Delhi,||Over 3,800 fresh COVID cases reported in Delhi||As many as 3,816 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in the city in the past 24 hours, taking the tally to 2,53,075, said a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Also, 37 more deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 5,051.
23 September 2020||Kolkata,||Stage set for conduct of final year UG exams||The stage is set in West Bengal for the conduct of exams for final year undergraduate students from October 1. The results will be declared by October 31. The University Grants Commission (UGC), while agreeing to the exams being held in the State in October and not in September, refused to allow the 24-hour time that was proposed by some universities, including the University of Calcutta, to be given to students to submit their answer sheets. “If an institution evaluates its students by giving more than 2 or 3 hours (i.e., an open test), it will be categorised as an assignment-based assessment and not as an examination,” the UGC recently wrote to the universities. As per the revised rules each exam will be of two hours duration and students will get 30 minutes to upload their answer scripts. Students who would like to submit physical answer sheets at their respective colleges will be given an hour extra to make it to their colleges. In far-flung areas, however, this travel time will be decided by the respective principals. Students will also have the option of taking the exam in college, and if they choose to do so, the principal will have to make arrangements. The revised guidelines will soon be circulated among the colleges by the respective universities.
23 September 2020||Belagavi,||13 COVID-19 deaths in North Karnataka||On Tuesday, 13 COVID-19-related deaths were reported across North Karnataka. Districts such as Belagavi, Haveri and Dharwad reported zero deaths. These three districts also reported zero discharged patients on Tuesday. The region recorded 938 discharged patients against 780 fresh cases.
23 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Ex-serviceman among four held in theft case||The police on Tuesday arrested four persons, including an ex-serviceman, on the charge of theft of cash and ornaments from an apartment in Surathkal in August this year.
23 September 2020||Coimbatore,||Kin of deceased charge hospital with negligence||Linking the deaths of two COVID-19 patients at the Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruppur to the power disruption at its Intensive Care Unit, the kin of the deceased alleged that the incident occurred due to negligence.
23 September 2020||Thane,||Bhiwandi collapse: death toll rises to 20||The death toll in the Bhiwandi building collapse rose to 20 on Tuesday, with the recovery of seven more bodies overnight, the police said. Bodies of a two-and-a-half-year-old boy and a young couple were recovered 24 hours after the crash. The number of those rescued has gone up to 25, with five more people being pulled out from under the debris. The dead include nine children, among them two toddlers, an official said.
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED attaches properties in Iqbal Mirchi case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached 15 Dubai-based properties worth Rs. 203 crore in connection with a money-laundering case against drug dealer Iqbal Mirchi, who died in the United Kingdom in 2013, and others. The agency had earlier attached properties valued Rs. 573 crore last December.
23 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Dixit named PMC Bank administrator||The RBI has appointed a new administrator for the PMC Bank Ltd. “The present administrator J.B. Bhoria is stepping down on September 22. It has been decided to appoint A.K. Dixit, ex-general manager, Union Bank of India, as the new administrator with effect from September 23,” the RBI said.
23 September 2020||Ramanathapuram/madurai,||New Bills will benefit farmers, says CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said the new agriculture Bills tabled in Parliament would benefit farmers. On AIADMK’s Rajya Sabha MP S.R. Balasubramoniyan taking a stand different from that of the party, Mr. Palaniswami said they had sought an explanation from the MP.
23 September 2020||Chennai,||5,337 fresh COVID-19 cases, 76 deaths in T.N.||Tamil Nadu’s tally touched 5,52,674 as another 5,337 persons tested positive for the infection on Tuesday. The State’s toll rose to 8,947 with 76 more deaths. Over 5,400 persons got discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 4,97,377.
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lok Sabha clears 3 labour Bills||The Lok Sabha on Tuesday cleared three labour Bills amalgamating laws on social security, occupational safety and industrial relations which would usher in changes including allowing companies with less than 300 workers to hire and fire without prior approval and provide gig and platform workers social security. The Industrial Relations Code, 2020; the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020; and the Code of Social Security, 2020, were passed by voice vote after a debate in the Lok Sabha, and in the absence of the Opposition, who staged a walkout. Minister for Labour and Employment Santosh Gangwar termed the Bills “historic” and ones that would usher in long required reform in industry and labour. Referring to the Social Security Code Bill, the Minister said, “After 70 years of Independence, 50 crore workers, including the unorganised sector, will be brought into some kind of social security net.” Among the 13 Acts subsumed under the Occupational Safety Code, 2020, is the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation and Employment and Conditions of Service) Act of 1979, which came under the spotlight during the COVID-19 lockdown when many migrant workers found themselves without any recourse to wages or services from employers. The new Bill covers contract and directly hired inter-State workers. Inter-State migrants On the issue of inter-State migrants, BJP MPs, Manoj Tiwari and Nishikant Dubey said the nomenclature for referring to them as “migrant labour” be changed and the labour be respected. “Industry requires capital, labour and market. If capital from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are not referred as ‘migrant capital’ then why refer as such to the labour?” asked Mr. Dubey. In the absence of the Opposition, amendments proposed by these members was not taken up and the Bills were passed. These will be tabled in the Rajya Sabha next Monday.
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘A vaccine must have at least 50% efficacy’||A potential COVID-19 vaccine ought to confer at least 50% protection and be able to either prevent infection or disease — but not necessarily both — according to draft guidelines issued by the Central Drugs and Standards Control Organisation, the apex regulator of drug and vaccine trials. These guidelines are similar to standards set by the World Health Organization (WHO) as well as peer international regulatory organisations such as the United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA). Early tests on monkeys of the AstraZeneca-Oxford University candidate vaccine had shown that while some animals that got the vaccine contracted infection, they did not contract a lung infection or other severe manifestations of the disease. The same vaccine candidate is now being tested in Phase 3 clinical trials in several countries, including by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India. The Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech Limited, which is also developing a vaccine candidate, Covaxin, based on an inactivated virus, reported that its tests on animals showed no presence of the virus. In animal trials, all animals are deliberately infected with SARS-CoV-2 and the responses of the vaccinated and unvaccinated group are compared. Because such deliberate infections are not allowed in people, trial designers deploy statistical techniques to decide on whether the administration of the vaccine has a protective effect. Statistical boundaries “To ensure that a widely deployed COVID-19 vaccine is effective, the primary efficacy endpoint point estimate for a placebo-controlled efficacy trial should be at least 50%,” the guidelines released late on Monday note. They also specify a probability range that results must be confined to, and it’s these statistical boundaries that determine how many volunteers must be recruited to get reliable estimates of the vaccine’s efficacy. “All vaccines for respiratory viruses are not always 100% effective,” said Balram Bhargava, Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), at a press conference on Tuesday, “The WHO says for a vaccine that safety, immunogenicity and efficacy are the three criteria. We are aiming for 100% efficacy but that’s unlikely being a respiratory infection, and so the target is 50% and above.” AstraZeneca in its publicly released trial protocol last week said that there would have to be 150 people ill with confirmed coronavirus among participants who were vaccinated or received placebo shots to determine whether the vaccine was good enough. As per the USFDA guidelines, it would also evaluate the number of those ill and those not in vaccinated and placebo groups when there were 75 confirmed cases, and this could be a basis for early completion of trials. U.S. biotech firms Moderna and Pfizer have also released such trial protocol though such details have not yet been given by Indian companies.
23 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana reports 2,166 more cases, Kerala 4,125||Andhra Pradesh reported 7,553 new coronavirus infections and 51 deaths on Tuesday, an official bulletin said. Testing covered 68,829 samples with a positivity rate of 10.97% , while the overall positivity rate for 52.29 lakh samples tested till date stood at 12.22%. The tests per million ratio stood at 97,931, while the confirmed cases per million was put at 11,972. East Godavari was the only district with over 1,000 new infections. It reported 1,166 new cases and four deaths. The daily infection count and toll were as follows: West Godavari (989 cases and three deaths), Chittoor (902 and 8), Prakasam (672 and 5), Guntur (606 and 3), Kadapa (589 and 3), Nellore (556 and 3), Visakhpatnam (410 and 6), Vizianagaram (391 and 0), Srikakulam (347 and 1), Krishna (344 and 5), Anantapur (309 and 6) and Kurnool (272 and 4). Cases in Guntur crossed the 50,000-mark and in Kadapa, the 40,000-mark. Kerala reported 4,125 new cases on Tuesday. The State tested 38,574 samples, indicating a test positivity rate of 10.6%. The number of patients being treated in the State’s hospitals stood at 40,382. The death toll rose by 19 on Tuesday to touch 572. These were deaths recorded between August 25 and September 21. Of the 19 COVID-19 deaths, 11 were in Thiruvananthapuram, two each in Kollam and Malappuram and one each in Thrissur, Palakkad, Ernakulam and Kannur. Except for 155 cases with a history of travel either outside Kerala or abroad, 3,970 of the 4,125 new cases reported on Tuesday were locally acquired infections. In 412 cases, authorities were unable to trace the source and infections were reported in 87 healthcare workers . Bengaluru Urban district breached the two lakh mark on Tuesday with 3,082 new cases. With a total of 2,00,728 positive cases, Bengaluru became the third city after Pune and Delhi recording over two lakh cases. With 26 new deaths on Tuesday, the toll in the district rose to 2,715, nearly 33% of the State total. New cases in Karnataka as a whole reduced marginally on Tuesday at 6,974. There were 83 new deaths. In all, 55,707 tests were conducted. This included 15,18,386 rapid antigen tests. Tamil Nadu’s tally of COVID-19 cases reached 5,52,674 as another 5,337 persons tested positive for the infection on Tuesday. The State’s toll rose to 8,947 with the death of 76 more persons. As many as 5,406 persons were discharged following treatment, taking the total number of persons discharged till date to 4,97,377. Presently, the State has 46,350 active cases. This includes 10,012 persons in Chennai and 4,559 in Coimbatore. Of the 76 persons who succumbed, 19 persons died in Chennai and 11 in Salem. There were four deaths each in Coimbatore and Erode.  (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Festival crowds could pose a threat’||NITI Aayog member (health) V.K. Paul on Tuesday warned that India could see an explosion of COVID-19 cases during the festival season which starts next month if people do not follow COVID-appropriate behaviour. He added that until a vaccine was found, “wearing a mask, following social distancing norms etc. is our best safety mechanism against the virus.” “We have to remember that this pandemic has to be controlled and deaths due to COVID kept at minimum and for this people have to wear the mask as a service to society and the country. It has to become a social movement. Crowding during the festival season can lead to an explosive situation,” Dr. Paul said at a Health Ministry press briefing. Seasonal threat Dr. Paul added that the next two or three months are going to be very crucial. “We have seen that respiratory problems increase during the winter months and we appeal to all to continue wearing the mask because there is evidence that shows that mask wearing can reduce cases by 50%. It is everyone’s responsibility to work towards breaking the transmission,” he said. Stating that India for the first time since May had registered more recoveries than new cases, Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan, addressing the briefing, said the country, aided by increased number of tests, is able to catch and isolate cases early. The number of tests has gone from one crore in July to over 6 crore currently, he said. “We have even advised States that continue to register a relatively higher number of COVID cases, especially Punjab, to increase testing and also track down symptomatic negative patients so that they don’t become super spreaders,” the official said. Giving a break-up of the COVID cases/recoveries and deaths, Mr. Bhushan said in India currently one-fifth or 17.54% of the total COVID cases are active, 80.86% have recovered and 1.60% is the total deaths due to the virus. Oxygen supply “The Ministry is now working closely with the States to ensure that there is adequate and uninterrupted oxygen supply across India for treating COVID patients,” he said. Meanwhile a release issued by the Health Ministry said that India has recorded the highest number of single day recoveries in the last 24 hours. “More than 1 lakh (1,01,468) new recoveries have been registered in the last 24 hours in the country. The trend of very high number of single day recoveries has sustained for the past four consecutive days. With this, the total number of recoveries are nearly 45 lakh (44,97,867),” it said. The Ministry added that 79% of the new recoveries are being reported from 10 States/UTs — Maharashtra, Karnataka , Andhra Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Delhi, Kerala, West Bengal and Punjab.
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amid protests, kharif crops ripen||As the furore over the farm Bills moves out of Parliament and continues on the streets with ongoing farmer protests, major kharif crops are set to come to market in a few weeks. The prices could provide early indicators of the impact of the controversial changes, which have, in fact, been in force since the ordinances were issued in June. Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal says there has been a 65% year-on-year jump in registration of applications for new food businesses, indicating that private players are eager to invest in agri business and the rural economy as a result of the reforms. Other farmer leaders and economists say that while some traders may begin moving out of mandis , or at least stop paying mandi fees this season, most consequences will take a few years to materialise. “We expect to see better prices for farmers in this season itself because of the reforms. But more than that, there are major players who are already firming up investment plans and finalising deals to buy from FPOs [or Farmer Producer Organisations],” Mr. Agarwal told The Hindu . “I have just got the data that 6.86 lakh new applications for licence/registration were submitted in the last three months [June to August] under the Food Safety and Standards Act 2007. This is 65% higher than the new applications filed in the same period in the previous year,” he added. Mr. Agarwal said the government is working to improve the price intelligence system, integrating with private players, to make it easier to track farm prices even beyond the notified mandis . The new legislation aims to encourage trade outside mandis , remove inter-State barriers, and facilitate contract farming. Tracking volatility “The thing to look at, to judge the success of the reforms, is not whether prices go up or down, but the volatility of prices,” said agricultural economist Abhijit Sen, who is a former member of the Planning Commission and former chair of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices. “If people are able to predict what is going to happen, if produce can be traded and moved smoothly from areas of high availability to high demand, then there is likely to be price stability. If you have a similar price for produce of the same quality in different secondary markets, that is a sign of stability,” he said, adding that it would take a period of time to track price volatility. Ajay Vir Jakhar, chairman of the Bharat Krushak Samaj and former head of the Punjab State Farmers Commission, agrees that there may not be “overnight” changes. “I don’t expect any adverse impact on procurement until February 2022, both because of Punjab Assembly elections and the need for procurement to meet post-COVID food relief needs,” he said. Punjab, which has high levels of government procurement, and a well-oiled system of traders or commission agents, called arhatiyas , in the mandis , has seen the biggest protests so far. “I think the arhatiyas will continue to operate within the mandis this season, using the mandi infrastructure. But when they make the bills, they will show it as though the trade happened outside, to avoid paying fees,” he said. The new law abolishes fees for trade outside mandis . Telangana impact In other parts of the country, traders are already moving out of mandis , says Kiran Kumar Vissa of the Telangana farmers organisation Rythu Swarajya Vedika. “Without mandi fees, many of the traders say they would prefer to buy outside. In June to August, there was a 20-40% drop in sale volume of non-perishables within the mandis , so those early indicators are there,” he said, adding that this shift has not led to any price increase for farmers. Maize, an early harvested crop which has come to the market in September, is trading at Rs. 1,000-Rs. 1,300 per quintal, well below the Rs. 1,850 per quintal MSP.
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM to hold virtual meet with 7 CMs||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair on Wednesday a virtual meeting with the Chief Ministers and Health Ministers of seven States and Union Territories (UTs) with a high COVID-19 burden, to review the status and preparedness of disease response and management, a Union government release said on Tuesday. More than 63% of the active cases of the country are concentrated in Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Punjab, the release said. “They also account for 65.5% of the total confirmed cases and 77% of the total deaths. Along with the other five States, Punjab and Delhi have reported an increase in the number of cases being reported recently. Maharashtra, Punjab and Delhi are reporting high mortality with more than 2% case fatality rate (CFR). Other than Punjab and Uttar Pradesh, their positivity rate is observed to be above the national average of 8.52%,” it said. e-ICU tele-consultation The Health Ministry said it was supporting the States to ramp up the healthcare and medical infrastructure, while the clinical management capacities of the doctors manning the ICUs have been substantially upgraded through the e-ICU tele-consultation exercise. “High level review with the States/UTs has ensured adequate availability of medical oxygen in the hospitals and COVID-19 healthcare facilities. The Centre is also regularly deputing multi-disciplinary teams to States/UTs to support and handhold them in matters of containment, surveillance, testing and efficient clinical management of the positive cases. The Central teams also guide the local authorities in effectively managing the challenges related to timely diagnosis and needed follow up,’’ the Ministry stated.
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Trade unions plan protests||Central trade unions called for protests across the country on Wednesday against the three labour codes passed by the Lok Sabha on Tuesday, while organisations representing informal workers demanded that the unorganised sector receive full protection under the social security, industrial relations and occupational safety codes. While speaking in the House about the three codes, Labour and Employment Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar said all workers, including those in the informal sector, self-employed and gig or platform workers, would now be covered under social security schemes. Ten Central trade unions planned to observe Wednesday as a day of protests against the “anti-worker codification of labour laws and other changes, against disinvestment and privatisation of public sector enterprises including 100% FDI [foreign direct investment] in some of the core sectors of our economy,” Amarjeet Kaur, the general secretary of the All-India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), said on behalf of the AITUC, the Indian National Trade Union Congress, the Hind Mazdoor Sabha, the Centre of Indian Trade Unions, the All-India United Trade Union Centre, the Trade Union Coordination Committee, the Self Employed Women’s Association, the All-India Central Council of Trade Unions, the Labour Progressive Federation, and the United Trade Union Congress. ‘Colonial-era conditions’ Chandan Kumar of the Working People’s Charter, which advocates for informal sector workers, said the government was trying to retain colonial-era conditions. Mr. Kumar said the codes had left out a large number of workers. Social security should have been made a universal right for the workforce, he said.
23 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Ex-serviceman among four arrested in theft case, gold and cash recovered||The police on Tuesday arrested four persons, including an ex-serviceman, on the charge of theft of cash and ornaments from an apartment in Surathkal in August this year. Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash gave the names of the accused as Naveen, Raghu, Amesh and Santosh. Mr. Vikash told reporters that ex-serviceman Naveen owned a flat in Jardin Apartment Complex at Idya Surathkal. He was also the secretary of the apartment owners association. He said that the husband of Vidya Prabhu, owner of Vidyaganesh Petrol Bunk, had a flat in the apartment complex but it was uninhabited. As her husband had passed away, Ms. Prabhu did not visit the flat very often. On August 17, Ms. Prabhu complained stating that Rs. 51 lakh in cash and 224 grams of gold ornaments had been stolen from her flat by a gang of persons that had gained entry from the balcony. Investigation revealed the involvement of Naveen, who also worked as manager in a wine shop. “He had noticed that Ms. Prabhu seldom visited the flat and conspired with the other accused to steal the articles from the flat,” Mr. Vikash said. While Raghu and Amesh were from Thiruvananthapuram in Kerala, Santosh, a native of Belthangady, worked in the wine shop where Naveen was the manager. “We have launched a search for two more persons involved in the theft,” he said. The police recovered all the gold ornaments that had been stolen, while they could recover only Rs. 30.85 lakh of the stolen cash from the accused. The police also recovered a car and a two-wheeler used by the accused in the crime. Ms. Prabhu, he said, was yet to explain the presence of the large amount of cash in the flat. The amount appeared to be related to transactions carried out in the petrol bunk, the Police Commissioner said.
23 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala moots new proposals for salary cut, repayment||The State government has come up with new proposals on salary deduction and repayment of deducted salary of government employees and teachers to raise funds in the wake of the COVID-19-induced financial crisis. Three proposals were put forward by Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac at a meeting of office-bearers of employees’ and teachers’ unions through videoconference on Tuesday. Conditions Instead of depositing the deducted salary from April to August this year in the Provident Fund account on April 1, 2021, the employees would be allowed to take loan for the deducted amount from banks and financial institutions in October. The government would repay the loan amount with interest and offer guarantee to the loan, provided they agreed to the new deduction proposal. The other proposal was to deduct five days' salary every month for six months from September. Those availing themselves of the offer will get more time for repayment of Provident Fund loan taken by them and Onam festival advance of Rs. 15,000. Deducting one month’s salary through three days every month from September to March 2021 was the third proposal. But, the employees will not get any concession in repayment of Provident Fund loan and Onam festival advance. In the salary cut initiative from September, to be known as COVID-19 Income Support Scheme, the employees and teachers will get 9% annual interest till it is deposited in the PF on April 1, 2021. Salary limit The government is also considering the demand raised by the unions to enhance the monthly salary limit to Rs. 30,000 to exempt from salary cut. The government had exempted those with a monthly salary of Rs. 20,000 in the previous salary cut. Unions given time Dr. Isaac asked the unions to respond to the proposals in writing by 5 p.m. on Wednesday. Pro-United Democratic Front unions reiterated that they would go on strike if the government moved ahead with the salary cut. The Action Council of State Employees and Teachers welcomed the proposals mooted by Dr. Isaac to lessen the hardship faced by the employees.
23 September 2020||ARIYALUR,||Man alleges Hindi angle to loan denial, IOB manager shifted||The manager of the Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) branch at Jayamkondam was transferred to its regional office in Tiruchi on Monday, following an allegation by a retired senior civil surgeon that the former refused to entertain his loan application as he couldn’t speak Hindi. The incident triggered strong reactions from leaders of political parties in Tamil Nadu, who condemned the alleged actions of the manager Vishal Kamble. However, the bank authorities claimed that the loan application was rejected in view of the advanced age of the customer. According to sources, Dr. C. Balasubramanian, 76, had approached Mr. Kamble a few days ago, seeking a loan for building a shopping complex near the bus stand in Jayamkondam. He had submitted the requisite documents. Dr. Balasubramanian, who said he was a long-standing customer of the bank, showed some property documents to the manager for consideration of surety for the loan. However, the manager reportedly asked him whether he knew Hindi and allegedly refused to entertain his application, citing the “language problem”. Dr. Balasubramanian claimed he had informed the manager that he knew Tamil and English, but Mr. Kamble had told him that he was from Maharashtra, and could not go through the documents in Tamil due to the language problem. Miffed at his reply, Mr. Balasubramanian has sought an explanation from the bank authorities for invoking “language [as an] issue” while processing a loan application. “Sanctioning a loan is the prerogative of the bank. But the question of whether I knew Hindi or not was irrelevant to the processing of the loan application. However, the manager kept telling me that he could not go through the document as he was from Maharashtra and was comfortable [only] in Hindi. It pained me a lot,” Dr. Balasubramanian said. Mr. Kamble refused to comment, saying he was not authorised to speak to the media. The manager of the Indian Overseas Bank (IOB) branch at Jayamkondam was transferred to its regional office in Tiruchi on Monday, following an allegation by a retired senior civil surgeon that the former refused to entertain his loan application as he couldn’t speak Hindi. The incident triggered strong reactions from leaders of political parties in Tamil Nadu, who condemned the alleged actions of the manager Vishal Kamble. However, the bank authorities claimed that the loan application was rejected in view of the advanced age of the customer. According to sources, Dr. C. Balasubramanian, 76, had approached Mr. Kamble a few days ago, seeking a loan for building a shopping complex near the bus stand in Jayamkondam. He had submitted the requisite documents. Dr. Balasubramanian, who said he was a long-standing customer of the bank, showed some property documents to the manager for consideration of surety for the loan. However, the manager reportedly asked him whether he knew Hindi and allegedly refused to entertain his application, citing the “language problem”. Dr. Balasubramanian claimed he had informed the manager that he knew Tamil and English, but Mr. Kamble had told him that he was from Maharashtra, and could not go through the documents in Tamil due to the language problem. Miffed at his reply, Mr. Balasubramanian has sought an explanation from the bank authorities for invoking “language [as an] issue” while processing a loan application. Mr. Kamble refused to comment.
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||UGC, CBSE can time results of compartment exams: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday indicated that the University Grants Commission (UGC) and the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) could coordinate and time the declaration of compartment exam results before the admission process begins in universities. The court said the academic future of nearly two lakh students taking the CBSE compartment exams should not be blighted by the extraordinary circumstances created by the COVID-19 pandemic. A three-judge Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, meanwhile, asked the UGC to not declare its academic calendar till September 24, the next day of hearing. The compartment exams are scheduled to finish by September 29. During the hearing, the court even indicated that it could direct the CBSE to declare the compartment exam results before the cut-off date for UGC admissions. “What is the cut-off date for admissions?”. the Bench asked the UGC counsel. The latter informed that it may be by October-end. The CBSE lawyer said the evaluation of the papers would take three or four weeks. The court reiterated that this had been a difficult year and academic boards like the CBSE and the UGC have to make adjustments in their schedules. Two lakh students were taking the compartment exams and their future cannot be hampered with.
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Central Vista project will aid economic revival, says Centre||The Central Vista redevelopment project would lead to employment generation and could be “an important fulcrum of economic revival”, according to the government’s reply to a question in the Lok Sabha about the rationale for the project given the state of the economy. In his reply to the question by Trinamool Congress MP Mala Roy, Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said, “In the current economic scenario, the project shall generate large number of direct and indirect employment which could be an important fulcrum for economic revival.” “The tender for construction of the new Parliament building is under scrutiny while architectural plans for other buildings are under planning stage. The estimated cost for construction of new Parliament building is Rs. 971 crore. Estimated cost of other buildings and development/redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue shall be worked out after finalisation of plans,” the Minister said. He said the Tata Projects Limited had emerged as the lowest bidder at Rs. 861.91 crore. “The existing Parliament building was started in 1921 and commissioned in 1927; this building is already 93 years old and has since been declared heritage grade-I building. Its facilities and amenities are highly inadequate to meet the current demand of Parliament. There is acute shortage of office space and there are no individual chambers for MPs. This building was not meant to be for bicameral Parliament and has been over-stressed,” Mr. Puri said.
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Arrested blasts case accused identified sites to plant bombs’||The accused in the 2008 Bengaluru serial blasts case, Shoaib, 31, who was arrested by the Central Crime Branch at Thiruvananthapuram airport on Monday evening, is suspected to have played a key role in the procurement of explosives. He was part of a team that identified locations to plant the bombs that fateful day in the city, claim senior officials. “He has been taken into CCB custody and further interrogation on his role in the blasts and his later activities is on,” a senior CCB official said. One person died and around 30 were injured after seven bombs went off across the city on July 25, 2008.  32 accused The city police had filed a chargesheet against 32 accused in the case, including Abdul Nasser Madani. Shoaib was the thirty-second accused. He was 19 years old at the time. Police say he fled the country a few days after the blasts. “Efforts to nab all the absconding accused in the case have been constantly on. With the inputs were received and help from Central agencies, we tracked down Shoaib. A Red Corner Notice was issued in October 2019, following which he was detained in Dubai by the local authorities. After a prolonged legal process, he was deported to his home State, Kerala, on Monday, where we arrested him,” said Sandeep Patil, Joint Commissioner (Crime). Of the 32 named as accused in the case, 22 were arrested earlier. Four were killed in an encounter in Kashmir by the Central forces. With the arrest of Shoaib, five accused still remain elusive and efforts are on to track them down, sources said.
23 September 2020||NEW DELH,||Govt. should bring in another Bill or amend current one: SJM||Swadeshi Jagaran Manch (SJM), which is affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS), has termed the three farm Bills cleared by both Houses of Parliament as good in intent, but that certain changes should be made to the Bills in order to offer protection to Indian farmers. Both Houses of Parliament cleared the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020; the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020; and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, but the Bills have evoked protest from the Opposition and farmers’ groups. Speaking to The Hindu , SJM national co-convenor Ashwani Mahajan said that the organisation overall supported the Bills but there were certain issues that could be finessed upon. “There is a good system of calculating Minimum Support Price (MSP) for certain crops, which is cost plus 50%, and is enforced in government procurement and also dictates price levels in mandi s. When corporates have been allowed to buy crops outside the m andi s and sell at the Maximum Retail Price (MRP), then why not get them to buy at MSP? For this, the government should bring in another Bill or amend the current one,” he said. He added that the dispute redressal forum being the Sub Divisional Magistrate (SDM) will discourage farmers from seeking restitution.
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,||NIA takes over probe into D.J. Halli violence||National Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken over the probe into two cases related to violence in D.J. Halli, in which the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act has been invoked by city police. Large-scale violence had broken out in D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli on the night of August 11 over a derogatory social media post against Islam by Naveen Kumar, nephew of Pulikeshinagar MLA Akhanda Sreenivasa Murthy, both of whose houses came under attack that night apart from D.J. Halli police station. The NIA has registered new FIRs pertaining to the two cases, a release from NIA said on Tuesday. The FIRs state that Muzammil Pasha of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) had earlier called a meeting and asked SDPI/PFI members to instigate the mob and incite violence over the social media post. A special team led by an Inspector General of Police rank officer has been camping in the city to lead the probe, NIA said. Ruling BJP MLA Arvind Limbavali who led the party’s fact-finding team on the violence was the first to demand an investigation by the NIA, alleging that the involvement of the SDPI and the PFI raised national security concerns. The police who had initially not invoked the UAPA, later added those sections to the two FIRs probing the conspiracy behind the violence following a review meeting chaired by the Chief Minister. The State government has since claimed they are making moves to proscribe the PFI and the SDPI.
23 September 2020||New Delhi,||Amid boycott, Rajya Sabha passes 7 Bills||Amid a boycott of House proceedings by many Opposition parties, Rajya Sabha passed seven key Bills in three-and-a-half hours on Tuesday. Most of the Opposition, including the Congress, Left parties, the Trinamool Congress, the Samajwadi Party and the Nationalist Congress Party, decided to boycott proceedings for the remainder of the session in protest against the suspension of eight MPs. The first Bill passed was the Indian Institutes of Information Technology Laws (Amendment) Bill, 2020 that seeks to declare five Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs) set up under the public-private partnership mode in Surat, Bhopal, Bhagalpur, Agartala, and Raichur as institutions of national importance. The next Bill to be moved by Minister of State for Consumer Affairs Danve Raosaheb Dadarao was the Essential Commodities (Amend- ment) Bill, 2020. Mr. Dadarao said the Ordinance was promulgated in the midst of the lockdown so that farmers had a way of selling their crops. Banking regulations The Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which was moved by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, was also passed in the Upper House. Ms. Sitharaman said the Bill was important as there have been many banks and cooperative societies that have had problems in the past year and a half. The fourth Bill that was passed was the Companies (Amendment) Bill which amended 13 sections and added one chapter. The fifth Bill that was cleared was the National Forensic Sciences University Bill, 2020. Minister of Strte for Home G. Kishan Reddy said the Gujarat Forensic Sciences University is being upgraded to a national university. The House also passed the Rashtriya Raksha University Bill, 2020 to upgrade the Gandhinagar police training university to a national university. The seventh Bill — the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, 2020 — was returned by Rajya Sabha.
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC expresses shock at ‘honour killing’ in T.N.||A Supreme Court Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde expressed shock at the “honour killing” of a Dalit youth Gokuraj in 2015 in Tamil Nadu while refusing to even consider the question of bail for the prime accused. “For you it is jail,” Chief Justice Bobde, heading a three-judge Bench, told senior advocate S. Nagamuthu, appearing for S. Yuvaraj, the prime accused and the founder of Theeran Chinnamalai Gounder Peravai, on Tuesday. Chief Justice Bobde voiced his dismay at Tamil Nadu witnessing the crime of honour killing. “I was wondering how is it that Tamil Nadu has honour killings ... Honour killings are seen in Haryana and Uttar Pradesh,” the Chief Justice remarked orally during the hearing. Advocate Yogesh Kanna appeared for Tamil Nadu. Mr. Nagamuthu gently pressed for bail, saying jail was not the norm. But Chief Justice Bobde shot back, asking “what offence was committed against you? You have obliterated somebody from the face of the earth ... Why should such people get bail?” Gokulraj’s body was found on the rail track near Pallipalayam on June 24, 2015. His mother alleged that he was murdered for being in a relationship with a Caste Hindu girl.
23 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,||Thanks to watchwoman, techie gets his food for thought||Inspiration can come from any quarters and need not necessarily be from people of high positions or name and fame, as Laxmamma and her daughter-in-law have proved. Ms. Laxmamma, a watchwoman, and her daughter-in-law Ranjitha, who work in apartments for a living, cooked food for about a dozen migrant labourers and served them on April 12. She prepared the food from the ration rice she got. It was almost three weeks after lockdown was announced due to the COVID-19 pandemic and everyone was even fearing to allow others nearby. “All of them are labourers from other States and do not even know the local language. Who can trust them and extend financial assistance? How can they survive without work and where can they go?” was what Ms. Laxmammma had to say when Dosapati Ramu, an employee in an IT firm, asked her why and how she was able to serve so many people. This forced Mr. Ramu to introspect, who felt that when a watchwoman can do this much, then why can’t he. This resulted in the establishment of a Rice ATM at L.B. Nagar on April 13. From that day on to May 21, in about 38 days, Mr. Ramu spent as much as Rs. 3.75 lakh to serve the needy. He even withdrew Rs. 3.2 lakh from his provident fund account. About 200 migrant workers were given rice, vegetables and groceries. “From April 13 to September 21, for the past 160 days, people are coming here and collecting rice and vegetables. About 16,000 families have benefited. More than 500 teachers in private schools came here seeking assistance, from as far as Miyapur. The number of people coming here varies between 25 and 100 every day. They include youth who served food during functions,” Mr. Ramu told The Hindu, adding that so far they had spent about Rs. 16 lakh for groceries, in addition to other expenses.
23 September 2020||Bengauluru,||Charaka set to restart||Heggodu-based Charaka Women’s Cooperative Society, which had shut down owing to liquidity crisis caused by the lockdown, is set to restart from October 2. A renewed interest among its patrons in the handloom products and the government’s assurances to release pending dues has spurred the decision to reopen. Over the last month, Desi, which sells handloom products of Charaka, has been able to reduce its inventory of finished products by over Rs. 35 lakh. Charaka, which had piled up an inventory of fabric to nearly 87,000 metres, has been able to reduce the stock by about 10,000 m. Charaka supports nearly 800 rural artisans, who are mostly women. It is among the largest naturally dyed handloom fabric producers in the country. “Desi has reached sales that is nearly as good as the pre-COVID-19 sales. Sale of fabric from Charaka has also been happening. The government has assured to release Rs. 97 lakh that has been due to the society soon by clubbing two projects,” Charaka founder Prasanna told The Hindu. The government assurances has come on clubbing the proposed Natural Dyeing Development and Research Centre and Pavitra Vastra Yojane, and that the government has also accepted the demand for district-level committees to monitor these projects, he added. As part of the effort, Charaka is also launching a four-day expo across Karnataka that is expected to reduce the stock pile. The government has also agreed to support the 20% rebate that will be offered to the consumers.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Protesting MPs rebuff Harivansh’s ‘tea-plomacy’||“Harivansh ji claimed that it is a personal visit; he came in his own car. [But] Within minutes of his visit, Prime Minister Modi tweeted praising him. It is very clear that BJP and their ally JD(U) realise that they are getting alienated from the people because of the draconian law. This tea trip was aimed at Bihar Assembly elections,” CPI (M) MP K.K. Ragesh, one of the suspended lawmakers on protest, said. AAP MP Sanjay Singh said the protest was not about tea and the MPs were not on a sit-in to form personal relationships. Minutes after his visit to the protest site, a letter written by Mr. Harivansh to President Kovind and Mr. Naidu was made public. In the letter, he expressed deep anguish at the alleged attempts to “intimidate” him by “violent” behaviour by some members. He also announced a 24-hour fast, hoping that this may inspire a feeling of “self-purification” in the unruly MPs. Mr. Modi was quick to pat Mr. Harivansh. “I read the letter written to the Honourable President by Honourable Harivansh ji. Every word of the letter has given new faith in our belief in democracy,” the Prime Minister said. Vice-President Naidu also lauded his gesture of taking tea to the protesting members. However, Opposition leaders, were dismissive and Congress Deputy Leader in Rajya Sabha Anand Sharma called it a farce. “After brazenly violating rules, procedures and practices for passing bills and making laws, the Deputy Chairman is shedding crocodile tears for Parliamentary democracy. Token fast is nothing but a farce. Hypocrisy will not wash away the sin of doing injustice to India's farmers,” Mr. Sharma tweeted.
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Sanitary napkin scheme halted for want of funds||The State government that has got busy in battling the pandemic this year has silently buried a vital hygiene scheme for adolescent girls. Distribution of sanitary napkins has come to a halt as no funds have been allocated this year for the ‘Shuchi’ scheme, a menstrual hygiene project. The State Budget presented by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on March 5, just before the first COVID-19 case was detected in the State, had not made allocation for ‘Shuchi’, which is now affecting over 17 lakh school and college girls. Creating awareness The scheme, started in 2013-14, was initially a Centrally-sponsored one. However, the Centre asked States to take over the scheme from 2015-16. Every year, the State government has been spending a little over Rs. 49 crore on the scheme. It was aimed at instilling awareness about menstrual hygiene even among girls in the rural areas. Admitting that the scheme had come to a halt, V. Veena, deputy director, Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram (RBSK), also in charge of Shuchi scheme, said the department was submitting a proposal to the government seeking funds. “We are preparing the proposal and will submit it in a week. We are aware that halting of the scheme has hit adolescent girls and are working on restarting it,” she said. State Health Director Om Prakash R. Patil said the fund allocation towards the scheme was hit this year as the overall budgetary grants to the Health Department had reduced. “We have brought this to the notice of the government and are hoping the scheme will resume soon,” he said. Hema Divakar, consultant gynaecologist/obstetrician, who has been advocating health and hygiene under the Union Ministry’s Kishori Swasth Yojana for adolescents, said awareness about menstrual hygiene has considerably increased in the last few years. “The entire behavioural change that was brought about through this scheme should not take a leap backwards because of the scheme being stopped,” she said. “While it is also the responsibility of parents to ensure that their children have access to menstrual hygiene, corporate entities should recognise this as an important issue and pitch in with their CSR funds. Some of them are already doing it but more should come forward,” she said.  We are preparing a proposal and will submit it in a week. We are aware that halting of the scheme has hit adolescent girls and are working on restarting it.V. VeenaDeputy director, Rashtriya Bal Swasthya Karyakram   The entire behavioural change that was brought about through ‘Shuchi’ should not take a leap backwards because of the scheme being stopped.Hema DivakarConsultant gynaecologist/obstetrician
23 September 2020||Washington DC,||India counters Pakistan’s references to J&K||Exercising its right of reply, India countered on Monday references that Pakistan had made to Jammu and Kashmir during remarks delivered via video by Pakistan Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi at the UN’s 75th Anniversary Commemoration. “Our delegation had hoped that during this solemn commemoration of a shared global milestone, the General Assembly would be spared another repetition of the baseless falsehoods that have now become a trademark of Pakistan’s interventions on such platforms,” First Secretary at India’s Permanent Mission to the UN Vidisha Maitra said. India had, via Ms. Maitra, responded to Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s general debate remarks last September as well. On Monday, Mr. Qureshi had said that the Jammu & Kashmir and Palestine disputes were the UN’s “most glaring and longstanding” disputes. The Minister said the people of Jammu and Kashmir were waiting for the UN to “grant them their right to self-determination”. Pakistan, working at times in concert with permanent UN Security Council (UNSC) member China has repeatedly tried formally raising the government’s August 2019 legislative changes to Jammu and Kashmir at the UN. There was an informal closed door Security Council consultation at China’s behest in August last year. In August this year, Pakistan falsely said that its UN representative had made a statement at the UNSC, when in fact, Pakistan, as a non-member of the UNSC, was not part of the body’s meetings. “We reject the malicious reference made to the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, which is an integral part of India. If there is an item that is unfinished on the agenda of the UN, it is that of tackling the scourge of terrorism,” Ms. Maitra said on Monday in her reply to Mr. Qureshi. “Pakistan is a country which is a globally recognised epicentre of terrorism, which by its own admission harbours and trains terrorists and hails them as martyrs,” Ms. Maitra said.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Freshers to start varsity classes from November 1||Classes will be held six days a week to compensate for the time lost due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The UGC approved the guidelines for first year students of both undergraduate and postgraduate programmes at its meeting on Monday, according to Ministry officials. Admissions got delayed as schools and colleges were shut in March due to the lockdown, and board examinations as well as entrance tests for professional courses have been postponed multiple times. The delays have also caused admission cancellations and migration of students. The Education Minister has issued directions that full refunds will be given in such cases, until November 30. “To avoid financial hardship being faced by the parents due to lockdown and related factors, a full refund of fees will be made on account of all cancellation of admissions/ migration of students, up to 30.11.2020, for this very session as a special case,” he tweeted. The admissions process will now be completed by the end of October, although institutions will have one more month to fill up any remaining vacant seats. Classes for the first semester will begin on November 1 and run till the end of February 2021 without any winter break. The teaching-learning process will continue in offline, online or blended mode as is currently happening for second and third year students, depending on continuing COVID restrictions. Students will then get one week off to prepare for first semester exams, which are due to be held from March 8-26. Following a one-week vacation, the second semester will begin on April 5 and continue till the end of July. Second semester examinations will be held from August 9 to 21, and the rest of that month will serve as a shortened summer break.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Opposition parties walk out of both Houses||The Congress leader also also invoked late BJP leader Arun Jaitley, who has said in 2016 that the government becomes illegitimate if a division of votes is denied. DMK’s Tiruchi Siva, SP’s Ramgopal Yadav, Keshava Rao of the TRS, NCP’s Praful Patel spoke on the issue, before staging a walkout. Mr. Siva said the events of Sunday were triggered by the treatment meted out to the Opposition parties. Even before Lok Sabha was convened, the Opposition parties had decided that to stage a similar boycott. As soon as the House convened, the Opposition benches raised issues of personal safety of MPs who were protesting against the three farm sector Bills passed by Parliament. Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu said he and fellow MPs Santokh Singh Chaudhary and Gurdeep Singh Aujla were physically assaulted by the Delhi police near Parliament House on Monday night as they sought to light candles in protest at Vijay Chowk. Speaker Om Birla assured the members of an enquiry into the incident. This was followed by Congress Legislature Party leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Choudhary stating that the farm Bills needed to incorporate the provision for Minimum Support Prices (MSP) and pointed out that the MSP hike for Rabi crops announced on Monday was the lowest in 11 years. Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar insisted that the amendments would help the farmers. He added, “Rs. 1 lakh infra development fund has been allocated, direct cash transfers are being made to the farmers. I am surprised over the Congress leaders’ protests, given that it had promised to implement the same.” At this Mr. Chowdhary declared that the Opposition would be boycotting the House till the end of the Session unless the government withdraws the farm Bills.
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||NIA empowered to probe drug-related offences||The government has empowered the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to investigate offences under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act so that the agency need not rely on local police to unravel drug trade ties that emerge during counter-terrorism operations. NIA officers of inspector rank and above have been vested with the same powers as an officer in charge of a police station under the 1985 NDPS law, as per a notification issued by the Revenue Department in the Ministry of Finance on Tuesday. Officials said this change had been operationalised after consultations with State governments.
23 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Refunds for flight tickets cancelled due to ban’||Passengers who booked air tickets before the lockdown for flights cancelled due to the freeze on domestic travel till May 24 are eligible for refund through credit shell, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) clarified in the Supreme Court on Tuesday. These passengers can take advantage of the government’s proposed credit shell and incentive policy for air travellers. This policy entails airlines to open credit shells in the names of passengers. Passengers can use the credit shell to fly any route. The credit is transferable. If the credit is not used, the ticket amount has to be mandatorily returned to the passenger by March 31, 2021. Incentive provided Passengers are also entitled to the incentive of an increase of 0.75% in the value of their shells if the credit remains untouched till March 31, 2021. “Passengers who have booked tickets prior to lockdown for travel up to May 24, 2020 (as the calibrated domestic operation recommenced from May 25, 2020) — refund of fares to the passengers covered under this category shall be governed by the proposed formulation related to credit shell and incentive scheme,” an affidavit filed by the DGCA jointly for itself and the Civil Aviation Ministry said. The policy is aimed to balance passengers’ interests with bringing the distressed airline sector back on its feet. The court is scheduled to hear the case filed by NGO Pravasi Legal Cell, represented by advocate Jose Abraham, on September 23. However, passengers who had booked tickets during the lockdown for travel during the lockdown are entitled to an immediate refund, the affidavit said. “Passengers covered under this category shall be entitled for immediate refund of the fare by the airline as the airlines were not supposed to book such tickets,” it explained. The DGCA further clarified that for “passengers who had booked tickets at any period of time, but for travel after May 24, 2020, refund shall be governed by the provisions of Civil Aviation Requirements”.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Talks positive but no headway on de-escalation||Since the Doklam crisis, China has started constructing at least 13 entirely new military positions near its borders with India, including three air bases, five permanent air defence positions and five heliports,the report said. “Construction on four of those new heliports started only after the onset of the current Ladakh crisis in May,” the report authored by Sim Tack, Senior Analyst at Stratfor said. Stating that once finished, this infrastructure will provide support for an even greater intensity of Chinese operations, the report observed, “The timing of the Chinese build-up of military facilities along the border with India just prior to the ongoing Ladakh standoff suggests these border tensions are part of a much larger effort by China to assert control over its border regions.” The report observed that this approach is similar to China's strategy in the South China Sea, where a build up of permanent defence facilities supports Chinese localised military superiority and significantly raises the “potential cost of military opposition” to Beijing's maritime claims in the region. By applying the same strategy along its land frontier with India, “China aims to discourage Indian resistance or military action during future border disputes by ostentatiously demonstrating its ability and intent to engage in military confrontations,” it stated.
23 September 2020||New Delhi,||Order reserved on plea for early hearing in 2G case||The Delhi High Court reserved its order on Tuesday on plea by the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate for an early hearing in the appeal against the acquittal of all the accused in the 2G case. Justice Brijesh Sethi reserved the verdict after hearing all the parties in the case. The ED and CBI have sought an early hearing as Justice Sethi, who is hearing their leave to appeals, will demit the office on November 30. The agencies has argued that if the part-heard matter is heard afresh by another bench, it will cost more for the public exchequer.
23 September 2020||Belagavi,||Two arrested for posing as ACB officers||Belagavi District Police arrested two persons who were demanding money from government officers posing as Anti Corruption Bureau officers in Bailhongal on Monday. Vishal Patil (42) of Bailhongal and Srinivas Ashwathanarayana (38) of Bengaluru were arrested following a complaint by Assistant Agriculture Officer B.R. Hulagannanavar. A team of officers traced the accused and arrested them. They were produced before a court which remanded them in judicial custody.
23 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Koran issue: NIA inspects C-APT||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Tuesday inspected the Kerala State Centre for Advanced Printing and Training (C-APT) here. The public sector entity under the Higher Education Department had come under the NIA scanner for receiving theKoran imported from the UAE for distribution along with food kits to needy families during Ramzan. The NIA and other agencies were probing whether the importers of the Koran had used it as a cover for gold smuggling. NIA officers reportedly inspected records, sought video footage related to the Koran import and also quizzed some officials as part of their inquiry.
23 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,||CM convenes meet to end Church row||The Kerala government is slated to convene another round of discussions between the Jacobite and Orthodox factions to find an amicable settlement to the raging dispute in the Malankara Church. The talk, scheduled on October 5, will be mediated by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. As against the first round, in which the two factions attended the discussions separately, the two groups are slated to attend the discussion jointly this time. While the Jacobite faction pressed the demand for a referendum in individual parishes, the Orthodox faction wanted the Supreme Court verdict of July 3, 2017 to be implemented.
23 September 2020||New Delhi,||My way or the highway won’t work, says V-P||Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday said he allowed the motion moved by the government to suspend eight members as he was convinced about it. The VicePresident said the “my way or highway” approach would not work. On Monday, a day after the pandemonium in the House during the passage of the farmers’ Bills, the eight MPs were suspended. Mr. Naidu appreciated the conduct of Deputy Chairman Harivansh who, on Tuesday, reached out to the eight MPs sitting on a night-long protest on the Parliament premises. He said Mr. Harivansh wrote a letter to him expressing his commitment to democracy and that he wanted to observe a fast. “This is a Gandhian way, this is the JP way. We shouldn’t try to score political points. The images appearing on TV is unbecoming of the House of the Elders. Despite everything, Harivansh ji made tea at home and brought it for the protesting MPs,” Mr. Naidu said. Many times in the past, Bills had been passed in din without division, he added.
23 September 2020||Mumbai,||Pawar gets I-T notice on poll affidavits||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday said the Income Tax department had served him a notice seeking clarification regarding his poll affidavits. “I was served a notice yesterday. I read somewhere that Maharashtra Chief Minister and his son, too, will be served a notice. NCP’s Lok Sabha MP Supriya Sule’s name too was discussed regarding this. Out of all the elected representatives in the country, it seems they [Central agencies] have special love and affection for us,” he said.
23 September 2020||New Delhi,||LS passes J&K Official Languages Bill||The Lok Sabha passed the J&K Official Languages Bill, 2020 that seeks to include Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi as the official languages in the newly-created Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Earlier, only English and Urdu were the official languages in the former State. Hasnain Masoodi of National Conference (NC) said five official languages will confuse the bureaucracy. He said Urdu was a link between J&K and Ladakh. Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy said that as per the 2011 Census, only 0.16% of the population in J&K spoke Urdu. He stated that over 56% speak Kashmiri and it had not been recognised as an official language.
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED attaches properties in Mirchi case||The Enforcement Directorate has attached 15 Dubai-based properties worth Rs. 203 crore in connection with a money-laundering case against drug dealer Iqbal Mirchi, who died in the United Kingdom in 2013, and others. The agency had earlier attached properties valued Rs. 573 crore last December. The assets belonging to Iqbal Mirchi’s family members include a hotel named Midwest Hotel Apartment and 14 other commercial and residential properties. The ED had registered the case in September last year. Iqbal Mirchi was a close associate of Pakistan-based underworld don Dawood Ibrahim.
23 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||ST pre-matric hostels inaugurated||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday inaugurated via online mode the pre-matric hostels constructed by the Scheduled Tribe Development Department at Sholayur and Aanavayi at Attapady and Irumbupalam in Idukki. He also laid the foundation stone for a post-matric hostel at Agali in Attapady.
23 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Make available pure medicinal plants: SHRC||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed the Ayush Director and the Deputy Drugs Controller (Ayurveda) to convene a meeting of experts to make available unadulterated medicinal plants in the market. Commission chairperson Antony Dominic also directed that the meeting’s recommendations be submitted to the government. The move follows a complaint by M.A. Shajahan that lack of unadulterated medicinal plants was leading to health problems.
23 September 2020||Mumbai,||Drugs probe: NCB may summon Deepika Padukone if needed||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), probing the alleged drug nexus in Bollywood, might summon actor Deepika Padukone if needed, an official said on Tuesday. NCB sources said certain WhatsApp conversations purportedly discussing drugs are on the radar of the agency. Some of these chats were allegedly between Ms. Padukone’s manager, Karishma Prakash, and one “D”, they said. The official said the NCB might also summon actors Rakul Preet Singh and Sara Ali Khan, and designer Simone Khambatta this week.
23 September 2020||Mumbai,||Rhea Chakraborty’s judicial custody extended by special court||A special Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court on Tuesday extended the judicial custody of actor Rhea Chakraborty in a case registered against her by the Narcotics Control Bureau till October 6. The actor filed a plea for bail in the Bombay High Court. Her brother Showik has also sought bail through advocate Satish Maneshinde and the matter will be heard on Wednesday by a single Bench of Justice S.V. Kotwal.
23 September 2020||Srinagar,||Arms dropped from drone recovered in Jammu’s Akhnoor||Security forces on Tuesday recovered a consignment of arms and ammunition in the Akhnoor area of Jammu district. One Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) militant was killed in a night-long operation in central Kashmir’s Budgam on Tuesday. An official said that while recovering the consignment, noise from a drone was heard. But the drone was not visible due to the dark. The arms recovered included two AK-47 assault rifles, two AK magazines and 90 rounds.
23 September 2020||Mumbai,||Court issues LoR to U.S. for aiding CBI in probe against Mallya||A special CBI court in Mumbai has issued a Letter of Request (LoR) to the U.S. for aiding the CBI in its probe into a multi-crore bank fraud case against Vijay Mallya. Special court judge Jayendra C. Jagdale issued the LoR on Monday after the CBI filed an application for it.
23 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents of TNSCB tenements in Mandaveli left in the lurch||More than 500 families in the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) tenements at Vaniyambadhi-Kuppaimedu in Mandaveli have been left in a lurch as the board has started demolishing their houses for reconstruction. Residents complained that the government should have not have done it during the COVID-19 pandemic as many are without jobs now, and wanted three more months to vacate. There are over 500 families residing at Vaniyambadhi-Kuppaimedu and most have been living in the 13 tenements for close to 46 years. “As the buildings have become old, the TNSCB wanted to demolish and rebuild them. The officials asked us to vacate eight months ago. However many women, including me, met Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and requested more time. He agreed for us to stay till May this year,” said M. Prema, a resident of the locality. COVID-19 impact Since May, many residents have been vacating their houses. “Most residents here are daily wage earners. Due to COVID-19, many lost jobs and were not able to pay rent. Hence, we returned to the TNSCB tenements recently,” said Karthik, another resident. But in the past week, officials of the TNSCB reportedly put pressure on the residents to vacate. “They came with earth-movers on Tuesday morning and asked us to vacate. They handed over allotment orders to many, and started demolishing the houses of those who accepted the orders. The workers went inside and emptied the homes. Policemen were deployed to prevent law and order problems,” added Ms. Geetha, another resident. Ms. Prema said they were willing to vacate, but needed three more months. Left vulnerable “During the COVID-19 pandemic, it is impossible for many to pay rent as people have lost their jobs. The government can postpone the demolition by two months at least. Now, we don’t have any place to go. There are many senior citizens and children who are on the road and are vulnerable to the disease,” she added. Vanessa Peter, policy researcher, Information and Resource Centre for the Deprived Urban Communities, said community participation should be ensured before taking any such decision. “It is more pertinent during the pandemic as people are already struggling due to a loss of livelihood,” she explained. Senior TNSCB officials were not available for comment.
23 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Student killed for phone, chain||A 20-year-old college student was stabbed to death by a construction worker while she was alone at home in Kattupakkam, near Poonamallee, on Monday. The suspect stole her two-sovereign gold chain. The victim, C. Meena, the daughter of Chandrasekar and Dhanalakshmi, was studying B.Sc. (Mathematics) at a city college and was in her second year. As construction work was under way at the house, workers frequented the first floor. On Monday, Ms. Dhanalakshmi tried calling her daughter over the phone. When Meena did not answer, she called up a neighbour and asked them to check on her. The neighbour found Meena lying dead on the floor inside the house. The parents and police personnel rushed to the spot. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Ambattur, Deepa Sathyan and her team began investigation. The woman was found stabbed in the neck with a pair of scissors and a two sovereign gold chain and a mobile phone were found missing. Her body was sent to a government hospital for post-mortem examination. Preliminary investigation revealed that a mason working at the construction site was missing. The police traced his address and recovered a bloodstained shirt with a mobile phone in the pocket. The phone was confirmed as belonging to the victim. CCTV footage After analysing CCTV footage and call records, the police arrested Shanmugam, 45, at his village near Tindivanam late on Monday. He was brought back and interrogated. Ms. Deepa said, “Our preliminary investigation revealed that it was a murder for monetary gain. Investigations are ongoing.” Admits to murder During interrogation, Shanmugam admitted to the murder and said he killed her as she refused to give up the gold chain. He was arrested and remanded in judicial custody on Tuesday.
23 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,337 persons test positive for COVID-19 in State||Tamil Nadu’s tally touched 5,52,674 as another 5,337 persons tested positive for the infection on Tuesday. The State’s toll rose to 8,947 with the death of 76 more persons. As many as 5,406 persons were discharged from hospitals following treatment, taking the total number of persons discharged till date to 4,97,377. Presently, the State has 46,350 active cases. This includes 10,012 persons in Chennai and 4,559 in Coimbatore. Of the 76 persons who succumbed to the infection, 19 persons died in Chennai and 11 in Salem. There were four deaths each in Coimbatore and Erode. While 44 persons died in government hospitals, 32 died in private facilities. Of them, three persons were in their 30s and eight in their 40s. A 34-year-old man from Tiruvallur was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai with difficulty in breathing on September 7. He died on September 21 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A majority of the deceased — 21 persons — were in their 70s. Districts’ tally In Chennai, 989 persons tested positive for COVID-19, taking the city’s tally to 1,57,614. Till date, a total of 1,44,511 persons have been discharged after treatment and 3,091 persons have died in the city. Coimbatore reported 595 new cases of COVID-19. Till date, the district has accounted for 27,157 COVID-19 cases. However, cases surged in Tiruppur as 369 persons (including one imported case) tested positive for COVID-19. Salem reported 291 cases, while Cuddalore added 233 more. Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur recorded 231 and 230 cases respectively. A total of 209 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Kancheepuram. While Erode recorded 136 fresh cases, Dharmapuri had 106. Thanjavur had 155 cases, and Tiruvarur and Tiruchi had 116 and 113 cases respectively. A total of 84,730 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. Till date, 66,40,058 samples have been tested in the State. Testing infrastructure Two more private laboratories — the Vinayaka Mission’s Kirupananda Variyar Medical College and Hospitals in Salem and Orbito Asia Diagnostics in Chennai — have been approved for COVID-19 testing. Currently, there are 110 private laboratories and 66 government COVID-19 testing facilities in Tamil Nadu.  In Chennai, 989 persons tested positive for COVID-19, taking the city’s tally to 1,57,614. Till date, a total of 1,44,511 persons have been discharged and 3,091 persons have died in the city
23 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC to hear on November 10 Stalin’s case against 2017 confidence vote||Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy of the Madras High Court on Tuesday decided to hear on November 10, a writ petition filed by DMK president M.K. Stalin in 2017, challenging thepassing of a vote of confidencemoved by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in the Legislative Assembly on February 18, 2017. The date was fixed at the request of advocate R. Neelakandan, representing the writ petitioner. The lawyer told the court that five other connected writ petitions had to be listed along with Mr. Stalin’s writ petition against the vote of confidence, and hence the court may fix any date for the hearing of all cases together after the Dussehra holidays in the end of October. He told the court that Advocate General Vijay Narayan too, had agreed for an adjournment of the case. When the Chief Justice wanted to know what were the other connected cases, Mr. Neelakandan said that a writ of quo warranto was also pending against Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and Minister for Tamil culture MaFoi K. Pandiarajan. Since both of them and their faction of MLAs had voted against the vote of confidence moved by the Chief Minister in February 2017 but got inducted into the Cabinet subsequently on the basis of a truce entered between them (Mr. Panneerselvam and Mr. Palaniswami factions), the plea had been moved to remove them from office on the grounds that they had no authority to remain a part of the government against which they voted. A few other cases were also pending in connection with various resolutions passed by the Legislative Assembly, the lawyer said. After recording his submissions, the judges said they would examine whether the cases were connected and had to be heard together. They also directed the Registry to list all the cases on November 10 since both sides were agreeable to the date.
23 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police told not to evict hawkers from designated vending zones||Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy has directed Commissioners/Superintendents of Police across the State not to disturb street vendors in vending zones and warned of “strict” action against police personnel if they resorted to harassment or eviction. The move followed a letter by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam to the DGP, drawing his attention to the Prime Minister Street Vendor’s Atmanirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi) Scheme launched by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs to cater to the working capital requirements of street vendors to resume their livelihoods, which has been adversely affected due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The scheme lets street vendors avail a collateral-free loan of Rs. 10,000 for a one-year tenure with incentives like low interest and cashback, and provided for good repayment behaviour and digital transaction respectively. “Street vendors are one of the most vulnerable sections, serving different needs of the urban economy. This scheme has been designed to take them out of perpetual indebtedness and help them to move up the economic ladder,” he said.  The Street Vendors Act, 2014, sought to empower them by making them participate in the administration of their affairs at the city level. The Act further provided for conducting a survey to identify street vendors and issue them a certificate of vending or an identity card. Mr. Shanmugam said the credit extended under the PM SVANidhi Scheme would become a bad loan in case the vendor was subjected to such uncertainty. Since they operated on extremely thin margins, vending zones were earmarked to facilitate their business. “I urge you to kindly instruct the Commissioner of Police and Superintendents of Police that street vendors, particularly beneficiaries of the PM SVANidhi Scheme, are not subjected to any kind of harassment and eviction from the approved vending zones,” the Chief Secretary said.
23 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin accuses BJP of using brute majority to pass laws||DMK president M.K. Stalin, in a letter to party cadre, slammed the BJP for passing the three agriculture Bills in Parliament despite severe protests by the Opposition parties, accusing it of using its brute majority to pass legislation and playing with the lives of farmers in the country. He said farmers were up in arms against the Bills and their passage by the BJP had come in for condemnation from all sections of society.  BJP’s track record “The BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi have published a number of advertisements using tax payers’ money, claiming that the three Bills will benefit farmers and protect their livelihoods. By publishing such advertisements, the BJP believes its lies will turn into truths. People are no longer willing to believe them, considering their track record of demonetisation, GST and the COVID-19 lockdown, claiming that they will benefit the people. These have, however, only given the opposite results,” Mr. Stalin said. Unlike the BJP’s claim that the minimum support price (MSP) will not be affected, any mention of it is not to be found in the Bills. On the BJP’s claims that farmers will have the freedom to sell anywhere, he said the point was that the Bills actually took away their rights to sell in markets where they would get a higher price. Instead, it would make farmers captive to contract farming by corporates, he said. Mr. Stalin said contrary to the BJP’s claims that farmers would be able to revoke their agreement with corporates, corporates, too, had the same rights and farmers would not be able to go to court against them. The BJP was saying that small farmers would benefit through the online sale of their produce. But this would only benefit the corporates. “These Bills will push the nearly 85% of farmers, who know only farming and agriculture, to untold miseries.”  DMK to hold protest Accusing the BJP of framing laws that repeatedly infringed on the rights of the States, he said the three agriculture Bills, too, were such an attempt, and the DMK and its alliance partners were opposed to them. He said the peaceful protests planned by the DMK and its allies on September 28 against the BJP should spread like fire across the country.
23 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Deputy directors told to prepare micro plan for COVID-19 vaccination||The Director of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine has instructed all Deputy Directors of Health Services to prepare a micro plan, at the level of health sub-centres (HSC), primary health centres (PHC) and districts, for carrying out vaccination against COVID-19 in the near future. In a circular to all Deputy Directors of Health Services, the DPH said the Government of India was planning to introduce a vaccine against COVID-19 in the near future. In this connection, the Deputy Directors were instructed to advise the respective staff to prepare an HSC/PHC/district-level micro plan for vaccination. According to official sources, any immunisation programme, usually, would have a micro plan, starting at the PHC level. The micro plan would contain the age and gender-wise distribution of population, requirement of vaccines and other logistics involved. Now, the DPH has instructed that such a micro plan be made for vaccination against COVID-19. A public health official said work for preparing a micro plan had started. They also had a discussion with the Government of India on planning estimated requirements, storage, transport and human resources required. Specific format The micro plan should be prepared in a specified format, at the district-level, PHC-level and HSC-level health unit. It should include a list of Health Department staff, both government and private sector, staff of the Police Department, Revenue Department and local bodies. The staff would include technical, non-technical and ministerial workers. Ante-natal mothers, mediapersons, persons with diabetes, hypertension, cancer and other co-morbidities should be prepared. It also includes age-wise details of persons — 1-10 years, 11-19 years, 20-25 years, 26-35 years, 36-45 years, 46-60 years and above 60 years. The district-level consolidated micro plan should be sent to the Directorate on or before October 15. Meanwhile, officials said the trial for the Oxford University COVID-19 vaccine, Covishield, was likely to start soon. About 300 volunteers were being enrolled for the clinical trials of the vaccine in Chennai.
23 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Family of Olympian languishing in poverty||“His anticipation was uncanny, his reflexes were as quick as lightning and his fearlessness was awesome. Verily he was the Singam on the hockey ground… He is no more but his name will live forever in the annals of Indian sport,” former Inspector-General of Police F.V. Arul had said in his tribute to retired inspector Francis Ranganathan. Ranganathan was the goalkeeper of the Indian hockey team which emerged the world champion by bagging gold at the Olympics three times in a row — London (1948), Helsinki (1952) and Melbourne (1956). Often described as a ‘Titan between the Posts’, Francis served the then Madras Police and retired in 1968. He passed away seven years later. Born Manickam in Rangoon, he came to Tamil Nadu before Independence and changed his name to Francis Ranganathan after converting to Christianity. Starting his hockey career with the Madras Police, he made it to the national team as a goalkeeper. The State remembers the Olympian by conducting the Inspector Francis Memorial Hockey Tournament for schools. After his demise, former IGP W.I. Dawaram guided his son Christi Roy to join the Tamil Nadu police as a constable. Christi Roy died in harness in 2007 at the age of 45. The application of his son, Francis Rajini Roy, seeking appointment on compassionate grounds, is pending. On coming to know about the abject poverty facing Ranganathan’s family, former Director-General of Police S.R. Jangid met them at Pallavaram in Chennai on Tuesday. Ranganathan was the only policeman ever to have bagged three gold medals at the Olympics. Besides, he also won three gold medals at the Asian Games. “I felt very sad to see the family living on a tiny rented premises. They have nothing left to celebrate the achievement of the Olympian. While the player lost a medal in Melbourne, the other two are missing. I have appealed to the Tamil Nadu police to name a sports facility after him. His kin have no source of income except the family pension,” Mr. Jangid said. When contacted, Mr. Francis Rajini Roy said there had not been a single occasion when his family got recognition for his grandfather’s contribution to the nation. “There were two photographs of my grandfather — one in uniform — which the police took for display at an exhibition. But they never returned the pictures. I understand that I am eligible for a job in the Police Department but my application has been pending since 2007. We are living in abject poverty,” he said.  I felt very sad to see the family living on a tiny rented premises. They have nothing left to celebrate the achievement of the OlympianS.R. JangidFormer Director-General of Police
23 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Winners of Korean movie review contest announced||The Consulate General of the Republic of Korea recently conducted a Korean Movie Review Contest, in collaboration with the Indo Cine Appreciation Foundation (ICAF), and has selected six winners. T. Jai Sakthivel won the first prize for his review of the film Pieta . Srinivasa Santhanam and Anirudh Mishra won the second prize for their reviews of Montage and Memories of Murder respectively. Paul Boakye, Varun Raghu and Ajay Arun were tied in third place for their reviews of the films Brotherhood of War , Parasite and Kim Ji-Young: Born 1982 . In a press release, the consulate said they had received entries from film enthusiasts of various age groups across south India. In October, there will be a Korean version of Mahabharata , which will introduce a series of performances spread over a week to people from south India. More events, which will focus on K-Pop and Korean cuisine, are also being planned for the coming months. “Through the younger generation who like K-Pop, K-Dramas and Korean films, we hope Indian people will become more familiar with Korean culture,” the release said, stating that the Consulate aimed at promoting a cultural partnership through various events.
23 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mylapore, Vadapalani temple tanks linked to stormwater drains||Temple tanks in Mylapore and Vadapalani will shortly benefit from clean, filtered rainwater from neighbouring roads. The Greater Chennai Corporation is presently working to build a system designed by a Chennai-based consultant, which uses several layers of filters including geo-fabrics. Sources at the Vadapalani Andavar temple said the work was nearing completion. “The system, which is like a tunnel, has a shell-like structure and has been laid from Arcot Road by the Corporation. The temple tank has not witnessed significant inflow for some years due to blocks in the channels. This year, we have cleaned the channels and hope this will bring in additional water,” the official said. At the Sri Audi Kesava Perumal and Pei Alwar Devasthanam temple in Mylapore, water run-off from East Audi Kesava Perumal Koil Street and Mosque Street will flow into the tank. “The tank has been desilted and a clay bottom has been laid to hold water this year. If it rains well, both locals and the temple will benefit from it,” said N.C. Sridhar, chairman of the board of trustees of the temple. The stormwater drains allow water to percolate into the ground and do not use any concrete. “It is also easy to install. It took us just 12 days to finish the work in Vadapalani. It can withstand vehicle weights and it is enough if the top layer is brushed and cleaned,” said L. Nandakumar, chief engineer (stormwater drains), Greater Chennai Corporation. R.R. Sivaraam, who designed the system, said the infiltration drain does not allow sediments or any solids to enter. The Corporation has in the past two years laid stormwater drains to several temple tanks in the city.
23 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. has Modi’s assurance on Mekedatu: T.R. Baalu||Prime Minister Narendra Modi has assured a delegation of DMK MPs that he would neither allow any injustice to Tamil Nadu nor take any decision that is detrimental to the State, DMK Parliamentary Party leader T.R. Baalu said. Mr. Baalu and other DMK MPs met Mr. Modi on Tuesday and handed over a letter from DMK president M.K. Stalin, expressing concern over Karnataka seeking clearance to build a dam at Mekedatu. In his letter, Mr. Stalin said he was disappointed to know that the Karnataka Chief Minister had demanded early approvals and clearances for irrigation and drinking water projects, including Mekedatu, despite strong opposition from Tamil Nadu. “The proposed Mekedatu reservoir, under the guise of drinking water purpose, would irreparably and irreversibly affect the flow of water from river Cauvery to the lower riparian States, particularly Tamil Nadu, and also threaten the very existence of many combined water supply schemes catering to the needs of lakhs of people. Very importantly, it would drastically disturb and affect the distribution of water to Tamil Nadu as per the allocation of water in the final order notified in the gazette,” Mr. Stalin said. He requested Mr. Modi to instruct his Ministers to neither give approval for the detailed project report nor for the construction of Mekedatu reservoir. Following the meeting, Mr. Baalu said the DMK MPs also explained to the Prime Minister about the State’s concerns and their opposition to the construction of the dam as it went against the Cauvery Tribunal’s final decision. Moreover, a civil suit on the issue was pending in the Supreme Court. “The Karnataka Chief Minister met Mr. Modi on September 18 and gave the State’s representations for the construction of the dam. Despite that, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has not taken any steps either to meet the Prime Minister or write a letter that the dam should not be constructed. Our leader Stalin was very upset over the Chief Minister’s attitude and decided to take up the issue with the Prime Minister,” Mr. Baalu said. He reiterated that when the MPs asked Mr. Modi as to what they should tell Mr. Stalin about the Centre’s stand on the matter, “Mr. Modi very clearly said that he will not do any injustice to the State of Tamil Nadu.” He said a number of dam projects were pending, and once the DMK comes to power in the State, Mr. Stalin would ensure that agriculture and related problems are prioritised.
23 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna University students face network issues during project presentation||Many final year students of Anna University who presented their projects online as part of their end-semester exams faced severe network issues on Tuesday. The students, however, said they managed to complete the task. A student from Dharmapuri said the connectivity snapped every few minutes. “BSNL does not offer 4G connectivity. Even now on my phone there is only feeble signal. The other service provider has 4G facility but even that was poor,” he said. Another student from Namakkal said she and her friends made the presentation through their mobile phones as they had left their laptops in their college hostel. "The connectivity was poor and for some there was no video or audio reception. Sometimes it automatically got disconnected. As a team we managed to make the presentation," she said.. Sivamani Raj, a student in a college in Coimbatore, said if the connection snapped three times the student wouldn’t be able to log in. “I live in Kurumbapalayam and I had difficulty in connecting. The poor connection made it difficult for my team mate. His voice would fade or the connection would break mid-sentence. My friends in Ooty and Thalavadi in Erode district could not connect,” he said. If connectivity issues cropped up during the exam, he said he would have to take the exams again as an arrears candidate. "My friends and I cannot afford high-end phones. When I asked the service providers they said they were short-staffed.," he said. Anna University had stipulated that there should be no external noise and no one should be present in the room. Students could not go to a net centre or even to their college to take the exams. Students said they could not access the internet even in some parts of their house. “Quite a few of my friends could not complete the presentation. The college then gave us another opportunity. I don’t know if the same opportunity will be given for theory exams as well," he added. The principal of a college in the city suburbs said the University sent out a questionnaire to find out if all students could take the test remotely. “There were only four options for the question on how connected the student was. The option was did the student possess a laptop, tablet, mobile phone or desktop. Some students do not have any of the gadgets. We, however, told the students the University had not given that option and asked them to mark one of the given options,” he said.  V-C responds Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa said the colleges had flagged the issues and that the University had taken note of them. "Since last evening I have been receiving complaints only from one or two colleges. This kind of exam is being conducted at such a large scale for the first time in the country. We have 1.4 lakh students sitting for the exam. If students have issues despite the arrangements we will look into them," he said. The University has increased the number of log in attempts to five from three. Further increase would not be possible as it could lead to malpractice, he said. "If students have network issues they must move to a place where connectivity is better," he said. The University has proposed to hold a mock test again on Wednesday. The theory exams begin on Thursday.
23 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Staff protest against varsity name change||Members of the Anna University Teachers’ Association wore black badges on Monday to protest against the change of the university’s name. Last week, the Assembly passed a Bill that sought to bifurcate the institution. Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan, who tabled the Bill, said the parent institution would be renamed Anna Technological and Research University and the other institution, which would affiliate all engineering colleges in the State, would retain the name Anna University. Senior professors said all their research work and credibility would be lost as the new name would divest the institution of its hard-earned name and fame, gained through decades of rigorous research. The Bill must receive the assent of Governor Banwarilal Purohit, who is also the Chancellor, to become law.
23 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||20 waterbodies to be restored by October 10||The Greater Chennai Corporation has set a deadline of October 10 for eco-restoration of 20 waterbodies. The waterbodies are located in zones such as Manali, Madhavaram, Ambattur, Valasaravakkam, Perungudi and Sholinganallur. Eco-restoration of waterbodies is expected to significantly reduce waterlogging in the residential neighbourhoods. Deputy Commissioner (Works) Meghanatha Reddy said water bodies had become dumping sites for garbage. “The eco-restoration is also expected to prevent encroachments,” he said. Groundwater recharge is also expected to improve in the localities. The waterbodies to be restored by October 10 include Manjampakkam pond in Manali; Srinivasanagar kulam and Padavatamman koil kulam in Madhavaram; Ganapathy Nagar tank, Vannan kulam, Menambedu Thangal tank, Perumal Koil Street pond, Patravakkam periya kulam and Zone Office pond in Ambattur; Chettitiyar Agaram pond, Sivabootham, Linga kulam, and Porur Anjaneyar koil kulam in Valasaravakkam. Seven waterbodies in the southern zones, including Nasan kulam, Varadharajapuram pond, Jeyachandra Nagar pond in Perungudi and Vannan kulam, Kazura Garden pond, Raman Thangal and Thanthoniamman koil kulam in Sholinganallur, will be restored. As many as 47 waterbodies have been identified for eco-restoration under the Mega City Development Mission.
23 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC to hear today cases filed by DMK MLAs||Justice Pushpa Sathyanarayana of the Madras High Court on Tuesday agreed to hear on Wednesday a batch of writ petitions filed by DMK president M.K. Stalin and 17 other MLAs of his party challenging the show-cause notices issued to them on September 7 in connection with the 2017 breach of privilege proceedings. Gutkha case The Leader of the Opposition and his party MLAs had displayed gutkha (chewing tobacco) sachets in the Legislative Assembly in July 2017 to highlight their availability freely in bunk shops despite the State having issued a Government Order in May 2017 banning the manufacture, transportation, storage, distribution and sale of gutkha. Speaker P. Dhanapal took exception to the display of the banned substance in the House without seeking his prior permission and referred the issue suo motu to the Committee of Privileges.
23 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro Rail installing foot-operated elevators||The Chennai Metro Rail Phase I Extension Project, which will open to the public by the end of the year, will have foot-operated elevators to prevent commuters from touching surfaces inside the stations. In the extension project, running for a length of 9 km, there will be nine stations — Washermenpet, Sir Theagaraya College, Korukkupet, Tondiarpet, Toll Gate, Thangal, Gowri Ashram, Thiruvottiyur and Wimco Nagar. Each station will have two or four lifts based on its size and capacity. Following the COVID-19 outbreak, Metro Rail planned to change the working of its elevators. Initially, a prototype with a foot-operated mechanism was set up in the administrative building of Chennai Metro Rail Limited in Koyambedu. Due to its success, CMRL began converting elevators in the stations of Phase I. About 20 of the 32 stations, including Airport, Alandur and Central, have been fitted with foot-operated elevators. In the remaining 12, installation will be completed in a week.
23 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Krishna water bolsters storage at Poondi reservoir||The Poondi reservoir, one of the many waterbodies that feed the city’s drinking water supply system, has been receiving Krishna water from Andhra Pradesh since Monday. On Tuesday, the reservoir received inflow of nearly 544 cusecs (cubic feet per second). Officials of the Water Resources Department said this would help step up storage in the reservoir, which currently stood at only 156 million cubic feet (mcft) against its capacity of 3,231 mcft, and would also sustain the city’s supply of drinking water. The entry point of the Kandaleru-Poondi Canal in Tharamaikuppam village, Uthukottai, received nearly 732 cusecs (cubic feet per second) of water from river Krishna. The water travelled another 25 km through the canal to reach the Poondi reservoir. Last month, a meeting between the officials of Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh decided that about 4,000 mcft of water would be provided to Chennai in a span of two months. With the Kandaleru reservoir having storage of 40,000 mcft, water was discharged on September 18. The State government would take measures to seek the entire annual share of 12,000 mcft in two spells till April 2021, officials added.
23 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Neelam to be launched on October 14||Filmmaker Pa. Ranjith’s Neelam Panpattu Maiyam (Neelam Cultural Centre) will begin publishing a magazine Neelam , which will deal with contemporary arts, literature and politics through the political and philosophical lens of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar, from October 14. The monthly magazine will have 96 pages. It will add to a significant list of influential Dalit magazines that have discussed several issues through an anti-caste lens in Tamil Nadu. The magazine, which will be bankrolled by filmmaker Pa. Ranjith, will be edited by Vasugi Bhaskar. Speaking about the magazine, Mr. Bhaskar said it would strive to break the perception that Ambedkarite ideology is a “supportive” ideology, and not an ideology that is central to Indian politics. He said the magazine would feature experienced and popular Tamil writers, and would strive to provide space for young writers and painters.
23 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||High Court reserves verdict||The Madras High Court on Tuesday reserved it's verdict on an application preferred by Assembly Deputy Speaker Pollachi V. Jayaraman to restrain Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam president M.K. Stalin, the latter’s son-in-law V. Sabareesan, Kalaignar TV as well as editors of Tamil journals Nakkheeran and Junior Vikatan from making or publishing false or defamatory statements against him.
23 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Kin of deceased accuse hospital of negligence||Tying up the deaths of two COVID-19 patients at the Government Medical College Hospital in Tiruppur with the power disruption at the the Intensive Care Unit (ICU), kin of the deceased alleged that the incident occurred due to negligence. Hospital administrators denied the charge. Power supply was reportedly interrupted for about 40 minutes as a result of a wire being cut by mistake during construction work at the medical college on Tuesday. The hospital administration claimed the power cut was not the reason for the deaths, and the patients were in a critical condition since Monday night. Tiruppur Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said the power interruption occurred around 11 a.m. on Tuesday after a wire was cut during construction work, involving heavy vehicles and an earthmover. Power supply was restored after 40 minutes but two COVID-19 patients who were in the ICU died in the meantime, he told journalists. The dean of the hospital, Valli Sathyamoorthy, said the two patients died of severe conditions of COVID-19, and the power cut had nothing to do with their deaths. According to her, the oxygen saturation levels of both patients were very low and the same was informed to the District Collector on Monday night. Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan inspected the hospital and directed a tahsildar to conduct an inquiry. A notice has been served on the contractor, who is carrying out the construction work, based on the Collector’s direction. “None of the 147 oxygen lines in the hospital were interrupted as they had power backup. The condition of the two patients who died at the time of the power cut deteriorated as per the report sent by the dean last night. Twenty other patients in the ICU are stable,” he said. He said the tahsildar was directed to investigate the incident and submit a report, based on which further action would be taken. The report is expected by Wednesday, he added.  TTV expresses shock Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran expressed shock over the deaths. Terming it unacceptable, in a series of tweets, he wanted the Chief Minister to take action against those responsible for the deaths.  None of the 147 oxygen lines in the hospital were interrupted as they had power backup K. Vijayakarthikeyan Tiruppur District Collector
23 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Talks on with Kerala to increase water level in Siruvani Reservoir||The city is unlikely to gain the full benefit of the good southwest monsoon as the Kerala Government has thus far not allowed the water level touch the full reservoir level in the Siruvani Reservoir. As of September 22, the water level in the 49.50 feet Reservoir stood at 44.61 feet, in keeping with the Kerala Government’s decision to reduce storage by five feet in all reservoirs, said sources. The decision to reduce storage followed the floods in the State a couple of years ago. To maintain the water level at 44.5 feet in the Siruvani Reservoir, the Kerala Irrigation Department has opened sluices a few days ago. The loss of five feet water in the Reservoir meant that the city would have to do with only 85% Siruvani water. Or, in other words, the loss of 15% water equalled to around 25 days’ water supply to the city. Sources said that the Tamil Nadu Government had been in talks with the Kerala Government to point out that the latter could not treat the Siruvani Reservoir on a par with other reservoirs as it was used only for drinking water purpose and not irrigation. The Tamil Nadu Government, besides writing to the Kerala Government, had also engaged with it at the political and bureaucrat level and in the next few days, there could be another round of talks at the level of chief engineers, the sources added. As of September 22, 8 a.m., the water level stood at 44.61 feet and in the preceding 24 hours, the Reservoir received 65mm rainfall.
23 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNAU predicts normal northeast monsoon for western districts||The western districts of Tamil Nadu barring the Nilgiris will receive normal rainfall during northeast monsoon and the Nilgiris will receive near normal rainfall, predicted the Agro Climate Research Centre at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University.   Rainfall level The Centre’s forecast released on Tuesday said that Coimbatore would receive 318mm as against the normal 343.8mm, Tiruppur 325mm as against 318.4, Erode 280mm as against 308.4mm, Namakkal 290mm as against 293.2mm, Salem 351mm as against 359mm, Dharmapuri 337mm as against 327.6mm and Krishnagiri 282mm as against 289.8mm. The Nilgiris, the Centre said, could receive 413mm as against 477.2mm. It added that it had predicted the monsoon season, which starts by October and ends by December, based on Southern Oscillation Index and Sea Surface Temperature values of Pacific and Indian oceans. Farmers advised sowing It asked farmers to immediately take up sowing as there was enough moisture in the soil on account of good southwest monsoon rain in August and September.
23 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man dies in police custody in Tiruppur||A 32 - year-old man from Tiruppur died after he collapsed at a police station in Nallur on Tuesday. The police said C. Manikandan from K. Chettipalayam  was taken to the Tiruppur rural police station at 7 a.m. for questioning in connection with the death of a woman. During the interrogation, he collapsed and was rushed to the Government Hospital in Tiruppur, where the doctors declared him dead. ‘Torture in custody’ Minor tension prevailed at the hospital after family members and relatives of Manikandan refused to accept the body, accusing the police of having tortured him in custody. The police said Manikandan was involved in a prostitution racket, and a woman, who was undergoing treatment for HIV, had lodged a complaint, accusing him of having poured hot water on her. The complainant had died recently, and the police were also on the lookout for a female friend of Manikandan. K. Sureshkumar, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order and Traffic), Tiruppur city, said Manikandan was epileptic and had a seizure at the station. He was immediately taken to the hospital. “His kin were also present at the station and allegations of custodial torture are baseless. Relatives told us that he was epileptic,” he said. Inquiry on Tiruppur Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, whom the relatives of Manikandan met at the hospital, told mediapersons that a magisterial inquiry had been initiated into the death. The Collector said that more details about the incident would be known only after the post-mortem report is received.  Minor tension prevailed at the hospital after family members and relatives of Manikandan refused to accept the body, accusing the police of having tortured him in custody
23 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Over 300 persons recruited for contact tracing in Coimbatore city||Coimbatore Corporation has recruited more than 300 persons to trace the primary and secondary contacts of persons who had tested COVID-19 positive. The civic body recruited a few days ago 10 persons for each of the 32 urban primary health centres. The new recruits’ job would be to trace the primary and secondary contacts of persons who had turned COVID-19 positive and take those persons to the testing centres. This was to ensure as much testing as possible and at the earliest to control the infection spread, said sources in the civic body. The new recruits’ job would also include follow-up on persons who had been discharged from hospitals after being cured of the infection and checking on persons whom the Corporation had recommended to remain in home isolation. The sources reiterated this was a part of the civic body’s strategy to test as many people as possible as it believed that early detection and maximum testing could help it contain the disease spread in the city. The Corporation lifted around 4,500 samples a day and private hospitals and others another 1,500 to take the overall samples lifted to around 6,000 a day. The sources also said that door-to-door survey was in progress across the city and the enumerators that the civic body had pressed into service had called on people in their area at least once in the last few days. They would continue to visit them at least thrice to check on their health status and learn about travel history.
23 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Higher raw material price hits pumpset manufacturers||Steep increase in price of raw materials that go into manufacture of pumps has resulted in hike in production costs, according to V. Krishnakumar, president of Southern India Engineering Manufacturers’ Association. Pumpset manufacturers may have to go in for higher pricing of the pumpsets to cover at least part of the production cost, he said. This will, however, affect the farmers as agricultural pumps are one of the main products made by the manufacturers. Mr. Krishnakumar said in a press release that the pump industry has incurred heavy loss during the pandemic. During April-May, which is the peak demand period for the industry, factories could not operate or sell the products because of the lockdown. In June, the manufacturers resumed production and the industry is now limping back to normalcy, both in manufacturing and distribution. “But the problem faced by the manufacturers is the steep increase in the price of raw material inspite of overall slowdown in the economy. This is having a serious impact on the cost of the product which in turn may result in a price increase,” he said. Copper is one of the main raw material used in the manufacture of motors and also some parts of pumps. Copper prices now are 25 % higher than the prices quoted in the first week of June. Price of cable is revised at least two or three times because of this. Aluminium is another metal used in the manufacture of motor and its price has jumped more than 15 %. Cost of lamination steel, pig iron and castings are up 10 %. Higher diesel prices have pushed up the transportation costs for raw materials and end products. The Association appealed to the government to look into the problems and do the needful to control the raw material prices.
23 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two held for chain snatching near Periyanaickenpalayam||Two persons who snatched a nine sovereign gold chain belonging to a woman near Periyanaickenpalayam were caught by the public and handed over to the police on Tuesday. The men were allegedly tied up to a pillar and beaten up by the public. The police later took them into custody. The arrested were Abdul Rahif (25), an autorickshaw driver from New York Avenue on Podanur Road, and his friend K. Rasul (21). Police said that the two men waited on a two-wheeler near a grocery store at Vasantham Nagar near Santhimedu on Tuesday morning for gullible victims.  M. Rathna (35), a resident of the same locality, came to the grocery store around 8.15 a.m. As the woman came closer to them, the accused snatched her chain and attempted to escape. The woman raised an alarm and sought the help of others. A few people managed to catch the two before they could leave the place on the two-wheeler. Police said that the accused had cases against them at Singanallur and Podanur police stations.  Man held for issuing death threat The Tiruppur north police have arrested a 28-year-old man on charges of issuing death threat to ‘Vellore’ M. Ibrahim, president of Tamil Nadu Ekathuva Prachara Jamaat and a BJP supporter. The arrested was identified as Muhammed Basith, a native of Pandaravdai near Papanasam in Thanjavur district. Police said that Mr. Ibrahim had lodged a complaint stating that he received death threat from an unknown person over phone when he returned to his hotel room after attending an event organised by BJP at Periyandipalayam in Tiruppur on Sunday. The police traced the caller to Thanjavur and arrested him on Tuesday.
23 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Forum welcomes talks on Pandiyar–Punnampuzha scheme||The Pandiyar–Punnampuzha Irrigation Forum on Friday welcomed the recent talks between Tamil Nadu and Kerala on the proposed Pandiyar–Punnampuzha diversion scheme. This scheme is aimed at diverting surplus water from the Devala-Punnampuzha river systems that empties into the Arabian Sea, due to which it is estimated that nearly 14 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) is wasted annually. Forum convenor D. Prabu said in a statement that the scheme was mooted in the early 1960s and was put on hold since 1982. On September 11, a meeting of Secretary-level committee on inter-State water issues was held in Thiruvananthapuram, at which the Kerala government sought more details from Tamil Nadu regarding the scheme. K. Manivasan, Principal Secretary (Public Works) led the Tamil Nadu team in the negotiations. Mr. Prabu said there was a misconception regarding the Pandiyar-Punnampuzha diversion scheme that it only augmented the existing water schemes. However, this is an “irrigation scheme on its own” that would cater to the needs of the villages in Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode districts which were located around the Bhavani Sagar Dam, such as Puliampatti, Sirumugai, Panayampalli, Kallipatti, Irumborai, Pethikuttai, Kavilipalayam, Kaarapadi, Varapalayam, Kuttagam, Kanuvakarai and Mathampalayam. The State government must also consider the plan, which does not need larger tunnels, submitted in February 2018 by the Senior Engineers Association to the Public Works Department for the Pandiyar–Punnampuzha diversion scheme, according to Mr. Prabu.
23 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for sexual assault on minor girls||Coimbatore City Police on Tuesday arrested two persons in separate cases for alleged sexual assault on minor girls. The All Women Police Station, Coimbatore east, arrested a 25-year-old man after he was accused of sexually assaulting a four-year-old girl. Dinesh, a construction worker from Chinnasalem in Kallakurichi district, was arrested based on the complaint lodged by the parents of the minor girl. The police said that the accused had come to Coimbatore 10 days ago. He was staying in a rented house at Masakalipalayam. According to the police, the accused allegedly took the girl from the neighbourhood to his room and sexually assaulted her on Monday. After the girl complained pain in private part, parents later took her to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital where doctors said that she was subjected to sexual assault. He was remanded in judicial custody. In the second case, the All Women Police, Coimbatore Central, on Monday arrested a 17-year-old boy from Rathinapuri on charges of sexually assaulting a 16-year-old girl after abducting her on the pretext of marrying her. The police said that the boy and girl had reported missing on September 15. They were found at Gandhipuram bus stand on Monday evening where they had arrived from Ramanathapuram district. The accused was arrested based on the statement of the girl. The police said that the boy was produced before the Juvenile Justice Board and sent to the Juvenile Delinquents Observation Home at Lakshmi Mills junction.
23 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Dak Adalat on September 29||The Department of Posts will conduct a regional-level Dak Adalat on September 29 at 11 a.m. at the Office of the Postmaster General, Western Region, RS Puram, a press release from the Department said.
23 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Online awareness programme tomorrow||The Entrepreneurship Development Cell, Anna University Regional Campus, Coimbatore, and Entrepreneurship Development and Innovation Institute will conduct an online awareness programme on Tamil Nadu Student Innovators 2020 on September 24 between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m. For details about the awareness programme, dial 8072799983 or 9787030268
23 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Shifts to new premises||Tangedco office, Ramnagar section, functioning at 127, Corporation Building, Dr. Nanjappa Road, has been shifted to 213, Sathiyamoorthy Road, near Ayyappan Puja Sangham, according to a press release.
23 September 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||‘Review Social Welfare Department-run schemes’||A district-level consultative meeting on interventions for nutrition of children and empowerment of the girl child was organised here under the aegis of Collector S. Malarvizhi recently. The meeting sought to review the Social Welfare Department-run schemes that included Poshan Abhiyan under the National Nutrition Mission, Protect the Girl Child and Educate the Girl Child programmes. An array of interventions was run through various schemes targeting the girl children, according to the administration. The schemes envisioned nutritional support for children through anganwadi centres and it was imperative for anganwadis to ensure nutritional awareness was provided to children. Ms. Malarvizhi also urged women’s self help groups , anganwadi workers, health workers to participate in nutritional awareness creation for children in the villages. As a start, the Collector urged the stakeholders to explore possibilities of setting up nutrition gardens in panchayat porambokes to encourage healthy eating among children. At a time, when a pandemic had paralysed normalcy, focus had to shift to nutritional health, the Collector said.
23 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Flood alert sounded along River Bhavani in Erode||With the water level in Bhavani Sagar Reservoir nearing 102 feet, a flood alert was sounded to people living along River Bhavani here on Tuesday. At 4 p.m., the inflow was 5,276 cusecs, while the discharge was 2,300 cusecs in Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal and 750 in Arakankottai and Thadapalli Canals. The water level stood at 101.50 feet against the full reservoir level of 105 feet, and the storage was 29.916 tmc against the capacity of 32.800 tmc. Public Works Department officials said that as per the flood regulation, water would be stored only till 102 feet in the month of September, after which the entire inflow would be discharged. “The inflow was 9,000 cusecs in the morning that dropped to less than 6,000 cusecs in the evening and hence the water level could touch 102 feet on Wednesday,” they added. Surplus discharge Since the surplus water is expected to be released, people living along River Bhavni at Periya Kodiveri, Nanjai Puliyampatti, Athani and Bhavani were asked to move to safer locations. Also, River Bhavani confluences with River Cauvery at Bhavani Kooduthurai and hence people living in low-lying areas along River Cauvery at Bhavani and Karungalpalayam were also asked to move to safer locations.
23 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||No possibility of reopening schools now: Sengottaiyan||Given the situation due to the pandemic, schools cannot be reopened now, said School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan at Gobichettipalayam in Erode on Tuesday. Speaking to mediapersons after flagging off Amma mobile fair price shops, the Minister said there was no possibility of reopening schools now. He said of the 180 questions asked in NEET this year, 174 were from Tamil Nadu State Board books. Asked about the action taken against private schools for demanding full fees, when the Madras High Court had permitted them to collect just 40% of the amount that was fixed for the academic year 2019-2020, the Minister said explanation had been sought from the schools concerned, and necessary action would be taken later. Mr. Sengottaiyan said 15.3 lakh students had been admitted to government and government-aided schools in the current year. He added that 2.5 lakh students from private schools had moved to government institutions.
23 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Biometric authentication failure hits distribution of rations at fair price shops||Distribution of rations was affected at a few fair price shops here on Tuesday after biometric authentication of many cardholders failed. Under the ‘one nation, one ration’ card (ONORC) scheme, fingerprint scanners were given to all the 1,132 fair price shops in the district and the district administration announced that only after fingerprint authentication, rations would be distributed. If the scanner does not detect the fingerprint of the cardholder, a one-time password will be sent to the registered mobile number linked to the Aadhaar card number or smart card of the consumer and after authentication, rations will be sold. On Tuesday, many cardholders in Karungalpalayam and Kallukadaimedu complained that their biometric authentication failed and the salesmen refused to supply rations to them. They entered into altercation with the workers at the fair price shops and demanded rations. However, the salesmen said that only after authentication, rations could be given. Officials said that scanners read and verify thumb impressions of family cardholders and any members above 18 years can visit the shops and purchase the rations. They also said that people may face glitches initially and steps were being taken to solve the issue. But cardholders said the new system consumed more time and wanted technical glitches solved so that the process was completed in a few minutes.
23 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||25 textile processing units sealed for polluting environment||Twenty-five textile processing units in the district that violated norms and polluted water bodies were sealed and a sum of Rs. 1.35 crore was collected for causing damage to the environment, said District Collector C. Kathiravan. A total of 297 bleaching units, 171 dyeing units and 37 tannery units function in the Corporation limits and many of them were found discharging effluents into drains and River Cauvery. The National Green Tribunal (Southern Zone, Chennai) took suo motu cognizance of the issue and registered a case and formed a committee to take steps to stop further pollution of water bodies. Members of the committee were the Collectors of Erode and Namakkal districts, Chief Engineer of Water Resources Department, Erode Corporation Commissioner, Pallipalayam Municipality Commissioner and officials from the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board. The team found 25 dyeing and tannery units polluting the river and sealed them. On Monday, the team inspected the river bed at Vairapalayam where the Corporation is in the process of removing the municipal solid waste. The team also inspected a place where Pitchaikaran Odai joins River Cauvery. Water samples were collected from the area for testing. Mr. Kathiravan said that action was taken against the polluting units and a zero discharge common effluent treatment plant would soon be established at Kadayampatti village to prevent units from discharging effluents into water bodies.  A zero discharge common effluent treatment plant will soon be established at Kadayampatti village.  C. Kathiravan District Collector, Erode
23 September 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Price of coconut increases at local markets in Erode||Prices of coconuts have gone up due to fall in arrivals at local markets here. The price of coconut was Rs. 10 to Rs. 25 and during COVID-19, fluctuation in prices affected both the sellers and the people. However, due to the drop in arrival of coconuts, the price of coconut has gone up upto Rs. 40 in the past three weeks, said Kannappan, who sells coconut near Chennimalai Road. He said that due to various factors, arrivals had dropped significantly and their sales were also affected. “Earlier, we sold around 250 to 320 coconuts in retail that dropped to less than 200 now”, he added. Traders also said that due to mushrooming of shops and farmers selling their produce directly to people, arrivals had dropped in the markets. “Only if the arrival is more, price will stabilise”, said another trader Ponnamma. She said that many farmers convert coconut as copra and oil sell it leading to drop in arrival. “We hope the situation will change soon and more arrivals will improve our business”, she added.
23 September 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Physical distancing goes for a toss at Tangedco office in Hosur||Physical distancing norm to check the spread of COVID-19 went for a toss, when farmers eager for free farm connections under the Tatkal scheme queued up in front of the Hosur sub-division office of Tangedco here on Tuesday. However, the farmers alleged that there was no arrangement on the part of Tangedco to manage the heavy rush. Tatkal scheme The scheme entails farmers remitting a one-time deposit for free farm connection. The government had announced 50,000 free farm connections across the State, part under seniority and part under the Tatkal scheme. With no help desk in place, the office witnessed hundreds of farmers waiting in a closely-packed queue. The farmers claimed that tokens were issued from Monday afternoon to regulate the crowd. Reports of an 83-year-old farmer fainting in the queue also made its rounds, but could not be verified. ‘Tangedco ill-prepared’ Hosur Small Farmers’ Association president and National Horticulture Board director Bala Siva Prasad alleged that Tangedco was ill-prepared, as close to 900 farmers arrived on a single day. “The government should have given a breakup of the number of free farm connections for each block out of the 50,000 farm connections announced and ensured the numbers reached the farmers. Farmers from villages had queued up with tokens, while those with influence and without tokens jumped queues to submit their applications. “Many farmers stood in line throughout the day, waiting for a family member to replace them to keep the spot, thinking they would get a connection. The sub-division office did not have that kind of staff strength and farmers had to wait without food or water,” Mr. Prasad alleged. Munraj, a farmer from Berigai, said Tangedco should have called the first 100 farmers on day one if they issued tokens. A Tangedco official told The Hindu , “Farmers distributed tokens among themselves and we only gave tokens as they came in.” But farmers insisted that tokens were issued unofficially to regulate the crowd. According to the official, Krishnagiri circle (Krishnagiri, Pochampalli and Hosur divisions) has been allocated approximately 2,200 connections. Of these, over 1,000 connections are for Hosur division. As of late Tuesday evening, 900 applications were received from Denkanikottai and Hosur.
23 September 2020||Kanniyakumari,TAMIL NADU||Boat stranded||A mechanised boat, which ventured into the sea for fishing with 11 fishermen on September 14, is stranded in Azhikkal in Kerala. In a mail sent to Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, International Fishermen Development Trust president P. Justin Antony said the boat had set off from Thengapattinam Fishing Harbour with 11 persons. The fishermen contacted through a satellite phone that there was a technical snag in the engine and sought rescue. Ten among them were from Kanniyakumari district while one was from Thiruvananthapuram district. When contacted, officials at the office of the Deputy Director (Fisheries) here said that they have communicated to their counterparts in Kerala.
23 September 2020||KANNIYAKUMARI,TAMIL NADU||Good flow into dams||Widespread rain in the last 24 hours resulted in water level steadily rising in reservoirs in the district. Almost every dam received copious inflow so that the district administration had urged the people to stay away from rivers as it may release surplus water from dams. In Tirunelveli and Tenkasi, there was rain and level in dams was increasing. In Papanasam dam, the level rose from 85.30 feet to 88.10 feet in less than two days.
23 September 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Karaikal district sees spurt in positive cases||Relaxation of lockdown restrictions has had a direct bearing on the spurt in COVID-19 infection rate in Karaikal district. Compared to detection of 20 to 30 COVID positive cases per day prior to September, an average of 100 cases of infection is being determined every day during this month, according to Health Department officials. The Health Department is on its toes and has accelerated testing. The results of 2,000 swab samples sent for RT PCR (Real-time Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction) testing to JIPMER, Puducherry, Government Medical College in Tiruvarur and two other places are awaited. Besides, the department has been conducting RAT (Rapid Antibody Test) on 350 persons daily basis since the start of this month. Apparent laxity among the people in following the three key aspects of safety protocol — hand wash, social distancing and wearing of face masks — coupled with the free movement have led to the rise in positive cases, K. Mohanraj,Deputy Director, Immunisation, said. Till date, Karaikal district has accounted for 33 deaths. There are 544 active cases. The testing is being conducted at Government General Hospital and at Nedungadu, Tirunallar and Kottucherry by medical teams, Dr. Mohanraj said. The medical teams permit home isolation for people if the facilities are proper in their residences. Those with mild symptoms are sent to Vinayaga Mission Corona Care Centre. Those with higher infection symptoms are admitted in Government General Hospital. There are 422 positive patients in home isolation, 30 at Vinayaga Mission Corona Care Centre and 78 patients at Government General Hospital. The deaths of 20 out of 33 persons occurred as they were admitted at advanced stage of infection. Barring two persons aged 35 and 40, the rest who died of the infection were above 60 years of age. Ignoring symptoms at an early stage is the reason for most of the deaths. There is no way to bring down the infection rate other than by following the safety protocol until the vaccine becomes available, he said.
23 September 2020||KARAIKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Need for green energy’||Renowned scientists from CSIR-Central Electrochemical Research Institute discussed creation of a sustainable clean, green and affordable form of energy, as a part of ‘Energy Management and Energy Storage Devices,’ here recently. Director, CSIR-CECRI, N. Kalaiselvi, said the event was held to fulfil Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vision of holding regular sessions on topics of national and global relevance. Director General, CSIR, Shekhar C. Mande, presided. Head, CSIR-Human Resource Development Centre, Ghaziabad, R.K. Sinha, and speakers from several countries spoke.
23 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Private hospitals in Madurai bring healthcare to patients’ doorstep||Major private hospitals in the city have begun bringing hospitals to the homes of patients in the times of COVID-19. Doctors, nurses, lab technicians and paramedical staff have recently begun visiting the homes of patients, particularly those who are above the age of 60 to provide patient care. The service which has been recently introduced at these hospitals, has begun eliciting positive responses from the public who are apprehensive about visiting hospitals due to the fear of contracting COVID-19. Chief Operating Officer, Apollo Hospital, Rohini Sridhar, says that the move helps decongest hospitals and looks to ensure the convenience of patients. At Apollo, she says that nurses, lab technicians and paramedical staff are available for services at the homes of patients. “In order to first assess the status of the patient, we use teleconsultation. Basic evaluation can be done at home. In case they require a deeper understanding of their health condition, they have to visit the hospital,” she says. Managing Director, Devadoss Hospital, Hema Sathish, says that despite COVID-19, several patients had often come to their hospital with large families as it was the only time they could step out. “This move helped curb the movement into the hospital but the outpatient departments continue running in full capacity and see a high number of patients,” she says. Dr. Sathish says that apart from web consultation, patients can phone the hospital and state their needs. “We are providing access to specialists. Those who require medicines to be dropped off can avail the facility and can also have lab technicians lift blood or urine samples. The facility is highly useful for those who require post-procedural care,” she says. She adds that in order to ensure her staff’s safety, all are equipped with personal protection equipment, face shields, gloves and masks. “We are conscious of ensuring the safety of our staff first,” she says. General Manager, Operations, Meenakshi Mission Hospital, J. Adel, says that the hospital has opened a new collection centre to collect all samples, including COVID-19 samples. “Our lab technicians can come to the houses of patients for blood, urine and COVID-19 samples. We are trying to ensure that chronic patients and those who require geriatric care do not come to the hospitals as they are vulnerable,” he says.
23 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Amendments to Essential Commodities Act welcome’||Agrofood Chamber of Commerce and Industry welcomed the amendment to the Essential Commodities (Amendment) bill, 2020, as it led to the removal of cereals, pulses and staples from the Essential Commodities Act, 1955. In a press statement, Chamber senior president S. Rethinavelu said the Essential Commodities Act and the Agricultural Produce Marketing (Cess and Regulation) Act were once imposed by the Centre to deal with the situation wherein one produce would be in abundance in a State and in scarcity in another. He said now India had increased its production of rice, wheat and pulses by manifold. Centre thanked “We thank the Centre for taking out commodities like cereal, pulses, oil seeds, edible oil, onions and potatoes from the list under the Essential Commodities Act, allowing farmers and traders to buy and sell outside their Agricultural Produce Marketing Companies. Farmers can save on cost and effort, particularly on transportation. Providing for contract farming by fixing prices before crops are sown will help protect farmers and traders from falling prices,” he said. The government had said the minimum support price (MSP) would continue. The MSP should be the floor price or the the lowest price at which a product could be sold, for farmers selling outside the APMCs, he said.
23 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Police searching for gangster’s accomplices||The arrest of S. Kalimuthu alias Vellai Kali (32) with 25 kg ganja is a shot in the arm of Madurai city police who have been on the lookout for the notorious gangster in a murder case since April 2019. Acting on a tip-off, the police intercepted a car in which Kali was travelling with a few of his associates near Theni Main Road-Mudakku Salai junction on Sunday afternoon. While the police managed to arrest two others with him, two others — Agori Karthik and Dori Mari — escaped. The police also seized 25 kg ganja that was reportedly brought from Tenkasi. The police said Kalimuthu was accused in more than 25 cases, including murder and attempt to murder, in Madurai and Ramanathapuram districts. He was wanted in connection with the April 2019 murder of M.S. Pandian, son-in-law of his rival V.K. Gurusamy. “He has been a major cause of law and order problem in the city. He was also heading a gang that was involved in extortion of mamool in the city, especially from ricemill owners,” a senior police officer said. Now the police are on the task of identifying his accomplices who were involved in mamool collection for him.  Stating that getting bail in the ganja case, in which commercial quantity of the narcotics substance had been seized, was remote, the police said Vellai Kali would have to spend a considerable time in prison. The police are also planning to expedite the legal process in the murder cases against Kali, who is the nephew of former Corporation Zonal Chairperson Rajapandi of AIADMK. A simmering rivalry between Rajapandi and Gurusamy of the DMK has claimed more than a dozen lives in Madurai.
23 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK will face people with courage during polls, says CM||The AIADMK will face the people with courage during the upcoming Assembly election as it has implemented various welfare schemes, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Tuesday. Taking a dig at DMK president M.K. Stalin, who had asserted that his party will come to power in the next eight months, the Chief Minister said Mr. Stalin was making wild predictions. “He is probably reading horoscopes. It is the people, not Mr. Stalin, who will decide who should come to power,” he said while addressing the media at Madurai airport. Listing out various development projects implemented by the AIADMK government, the Chief Minister said, “We will face the people with courage. Mr. Stalin is making statements out of jealousy.” To the DMK’s claim that it had enrolled one lakh cadre through an online enrolment drive, Mr. Palaniswami said the claim was “nothing but a build-up” towards the election. “He (Mr. Stalin) is talking about enrolling people into the party. But I am meeting people (in every district) and meeting the press everywhere,” he said. The CM said his party members had dedicated themselves to serving the people of the country. Despite knowing that venturing out during the pandemic posed a threat to their well-being, six Ministers went door-to-door to serve the people and provided relief to those affected. Their hard work has paid off by way of the declining number of COVID-19 cases in Chennai, whereas infections are on the rise in Delhi, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru, he said.
23 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Employees avert train accident||When a track maintainer, B. Vasu, was on his routine duty along Samayanallur-Koodal Nagar section near here on September 14 morning, he noticed a weld failure on the track. Immediately, he alerted the Station Master, of Samayanallur railway station through the gatekeeper, T. Krishnan. But, it was then the SM realised that a goods train bound to Tirunelveli had just left the station towards Koodal Nagar and he could do little to stop the train from crossing the dangerous spot. However, the gatekeeper acted swiftly and put back the red signal forcing the locopilot of the goods train to apply emergency brake to stop the train much ahead of the danger spot. Appreciating both the track maintainer and the gatekeeper for their alertness that averted a possible untoward incident, General Manager, Southern Railway, John Thomas on Monday announced a cash reward of Rs. 3,000 each.
23 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Revoke contributory pension scheme: employees||Government employees from 21 departments demanded the State Government to revoke the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) as the guidelines for the scheme are unclear according to them. Hundreds of employees went on mass casual leave on Tuesday, seeking the fulfillment of their long pending demand. State Coordinator of the Tamil Nadu All Government Employees Federation S. Jayarajarajeswaran, said that the CPS introduced by the Central government provides gratuity to all employees. “This, however, is not the case in Tamil Nadu. There is no clear definition to the calculation of retirement benefits to Government employees in our State,” he said. Virudhunagar Over 500 employees went on a mass casual leave in Virudhunagar district.
23 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water from Vaigai dam to be released for irrigation on Sept. 27||Water for irrigating 1.05 lakh acres of ayacut of single crop areas of Madurai district will be released from Vaigai dam for 120 days from September 27, according to a government order released on Monday. It includes irrigation of 85,563 acres of single crop areas of Periyar Main Canal and irrigation of 19,439 acres of ayacut of Thirumangalam Main Canal. Water will be released depending on the availability in the dam and based on the turn system, said a senior PWD official. Water was released from Vaigai dam on August 31 to irrigate 45,041 acres of ayacut of the double crop areas of Periyar Main Canal in Madurai and Dindigul districts.
23 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Man seeks advance bail||J. Sajin (30) of Kadayal in Kanniyakumari district moved Madurai Bench of Madras High Court on Tuesday seeking anticipatory bail, after he was booked for sharing a caricature of the Prime Minister on WhatsApp. Justice V. Bharathidasan sought State’s response and adjourned hearing by a week. Sajin said he shared it accidentally.
23 September 2020||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai’s COVID-19 case count crosses 16,000-mark||Madurai district’s tally of COVID-19 positive cases crossed 16,000 to touch 16,024, with the addition of 61 fresh cases on Tuesday. With 93 persons having been discharged from various treatment facilities, the number of active cases stands at 759. One person succumbed to the viral infection, taking the death toll to 380. A total of 91 people tested positive in Tirunelveli, raising the district’s tally to 11,989. The district marked 119 discharges. Kanniyakumari’s total positive case count went up to 11,960 with 77 fresh cases. Hospitals in the district discharged 40 people. Sixty people tested positive in Thoothukudi, with which its tally rose to 13,016. Eighty-eight people were discharged from hospitals. Theni reported 60 new cases to have a tally of 14,337. The number of discharges in the district was 93. The total number of positive cases in Tenkasi rose to 6,915 with 54 fresh cases. There were 55 discharges from hospitals. Dindigul recorded 54 new cases to have a tally of 8,505. Forty-five people were discharged from hospitals. Virudhunagar registered 42 fresh cases and 18 discharges. The district has marked a total of 14,108 positive cases, with 340 active cases. The district’s death toll stands at 208. Sivaganga reported 38 fresh cases and 28 discharges. Eight new cases were recorded in Ramanathapuram to raise it tally to 5,401. The district witnessed discharge of 23 people.
23 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||493 new cases in U.T., toll now 473||Puducherry recorded six COVID-19 deaths and 493 new cases from testing 5,580 samples on Tuesday. While the cumulative toll went up to 473, the COVID-19 death count in the capital alone aggregated 403 after the addition of five more fatalities. Yanam reported one death. The patients, including four women, were in the 37 to 87 age group. The toll in Yanam is 39 and in Karaikal 31. No deaths were reported in Mahe. The case fatality rate was 2%, and the recovery rate at 77.92%. Puducherry accounted for 407 of the new cases, followed by Karaikal (53), Yanam (29) and Mahe (four), a bulletin from S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health, said. The active cases tally is 4,757, including the 2,963 patients in home quarantine, while 389 patients were discharged during the last 24 hours. The cumulative case load aggregated 23,684 cases with 18,454 patients discharged so far. So far, the Department has carried out 1,43,901 tests, of which 1,15,426 returned negative. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said he was leading a health team to Karaikal to assess the shortfall, if any, in the COVID-19 prevention strategy in the enclave, where cases had seen an increase in recent weeks. He would also hold discussions with Agriculture Minister R. Kamalakannan and local MLAs on what is needed to be done to control the situation. The Minister is slated to visit Mahe next week. Steps are under way to strengthen manpower at the IGMCRI, the designated COVID institution.  Grading system Meanwhile, Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said the grading system for PHCs, which rolls out on Wednesday, is aimed at ensuring that all of them remain self-driven and sustain and keep improving to keep COVID-19 under control. All PHCs shall self- evaluate themselves on identified parameters given by the ICMR, once in three days — Wednesdays and Saturdays. On their self-assessment, the Relief and Rehabilitation Secretary will grade their performance as A, B, and C and computerise it for record sharing. This will also go into their personal files, Ms. Bedi said. The briefing at Raj Nivas will also involve a daily death analysis that lists out causes and lessons to prevent mortality, Ms. Bedi said.
23 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Narayanasamy, Rao off to Delhi today||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy and Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao are set to leave for Delhi on Wednesday to press for release of COVID-19 aid for Puducherry. During the visit, they will call on the Ministers and Secretaries of Home and Health to reiterate the demand for more funds for the Union Territory. Mr. Rao said the Centre had released only about Rs. 3.74 crore as relief. For the last five months, the Chief Minister had been petitioning the Centre, including the Prime Minister, for more aid.
23 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Centre sanctions Rs. 44 crore for dredging at Puducherry port||The Union Ministry of Shipping has sanctioned a sum of Rs. 44 crore under the ‘Sagarmala Scheme’ to take up capital dredging at the Puducherry port. In reply to a question on whether the Central government had any plans to develop the Puducherry port, raised by Member of Parliament V. Vaithilingam in the Lok Sabha on Monday, Minister of State (independent charge) for Shipping Mansukh Mandaviya said the territorial administration had already floated tenders for capital dredging.
23 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY:,TAMIL NADU||U.T. govt. whip tests positive||The Puducherry Government whip, R.K.R Anantharaman, has tested positive forCOVID-19. According to a Health Department official, the Congress legislator developed symptoms of the virus two days ago. His test results came on Monday night and he has been admitted to a private hospital in Chennai, the official said.
23 September 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Student helps build toilets in her village||A Plus Two student, hailing from a poor family, of Adhanakottai in Pudukottai district, has helped motivate her fellow villagers to build individual household toilets, taking advantage of a project implemented by a Tiruchi-based voluntary organisation. The 16-year-old girl, Jayalakshmi, managed to get the project implemented in the district after help poured in from various quarters following her selection for a visit to NASA’s Kennedy Space Centre in the USA through a contest conducted by a private organisation. Though her visit has been postponed to next year due to the pandemic, she managed to channelise the support offered by G. Damodaran, Founder, Gramalaya, the voluntary organisation, which sought to reach out to her after media reports about her selection. “We wanted to help her on hearing that the poor girl was facing a fund crunch to visit the USA. But when we reached her, we found the village to be backward and decided to select it for building toilets under our project as she told us that she has already got adequate funds [for the NASA visit]. I informed the villagers that they will get toilets through ‘NASA’ Jayalakshmi,” recalled Mr. Damodaran. “I had heard about Gramalaya and their hygiene programmes. Most of the houses in our hamlet did not have toilets; we too did not have one. We girls and women faced much problem as we have to relieve ourselves in the open. So, I requested Damodaran sir to build toilets in the village. Though there was some initial hesitation among some of our villagers in starting construction of toilets, I went door to door to talk to them and explained the benefits,” said Ms .Jayalakhsmi, who studies at Raniar Government Girls Higher Secondary School in Pudukottai. Living with her mother who is undergoing treatment for mental illness, the girl and her brother are supported by her uncle. Ms. Jayalakshmi also supplements the family income by doing odd jobs, mostly at cottage units engaged in processing cashew, and aspires to become a civil servant. Today, as many as 120 household toilets have been built in Thiruvalluvar Nagar in Adhanakottai panchayat with the involvement of beneficiaries. The beneficiaries had to contribute Rs. 5,000 worth of materials and labour for the toilets, which cost Rs. 25,000 on an average. The project was executed by Gramalaya with funding from Bank of America. The bank, under its corporate social responsibility initiative, was funding the project to the extent of Rs. 2.50 crore for the construction of about 750 individual toilets at select villages across Pudukottai district. Of this, Rs. 1.50 crore is to be spent for building the toilets and the rest on other components such as hygiene education. R.Kannan, Jayalakshmi’s uncle and Adhanakottai village panchayat president, said many residents of the village did not utilise the government scheme to build household toilets. People were now happy with the construction of toilets under the initiative of Gramalaya as they had bathrooms attached. Gramalaya, in association with Bank of America, selected Pudukottai district in Tamil Nadu for implementing the comprehensive Water, Sanitation and Hygiene for All (WASH), menstrual hygiene management and nutrition programme to be implemented during 2020 -2021. Smart household toilets are being constructed in villages with households less than 10% toilet coverage. Hygiene education coupled with menstrual hygiene management and nutrition awareness education will be provided in the villages through the capacity building and training programmes.
23 September 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Rameswaram to get yatri nivas||A yatri nivas would soon be dedicated to the visiting public from far and near at Rameswaram, said Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami here on Tuesday. Presiding over a review meeting, he said the government had established the yatri nivas at a cost of Rs. 30.96 crore and all major works had been completed. ‘It would be ready for use in about a month,’ he noted. The district, which was once known as arid region, had been witnessing a transformation. A sum of Rs. 48.50 crore was spent in the last three years with contribution of farmers and 94 works were carried out under kudimaramathu scheme. The district had taken up 44 works worth Rs. 31 crore in 2020-21 and close to 70 % of works were completed, he said. Stating that Tamil Nadu government was a forerunner in protecting the farmers, he said that relief of Rs. 1,316.63 crore was given to 3.50 lakh farmers in Ramanathapuram district in the last four years under the crop insurance scheme. Tamil Nadu fared well on the COVID-19 management. He appreciated the efforts of frontline workers, paramedical teams and doctors. Timely advice from experts helped the government in intensifying the RT-PCR tests. It stood on top of the table in the country in testing as many as 85,000 people for COVID-19. Strict enforcement of lockdown, he said, had paved the way for controlling the virus. The government had thrown open the gates for tiny, small and medium scale industries and they were set to achieve its lost targets.
23 September 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||‘Cauvery-Gundar link soon’||In three to four years, Ramanathapuram will have more green cover, the Chief Minister said. The State government’s ambitious project, the Cauvery-Gundar river-link scheme, will begin by January. The project, covering a 250 km stretch and costing around Rs. 14,000 crore, will be executed in three phases. Six districts will benefit from the scheme. Once the project is completed, waterbodies in parched areas will no longer remain dry, he said.
23 September 2020||Ramanathapuram/Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CM reiterates support to farm Bills, calls Stalin ignorant||Reiterating the AIADMK’s support to the three farm Bills, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday said the proposed legislation were beneficial to farmers. He said DMK president M.K. Stalin was opposing the Bills out of ignorance. “Since Mr. Stalin does not know these features, he is opposing them. As a farmer, I have realised the benefits,” he told reporters in Madurai, elucidating the “beneficial factors” of the Bills. Asked about Mr. Stalin’s statement that the Chief Minister should not call himself a farmer any more, Mr. Palaniswami shot back: “He is not a farmer. I am proud to call myself a farmer. My family has been involved in agriculture for long. It would be advisable for Mr. Stalin to remain calm.” He defended the Bills earlier in the day in Ramanathapuram, saying the AIADMK voted in their favour as they were beneficial to farmers, and the party always stood by farmers and the downtrodden. The party has sought an explanation from Rajya Sabha member S.R. Balasubramoniyan, who criticised provisions of the Bill, he said. The Chief Minister said the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, was on the lines of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce and Livestock Contract Farming and Services (Promotion and Facilitation) Act of 2019. Only farmers who “volunteer” to do contract farming will be encouraged. Protecting farmers “Farmers will be protected from price drops and will get a share of the profit if the price goes up,” he said. “Since the availability of quality farm goods, on time, is ensured, it will help the food processing industry, and, thereby, the wastage of perishable goods will be avoided,” he said. Besides, the development of the food processing industry would generate rural jobs. He allayed fears that corporates would eventually take over farmlands. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, he said, would lead to lesser transaction costs. The legislation was not against Uzhavar Sandhais, he added. Farmers in Punjab were “misled” and were hence protesting against the Bill, he said. “In Tamil Nadu, all the 282 regulated markets will be developed further and will continue to benefit the farmers,” he added. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, has conditions to regulate stocks during emergencies, he said. Avoiding a direct answer to a query on whether the AIADMK would support Sasikala, the jailed aide of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa upon her release or align with her, Mr. Palaniswami said he had come here to review the COVID-19 situation, and, hence, would not like to answer the question. DMK MP’s charge The Chief Minister also denied DMK Vellore MP Kathir Anand’s charge that he had been threatened by intelligence sleuths in New Delhi. “Are the DMK men vulnerable to threats? When even an ordinary DMK cadre cannot be threatened, can anyone threaten [DMK general secretary] M. Duraimurugan’s son?” he asked.
23 September 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Excessive billing: private hospital barred from treating patients||The Department of Medical and Rural Health Services on Tuesday has temporarily cancelled the permission granted to a private hospital to treat COVID-19 patients. Based on complaints received by the Health Department, a surprise check was conducted at the hospital near Kondalampatti. The department staff found that the patients were overcharged. The authorities also found that persons who have not received permanent registration number under the Tamil Nadu Medical Council and who had not completed one year of training was treating and sending reports to the government. The District Competent Authority under the Tamil Nadu Clinical Establishments Act has also directed the hospital not to admit any new patients. Case registered The health department filed a complaint with Kondalampatti police against the hospital and a case has been registered under section 15 (2) of Indian Medical Council Act 1956.
23 September 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Desilting work carried out in Palapatti Lake||The desilting works under the Smart Cities Mission is on in Palapatti Lake. According to Salem Corporation officials, works are being carried out at a cost of Rs. 29.15 crore in the lake near Sooramangalam. The lake is spread over an area of 44.76 acres and works are being carried out in phases to redevelop the lake with entertainment elements. Officials said that Rs. 12.80 crore has been allotted for rejuvenation of the lake and Rs. 12.50 crore for desilting the inflow channels and preventing release of sewage into the channels. Works would be carried out for Rs. 3.85 crore to improve amenities at the lake and introduce entertainment elements like park and other facilities here. According to officials, under the project the lake’s bunds would be strengthened and semma karuvalam trees in the water body would be removed. Officials said that the roads around the lake would be improved and boat house would be set up at the lake. Solar panels and sewage treatment plant would also be set up. Officials said that fountains, children park, walkers’ path, cycle path and cafeteria would be set up on the lake premises.
23 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Constable found dead||A Tamil Nadu Special Police Battalion constable was found dead in a government school in Thalaivasal police limits here in the early hours of Tuesday. Police said the deceased was identified as A.Venkatesh (25) from Dharmapuri. He was posted in Thalaivasal police station limits for support duty for the past two months. His body was found hanging in the school where he camped. A case of suicide is suspected. Thalaivasal police have registered a case. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044- 24640050.
23 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Protest against farm Bills in Salem||Members of Tamil Puligal Katchi protested in front of the District Collectorate here on Tuesday and burnt copies of the farm Bills that were passed in Parliament recently. The raised slogans against the Centre and called the Bills anti-farmer. District secretary of the organisation K. Udhayaprakash said the passing of the Bills would lead to corporatisation of the agriculture sector, which would eventually deny farmers even the minimum price for their produce. Bid to burn CM in effigy In another incident, members of Makkal Arasu Katchi attempted to burn an effigy of Chief Minister Edappadi.K. Palaniswami, demanding the removal of a Tasmac liquor shop on Pudhu road. The protesters were removed from the place.
23 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Three killed in road accident in Salem||Three persons, including two migrant workers from Kolkata, died in a road accident near Sankari here in the early hours of Tuesday. Police said a vehicle with 45 migrant workers from Kolkata was heading towards Kerala when one of its tyres got punctured near Kaliyanoor Pirivu. The driver of the vehicle, Salman (27), and migrant workers Akthar (26) and Deepak (30), were trying to fix the problem when a truck loaded with cement sacks rammed their vehicle from behind. Salman died on the spot. Akthar died on the way to Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital and Deepak died at the hospital. Sankari police registered a case against the driver of the truck, Raja Mannar. According to police, he was also injured and was undergoing treatment at the hospital.
23 September 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Mettur Dam inflow increases||The inflow to Mettur dam touched 71,000 cusecs on Tuesday evening. According to Public Works Department officials, the dam’s water level stood at 93.43 feet against the full reservoir level of 120 feet and the storage was 56,659 mcft. The inflow to the dam from KRS and Kabini dams in Karnataka increased from 35,000 cusecs on Monday night to 65,000 cusecs during the early hours of Tuesday. The outflow from the dam to River Cauvery was maintained at 18,000 cusecs and through East-West canal was maintained at 700 cusecs.
23 September 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Direct cargo service launched||Union Minister of State for Shipping Mansukh L Mandaviya flagged off a vessel ‘MCP Linz’ carrying cargo from the VOC Port here to Maldives through video-conferencing facility. The new ferry service is expected to open up more opportunities for bilateral trade as it would be cost effective and an alternative means of transport of goods between India and Maldives, he said while addressing members at the inaugural function held on Monday. The launch of the service fulfilled the commitment made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his visit to Maldives in June 2019 and the subsequent announcement made by External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on a virtual meeting with the Foreign Minister of Maldives in August. Operated by the Shipping Corporation of India, the service will be operated thrice a month. The inaugural service, with a capacity of 200 TEUs of containers and 3000 tonnes of general cargo will be carrying 16 TEUs of containers and 2000 tonnes of cement from Thoothukudi, port officials said and added that the vessel will sail from Thoothukudi to Kochi and proceed to Kulhudhuffushi Port in north Maldives on September 26 and and then to Male Port on September 29. Maldives Minister for Transport and Civil Aviation Aishath Nahula said the new service would reflect the close ties of friendship and cooperation between the two countries.
23 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||13 tourism spots in Tiruchi district ‘centre’ of attention||A consultancy agency commissioned by the Central government has its focus on further development of 13 tourist destinations in Tiruchi district. A three-member team of the agency made a six-day visit to these places in August to assess available amenities and further requirements for strengthening of tourist infrastructure. The team’s itinerary included Srirangam Ranganathaswamy Temple, Rockfort Thayumanaswamy Temple, Tiruvanaikoil Jambukeswarar Akilandeswari Temple, Samayapuram Mariamman Temple, Mukkombu, Tiruvellarai Pundarikaksha Perumal Temple, Tirupattur Brahmapureeswarar Temple and Pachamalai. The team members spent an entire day at Pachamalai hills, which is endowed with thick forests, waterfalls, ridges and valleys and is also home to different species of birds and animals. They also interacted with officials of the State Tourism Department as part of their visit and received a slew of suggestions for creation of new initiatives to attract more visitors. The team is expected to prioritise the 13 destinations while preparing comprehensive proposals for augmenting amenities and infrastructure along with the cost estimate before submitting them to the Centre for sanction of funds. District Tourism Officer, Tiruchi, T. Jegatheeswari told The Hindu that a suggestion had been made to the team that a tourism circuit — linking religious tourism with leisure activities — be promoted in the district. Other suggestions included holding an annual dance festival in Tiruchi, similar to an event held at Mamallapuram near Chennai every year, and a sound and light show on the rich culture of Tiruchi, creation of road connectivity between Mukkombu and Tropical Butterfly Conservatory at Srirangam and skill development for tourist guides. The agency had identified 295 tourist destinations, including 13 in Tiruchi district, across Tamil Nadu to study feasibility of augmenting amenities and infrastructure depending on the requirements of each place. Tiruchi district witnessed the arrival of over 2.75 crore tourists, including a little over 3.97 lakh foreign visitors, from January to December in 2019, the officer said.
23 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Pachamalai awaits last mile connectivity||Strengthening infrastructure and providing better accessibility to some of the lesser known destinations such as the seasonal waterfalls in Pachamalai hills could go a long way in developing them as picnic spots in the district, say nature enthusiasts. True to its name, Pachaimalai is an unexplored green hill range situated in the Eastern Ghats with dry evergreen and dry deciduous forests located on the north-western border of Tiruchi district. The Forest Department has created an eco-tourism facility at Top Sengattupatti offering accommodation and guided trekking. But more needs to be done to attract visitors by strengthening infrastructure of the area, say locals. Verdant places such as Mangalam Falls and Koraiyar Falls in Pachamalai hills remain largely unexplored due to poor accessibility and lack of adequate infrastructure. According to locals, the falls are a sight to behold during the monsoon. “When in full flow, the falls are as good as Courtallam. A spell of good rain in the hill ranges can bring water to these falls for about 100 days. If there is good rain, the falls have water flowing right from September and the season can go up to January-end or early February,” says Saravanan Natesan, a frequent visitor. The Mangalam Falls is located about 14 km away from Top Sengattupatti, which is accessible by road from Tiruchi via Thuraiyur and Uppilliyapuram. From Top Sengattupattai one has to go via Chinna Pakkalam, Periya Pakkalam and Chinna Mangalam villages. “The final approach road of about one km from the Nallamaasi Road intersection to the falls should be black topped. The gravel road is in a bad condition,” rues Mr. Natesan. Protective railings should also be installed around the falls for picnickers to bathe safely at the falls. Further down the Mangalam Falls is another falls, referred to as Etterumaipaazhi Falls. “We have to climb down about 600 metres from here to reach this falls, but there are no steps leading to it. A proper approach way could definitely help attract more visitors,” feels D. Prasad another visitor to the Mangalam Falls last week. Similarly, the last mile connectivity to Koraiyur Falls, which can be accessed from Thuraiyur-Perambalur Road via Seerambur, Sengattupatti, Manalodai, Thonur and Pudur, is also poor, complain visitors. The two-km-long stretch from Pudur to the falls is in pathetic condition. “There is also a need to build steps to the final approach of about 200 metres leading the falls as it is a rugged terrain,” says Mr. Natesan. “We have petitioned authorities seeking steps to improve connectivity to these places,” he adds.  When in full flow, the falls are as good as Courtallam and a spell of good rain in the hill ranges can bring water to these falls for about 100 days Saravanan Natesan Visitor
23 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Spike in Plus One admission in government schools||There has been a significant jump in Plus One admissions in government schools in Tiruchi district this year. When compared to last year, an addition of at least 3,500 students has been noticeable so far, Chief Educational Officer S. Shanthi said. “The trend looks quite positive. The numbers are also expected to be high for levels VI to IX for which the admission process will be carried out till the end of this month,” she said. Now that the bus services have improved, students seeking admission are expected to turn up at schools in more numbers. Teachers have been asked to attend their schools in turns to facilitate the process. The School Education Department has counted on the support of the teaching staff for completing the admission process as the non-teaching staff will be pre-occupied with administrative work. The data on new admissions is being sent to the office of Chief Educational Officer on a daily basis, a senior teacher in Lalgudi block said. The increase in admissions is a reflection of reverse migration of the working class from cities to villages. Many who lost jobs due to the lockdown found themselves forced to relocate to their villages. Free education in government schools is a cause of immense solace to the working class, a head master said. However, there is no indication as yet on when the classroom sessions will start. Experimentation with online classes for students of government schools has been a failure. According to school heads, normal classroom activities do not seem likely till the end of the calendar year, going by indications emerging from the School Education Department.
23 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Six die, 602 more test positive for COVID-19 in central region||The central districts on Tuesday recorded a further dip in COVID-19 cases with 602 persons testing positive. Six more patients succumbed to the virus in the region, according to a State Health Department bulletin. For the third consecutive day, the region registered a dip in positive cases. On Sunday, it recorded 661 cases, which came down to 625 on Monday. Thanjavur district topped the positive cases list on Tuesday with 155 testing positive. Tiruvarur and Tiruchi districts followed with 116 and 113 cases. Pudukottai and Karur registered 89 and 56 cases. It was 46 in Nagapattinam and 20 in Ariyalur. Perambalur had seven cases. Of the six deaths, three were reported in Thanjavur and one each in Pudukottai, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi. Of the three who died in Thanjavur district, two were above 70-years of age. A 79-year-old male from Thanjavur, who was admitted to a private hospital in Thanjavur with fever, cough and breathing difficulty, died on Tuesday due to COVID-19 pneumonia. Another patient form Thanjavur, who died of respiratory failure, was 83 years old. He was admitted to a private hospital in Chennai on September 20 with complaints of cough. He was undergoing treatment for hyper tension and diabetic mellitus for a few years. The third patient from Thanjavur, who died of COVID-19, was a 55-year-old woman. She was suffering from chronic kidney disease. She died at Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital. The lone patient, who died of COVID-19 virus and pneumonia in Tiruchi, was 56 years old. He was admitted to a private hospital on September 14 with complaints of fever, cough, and breathing difficulty for a week. He had type-II diabetic mellitus for some time. A 63-year-old female in Pudukottai died on September 15. She died within a few hours of admission at Pudukottai Medical College Hospital. She too had pre-existing condition for a few years. In Tiruvarur, a 75-year-old male patient, who was admitted to Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital, died within a few hours of admission on August 30. He died of acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID 19 pneumonia, according to the health department bulletin.
23 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Srirangam AWPS arrests two in gang rape case||Srirangam All Women Police have arrested two persons in connection with gang rape of a 28-year-old destitute and mentally ill woman here recently. Acting on the complaint of the victim, who was rescued from a public place where she was found and subsequently sent to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, the Srirangam All Women Police booked a case under IPC Section 376 (D) (gang rape). They were on the look out for four unidentified persons initially named as accused. Sources said during the course of investigation, police on Monday arrested Mustafa, 41, and Siva, 23, on the charge of committing the crime. A hunt was on to nab two more accused, the sources added. Further investigation was on in the case. The mentally ill woman was allegedly taken by a person on a two-wheeler a few days ago and the crime committed against her by a gang of four persons, said the sources.
23 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Reopen courts, say lawyers||A section of lawyers staged a demonstration in front of the Combined Court complex here on Tuesday demanding reopening of courts for full-fledged functioning. The advocates also demanded withdrawal of a new rule introduced by the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry empowering the Council to suspend legal practice of advocates once an FIR was registered against them. The new rule was violation of natural justice, they said. A similar demonstration was held by a group of advocates in Thanjavur in support of the demands.
23 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||New wall could block the path of elephants: Conservationists||A revetment wall being built along a stretch of the national highway between Burliar and Coonoor near Marapallam could threaten the movement of elephants up the Coonoor ghat, conservationists warn. An official source, however, says that space will be provided for elephants to cross the road, but the wall has to be built to protect the road during landslips. The wall is being built along 40 metres of the road to strengthen the slope and prevent landslips from washing away the road. It is being constructed precisely at the location that a herd of elephants moving on the Kallar corridor usually uses as a crossing point to get to a water source near Vadugan Thottam village, a few kilometres away from Burliar. Conservationists and wildlife biologists familiar with the herd said the elephants climbed up the Coonoor ghat from Kallar and Burliar and used the relatively gentle gradient near Marapallam to cross the road and get to patches of habitat where they could find food seasonally. Nilgiris-based conservationist N. Mohanraj said “A small number of elephants use the Coonoor slopes for foraging. The vegetation is very good for elephants with mixed evergreen forests and plenty of water. Cutting of road sides causes much difficulty for elephants to cross and it is important that these crossing points are left for elephants to use”. The stretch of the highway where the work has begun has a signage that clearly indicates it is a point used by elephants to cross the road. Experts point out that if this crucial stretch used by elephants is blocked, they would not be able to access habitats near Coonoor town. The elephants make their way up to Runnymede railway station via Vadugan Thottam each year in search of food and water. Experts fear that the new revetment wall will block access to these areas. When contacted, a top national highway official said the concern raised by conservationists had been taken into account and a spot-inspection was conducted. “The wall will be built with a gap of 20-feet that will allow elephants to cross. The wall will not impede their movement, but it is absolutely necessary [to build it] as it is a landslip-prone zone, and a landslip could completely wash away the road without the wall,” the official said.
23 September 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Tindivanam DMK MLA and husband test positive||DMK MLA S. Seethapathy, representing the Tindivanam (Reserved) constituency and her husband Sockalingam have tested positive for the COVID-19 infection. According to an official, the legislator came to a private medical college hospital in Melmaruvuthur, with complaints of fever, on Monday. Following this, she underwent a COVID-19 test. Ms. Seethapathy’s test results returned positive on Monday night. Her husband, too, tested positive. The MLA and her husband have been admitted at the private medical college hospital.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Stone laid for 220 projects in Ramanathapuram district||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday laid foundation stone for 220 new projects in Ramanathapuram district. The projects will be executed at a cost of Rs. 70.54 crore. Development works, which were completed on an outlay of Rs. 24.24 crore, were launched. The Chief Minister, who had announced a government job for a family member of Havildar Palani, a native of Ramanathapuram district,who was killed in violent action at Eastern Ladakhby the Chinese forces a few months ago, gave the letter of appointment of junior assistant, to the slain soldier’s wife Vanathi Devi. He gave away financial assistance worth Rs. 72.81 crore to 15,605 beneficiaries from various departments. Mr. Palaniswami arrived in Ramanathapuram by road from Madurai to a rousing reception accorded by a large number of party cadre and functionaries. He was given a ‘purnakumbha’ welcome by priests from Sri Ramanathaswamy Temple. Revenue Minister R. B. Udhayakumar, MLAs M. Manikandan and N. Sathan Prabakar and former MP Anwar Rajha received him at the Collectorate. Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao welcomed him.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||595 fresh cases, 4 deaths in Coimbatore||Coimbatore district on Tuesday reported new 595 cases of COVID-19 and four deaths, while 507 persons recovered from the disease and got discharged from treatment centres. The district’s COVID-19 cases tally reached 27,157, and 392 people died of the disease so far. Tiruppur district witnessed the highest single day spike of 369 cases on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 6,589. The district administration attributed the spike to the delay on the part of laboratories in uploading test results on Indian Council of Medical Research portal, which, in turn, led to their accumulation. As many as 1,563 patients are undergoing treatment at various hospitals as of Tuesday. As per the media bulletin issued by the Health Department, two patients belonging to Tiruppur died of the disease. Two more persons were reported to have died at the Government Hospital in Tiruppur, but they did not figure in the bulletin. Erode district reported 136 new cases that took the districts’ tally to 5,764. A total of 165 patients were discharged on Tuesday, while 1,110 persons are under treatment. Four persons died, raising the toll in the district to 77. Six persons, aged 45 to 76, died of the disease in Salem district. The district reported 291 fresh cases. Health officials said 282 of these were indigenous cases, including 122 cases in Salem Corporation limits. Nine patients had returned from Krishnagiri, Chennai, Erode, Namakkal, Kalakuruchi and Coimbatore. Namakkal reported 92 cases, and 20 of these patients had returned from Salem, Erode, Coimbatore, Madurai and Karur. District Collector K. Megraj conducted a review of containment measures in Thiruchengode on Tuesday and said a micro containment strategy would be implemented in Namakkal, Thiruchengode and Rasipuram as these areas reported more cases. Similar measures in Pallipalayam and Komarapalayam had helped in reducing the number of cases. Mr. Megraj said that about 300 people had been fined for spitting in public places. Superintendent of Police S. Sakthi Ganesan and other senior officials also took part in the review. In the Nilgiris, 88 people tested positive. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed sases in the district stands at 3,178. Krishnagiri reported 90 cases while Dharmapuri recorded 106 cases.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Natural shades||
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Cell phones recovered||A special team of the city police handed over 130 mobile phones, recovered after reported missing, to their owners here on Tuesday. The team was constituted on the direction of Commissioner of Police J. Loganathan following receipt of 130 complaints in Tiruchi city limits. The cell phones were lost by those residing within the city and district and those from other districts while travelling in buses or shopping or at events. A press release said the team in coordination with Cyber Crime Unit retrieved the mobile phones. Mr. Loganathan handed over the mobile phones to their owners at the City Police Office. The value of the cell phones was put at Rs. 16.31 lakh. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime and Traffic) R. Vedarathinam and senior city police officers participated in the programme. Mr. Loganathan appreciated the team for recovering the missing phones.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man alleges Hindi angle to loan denial||Dr. Balasubramanian claimed he had informed the manager that he knew Tamil and English, but Mr. Kamble told him that he was from Maharashtra, and could not go through the documents in Tamil due to the language problem. Miffed at his reply, Mr. Balasubramanian sought an explanation from the bank authorities for invoking “language [as an] issue” while processing a loan application. “Sanctioning a loan is the prerogative of the bank. But the question of whether I knew Hindi or not was irrelevant to the processing of the application,” he said. Mr. Kamble refused to comment. S. Prem Kumar, senior regional manager, IOB, Tiruchi, said an inquiry was conducted, and the customer had probably misunderstood the manager. The manager had declined the loan as the bank’s norms did not permit the sanctioning of loans for customers aged above 70, he said. In the order transferring Mr. Kamble, the bank did not mention any reason for the same.
23 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Gurukul students achieve significant success in JEE Mains||Students of Channabasaveshwar Gurukul Residential PU Science College in Kardyal village in Bidar district have achieved significant success as per the results of the JEE Mains (Architecture and Planning) that were announced on Monday. The college has gained prominence in the Kalyan Karnataka region with 52 students getting top ranks. Apoorva Sachin has cleared the exam with 98.38 percentile marks to emerge among the toppers in Kalaburagi Division. The other successful students are: Pavan Basreddy 92.83 percentile marks, Rohan Rajendra 91.57, Shweta Umakanth 88.82, Nitin Basavaraj 88.35, Akshay Biradar 86.96, Vinay Vasanth 83.63, Vijayalakshmi Anneppa 86.11, Kiran Lakshmikanth 83.07, Abhishek Nilkanth 82.59, Rishit Rajshekhar 82.48, Amarnath Rajkumar 80.76, Vishnu Reddy 79.97, Prabhuling Ghale 79.48 and Pooja Gayatri 78.67 percentile marks. Satwikumar Omprakash 78.06 percentile marks, Saiprasad Babuvali 77.43, Nikhil Sanjeev 77.24, Mahesh Marutirao 77.24, Abhishek Biradar 76.52, Rakesh Kumar Subhash 76.03, Abhishek Anil Kumar 75.04, Vishnu Chandrakanth 74.36, Vaibhavi Asture 74.36, K. Rahul Dilip 74.36, Shweta Sanjeev Kumar 74.36, Rudresh Mallikarjun 74.36 and Shivshankar Mallinath 70.04 percentile marks. Sangamesh Chandrashekhar 69.31 percentile marks, Kale Ganesh 69.63, Vaishnavi Shivanand 68.88, Atharv Suhas 67.80, Rohit Rajshekhar 67.80, Jherikunte Amit 66.04, Sarita Bhagavant Rao 66.04, Veeresh Shivraj 66.04, Shambhavi Vishwanath 65.55, Sachin Basavaraj 65.28, Sumanth Reddy 64.81, Mahadev Shanmukappa 64.53 and Rajeshwar Reddy 63.82 percentile marks. Praveen Malgonda 63.00 percentile marks, Namrata Tammanna 63.00, Sudarshan Gnyanadev 63.00, Srujan Kumar Sanjeev Kumar 62.58, Vaishnavi Vinayak Rao 65.58, Abhijeet Nagshetty 61.84, Omkar Mattapati 61.84, Mallikarjun Chitendra 61.84, Somnath Lakshman Rao 61.00 and Vinayak Halbhavi 60.72 percentile marks. Sri Basavalinga Pattaddevaru, founder-president of Hiremath Samsthan Vidyapeeth Trust in Bhalki that runs the college, Sri Gurubasava Pattaddevaru, Sri Mahalinga Mahaswamigalu, administrator and principal, have congratulated the students.
23 September 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Govt. to build houses for pourakarmikas in all urban bodies||The State government will build housing complexes for all pourakarmikas in all urban local bodies, Belagavi district in-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has said. He was speaking in Gokak on Sunday after inaugurating a three-floor housing complex for pourakarmikas of Gokak Municipal Corporation. The Union and State governments are implementing several schemes to make the lives of pourakarmikas better, he said. He said that the housing complex that includes ground plus two floors in Gokak was built at a cost of Rs. 1.3 crore under the Gruha Bhagya scheme. Similar amounts of money will be spent for such housing complexes across the State. Construction will be taken up by the Slum Clearance Board or other agencies, he said. All pourakarmikas will get free houses in stages, he added.
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Assembly sees heated debate over COVID-19||The Legislative Assembly on Tuesday saw a heated debate on COVID-19, with the Opposition accusing the State government of not only being cavalier in handling the pandemic, but also indulging in misappropriation of funds. TheCongress stepped up its demand for a judicial probe into the alleged misappropriation during the purchase of equipment since March. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah said the government had siphoned off public money in the purchase of ventilators, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits, masks, sanitisers, and thermal scanners by buying them for more than the market rate. Noting “glaring differences” in the prices of PPE kits, he said the price ranged from Rs. 330 per kit in March to Rs. 2,117 per kit in April, a seven-fold increase. Similarly, ventilator price ranged from Rs. 10.3 lakh to Rs. 18.2 lakh per unit. The Centre had purchased ventilators atRs. 4 lakh, he said. Mr. Siddaramaiah said he had written 20 letters on the issue to the Chief Minister but there had been no response. The number of cases in the State increased from 37 on March 29 to 5,26,876 on September 21, and the number of deaths from one to 8,145 during the same period, he pointed out. India will soon displace the U.S. at number one in COVID-19 cases, he said. The Congress leader said laxity on part of the government in making preparations to handle cases during the lockdown had resulted in the increase in cases and toll. He also said the State government had not taken the Opposition into confidence and the Rs. 2,100-crore package announced by the Chief Minister had not reached those in need. H.K. Patil, of the Congress, claimed the government was hiding the true number of COVID-19 deaths. D.K. Shivakumar said BJP legislators and Ministers had distributed food kits to the poor by printing the party’s symbol on the bags, but no action had been taken against the legislators and party workers. Financial assistance Later in the day, Opposition legislators urged the government to extend financial assistance to patients from poor families for undergoing treatment. Many poor patients were opting for private hospitals as it was not possible to get beds in government hospitals quickly, but private hospitals were charging exorbitant rates, they alleged. Several MLAs, including H.D. Revanna, K.M. Shivalinge Gowda, Bandeppa Kashempur, and U.T. Khader, expressed concern that farmers were selling parts of their land to pay hospital bills. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar clarified that while the treatment was completely free at government hospitals, the rates for private hospitals had been prescribed by the government. He made it clear that the government would bear the medical expenses of patients who get admitted to private hospitals through the government authorities. The legislators, however, alleged that private hospitals were not abiding by the government norms. The legislators also appealed to the government to ensure that family members of COVID-19 victims are allowed to conduct the last rites of the dead. They also suggested that the government provide additional PPE kits to facilitate this.  The price of PPE kits ranged from Rs. 330in March to Rs. 2,117 in April, a seven-fold increase. Similarly, the price of ventilator ranged from Rs. 10.3 lakh to Rs. 18.2 lakh per unit. The Centre had purchased ventilators forRs. 4 lakh SIDDARAMAIAH,Leader of the Opposition in Assembly
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Now, Bengaluru joins Pune, Delhi with over two lakh total COVID-19 cases||Bengaluru Urban, which is a major contributor to the spiralling cases of COVID-19 in Karnataka, breached the two lakh mark on Tuesday with 3,082 new cases. With a total of 2,00,728 positive cases, Bengaluru is now the third city in the country after Pune and Delhi to have crossed the two lakh mark. The number of cases in the capital city started spiralling from the first week of July. From 4,555 cases on June 30, cases rose to 22,944 till July 15. By August 31, the number touched 1,27,336. After this, the city added 49,376 cases to its tally in 15 days taking the total number to 1,76,712. And, in another seven days, the tally crossed the two lakh mark. In active cases, Bengaluru now is second highest after Pune. With total discharges at 1,58,029, Bengaluru has 39,983 active cases. As many as 4,145 patients were discharged in Bengaluru on Tuesday. With 26 new deaths on Tuesday, the toll in this district rose to 2,715, which is nearly 33% of the State’s total toll of 8,228. Meanwhile, the number of new cases in the State reduced marginally on Tuesday. With 6,974 new cases, the total number of cases in Karnataka rose to 5,33,850. With 83 new deaths, the toll rose to 8,228. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. With 9,073 discharges, the total number of recoveries in the State touched 4,32,450. The number of active cases in the State now stands at 93,153. As many as 822 patients are being monitored in the ICUs of various hospitals. As many as 55,707 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours taking the total number of tests to 43,38,442 in the State. This includes 15,18,386 rapid antigen tests.
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘If you have a flair for art, you’re likely to be a good surgeon’||Can an artistic bent hold you in good stead as a surgeon? If you have a flair for art and think you will be an outstanding artist, you are likely going to be a good surgeon, said Devi Prasad Shetty, chairman of Narayana Health and Padma Shri awardee, at the The Hindu EducationPlus Career Counselling Digital conclave on Tuesday. He compared performing a surgery to creating a masterpiece. Similarly, students who enjoy research will find that the human body can be a treasure trove of information and challenges, he said. He cited the example of a doctor who later pursued engineering and became sought after by top companies for his knowledge in technological advancements to make healthcare more affordable and accessible. He told students that it did not matter which medical college they graduate from. “The only thing that matters is what you do after you come out of college,” Dr. Shetty said. A successful doctor is not one who tops the exam but someone who is passionate and has the innate ability to love people, and care for strangers. “Medical profession is not learnt in the library or classroom but by the bedside talking to patients,” he added. Dr. Shetty encouraged students to take failures in their stride. It took Dr. Shetty four attempts to obtain the Fellowship of the Royal Colleges of Surgeons. My tryst with failure began when I failed in the second standard. “I had even failed to obtain a medical seat in my first attempt,” he said. Truth in pure sciences The COVID-19 pandemic has changed not just our perspective on medicine but the way we access education. Nagesh Hegde, author, journalist, and environmentalist while speaking at the conclave’ on the topic of pure sciences, addressed the sweeping changes the pandemic has wrought on the traditional education system. “Now, you can attend class only if you or your parents have a mobile phone. Only if you have this gadget, can you have access to knowledge,” he said. Prof. Hegde said that while there is plenty of scope to pursue pure sciences within the country, most young minds look to build their career elsewhere in the world. He urged students to take part in science exhibitions and fests when they are in high school and college, and parents to foster curiosity among their children from a young age. Sponsors The gold sponsors for the event are Insight IAS, Cambridge Institute of Technology and Hindustan Group of Institutions, Chennai Cambridge Institute of Technology, while the silver sponsors are East West Institutions, Acharya Bangalore B School, The Institute of Company Secretaries of India, Shaheen Group of Institutions and Jnana Darshana IAS.
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Expert panel has not performed its duty: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday said that the State-level expert committee, set by the State government on the direction of the Supreme Court to monitor COVID-19 hospitals, has not performed the duties assigned to it. If the committee was not able to perform its duties, then the State government would have to revamp the committee to activate it, the HC made it clear in its order. “The report of the member-secretary of the committee shows that it has not discharged its duties. It appears that surprise visits to three private hospitals designated for COVID-19 treatment in Bengaluru city were done by the member-secretary alone and none of the other members of the committee inspected the hospitals,” the court observed. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar passed the order on the PIL petitions on issues related to COVID-19 health management. When recent data shows that number of COVID-19 positive cases are on the rise and multiplying, we expected that expert committee would play a very proactive role, the Bench observed. Terming as ‘vague’ the report submitted by the committee’s member-secretary, who is also the Director of Health and Family Service, on the facilities provided in private hospitals for COVID-19, the Bench declined to accept the tall claim that no deficiency was found in any of the hospitals. Referring to the fundamental rights of the people to live a healthy life and live with dignity, the Bench said that it is the duty of the government to make period checks of private hospitals designated for COVID-19 as these hospitals also receive a kind of State funding for patients sent for COVID-19 treatment to these hospitals by the government owing to a shortage of beds in public hospitals. The court also asked the government to come out with a programme to ensure private hospitals treating COVID-19 patients are monitored. Oxygen supply The Bench also directed the government to look into the issue of shortage of supply of oxygen and rise in the price of oxygen, which is crucial for treating COVID-19 patients on ventilator support. As the report of the government showed that 258 of the 285 urban local bodies (ULBs) have paid full wages but 27 have not paid up-to-date wages to pourakarmikas, the Bench directed it to ensure that full wages were paid to pourakarmikas in the 27 ULBs within 15 days.
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Changes to land reforms opposed at ‘people’s session’||A coalition of civil society groups held an “alternative people’s session” on the question of land reforms at Freedom Park on Tuesday and opposed the Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Bill, 2020. They demanded that the Bill and the ordinance be withdrawn immediately. They also held a people’s land adalat, which saw the participation of those fighting for land for a long time across the State. The adalat was presided over by retired High Court judge Justice Nagamohan Das. A host of political leaders from the Opposition, including Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah and KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar from the Congress and former Ministers H.D. Revanna and Basavaraj Horatti from the JD(S), visited the protest site and announced support for the movement. Mr. Siddaramaiah said the amendments being brought to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act, 1961, were undoing the land reforms broughtabout by D. Devaraj Urs in the 1970s that ensured land for the tillers. “I call upon both the Congress and JD(S) members to act together and ensure the Bill is not passed in the Council.” Earlier in the day, speaking at the alternative people’s session, Noor Sridhar, from Bhoomi Mattu Vasati Hakku Vanchitara Horata Samiti, said land reform has remained an unfinished agenda of the spirit of the national freedom struggle. Justice Nagamohan Das suggested a slew of measures to ensure land resources stay with farmers. He said that the government needs to conduct an audit of useof lands acquired for industries and other public projects and return the lands that haveremained unused. The Aikya Horata, a coalition of farmers, Dalit and labour organisations, said it would soon announce its stand on the Karnataka bandh proposed on September 25 against the agriculture reform bills passed by the Union government and the two ordinances being brought in by the State government. All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, an umbrella body of over 250 farmer organisations across the country, has called for a Bharat bandh on September 25.
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Why hasn’t salary of judicial officers also been cut, ask MLAs||Two senior MLAs from the Opposition parties on Tuesday demanded that in view of the COVID-19 situation, the salary of judicial officers too be reduced along with that of legislators. They raised the issue in the Assembly when Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy piloted the Karnataka Legislature Salaries, Pensions and Allowances and Certain Other Law Bill, 2020, to reduce for one year the salaries and allowances of legislators by 30%. Raising the issue, Janata Dal (S) member A.T. Ramaswamy alleged that judicial officers had increased salaries on their own. Senior Congress member H.K. Patil said those in the judiciary too should fall in line during COVID-19. However, the Law Minister clarified that the system of allowing the judiciary to increase its salaries has been accepted for a long time. He refused to comment on the issue and said he would get the details and place them before the House. The House then adopted the Bill to replace the ordinance. This is expected to help raise resources to the tune of Rs. 15 crore to Rs. 16 crore. Other Bills The Assembly also adopted the Karnataka Prohibition of Beggary (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which provides for the removal of discriminatory provisions in respect to leprosy-affected persons. The Karnataka Private Medical Establishments (Amendment) Bill, 2020, and the Kannada University and Certain Other Laws Bill too were adopted. The former makes provisions for separate registration and a grievance redressal authority and appellate authority in respect to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) area and to more fully handle COVID-19 cases. Earlier in the day, the Karnataka State Civil Services (Prohibition of Absorption of the Services of the Employees of Establishments in Public Sector into Public Service) Bill, 2020, was also tabled. The Bill is seen as necessary to prevent the absorption of the employees of public sector enterprises into the State civil service.The establishments in the public sector face closure because of various reasons, and the employees of such establishments tend to demand that they be absorbed against posts in the civil services and approach the courts seeking this. The Karnataka Industries (Facilitation) Amendment Bill, 2020, was tabled to replace the ordinance. The Bill aims to provide temporary clearance to the manufacturing industry to establish units on filing combined application forms and to get prepared for commercial operation. The Karnataka Lokayukta (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020, was also introduced in the Assembly to fix the time frame within which the preliminary inquiry and investigation are to be conducted by the Lokayukta or the Upa Lokayukta. The Bill also envisages that inquiry reports should be submitted to the competent authority by the investigating agency for speedy disposal of pending grievances or complaints, to enable the Lokayukta to function more efficiently.
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC notice to State on plea to stop using minors for selling products||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday ordered issue of notice to the State government and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on a PIL petition seeking direction to prevent people from deploying young children to sell products or beg in traffic junctions in the city. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the order on the petition filed by the Letzkit Foundation, Bengaluru. Pointing out out that law not only prohibits beggary but it prescribes penal action against those who force or use children for beggary, the petitioner pointed out that the State and its authorities have to prevent the practice of using children for begging or selling products at traffic junctions. The petitioner also brought to the notice of the court that young children were found selling various products at several traffic junctions even when the city was affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Admission to schools Also, the petitioner has sought a direction to the government to ensure that children of daily wage workers are admitted to the school even in the middle of an academic year to ensure that they are not forced to sell products in traffic junctions or to beg. The petitioner pointed out that many children of construction labourers though join nearby government schools leave midway as their parents shift to a faraway location within the city for new job during the middle of the year. Children of such labourers are compelled to sell products at traffic junctions, the petitioner claimed. The government will have to evolve a method for admitting such children to another government school close to the present working place of their parents during the middle of the year, the petitioner stated.
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ISD to probe drug racket||The Internal Security Division (ISD) has launched its own probe into alleged narcotics abuse in the Kannada film and television industry. Currently, the Central Crime Branches of the Bengaluru and Mangaluru police, and the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) are investigating the prevalence of narcotics in the Kannada film industry. Over the last two days, Kannada film actor Yogesh, popularly known as Loose Mada, television actors Geeta Bhat, Rashmita Chengappa, anchor Abhishek and Ranji cricketer N.C. Ayyappa have been questioned by the ISD. Sources claim that the division is set to issue notices to more professionals from the entertainment industry. “The ISD had recently booked six cases related to the use of narcotics in the city, and detained two peddlers related to a particular narcotics peddling network in the city, The division has been interrogating people whose names have been revealed by the peddlers and those who are found to have been in touch with them,” sources said. Yogesh, who was questioned on Monday, told mediapersons that he had cooperated with the probe. He denied being part of any drug racket. Geeta Bhat and Rashmita Chengappa claimed to have co-operated with the probe. They denied that their phones had been seized. Drug seizures Meanwhile, the city police are continuing with their special drive against the sale of narcotics. The North division police busted two drug rings and seized a total of 34.26 kg of ganja on Monday. The Sanjay Nagar police arrested Shabbir Khan for allegedly trying to sell ganja. Based on information given by them, they arrested Bheemanna and Nannarao, both from Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh. According to the police, Visakhapatnam is a hub for supplying ganja to the city. In another case in Soladevanahalli, the police arrested Jagannatham, 25, for allegedly peddling ganja. Based on information given by him, they arrested Surendra, 21, an undergraduate student from Andhra Pradesh. He is accused of procuring and selling ganja in colleges. Around 4 kg of ganja was seized from the arrested persons.
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Walkout in Council||Members of the Opposition in the Legislative Council staged a walkout on Tuesday after accusing Health Minister B. Sriramulu of not answering their queries on the alleged irregularities in the purchase of COVID-19 medical equipment. “The Minister did not answer our queries and the government has failed in handling the pandemic. The Minister says that only God can help, but in this situation even God cannot help us,” Leader of the Opposition S.R. Patil said before walking out. This was after Mr. Sriramulu, without going into the details, said, “The current situation is likely to continue for the next two or three months and we have to live with the pandemic.” While he defended the government’s work, he acknowledged that the lockdown had inconvenienced people and affected businesses. Earlier, Congress chief whip M. Narayanswamy referred to the human tragedies during COVID-19 and said, “People died while walking home, businesses were lost, and farmers were affected. Food relief kits meant for migrant workers werediverted.”
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Download verification slip after documents are verified: KEA to students||Candidates who have completed uploading documents online for the Common Entrance Test (CET) counselling will have to download the verification slip once their documents are verified by the Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA). This is the first time that the document verification process is being conducted online by the KEA. The verification slip generated online will also include a list of documents that the candidates have submitted. Speaking at the The Hindu EducationPlus Career Counselling Digital conclave on Tuesday, A.S. Ravi Kumar, public relations officer, KEA, said they decided to switch to online verification of documents this year due to the pandemic. Some of the documents that need to be verified include marks cards, study certificate, and caste and income certificates if they want to claim reservation. KEA staff will verify the documents after the students upload them. “In some cases, candidates have uploaded incomplete documents, and they will be given an opportunity to upload the documents again,” he said. Around 50,000 students have already uploaded their documents, the process for which began on September 7. Candidates have been allotted dates and have been asked to upload documents as per their ranks. For candidates who have failed to upload the documents on the specified date, another schedule will be announced to do so. Mr. Ravi Kumar advised students to carefully enter their options on the courses and colleges they wish to go to. The first round of CET counselling will be held based on the schedule specified by AICTE, while counselling for the medical and dental seats will be conducted based on Medical Council of India’s regulations.
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Members told to speak wearing mask||Assembly Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri told members to speak in the House while wearing their masks. The Speaker made this statement when Congress member D.K. Shivakumar began speaking after removing his mask. The Assembly Secretariat has given yellow tags for all members and journalists who have tested negative for easy identification. The members were found wearing these tags on Tuesday. The Speaker said COVID-19 testing was conductedon 2,145 officials, policemen, and journalists during the last three days, and110 tested positive.
23 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fox Mandal gets new director||Former Chief Commissioner of Income Tax, Mumbai, G.V. Gopala Rao, has joined Fox Mandal and Associates as a director and will lead the Tax Advisory Team for South India in their Bengaluru office. He will oversee all direct and indirect tax matters of the law firm, said a release.
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||International webinar||An International webinar on ‘A travel talk on tomorrow’s destination’, by World Communicators Council, Public Relations Council of India and Young Communicators Club, will be held on September 27 between 5 p.m. and 6.45 p.m. Kumar Pushkar, MD, Karnataka State Tourism Development Corporation, will be chief guest. Register onhttps://forms.gle /FuvooUD3zW6HFcoAA
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Protest by ASHA workers today||Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHA) workers are on a warpath again. After withdrawing their 20-day strike in July following an assurance from the Health Minister B. Sriramulu that their demand for a fixed monthly honorarium of Rs. 12,000 would be considered, ASHA workers will stage a massive State-level protest at Freedom Park on Wednesday. Over 500 members of Karnataka Rajya Samyukta ASHA Karyakartheyara Sangha affiliated to All India United Trade Union Centre (AIUTUC) from across the State will assemble at Freedom Park on Wednesday. “Our primary demand is a fixed monthly honorarium of Rs. 12,000. ASHA workers have been frontline warriors during the COVID-19 pandemic but are paid only a paltry Rs. 4,000 per month. Despite an assurance from the Minister, nothing has happened even after two months,” said D. Nagalakshmi, State secretary of the sangha. Other demands The workers other demands include regular health checks for all ASHA workers, provision of face masks, hand sanitizers, gloves and PPE kits.
23 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Many girls leave colleges after being pressured into marriage||Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, many girls in Karnataka are dropping out of colleges after being persuaded by their families to get married. In many cases, efforts by lecturers to convince the parents to postpone the wedding, till after the course is completed, have failed. The last date to complete college admissions without fine was September 15, and many colleges are reporting that 10% to 20% of the girls did not turn up. “About 150 students are yet to take admission for the second and final year in the current academic year,” said Mahendra Kumar, principal of Government First Grade Arts College in Hassan. While every year there are some students who get married and give up studies, this year the numbers are markedly higher, he said. T.M. Manjunath, president of Karnataka Government College Teachers’ Association, said this was the trend across the State as many parents were facing financial problems amid the pandemic. “In such a situation, very often boys get preference over girls in continuing education,” he said. An additional factor that has spurred parents to hold weddings during this period is cost. Wedding expenses are lower during the pandemic given the restrictions on gatherings, said Dinesh K.S., assistant professor at Holenarsipur. With colleges closed and classes being held online, there is little chance for lecturers directly contacting their students. “Some got married during the lockdown. We are trying to convince them not to discontinue their studies,” said H.K. Lalitha Devi, principal of Government First Grade College for Women at Holenarsipur. Two of her final-year students did not appear for the examinations. When the teachers contacted the parents, they were told that their husbands did not want them to complete their studies. “They have studied for three years. I hope they come back to clear the exams,” she said. Lecturers still remain hopeful of some girls coming back, as there is time till the end of the month to get enrolled with a fine.  ‘Need govt. action’ Amaresh Kadagada, State president of the Students’ Federation of India, said there was a need for the State government to intervene and ensure that girls do not drop out, especially in backward regions where child marriage is rampant. In 2018, Karnataka’s Gross Enrolment Ratio was 26.5%, the lowest among the southern States. The ratio measures how many students in the 18-24 age bracket are enrolled for higher education programmes — undergraduate, postgraduate, and research studies — and is expressed as a percentage of the population. Parents have defended their decision. One father said, “There were no classes. Friends and relatives suggested we might as well hold her marriage, since we had already found a boy from among our relatives. We arranged the marriage with minimum expenses.” Asked if his daughter would complete her education, he said her husband and in-laws would take that call.  (With inputs from Tanu Kulkarni in Bengaluru)
23 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Four die of COVID-19||With 217 fresh COVID-19 positive cases, the number of such cases increased to 13,959 in Hassan district on Tuesday. Four people died taking the toll to 273. So far, 11,138 have recovered and 2,548 are getting treatment.
23 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Man found dead after he murders another||A man is said to have murdered his neighbour before being found dead himself at Gandharva Giri village in Chikkamagaluru taluk on Tuesday morning. The deceased persons have been identified as Krishnappa and Basava, respectively. Basava picked up an argument with Krishnappa, while the latter was fetching water at around 7 a.m. Basava allegedly hit Krishnappa with a knife. Even as Krishnappa’s wife Prameela rushed to the spot and tried to take him to hospital with the help of neighbours, he died of injuries. Meanwhile, Basava, who looked shocked, was later found dead in his house. Superintendent of Police of Chikkamagaluru Akshay M. Hakay told presspersons that Mallandur Police have registered a case. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104. )
23 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Health activists seek enhancement of honorarium||In response to a call for a State-wide agitation to press for their various demands, scores of Accredited Social Health Activists (ASHAs) staged protests in Hubballi, Dharwad and in the headquarters of the various districts in North Karnataka on Tuesday. Staging demonstrations in front of government offices across the districts, ASHAs said that the State government had failed to fulfil the promise it had made to them after their previous mega protest. Addressing the protesting social health activists in front of the office of the Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad on Monday, district unit president of the Karnataka Rajya Samyukta ASHA Karyakarteyara Sangha Gangadhar Badiger said that two months ago when the health activists from across the State staged a protest that went on for 20 days, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had promised to increase their honorarium. “However, although ASHAs have patiently waited for over two months now, their demands have not been met. They have not been paid even for their selfless service during the COVID-19 situation,” he said. Mr. Badiger said that ASHAs were doing additional work during the pandemic and yet the government had not been considerate towards them. The State government should keep its promise by enhancing their honorarium to Rs. 12,000 a month, he said. District unit vice-president of the sangha Bhuvana Ballari said that activists and people from all walks of life had expressed solidarity with them during the previous protest, following which the government promised to enhance their honorarium. However, nothing had been done to meet their demands yet. And, if the government failed to keep its promise now, they would be forced to intensify their agitation, she said. Their other demands include regular health check-up for ASHAs on COVID-19 duty, payment of pending incentives and the immediate payment of Rs. 3,000 incentive announced for them. In Hubballi, leading the protest, AIUTUC district secretary Ramesh Hosamani said that while the government praised ASHAs as corona warriors on the one hand, it was denying even their rightful wages for the work they were doing on the other. AIUTUC city unit president Bharati Shettar urged the State government to immediately take steps to fulfil the promise it had made to ASHAs.  ‘Although Accredited Social Health Activists have patiently waited for over two months now, their demands have not been met’
23 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||NWKRTC resumes inter-State services to Maharashtra||Inter-State bus services to various destinations in Maharasthra from North Karnataka districts that had remained suspended due to the COVID-19 situation have resumed now with North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) re-starting services on Tuesday. Following the lockdown and a ban on inter-State travel, NWKRTC, which used to operate scores of schedules daily to various destinations in Maharashtra, suspended bus services. Now, with the restrictions being removed and a comparatively better scenario emerging, it has decided to resume bus services. On Tuesday, NWKRTC buses to Kolhapur, Pune, Mumbai, Sangli, Sholapur, Shirdi, Nasik and other destinations from the district headquarters in the districts of Dharwad, Belagavi, Bagalkot, Gadag, Uttara Kannada and Haveri districts were re-started. In a press release, the Chief Traffic Manager of NWKRTC has said that the transport corporation has drawn up plans to re-start all schedules to Maharashtra in a phased manner. Passengers can book tickets on www.ksrtc.in or at franchise counters. As per the guidelines, passengers will have to compulsorily wear face masks during travel and follow all necessary norms.
23 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Writer Abbas Melinamani passes away||Writer Abbas Melinamani from Bagalkot, a recipient of various literary awards including the Dr. Gorur Literary Award, died of a cardiac arrest in Chitradurga on Tuesday. A teacher by profession, Abbas Melinami had settled down in Bagalkot after retiring from service as a lecturer at the Government PU College in Ilkal. He has nine collections of stories, three collections of poems, three story volumes, one novel and three collections of articles to his credit. He had also edited nine books. His stories were published in several mainstream Kannada newspapers. And, the Kannada Sahitya Datti Prashasti is among the many literary awards that he won. Melinamani had gone to his daughter’s house in Chitradurga when he suffered the heart attack. He is survived by his wife, a son and daughter.
23 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Mala-Kudremukh Ghat road unlikely to re-open today||The Mala-Kudremukh Ghat road (National Highway 169) connecting the coastal region with Chikkamagaluru district that was temporarily closed for two days since Monday is unlikely to re-open for traffic on Wednesday morning, as announced earlier. Udupi Deputy Commissioner had on Monday ordered the closure of the ghat road following landslips and tree falls at several places on the stretch between Mala and SK Border. Senior officials in the National Highways division of the Public Works Department told The Hindu here on Tuesday that the road stretch was cleared off debris and fallen trees by afternoon on Tuesday. However, there were several loose boulders atop road cuttings from where land had slipped. Allowing vehicular movement in such a condition would be dangerous, the officials said and added that the work to remove these boulders may last till evening on Wednesday. The authorities concerned would take a decision thereafter, the officials said.
23 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Two arrested, 922 kg of PDS rice seized||The Puttur Town police on Monday arrested two persons on the charge of making an attempt to sell in the open market rice distributed to ration card holders under the public distribution system. The police seized 922 kg of rice worth Rs. 2 lakh from them. The police gave the names of the accused as Kalandar, 31, and Zakaria, 40. A police team, led by Sub-Inspector of Police Jamburaj Mahajan, stopped their lorry at Polya village on Mani-Mysuru Road. The accused did not have documents for transportation of bags of rice found in the lorry. Food Inspector Saraswati, who visited the spot, upon inspection, found that the rice belonged to the public distribution system. The police said that the accused had purchased the rice from ration card holders. They had repackaged it in different bags and were attempting to sell it in the open market in Mangaluru. On a complaint by Ms. Saraswati, the police booked the accused for offences punishable under the provisions of the Essential Commodities Act.  The accused did not have documents for transporting the bags of rice found in the lorry, the police said.
23 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Unknown object washes ashore in Shiroor village||An iron object cylindrical in shape on Tuesday washed ashore the beach at Padiyara Hittalu, Shiroor village, Baindoor taluk in Udupi district. It was found on the beach at about 10 a.m., a statement from the Coastal Security Police said. The police are now consulting experts to know what it is and to take further steps as there were no claimants for it, the statement said.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Nodal officers for 198 wards||With the five-year term of the 198 councillors ending earlier in September and in the absence of elected representatives, ward committees and citizens’ groups are worried whether issues in their neighbourhoods will be addressed. To ensure that grievances of citizens are addressed effectively, the BBMP has appointed nodal officers for each of the 198 wards. These officials will be the contact point for citizens In an order issued on Monday, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said that nodal officers will have to monitor solid waste management in their respective wards, tackle rain-related problems, and ensure that roads are free of potholes and not subject to illegal digging. They will also have to monitor and remove unauthorised flex and banners, collect property tax and consult with former councillors. Mixed response The officers have been directed to conduct meetings on the first and third Saturday every month and submit reports to the zonal joint commissioner and commissioner. This system will mostly replace the Ward Committees that were chaired by the respective councillors. The move has invited appreciation and criticism from citizens’ groups. Kathyayini Chamaraj from CIVIC, who was a member of Shanthinagar Ward Committee, pointed out that appointment of nodal officer had done away with the existing system of ward committees, Disaster Management Cell and booth-level committees that were constituted to keep track of COVID-19. “The booth level committees were set up following directions of the Karnataka High Court. The BBMP could have continued with the existing ward committee meetings on an informal basis,” she said. Tara Krishnaswamy from Citizens for Bengaluru said it was a good interim measure, but lacks political accountability. “It is condemnable that elections to the civic body are not being held. There was also a provision to extend the term of the BBMP council. However, the government did not explore all options,” she said. The term of the ward committees is coterminous with that of the councillor and a bureaucrat cannot chair the ward committee, pointed out Srinivas Alavilli of Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy. He welcomed the “progressive move”, given the unusual situation. “While there is no public accountability, there will at least be some bureaucratic accountability,” he said. He, however, questioned whether the nodal officer will liaise with counterparts from other civic agencies, especially Bescom and BWSSB. He expressed doubts over whether this system will represent all citizens equally. “RWAs represent citizens of a certain socio-economic strata. How will there be any representation from those living in slums and weaker socio-economic groups?”
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Government to HC: Ward reservation in two weeks||The State government on Tuesday told the Karnataka High Court that the caste-wise reservation of 198 wards would be finalised within two weeks after considering around 900 objections received for the draft reservation notification published on September 14. Meanwhile, the State Election Commission (SEC) told the Court that the process of preparation of draft electoral list is under way based on delimitation of the wards carried out by the State government, and the draft electoral rolls are expected to be published on October 19, and the final rolls are likely to be published on November 30. Submissions in this regard were made before a division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi during the hearing of a PIL petition, filed by the State Election Commission in January this year seeking direction to the government to complete the process of delimitation and reservation at the earliest to enable the State Election Commission to hold elections before expiry of the BBMP council’s term on September 10. Though the court had in March set April 1 as the deadline for the government to complete the processes, they were delayed by the COVID-19 pandemic.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Survey 24 civic amenity sites in Narayana Nagar’||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed the BBMP to carry out a survey with the assistance of government surveyors to ascertain the nature and extent of encroachments on 24 of the 42 sites earmarked for civic amenities in Narayana Nagar. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi also directed the BBMP to take necessary steps to protect and safeguard sites earmarked for parks, playgrounds and other civic amenities in three phases of Narayana Nagar, a residential locality formed by the Bank Officers and Officials House Building Cooperative Society nearly 20 years ago. The petitioners, N.R. Prasad and three other residents of Narayana Nagar, pointed out that 42 civic amenity sites in Narayana Nagar were handed over to the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) by the Society in 2001. In 2007, the BDA had transferred them to the BBMP. Alleging that the BBMP neither developed these 42 civic amenity sites nor was able to protect them, they pointed out that 24 of the sites have been encroached. The petitioners have complained that the BBMP and other authorities have failed to take any action despite repeated representations since 2014.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP wards set to increase||The amendment, which would enable the BBMP to come out of purview of the KMC Act, is aimed at bringing about comprehensive change in the administration and governance of the civic body. The KMC Act was formulated 44 years ago and changes in the Bill are aimed at mobilising more taxes. The Bill states that the KMC Act was inadequate in administrative and structural matters to govern Bengaluru as it provided limited flexibility and was a common legislation catering to nine smaller city corporations. The proposed Bill is aimed at better coordination among civic agencies, such as BDA, BWSSB, Bescom, and BBMP. It is aimed at improving decentralisation, integration of public participation at various levels of municipal governance, and ensuring efficient decision making. Mr. Raghu told mediapersons that there was no question of postponing elections to the BBMP council, he added.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘No decision on BBMP limits’||The Joint Select Committee of the State legislature has not taken any decision on extending the limits of the BBMP, said S. Raghu, BJP MLA who heads the committee. The committee, on Tuesday, submitted its report in the Assembly.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BJP member protests||Senior BJP member Ayanur Manjunath staged a protest in the well of the Legislative Council on Tuesday over the delay in giving salaries to guests lecturers of degree colleges. He alleged that many lecturers, after not receiving salaries, had committed suicide. He was supported by the Opposition members in this. Later, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced that he had ordered the release of salaries of guest lecturers.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||No Question Hour||In light of paucity of time for discussions in the Legislative Council, it has been decided to drop Question Hour. However, Zero Hour and call attention notice will be continued. The decision was arrived at at the business advisory committee meeting on Tuesday, Janata Dal (S) member Basavaraj Horatti said, adding that the business hours of the House had been extended by two hours daily.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘No conspiracy’||JD(S) leader Basavaraj Horatti alleged that the government was trying to sell properties belonging to the defunct Mysore Lamp Works, which has 22 acres in Malleswaram, besides bungalows in the city and properties in Mumbai and Ahmedabad worth nearly Rs. 1,386 crore. But Minister Jagadish Shettar said the company was being merged withKarnataka Minerals Corporationand there was no conspiracy behind this.
23 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Highest one-day spike in Alappuzha||After a few days of relative calm, COVID-19 cases jumped again in the district. For the first time, the single-day spike crossed the 400-mark with 403 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. The fresh cases include 363 patients who contracted the virus through local transmission. Twenty-six who came from other States, eight from abroad, four health staff and one person each from Ramankary and Devikulangara, with unknown source of infection, were also diagnosed with the disease. Localities Of the 363 locally transmitted cases, 83 were reported from Alappuzha and 34 from Kayamkulam. Rest of the contact cases reported on the day were from Bharanikavu (19), Kadakkarappally (19), Arookutty (14), Mannacherry (12), Haripad (11), Pathiyoor (10), Thrikkunnappuzha (8), Ambalappuzha (7), Karthikappally (6), Pulinkunnu (6), Krishnapuram (6), Cherthala (5), Venmony (5), Thalavady (6), Puliyoor (5), Kumarapuram (5), Champakulam (5), Nedumudi (5), Aroor (4), Thazhakara (4), Thamarakulam (4), Mararikulam (4), Cheriyanad (4), Devikulangara (4), Cheruthana (3), Kuthiathode (3), Kandalloor (3), Pallippuram (3), Cherthala South (3), Chennithala (3), Mannar (3), Neelamperoor (3), Palamel (3), Pattanakkad (3), and two cases each from Purakkad, Nooranad, Mavelikara, Mulakuzha, Kavalam, Edathua, Ezhuppunna, Chunakara, Cheppad, Chettikulangara, Ramankary, Thuravoor and Arattupuzha and one case each from Aryad, Ala, Budhanoor, Chettikkad, Eramallikkara, Muttar, Karuvatta, Punnapra, Perumbalam and Pandanad. 231 cured Meanwhile, 231 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in hospitals in the district tested negative. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stand at 2,856.  Active cases in district stand at 2,856.
23 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Archbishop Joseph Chennoth laid to rest||The body of Archbishop Mar Joseph Chennoth, 77, Vatican’s Apostolic Nuncio to Japan, who died earlier this month was laid to rest with State honours at St. Thomas Church, Kokkamangalam, near Cherthala, on Tuesday. His body, which was brought to Kochi the other day, was kept at the chapel of the Lisie Hospital, Ernakulam, and St. Mary’s Basilica for the public to pay homage in the morning. Later, the body was taken to his ancestral house at Kokkamangalam and then to the church. The police gave the funeral guard of honour. He became Apostolic Nuncio to Japan in 2011. Cardinal Mar George Alencherry, Archbishop Mar Antony Kariyil, Archbishop Mar Joseph Perumthottam and Bishop Jacob Manathodath attended the funeral service. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala expressed condolences.
23 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki dam inching to blue alert level||The water level in the Idukki reservoir increased by nearly 3 ft on a single day, inching closer to the blue alert level on Tuesday. The water level had been showing an increase of over 1.5 ft for the past two days. It has now touched 2,384.42 ft. An official at the Dam Monitoring and Research Station, Vazhathoppe, said blue alert would be sounded when the water level reaches 2,387.40 ft, followed by orange alert at 2,393.40 ft and red alert at 2,394.40 ft. The full reservoir level is 2,403 ft. The catchment area recorded a rainfall of 78.2 mm on Tuesday. A Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) official said on Tuesday that there was no need to open the dam shutters in the present situation. The rain subsided on Tuesday, he added. If the water level shows a steady increase, the KSEB plans to increase the power generation at the Moolamattom power house. Of the six generators, five are in working condition. The water level at the Mullaperiyar dam was 127.85 ft on Monday. The maximum storage level as fixed by the Supreme Court is 142 ft. Kakki reservoir Meanwhile, following the continuing rainfall, water level in the Kakki-Ananthodu reservoir, which is part of the Sabarigiri hydroelectric project, reached 975.63 m as against the upper rule level of 976.91 m. Blue, orange, and red alerts are issued when the water level rises to 974.91 m, 975.91 m and 976.41 m respectively. Pathanamthitta Collector P.B. Noohu has advised the people living on the river banks to exercise caution.  (With inputs from   Pathanamthitta bureau)
23 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||CPI(M) to organise protest rallies today||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) district committee has decided to organise rallies at 18 centres in Kannur on Wednesday against the violent protests by the Congress and the BJP. The event is being organised on the anniversary of the death of Azhikodan Raghavan, who was killed by Congress activists on September 23, 1972, at Chettiyangadi in Thrissur. Azhikodan Raghavan, a prominent leader of the CPI(M) in Kerala, was the convener of the United Front and a member of the party’s State secretariat when he was killed, said a party release. The release further said that the UDF and the BJP were staging violent protests in Kerala in violation of the COVID-19 norms. The High Court had ruled that it was illegal to take measures that could lead to the spread of the disease. March turns violent Special Correspondent writes from Thrissur: A protest march taken out by KSU activists to the DIG office here on Tuesday demanding the resignation of Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel turned violent. The police erected barricades 100 metre from the DIG office and stopped the activists. The police resorted to a lathi-charge after minor clashes occurred following the inauguration of the march by DCC president M.P. Vincent. KPCC secretary John Daniel said the police were trying to suppress peaceful protests by the youth organisation. The police personnel who resorted to the lathi-charge were not wearing nameplates, alleged KPCC secretary Shaji Kodankandath. He has sent a complaint to the DIG demanding action against the police personnel who were not wearing nameplates.
23 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Flyover: contractors’ body to file review petition if needed||The Kerala Government Contractors’ Association (KGCA) will file a review petition before the Supreme Court, in case there is mention in Tuesday’s apex court order permitting reconstruction of the Palarivattom flyover about the contracting firm that built the structure having to bear the cost of “out of tender and estimate conditions” that are not mentioned in the defect liability clause, KGCA president Varghese Kannampilly has said. As per the clause, the contracting firm will be responsible for repair works that had to be done on the flyover within three years of its commissioning. The contracting firm RDS Projects will not be bound by the risk and cost parameters of the reconstruction work, since they will be done as per new technical specifications. For example, the flyover was built using reinforced cement concrete (RCC). But reconstruction had been planned using pre-stressed concrete (PSC), he said. Even presuming that the order does not make it obligatory to recover the reconstruction expense from RDS, the contractors’ body would file a case, seeking pecuniary compensation for the firm. This is because the government encashed the bank guarantee submitted by the firm when it took up the work, soon after cracks on the flyover were detected. The firm has also not been paid the full project cost. It also undertook repairs worth around Rs. 2.5 crore on the flyover to strengthen it. All that together works out to around Rs. 10-crore loss for the firm, said Mr. Kannampilly. ‘Design faulty’ E. Sreedharan, Principal Adviser, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), rebutted the claim that the contractor was not bound by the defect liability clause if new technical specifications were adopted for the reconstruction. This is because the firm bid for the design-cum-construction work of the flyover. In this case, the design itself was faulty and it was among the reasons cracks developed on the structure. The firm could not escape the liability thus incurred, he told The Hindu . Meanwhile, sources in the Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society (ULCCS) said that it had been in a position to mobilise workers and machinery within days in September 2019 to begin the reconstruction work which had been slated to begin on October 1, 2019. The work could take a little longer at present, due to the COVID-19 situation, they said. A traffic-management plan too had to be readied prior to beginning the work, since more number of vehicles would converge at Palarivattom when flyovers were commissioned at Vyttila and Kundannoor, they added.
23 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Students appeal for holding supplementary exams||The delay in the conduct of the B.Tech supplementary exams of Cochin University of Science and Technology has left many aspirants anxious and worried. The supplementary exams (2012 scheme) were scheduled in March-April. However, the pandemic forced the varsity to cancel the schedule. With the relaxations coming into force, the students have urged the authorities to issue the notification for the exam without delay as any further delay would affect their future studies and career prospects. Call for online exam Anisha, a former student of the School of Engineering who completed her course in 2018, said that she was not in a position to pursue her Civil Service dreams in view of the delay in the conduct of the supplementary exams. “The varsity could help us by holding the exams online. It would benefit students who had joined various jobs abroad,” she said. K.V. Abhijith, who completed the course in 2017, said that many aspirants were not able to apply for the graduate level exams and other openings without clearing the arrears. “Some of them have already joined companies, which have a cut-off date for submission of the provisional degree certificate. The supplementary exams for even semesters were scheduled in April. The delay will now have an effect on the schedule for odd-semester exams, which are usually held in November-December,” he said. Benjamin Varghese P., Controller of Exams, said the online mode was not practical as the number of candidates appearing for the supplementary exams was high. “It will be four or five times higher than the strength of the students for which the varsity had conducted online exams after the outbreak of COVID-19. We have written to the Principals of 24 recognised colleges [now affiliated with Technical University] seeking their consent to hold the pen-and-paper exam in the respective centres,” he said. Prof. Varghese said the registration window would have to be opened again for those who cannot register for the exams which were scheduled in March-April. “The entire process, including remitting the fee, receiving the requests for change of centre and issue of hall tickets may take at least one month,” he said. The varsity has plans to conduct the supplementary exams for even and odd semesters together.
23 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Children form 8.9% of cases in district||Of the total number of active COVID-19 cases in the district, 8.9% or 300 patients, are children below the age of 10, going by data till Tuesday morning from the district information office. “The exposure of children in this age group to the virus has been kept low since they are unlikely to go out, though they might contract it from family members in the age group of 20 to 50, in which the maximum number of cases are concentrated,” said Dr. N. K. Kuttappan, District Medical Officer. An infant from Ayavana, who was 20 days old when tested in August, had recovered with the parents at a first-line treatment centre without any major problems, said a health official. When the Adlux convention centre had been functioning as a first-line treatment centre, children had been admitted to the facility as well, though they were mostly asymptomatic, said a doctor at the centre. Immune system “Coronavirus seems to be soft on children. They usually have only mild symptoms. One theory for this is that their immune system is not very well developed, which means that the overreaction of the immune system to the virus is absent. In adults, damage to the other organs is usually due to a hyper-reactive immune system,” said Dr. A. Fathahudeen, pulmonologist and nodal officer for COVID-19 care at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery. But, children seem to have the highest density of viral load in their nose, throat and upper airway, making them a highly potential source of infection to others, Dr. Fathahudeen said. While such an instance has not been seen in the district yet, when severe instances of the disease do occur in children, as seen globally, they develop multi system inflammation syndrome, which directly affects their blood vessels, and they could come in a shock-like state that could be fatal, he said.
23 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||DMRC seeks time to decide||Even as the Supreme Court on Tuesday permitted the State government to reconstruct the Palarivattom flyover, E. Sreedharan, Principal Adviser, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), has sought a few days’ time to take a call on whether the agency would execute the project. The State government had entrusted the agency with the Rs. 18-crore work to reconstruct the flyover’s girders. The work was set to begin in October 2019. The DMRC kept away from the work after a few contractors’ forums and allied organisations approached the High Court demanding conduct of a load test on the flyover. The case went up to the Supreme Court. “We need a few more day to decide on the matter. This is mainly because the DMRC’s Kochi office (which was opened to execute Kochi metro works) is set to close down by September 30. Adequate number of personnel will have to be posted here if we were to take up the work. A decision will be taken in a day or two,” Mr. Sreedharan told The Hindu .
23 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||No let-up, 406 more test positive||With 406 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, the district has, since March, recorded 12,258 positive cases of the infection, going by figures on the online COVID dashboard of the Directorate of Health Services. In a little more than a month, the figure has climbed by more than three times the 3,643 cases cumulatively registered in the district till August 17. So far, 55 confirmed deaths due to COVID-19 have been recorded in Ernakulam. It is 0.45% of the total number of positive cases. Of the people who tested positive on Tuesday, nine had arrived from outside the State. Health workers Eleven health workers have tested positive – nine at private hospitals, a health worker at the Aluva District Hospital and another at the Njarakkal Primary Health centre. A police officer and six fire force personnel have also been infected. Twenty-five residents of Fort Kochi, and 14 from Mattancherry have tested positive. COVID-19 cases were recorded from areas including Palluruthy, Rayamangalam, Perumbavoor, Edathala, Edappally, Sreemoolanagaram, Angamaly, Eloor, Kadamakudy, Palarivattom, Thevara, Nedumabassery, Nellikuzhi, Keezhmad, Thrikkakara and Thripunithura. As many as 250 people recovered and tested negative for the disease, while 3,982 people are being treated for it. A total of 20,708 people remain in quarantine.
23 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Maiden India-Maldives cargo ship calls at Kochi||The merchant vessel,MCP Linz, called at Kochi on Tuesday on its maiden India-Maldives service. The ship was accorded a formal reception at the Kochi port. In a felicitation ceremony, Port Trust chairperson M. Beena exchanged a plaque with the captain of the vessel to commemorate the event. P. K. Mohammed Yousaf, Commissioner of Customs, Cochin, was the guest of honour and Deepak L. Aswani, FICCI State co-chair, and Krishna Kumar, president of the Cochin Steamer Agents’ Association, were among those present on the occasion, said a press release here. The vessel will sail to the Maldives after loading containers and bulk cargo from Kochi. The vessel operated by the Shipping Corporation of India has a capacity to carry 3,000 TEUs of containerised cargo and 3,000 tonnes of dry bulk/break-bulk cargo.
23 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC seeks govt. response||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the State and Central governments to file a statement in response to a plea for appointing an officer to assess the actual tuition fee for conducting online classes by private schools and directed the government to pay such assessed fee directly to schools. The petition was filed by Albert K.P. of Ernakulam. According to him, the provisions of the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act provided for reimbursement of per-child expenditure by governments directly to the schools.
23 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Swapna in NIA custody||Swapna Suresh, one of the accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case, was on Tuesday remanded in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) till 11 a.m. on Friday.
23 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||I-T dept. to interrogate smuggling case accused||The Income Tax Department has secured permission from the Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, for interrogating the key accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case. The court on Tuesday granted the agency permission for taking the statements on oath of the accused, including Swapna Suresh, who are now in police custody. It was after accepting the contention of the department that the accused might have evaded income tax and made benami purchase of holdings that the court issued the order. The seizure of amount and gold from the safe deposit locker of Swapna was an admitted fact, the court noted. The department will interrogate P.S. Sarith, Sandeep Nair, Hamjad Ali, A.M. Jalal, P. Mohamad Shafi, T. M. Mohammad Anwar, E. Said Alavi, and K.T. Ramees in connection with the alleged tax evasions. The statements of the accused will be recorded in the process, said Rishikesh Shenoy, the Special Public Prosecutor. Bail granted Meanwhile, the court granted statutory bail to Hamjad Ali and Aboobacker in the gold smuggling case booked by the Customs. The bail was granted as the Customs could not submit the final complaint within the 60 days of booking the case.
23 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Deal inked for sustainable development||The Centre for Heritage, Environment and Development (C-HED), which functions under the Kochi Corporation, has partnered with the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), a think tank associated with the Union government and working in the field of urban planning, to work towards the sustainable development of the city. A memorandum of understanding between C-HED and the NIUA was signed by Mayor Soumini Jain and NIUA Director Hitesh Vaidya via videoconference on Tuesday. The NIUA will assist C-HED with research, technical help, training and coordination among various agencies. As part of the collaboration, a Smart Cities Innovation lab, which could provide data for better urban planning, was on the anvil, besides developing climate-friendly solutions for the city, said Rajan Chedambath, executive director, C-HED.
23 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam’s caseload at 3,043 as 347 more test positive||The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district crossed 3,000 with 347 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. The patients include 341contact cases, three who came from abroad and three who came from West Bengal, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The Corporation area has the highest number of new patients (97) with Kadappakada (13), Mangad (8) and Sakthikulangara (8) among other places reporting new cases. In rural Kollam, East Kallada has 23 cases while Perinad and Anchal reported 14 and 12 cases on Tuesday. Two deaths confirmed The Health Department has confirmed that the deaths a 76-year-old Kottiyam resident and a 68-year-old Karunagappllay resident are due to COVID-19. They died on August 25 and September 18 respectively. The district has 22,106 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 1,73, 457. While 2,009 persons completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 36,677 primary and 6,482 secondary contacts of the positive cases. Currently 17 COVID-19 first-line treatment centres are functioning in Kollam and the total number of active cases is 3,043.
23 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Fisherman dead in boat accident||A fisherman died and three others injured when a boat met with an accident near Alappad due to bad weather on Tuesday. The dead has been identified as Suthan, 58, of Kochutharayil, Srayikkadu. Boat owner and Srayikkadu resident Ashokan has been missing and a search for him has been continuing even late at night. Other crew members Sanathanan, Dileesh and Kochukuttan are undergoing treatment at Karunagappally taluk hospital.
23 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam MCH to get Rs. 36.42-cr. cardiology unit||In a major boost to the public health network in the district, the State government has accorded administrative sanction of Rs. 36.42 crore for establishing a new Cardiology-Cardiothoracic block at the Government Medical College Hospital here. An announcement to this effect was made by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan while inaugurating a slew of projects at the hospital through videoconferencing on Tuesday. The new block, to be constructed with financial assistance from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), is envisaged as a 200-bed facility. On the occasion, the Chief Minister also unveiled five new projects worth Rs. 42.69 crore at the hospital, besides launching the construction work on two projects with a cumulative outlay of Rs. 137.45 crore. The projects unveiled included new wards and intensive care units at the Emergency department (Rs. 16.6 crore), Negative pressure ICU (Rs. 1 crore), hostel for female medical students (Rs. 12.24 crore), resident quarters for postgraduate students (Rs. 12.10 crore) and new toilet complex (Rs. 75 lakh). Surgical block Construction work on a new surgical block and a medical surgical store too have begun. The eight-storey surgical block, to be constructed at Rs. 134.45 crore, is envisaged as a 400-bed facility with 14 modern operation theatres, 54 ICU beds and full-fledged radiology suit with CT and MRI scan facilities. The first phase of the project, the fund for which will be allocated through the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board, is expected to be completed in the next couple of years. The total cost of the project is estimated to be Rs. 564 crore The proposed medical and surgical store, to be set up at Rs. 3 crore, will have modern facilities such as walk-in cooler to store medicines and other materials. ‘Many projects’ Delivering the presidential address, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said a wide range of development works had been completed at the hospital in the past four years. K. Suresh Kurup, MLA, District Collector M. Anjana, MCH Superintendent T.K. Jayakumar and others spoke. With 1,800 beds, 28 operation theatres and 180 ICUs, Kottayam MCH is the biggest hospital in the central Travancore region.
23 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Mani group files complaint||The Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani on Tuesday lodged a complaint against the party legislators who violated the whip to abstain from the Rajya Sabha election and the no-confidence motion on August 24. To the Speaker The complaint against P.J. Joseph and Mons Joseph for non-compliance with the party whip was handed over to the Speaker by N. Jayaraj, MLA. The other MLA, C.F. Thomas, who owed allegiance to the Joseph faction had not attended the session. The Mani faction, through Roshy Augustine, had issued a three-line whip, directing the KC(M) legislators to stay away from the presentation and discussion of a no-confidence motion against the Left Democratic Front government by Congress MLA V.D. Satheesan. The Joseph faction, on its part, too had issued whips to all five KC(M) legislators to vote for the United Democratic Front’s Rajya Sabha candidate and for the no-confidence motion.  Non-compliance with party whip by P.J. Joseph, Mons Joseph
23 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam’s tally up by 169||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases continued to soar in the district with 169 more persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. Of the fresh cases, 163 persons, including two health-care workers attached to the Government Medical College Hospital here, contracted the virus through local contact. Vazhappally panchayat reported the highest number of cases with 24 testing positive, followed by Kottayam municipality with 20 persons. Cases were also reported from Kumarakom (12), Ettumanur (11), Maravanthuruth (8), Pampady (7) and Puthupally (7). With 112 recoveries, the district currently has 2,811 active cases.
23 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||363 new cases of local transmission in Kozhikode||As many as 363 of the 394 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Kozhikode district on Tuesday were due to local transmission of the infection. A 50-year-old woman from Chaliyam in Kozhikode died on Monday and a 76-year-old man from Valluvambram in Malappuram died on Tuesday at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, the source of infection of 21 persons was not known. Others had either returned from other States or from abroad. There are 12 health workers among the newly infected persons. As many as 131 of the cases of local transmission are from within the Kozhikode Corporation and 33 are from Vadakara, the release added. In Thrissur As many as 369 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur on Tuesday. Of them, 240 people contracted the disease through contact. The source of infection of six persons could not be traced. There are now 2,982 patients undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district. In all, 9,884 people are under observation. In Malappuram Malappuram district continued to witness surge in COVID-19 cases when 444 people tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. However, there were 468 recoveries on the same day. While 423 of the new cases were found to have been infected through local contacts, the source of infection could not be traced in eight cases.  District Medical Officer K. Sakeena said that those who tested positive for the virus and were in isolation at their respective homes would be monitored by the Health Department. In Palakkad In Palakkad, 242 people tested positive on Tuesday. As many as 155 of them got the infection through local contacts. While two cases came from other States, the source of infection could not be traced in 85 cases. District health officials said that 235 infected persons recovered in Palakkad. In Kasaragod Kasaragod reported 197 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. Of these, 191 were local transmission cases. The district also reported 225 recoveries. Kasaragod has so far reported 7,541 local transmission cases of COVID-19. In Kannur A total of 143 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Tuesday. Among them, 117 contracted the disease through contact. Sixteen health workers were among the infected. As many as 215 people recovered from the disease on Tuesday. In Wayanad Wayanad district saw 81 COVID cases on Tuesday. Among the new cases, 75 were infected through contact. The district has so far reported 2,715 COVID-19 cases. As many as 3,458 people are under observation.  (With inputs from Thrissur, Malappuram, Kasaragod, Kannur, Palakkad, and Wayanad bureaus)
23 September 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Paddy farmers in Palakkad suffer heavy loss in rain||Paddy crops across the district suffered heavy damage in the rain that lashed the district in the past week. District agricultural authorities put the loss at Rs. 7 crore to paddy farmers. Official figures indicate that 467 hectares of paddy was damaged in the last two weeks. The crop loss was heavier at Alathur, Nemmara, Kuzhalmannam, Chittur and Kollangode. Over 2,000 farmers were affected by the crop loss. Agriculture officials said thousands of banana trees were destroyed in heavy wind. Most of them were nearing harvest. They said about 4,000 fruited banana trees and 2,000 trees without fruits were destroyed. Banana crop loss was more in Attappady and Mannarkkad areas.
23 September 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||66 kg of ganja seized at border||In one of the biggest drug hauls during the pandemic time, an Excise squad seized 66 kg of ganja and arrested four persons during a raid at the State border at Nadupuni near here on Tuesday. The ganja was estimated to fetch Rs. 75 lakh. It was seized from a lorry and a car. Excise officials said that the ganja was hidden under sacks of rice illegally being brought to Kerala. Deputy Excise Commissioner Shaji S. Rajan said that the Excise squad had intensified vigil at Walayar, Gopalapuram, Meenakshipuram, Nadupuni, and Govindapuram checkposts in the wake of intelligence reports that the drug flow into the State had increased in recent weeks.  Hakeem from Alathur, Joseph Wilsom from Thrissur, Lokesh from Namakkal, Tamil Nadu, and Malai Chami from Sivaganga, Tamil Nadu, were arrested.
23 September 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Nurses protest against action in body mix-up||Nurses at the District Hospital here staged a protest on Tuesday demanding revocation of the punitive action against the nursing staff in connection with a recent mix-up of two women’s bodies at the hospital morgue. They said some others, including the resident medical officer in charge of the morgue, were being saved by taking action against the nursing staff. The body of a tribeswoman who died in mysterious circumstances at Attappady was brought to the District Hospital for postmortem. The hospital staff mistakenly released the tribeswoman’s body to the relatives of an elderly woman who had died of COVID-19. The relatives cremated the body as per the pandemic protocol.
23 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pampa road prone to slope failure: study||Even as the works to restore the roads to Sabarimala gathered pace ahead of the annual pilgrim season, a landslip susceptibility mapping of the Mannarakulanji-Pampa stretch of the road leading to the hill shrine has found that many places in the area are highly prone to slope failure. The study, conducted by the National Centre for Earth Science Studies (NCESS) last month, also found that about 100-150 metres of the road section at Planthottam and another location, which is 2 km towards Pampa, particularly fell in the high-risk category. Calls for caution Fearing that the cracks on the road at Planthottam could effect a landslip, the study has called for caution “as the whole stretch of that road section is likely to fail in the coming intense rainfall period.” “The uphill part is also in a very vulnerable state. Most likely, the area will experience a rotational type of landslip,” it said. To address the issue, the NCESS has proposed slope stability measures, including provision for drainage, construction of reinforced walls, and laying of geotextiles, among other things. “In the present scenario, combined geological, geophysical, geotechnical and remote sensing investigations should be carried out considering the importance of the area. Geological studies may involve detailed, field, structural and soil geochemical studies. Geophysical studies include resistivity, GPS surveys and geotechnical investigations for understanding the slope stability and safety parameters. Remote sensing studies should be conducted using very high resolution DEM data and susceptible area should be demarcated,” it said. For scientific evaluation Further, it has also called for a scientific evaluation of the impact of the climate change on near-surface processes, as most of the slope failures in the highland regions of Kerala are triggered by high-intensity rainfall. The PWD road, which is the only motorable road leading to Pampa to access Sabarimala, developed cracks at Planthottam during the heavy rain that lashed the district in August this year. Following this, Sabarimala Special Commissioner M. Manoj submitted a report in the Kerala High Court that fissures had developed on the road close to the present location during the torrential rain of 2018 as well. The report also called for a study to assess the possibility of soil piping and the subterranean flow of water to rule out the probability of landslips.
23 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||207 infected in Pathanamthitta||The district here on Tuesday reported 207 fresh cases and 124 recoveries. Of the fresh cases, 161 persons contracted the virus through local transmission while 10 came from abroad. The remaining 36 persons came from other States. Among the local contact cases, the source of infection of 29 cases, including that of two officials at the forest station at Karikulam, is yet to be identified. The district currently has 1,275 active cases and 12,512 people under surveillance.
23 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||681 more cases make capital scene grave||The capital’s case graph on Tuesday went up by 681, a majority of which have been attributed to local transmission. The district’s death toll leapt to 180 with 11 more deaths being attributed to the disease. The deaths that have been confirmed by the National Institute of Virology, Alappuzha, are those of natives of Kadakkavoor (40 years old), Nedumangad (67), Venjaramoodu (68), Aruvikkara (68), Karimadom Colony (30), Parassala (38), Vallakkadavu (38), Perumathura (68), Perunkuzhi (70), Chirayinkeezhu (81) and Vattiyurkavu (54). Of the new patients, 526 contracted the infection through contact while the source of infection of 130 others is yet to be known. Only two of the newly diagnosed cases are treated as imported ones. Twenty three health workers also tested positive. Those who were diagnosed positive included 391 men and 290 women, 65 of whom were aged below 15 years and 106 aged above 60 years. As many as 2,071 have been directed to go into quarantine on Tuesday, taking the total number of people being monitored to 26,245. Elaborating on the grave situation in Thiruvananthapuram, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the district accounted for 18% of active cases and 32% of the total death toll in the State. Police officers infected The pandemic continued to affect police personnel. Twelve officers of the Thiruvananthapuram City police were diagnosed with COVID-19 on the day. They are attached to PTC commando wing (three), Karamana police (two), Thampanoor police, Valiyathura police, Railway police, City Control room, Armed Reserve Camp, Malabar Special Police (MSP) Battalion, and women police (one each). District Collector Navjot Khosa has gone into quarantine after Additional District Magistrate V.R. Vinod tested positive. CPI(M) district secretary Anavoor Nagappan has also gone into self-quarantine after the party’s Nemom area secretary Parakkuzhy Surendran tested positive. Containment zones have been declared in Netta ward in Nedumangad, Thozhukkal ward in Neyyattinkara, Manchamcode ward in Aryancode, Moongottukonam colony, Kulathumal ward in Kattakada, Chittedath lane, and Devi Nagar (in Kuriyathi ward) in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. The existing containment zone in Paruthipally lane in Poojappura ward has been extended to Poojappura residents association limits. Containment zones have been withdrawn in Chandramangalam and Amachal wards in Kattakada; Nediyamcode, Peruvila, Parasivaikkal, Kodavilakam, Muriyankara, Town, Injivila, Ayinkamam, Melekonam and Ponnamkulam wards in Parassala; and Narani, Kudayal, Cheriyakolla, Kottukonam, Mooverikkara, Kurvad, Kottakkal and Paliyodu wards in Kunnathukal.
23 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Trained ICU staff proving to be crucial requirement||With the COVID-19 curve in Kerala set to scale the peak, there is mounting demand to take up appropriate public health interventions to see through the next two months when cases will surge, overwhelming hospitals and testing the capacity and resilience of health systems. “At this stage of the pandemic, testing more and more people will not give the State any incremental advantage in containing the pandemic. As it is, laboratories are straining to handle the current volume of nearly 50,000 tests a day. The most crucial requirement in the next few months would be human resource, especially trained staff to run ICUs, which are slowly filling up. On a war footing, we need to induct more health staff for ICU care after giving them a crash course in critical care and ICU management,” says K.P. Aravindan, senior public health expert. “The State has managed to hold up so far because the proportion of people becoming critically ill and reaching ICUs has been less. But this situation will change dramatically and everything will boil down to oxygen, ICU beds, and human resource. Having more ICUs or ventilators would help only if we have a constant supply of adequately trained health personnel,” says S.S. Santhoshkumar, who has first-hand experience of working in a COVID ICU in Mumbai. 1,337 infected in Sept. However, health-care workers have been increasingly getting infected in the past two months — the number till July 31 was 564. In August alone, the number was 1,062. Between September 1 and 22, the personnel affected was 1,337. Now that community transmission is rampant, all hospitals, public and private, have become extremely vulnerable and cross-infections have resulted in many institutional clusters. Every time one health worker is affected, several others who are the primary contacts are also forced to go into quarantine. Prior exposure “A key strategy ahead would be to conduct a sero-prevalence study among the health staff so that we can determine the proportion exposed to the SARS-CoV-2 virus. While antibody detection is no assurance of long-term protective immunity against COVID-19, those with prior exposure would be less vulnerable to infection. With adequate protection, it would be relatively safer to engage them on the front lines,” Dr. Aravindan says. Home isolation Monitoring the prevalence of prior infection among them will also help identify how the disease spreads inside hospitals and particularly high-risk departments, plan human resource redeployment better, and avoid unnecessary quarantines. Also, the Health Department should now encourage all districts to opt for home isolation and care of all asymptomatic and mild cases so that there is less pressure on first-line treatment centres.
23 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||LDF leaders will have to face trial||A magistrate court here on Tuesday turned down an appeal by the State government to withdraw the criminal charges against six Left Democratic Front (LDF) leaders alleged to be responsible for the pandemonium that hindered the presentation of the Budget in the Assembly on March 13, 2015. The court settled that “public interest” and “unity of the legislature” were not sufficient grounds to arbitrarily set aside a case that involved the destruction of public property and unruly behaviour. The decision is being seen as a setback to the government. The court appeared to have reckoned that the images of the protest, including the toppling of the Speaker’s chair and destruction of microphones and computers, remained stark in public memory. The case The high-profile case has its origin in the move by the LDF to obstruct the then Finance Minister K. M. Mani from presenting the Budget in the House. The LDF’s grouse was about Mani’s alleged criminal culpability in a bar bribery case that rocked the Oommen Chandy government in 2015. The police had registered a case based on a petition submitted by the then legislature secretary P.D. Sarangadharan. He reported a loss of Rs. 2 lakhs. Subsequently, the police named E.P. Jayarajan, V. Sivankutty, C.K. Sadasivam, and Kunjahammed, all Communist Party of India (Marxist) members, K. Ajith of the CPI, and K.T. Jaleel, an LDF Independent, as accused in the case. The police had transferred the case to the Crime Branch, and the inquiry dragged on at a plodding pace. In 2018, V. Sivankutty, former MLA, requested Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to withdraw the case. He said the Crime Branch had made little headway in the investigation. Any further prosecution of the accused would tantamount to double jeopardy. The Speaker had punished the legislators by expelling them from the House temporarily. Moreover, the protest was a political act to highlight corruption. The accused had no criminal intent. Oppn. stand Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and the Bharathiya Janata Party had intervened in the case separately and opposed the move to grant discharge to the LDF leaders. Mr. Chennithala said he would pursue the case to its logical conclusion. BJP State president K. Surendran said the order was a strong rebuttal of the highhandedness of the State government.
23 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Police roll out ‘e-challan’||An integrated traffic management system that will provide real-time view of all major roads and junctions in the State and help law enforcers ensure road discipline is getting ready for commissioning, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. A state-of-the-art control room, surveillance systems, ambulances, and fire-fighting systems will be part of the system. A network of 3,000 cameras from all 14 districts will be linked to the control room being set up in the capital. He was speaking after launching the ‘e-challan’ of the Kerala Police through videoconferencing from the Secretariat on Tuesday. Virtual court The facility will enable motorists to pay penalty for traffic offences on the spot using debit card or credit card through handheld devices carried by police personnel. This will reduce complaints from road users. If the motorist wants to challenge the penalty, the case will be forwarded to a virtual court through the e-challan software. Penalties, as determined by the virtual court, can be paid through the e-Treasury system. All details of the vehicle can be obtained by entering the vehicle number and driving licence number on the handheld device.  The software has been developed by the National Informatics Centre. The Treasury Department and Federal Bank joined the Kerala Police in the initiative. Initially, e-challan will be available in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, and Kozhikode. Later it will be extended to all districts.
23 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Kudumbashree’s plan for Haritha Karma Sena||The Kudumbashree district mission has launched an initiative to provide additional sources of income for Haritha Karma Sena members. The Haritha Karma Sena is a collaborative venture of the Kudumbashree with the Haritha Kerala Mission and the Suchitwa Mission. The green force of the Kudumbashree is essentially involved in waste management activities. There are 2,095 Haritha Karma Sena members in grama panchayats in the district. Of them, 1,030 members have registered with the Kudumbashree community development societies as Haritha Karma microenterprises for waste management. There are 84 such microenterprises with five to 10 members in each. The Kudumbashree is now promoting additional income microenterprises so as to provide more sources of income for these Haritha Karma Sena members and improve their lives. Kudumbashree officials say that since waste management activities leave time free, the Haritha Karma Sena can take up other activities to earn extra income. Eco-friendly units The focus is on production of environment friendly products such as paper bag, cloth bag, stitching units, plant nurseries, and the like. Event management and even a couple of coffee shops are being promoted. So far, 43 additional income microenterprise units, with nearly 500 members, have been formed. Plant nursery, cloth and paper bag making units, catering and event management are some of the popular microenterprises. Mentors are being selected from within Kudumbashree. There will be one mentor for three panchayats who will explore the possibilities for earning a sustainable income from these additional units and provide marketing support too.
23 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KSSP’s four-day district conference from Friday||Academic and critic Sunil P. Elayidom will speak on ‘Cultural intervention to defend against fascism’ to inaugurate the four-day district conference of the Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP) on Friday. The meet is to be held online via Google Meet and the inaugural session will be streamed live on the district KSSP’s FB page. Delegate meetings will be from 6.30 p.m. to 8 p.m. on Saturday and 3.30 p.m. to 7 p.m. on Sunday. Election of office-bearers will be on Sunday.
23 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Situation turning serious in State, says Pinarayi||The situation involving COVID-19 is turning out to be quite serious in the State and the scene in Thiruvananthapuram, which seems to be having the highest disease dissemination, is much graver, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Thiruvananthapuram has been consistently reporting the highest number of cases daily and on Tuesday also, 681 new cases were reported. The district accounts for 18% of the active cases in the State, with 7,344 cases, and 32% of the deaths in the State, having reported 186 deaths till date. Active cases are climbing in all districts and have entered four-digit figures, except in Wayanad and Idukki, where the numbers are still lower than 1,000. Mr. Vijayan said that despite the seriousness of the situation, Opposition parties continued to upstage the disease containment activities of the Health Department through unruly assembly and violent protests. 101 police personnel While avoiding crowded gatherings was one of the primary prevention methods against COVID-19, those organising strikes seemed uncaring, Mr. Vijayan said. He said that 101 police officials, who had been deployed to check law and order in all districts, had tested positive following the strikes and commotion on the streets in the past week.
23 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||More FLTCs to be identified||COVID first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) with more capacity will be identified in the district and testing ramped up to the maximum. A review meeting presided over by Minister for Tourism Kadakampally Surendran decided to step up prevention measures in the wake of a spurt in COVID-19 cases in the district. There are 24 FLTCs in the district with each having a capacity of approximately 100. With the rise in the caseload, more people will need to be shifted to the FLTCs. The Minister gave directions for identifying FLTCs that can accommodate 300 people. The Minister appealed to the people to take more precautions and be alert. Any laxity would further worsen the situation, he said. Though the district was reporting nearly 1,000 cases a day, the situation was under control. Hospitals had enough doctors and nurses. More doctors should come forward to become part of COVID brigades, Mr. Surendran said.  Testing COVID-19 testing using RT-PCR and antigen rapid tests are available for the public at all laboratories of the Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) in the district. Only the rates fixed for the same by the government will be charged. The RGCB labs also offer facilities for antibody testing to check prior and unknown exposure to SARS-CoV-2. The RGCB has also made arrangements in various institutions for doing spot testing for individuals.
23 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Trade unions’ protest at 1,600 centres today||A national protest against codification of labour laws and privatisation of public sector enterprises will be held at 1,600 centres in the State under a joint committee of trade unions. The protest will be held for half an hour from 11 a.m. on Wednesday.
23 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Appointed MD of Labourfed||The governing committee of the Kerala State Labour Cooperatives Federation (Labourfed) has appointed Sabu Thomas as managing director. A chartered accountant, Mr. Thomas has served as Chief Financial Controller, Kerala Financial Corporation, and vice president, ESAF Small Finance Bank.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Greens seek end to construction activities||Environmental organisations in Wayanad district have urged the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MOEF&CC) to stop all construction activities for the ‘En Uru’, a tribal tourism project in an ecologically sensitive area of reserved forest in the Pookode valley under the South Wayanad Forest Division. In a letter to the authorities, Wayanad Prakruthi Samrakshana Samiti (WPSS) and Green Cross alleged that the project was being implemented on a piece of land allotted for the establishment of a Tribal Collective Farm (Pookode Dairy Project) in 1978. The project was approved by the MOEF&CC for the resettlement of landless tribal people who were freed from bonded labour. However, it was abandoned later, said N. Badusha, president, WPSS. The land that enjoys the status of reserved forest was handed over to the State government specifically for the resettlement and uplift of tribal people, he added. Any construction activities on lands categorised as reserved forest needs the prior approval of the Central government, as per the Forest Conservation Act of 1980, Mr. Badusha said. However, construction work is going on unabated in the area. Besides, mining activities are also taken up. As the land was handed over only for the resettlement of tribal people, other activities such as tourism and construction are unlawful, he said. The forest land is part of the grassland-shola forest ecosystem situated at an altitude of around 1,100 metres above the sea level. The area was identified as Ecologically Sensitive Zone-1 in the Gadgil and Kasturirangan reports, Abu Pookode, chairman, Green Cross, said. It also falls under the eco-sensitive zone of the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary. Various locations in the region had experienced landslips in the past, he added.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Tutorial on Indian sign language||CADRRE The Autism School here will launch a video tutorial series on Indian sign language in connection with the International Day of Sign Languages observance on Wednesday. The videos with audio, subtitles, and proper demonstration will be available on CADRRE’s YouTube channel that is named CADRRE.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||BJP alleges manipulation of electoral rolls||The BJP district committee has alleged that the electoral rolls for the local body elections are being widely manipulated by the CPI(M) to ensure victory at the hustings. Party district president V.V. Rajesh said that hundreds of citizens who had applied for enrolment in the voters list with supporting documents had found their details purged from the website of the State Election Commission. He alleged that many revenue inspectors were systematically weeding out large numbers of citizens who were not likely to vote for the CPI(M). Exclusion Many applicants were summarily excluded from the list without adequate reason or hearing them. Mr. Rajesh urged the State Election Commission to ensure that all eligible voters were included in the electoral rolls. He said that the BJP would launch an agitation against attempts to subvert the electoral process by tampering with the voters list.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Monsoon special||
23 September 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telugu Desam losing grip on city?||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP), which considers Visakhapatnam city as its stronghold, seems to be losing grip on it, and its ‘impregnable fort’ is developing cracks if the developments after the 2019 general elections are any indication. Prominent leaders started deserting the party one after the other causing a concern to the high-command. Former MLAs S.A. Rehman and Panchakarla Ramesh Babu quit the party and joined the YSRCP along with their supporters. Big jolt Now, the party has received a big jolt when Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar, MLA of Visakha south, shifted his loyalties and extended his support to the ruling party and got his two sons admitted to the YSRCP in the presence of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. In the 2019 elections, the TDP, which faced a drubbing almost in the entire State, could win all the four seats in the city — Visakhapatnam East, Visakhapatnam North, Visakhapatnam South and Visakha West — weathering the ‘fan’ storm which swept the ‘cycle’ away. After the dismal show of the party in the elections, a few senior party leaders in the city have been lying low and have been maintaining a safe distance from party activities. They were also conspicuous by their absence at the party meeting in which former Ministers Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu and Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy addressed the party workers in South constituency on Sunday. However, the decision of Mr. Ganesh Kumar came as a surprise as he was seen actively taking part in party activities till recently. The other MLA (Visakha East) Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu is a staunch supporter of Mr. Naidu.  Capital woes Eyeing a big win in the mayoral elections, which are due, the ruling party appears to be keen on weakening the TDP and is making strategic moves. Meanwhile, the naming of Visakhapatnam as the Executive capital by the YSR Congress Party government has been termed a calculated move by political pundits. Ever since the announcement was made, the Telugu Desam leaders have been in a dilemma whether to support it or adhere to the stand taken by Mr. Naidu who chants the ‘Amaravati’ mantra. The confusion among the TDP leaders may continue till some more time before they take a decision either way. “The senior leaders and party workers have lost faith in the leadership of the TDP president and they are not interested to work under his son N. Lokesh, who was made an MLC, ignoring senior leaders, and subsequently a Minister. The local leaders cannot go against the decisions being taken against Visakhapatnam city. Some more Telugu Desam Party leaders are expected to join the YSRCP. It is only a matter of time,” said S.A. Rahaman, YSR Congress Party leader and former MLA.
23 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police crack Srikalahasti temple case||The Tirupati urban police on Monday night took three siblings, residents of Puttur town, in connection with the unauthorised installation of the idols of Shiva linga and Nandi inside the complex of Lord Vayulingeswara Swamy temple, Srikalahasti. On September 12, the staff on duty noticed the presence of the idols of Shiva linga and Nandi close to the flag post zone and this led to a controversy, followed by protests by political and religious groups, alleging failure of security in the temple and laxity of the authorities in identifying those responsible for the act. CCTV footage showed that three youths clad in masks moving suspiciously in the temple complex and carrying some objects on their shoulders on September 6. Ater a gruelling exercise, the three were identified as Pindi Sulvardan (32), Pindi Tirumalaih (30) and Pindi Munisekhar (28), all residents of Puttur. They were booked under IPC Sections 120B, 47 and 297. Further probe is on.
23 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elderly couple dies on way to hospital||In a tragic incident, an elderly couple, who tested positive for COVID-19, died in an ambulance while on way to hospital at Madanapalle on Tuesday. The incident occurred near Pedda Tippa Samudram in Chittoor district. According to information, the couple, aged 74 and 69 years, and residents of B. Kothakota mandal headquarters, voluntarily come for the COVID-19 test at the local primary health centre on Monday morning. When the report came in the evening, both tested positive. The field staff of the task force of COVID-19 rushed to the village on Tuesday morning and made arrangements for shifting the couple in an ambulance to the COVID Hospital at Madanapalle. On the way, the elderly man complained of acute chest pain and breathlessness. Within a few minutes, he breathed his last. Seeing her husband dying, his wife, in a shock, collapsed and died in the ambulance after a couple of minutes. Government Medical Officer (PTM) Purushottam Naik confirmed the incident.
23 September 2020||Chittoor,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders seized||Piler rural police on Tuesday seized 11 logs of red sanders worth Rs. 20 lakh and seized an SUV on the outskirts of Yerravaripalem. Police intercepted an SUV at YV Palem when the occupants abandoned the vehicle and fled. A probe is on.
23 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Currency note exchange’: five arrested in Kakinada||A Visakhapatnam-based gang of five persons have been arrested in Kakinada city in East Godavari district on Monday evening for allegedly offering commission to an individual as part of their deal of exchanging Rs. 2,000 denomination notes against Rs. 500 currency notes. The Kakinada city police (Sarpavaram circle) have swung into action after they received a complaint from Kakinada-based Ch. Naga Prasad, whom the gang has reportedly offered Rs. 10 lakh commission if he would give them Rs. 500 denomination notes worth of Rs. 90 lakh in exchange of Rs. 2,000 notes worth of one crore rupees. Case registered Sarpavaram Circle Inspector R. Govindra Raju told The Hindu : “The Visakhapatnam-based gang has been taken into custody on Monday evening when they arrived the Kakinada city to execute their deal. The cheating case has been registered against them.” Four among the five persons belong to Visakhapatnam city and identified as B. Venkata Sudhakar, T. Raja Ravisankar, K. Narasinga Reddy and K. Kondababu. One person, N. Surya Subramanya Sarma, is a native of Kakinada. The police produced the gang before a local court on Tuesday and investigation is on.
23 September 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srisailam Dam gets 103 tmcft of water from Tungabhadra||The Sarisailam Dam received 103 tmcft of flood water released from the Tungabhadra Dam by Tuesday morning when compared to the assured 32 tmcft in the 2020-21 water season. The Srisailam Dam has cumulatively received 717 tmcft of water from Tungabhadra (103 tmcft), Hundri (14 tmcft) and Jurala (600 tmcft) during the current water season against its holding capacity of 215.8 tmcft at its its full reservoir level of 885 feet. Around 500 tmcft of surplus water has been released to Nagarjunasagar Dam, Pulichintala and Prakasam Barrage. The water released from Tungabhadra to the Srisailam Dam crossed 100 tmcft by Monday evening. Kurnool district would have retained a good amount of water, had the Gundurevula project been undertaken with a proposed storage capacity of 20 tmcft. The proposed project could have been filled at least twice given the flood situation, opine irrigation experts. On Tuesday evening, the Srisailam Dam received 3,34,596 cusecs of water from the projects at Jurala, Sunkesula and Hundri. It realised 3,21,720 cusecs of water and discharged 3,49,502 cusecs . Zonal meet soon A Southern Zonal Council meeting on construction of Gundrevula project on the Tungabhadra may be held soon and the State government has been told to share the Detailed Project Report (DPR) with Karnataka and Telangana so that the issue can be discussed. “The project will benefit the parched lands in Telagnana and A.P.,” said Rayalaseema Saaguneeti Sadhana Samithi leader Bojja Dasaratha Rami Reddy.
23 September 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID curve in Kurnool shows downward trend||With the number of active COVID-19 cases falling by the day, and the number of new positive cases also showing a downward trend, the Government General Hospital in Kurnool will now revert to its original operations.  The total number of active cases went up to 54,491 with 272 new cases being reported on Tuesday. Only 2,647 active cases were being treated at COVID Care Centres and hospitals, with 51,393 persons being discharged so far and 451 fatalities recorded including four deaths in the last 24 hours. In Anantapur district, the number of new cases recorded in the last 24 hours was 309, taking the total to 53,651. The number of active cases stood at 2,561 and 50,633 persons have been discharged. The total number of fatalities reached 457 with six new deaths. Kurnool GGH Superintendent Narendranath Reddy said all super-specialty wards were turned into non-COVID wards and soon, the Outpatient Department too would be turned into a non-COVID ward.
23 September 2020||Kurnool,ANDHRA PRADESH||SRBC engineer dies in bee attack||Bhanu Prakash, Deputy Executive Engineer of Srisailam Right Branch Canal (SRBC), died on the spot in an attack by honey bees on Tuesday. He was 42 and is survived by his wife. Bhanu Prakash was inspecting the SRBC regulator at Pamulapadu mandal when bees attacked him. He was rushed to hospital where he was declared dead. Collector G. Veerapandian expressed grief over his death.
23 September 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Flood situation improves in Nellore||People living in low-lying areas heaved a sigh of relief as the inflows into the Somasila reservoir came down significantly to 36,340 cusecs on Tuesday evening. Irrigation authorities let out the entire quantity of water received downstream to maintain the storage in the reservoir, the lifeline of Nellore district, at 73.71 tmcft to have a flood cushion of about 4 tmcft. Inflows dip The flood threat has receded for now as the inflows, which stood at 93,000 cusecs on Monday night, came down to 73,284 cusecs by Tuesday morning. It dipped further to 36,349 cusecs by Tuesday evening as rains in the catchment areas abated, Somasila Superintending Engineer N. Krishna Rao said. The officials are monitoring the flood situation on an hourly basis. The maximum inflow was 1.48 lakh cusecs in the last couple of days. Around 1,500 persons shifted to relief camps in the city returned to homes, while those who preferred not to be shifted to the shelters went about clearing their houses of water. Meanwhile, the storage at Kandleru reservoir rose to 41.63 tmcft following an inflow of 10,400 cusecs. The discharge from the reservoir was reduced to 1,715 cusecs. It now has a flood cushion of 26 tmcft of water.
23 September 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mekapati thanks Venkaiah||State Industries Minister Mekapati Goutham Reddy on Tuesday thanked Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu for using his good offices with the Food Corporation of India to procure more paddy from Nellore farmers by extending the deadline up to October-end.  For the first time, Nellore 3354 variety was grown by farmers and it suffered damage due to an adverse climate, he said, adding that harvest of paddy grown in extended rabi season still continued.
23 September 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toll rises in Prakasam, Nellore||The toll due to coronavirus rose to 854 in south coastal Andhra Pradesh with eight more patients – five in Prakasam district and three in Nellore district – succumbing to the viral disease in the last 24 hours ending on Tuesday morning. The toll rose to 429 in Nellore district and 425 in Prakasam district, according to a health bulletin. The positive trend of more patients recovering when compared to admissions into hospitals continued. While 1,369 patients were cured of the disease in the two districts during the period, 1,228 persons contracted the infection.
23 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||31,167 COVID-19 patients have recovered in Srikakulam so far||Gradual reduction in the number of new coronavirus positive cases and significant recovery rate have given the much needed moral support to the Srikakulam district administration. As many as 31,167 of the total 36,522 COVID-19 positive patients detected in the last three months have recovered. The infection count reported per day have also come down from around 700 to below 400. ‘Death rate below 1%’ Even as the virus has claimed 311 lives in the district till date, the officials said the fatality rate of below 1% is pretty low when compared to that of other places. “Special healthcare services are being extended to the patients who are in home isolation and those undergoing treatment in hospitals to check the death rate. At present, the district has 5,355 active cases,” Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas told The Hindu. In Vizianagaram district, 23,604 of the total 31,424 infected persons have recovered, while 213 persons have died of the virus. ‘No dearth of beds’ Srikakulam District Medical and Health Officer S.V. Ramana Kumari said patients in home isolation are also recovering fast. “There is no dearth of beds at the COVID care facilities in the district,” she added. Indian Academy of Pediatrics-AP Chapter former president D.V.Srikanth said the children need special attention as the educational institutions have been opened. “Teaching faculty at the educational institutions, especially those in the rural areas, must follow all the COVID-19 protocols,” said Dr. Srikanth.
23 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Left parties, unions oppose farm, power policies||Activists of the CPI, CPI(M), CITU and other unions held protests in various mandals including Srikakulam town opposing the Union government’s policies on agriculture, power and others. CITU State vice-president D. Govinda Rao alleged that the Union government was trying to utilise every crisis to benefit the corporate sector. He alleged that the new reforms in agriculture would help only corporate entities involved in agriculture business. He said that farmers would be denied even usage of groundwater with the auditing of power used in agriculture pumpsets. CITU Srikakulam town secretary T. Tiupati Rao said that the new reforms would lead to denial of livelihood to farmers and agriculture labourers. Nuclear power plant Meanwhile, CITU opposed the establishment of an atomic power plant at Kovvada of Ranasthalam mandal in the district. It said that the Centre was trying to concentrate on the project to benefit US-based company Westinghouse Electric Corporation.
23 September 2020||TIRUMALA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Kalpa vriksha’ fete held in grandeur||The temple of Lord Venkateswara witnessed a flurry of religious activities on the fourth day on Tuesday in connection with the annual Brahmotsavams. Festivities relating to ‘kalpa vriksha vahanam’ were organised in the morning wherein Lord Malayappa Swamy in the guise of Lord Krishna was dressed in his traditional headgear and a golden flute and was accompanied by his two consorts. The celebrations relating to the ‘vahanam’ were held at ‘kalyanotsava mandapam’ inside the temple. Later in the afternoon, priests ceremoniously organised ‘Snapana Thirumanjanam’ to the deities wherein they were specially adorned with garlands made of kiwi fruits, pineapple, amla, black velvet, nandivardhanam, peacock feathers, ‘vatti veru’ and crowns made of rose petals. The mandapam was exquisitely decorated with apples, corns, cut roses and other traditional flowers befitting the occasion. Sacred garlands Meanwhile, the sacred garlands from the temple of goddess Goda Devi from Sri Villiputtur in Tamil Nadu also reached the temple. The customary garlands were traditionally received by TTD senior pontiff at his mutt in the presence of Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, Executive Officer Anilkumar Singhal, Additional EO A.V. Dharma Reddy and later handed over to chief priest inside the hill temple. The garlands will be adorned to the main deity on Wednesday on the eve of auspicious Garuda seva.
23 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recruitment process under way for DSC-2018 vacant posts||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh has said the government started filling up the vacant teacher posts notified in the DSC-2018. The Minister told the media that of the 7,902 Secondary Grade Teacher (SGT) posts notified by the DSC-2018, 3,524 posts were being filled . He said the erstwhile TDP government conducted DSC-2018 but did not take up the recruitment process. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy took the matter to the court which gave a verdict allowing the recruitment. Mr. Suresh said the verification process for 2,203 candidates had been completed and on Tuesday, the process was completed for another 1,321 candidates. Those who have completed the verification process would receive messages on their cellphones on Wednesday (September 23) to upload their certificates. Schedule These candidates should visit the office of their respective District Education Officer for verification of certificates on September 24. Counselling would be held on September 25 and 26 and the candidates would receive appointment letters the same day. The selected candidates would join duty on September 28. There are 949 more vacant posts for which recruitment need to be done. Of them, 374 are language pandit school assistant posts, 486 PET posts and 89 vacant Principal posts. Of the 602 posts notified through Special DSC-2019 on February 15 last eyar, 492 posts were filled by September 14 this year. The Minister expressed the hope for conducive situation for conduct of DSC-2020. Pointing out that almost 30% of the 222 academic working days were lost to the pandemic necessitating lockdown, he said the department would have to make suitable changes in the syllabus. . The Minister said the pandemic disrupted the academic plans of all institutions. IIIT admissions Students aspiring for seats in IIITs at Nuzvid, Ongole, Idupulapaya and Srikakulam were in a fix as admissions in these institutes have been made based on marks obtained in science, mathematics and social studies in SSC examinations. He said the governing council of Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) comprising Chancellors, Vice-Chancellors, and Principal Secretaries would meet in a video conference and discuss the issue threadbare to arrive at a decision. “It is to be seen if they decide to conduct tests in the key subjects --science, mathematics and social studies -- and allow students to join based on their performance,” he said.
23 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CMRF: another fraud detected||Yet another fraud of tampering with cheques issued to the beneficiaries under the Chief Minister Relief Fund (CMRF) from the Secretariat came to light on Tuesday. A person, who allegedly tampered with three cheques and drew Rs. 10 lakh from an SBI branch in Kadapa district, has been taken into custody. According to sources, one Bhaskar Reddy allegedly took three cheques issued to the beneficiaries for Rs. 25,000, and assured them of giving the amount. He reportedly tampered with the cheques by changing the amount, deposited in the bank, and encashed them. “When the bank officials cross-checked with the issuing authority at Velagapudi, they said the cheques issued by them with particular numbers were only for Rs. 25,000 and cautioned the staff about possible fraud. The SBI authorities alerted the police, who took Bhaskar Reddy into custody,” a police official said. “In the wake of the multi-crore fraud attempt with regard to CMRF in Karnataka, West Bengal and Delhi States, surfaced two days ago in the State, the alert bank officials verified the cheques deposited by the accused in the bank and confirmed that the cheques were tampered with,” the officer said. “In this case the cheques were original and the signature of the issuing authority was not forged. The fraudster managed to change the amount and drew the cash,” an officer said. Speaking to The Hindu on Tuesday, DGP D. Gautam Sawang has said the Crime Investigation Department (CID) and the Kadapa police are jointly investigating the case. Meanwhile, the CID sleuths, who are probing the alleged fraud attempt case with regard to CMRF, are trying to find out whether Bhaskar Reddy had any role in it also.
23 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Village defence squads to guard places of worship||The Krishna district police have come up with a unique idea of setting up Village Defence Squads (Grama Rakshaka Dalams) to step up vigil in villages and provide security to places of worship. As many as 503 Village Defence Squads have been formed to control crime, keep a tab on anti-social elements and protect the shrines in the district. The dalam members will move with patrolling police and help them in maintaining law and order. “In the wake of attacks on shrines in the State, thefts and damaging of idols in the last few days, Village Defence Squads have been entrusted with the task of maintaining vigil at places of worship. The squad members have been asked to focus on protecting shrines and their properties,” said Superintendent of Police (SP) M. Ravindranath Babu. Deputy Superintendents of Police (DSPs), Circle Inspectors (CIs) and SIs will visit the shrines in villages, conduct meetings with village and community heads and discuss about security at the places of worship. Five held The Grama Rakshana Dalam caught five minors who allegedly committed ‘hundi’ theft at Sri Anjaneya Swamy temple at Appikatlapalem village under Gudur police station limits on Monday night. “The dalam members saw the juveniles moving suspiciously during the night and alerted the police, who took them into custody and recovered the stolen hundi on the same day,” the SP said, praising the squad for helping police detect the case.
23 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports 7,553 infections, 51 deaths in 24 hours||The State reported 7,553 new coronavirus infections and 51 deaths in the last 24 hours ending Tuesday morning, taking the tally to 6,39,302 and the toll to 5,461, a bulletin released by the Health Department said. The recovery rate increased further to 87.97% and the number of active cases came down to 71,465. As many as 10,555 COVID-19 patients recovered during the last 24 hours, taking the total count to 5,62,376. As many as 68,829 samples were tested for the virus and their positivity rate was put at 10.97% , while the overall positivity rate for 52.29 lakh samples tested till date stood at 12.22%. The tests per million ratio stood at 97,931, while the confirmed cases per million was put at 11,972. East Godavari was the only district to witness more than 1,000 new infections in the last 24 hours. It reported 1,166 new cases and four deaths. The daily infection count and toll for the other district are as follows: West Godavari (989 cases and three deaths), Chittoor (902 and 8), Prakasam (672 and 5), Guntur (606 and 3), Kadapa (589 and 3), Nellore (556 and 3), Visakhpatnam (410 and 6), Vizianagaram (391 and 0), Srikakulam (347 and 1), Krishna (344 and 5), Anantapur (309 and 6) and Kurnool (272 and 4). The death rate in Krishna district continued to be around 1.6%, while the same in Chittoor crossed 1%, with the highest 602 deaths. The death rate of all other districts was less than 1% and that of East Godavari was the lowest (0.55%). Meanwhile, the infection tally in Guntur has crossed the 50,000-mark and that of Kadapa crossed the 40,000-mark. District tally The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (88,935), West Godavari (59,697), Chittoor (56,117), Kurnool (54,491), Anantapur (53,651), Guntur (50,584), Nellore (48,684), Visakhapatnam (47,410), Prakasam (43,208), Kadapa (40,339), Srikakulam (36,574),Vizianagaram (32,210) and Krishna (24,507).
23 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan meets Amit Shah over dues to State||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy met Union Home Minister Amit Shah at New Delhi on Tuesday to discuss the issues that need Centre’s immediate attention. According to information, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy brought issues such as pending dues related to the Polavaram project to the notice of Mr. Shah. The Centre has to clear more than Rs. 3,000 crore towards reimbursement of the Polavaram irrigation project expenditure. Also more than Rs. 9,000 crore under various heads is due for many years. The GST compensation and the 14th Finance Commission grants are some of the issues that were discussed, sources say. The Chief Minister’s previous attempt to meet Amit Shah and others in New Delhi on June 2 did not materialise and he was forced to cancel his scheduled trip. Tirumala visit Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy will leave Delhi on Wednesday morning and reach the Renigunta airport at 1 p.m. and head for the Padmavati Guest House at Tirumala. He will attend a video-conference from Annamayya Bhavan. At 6.15 p.m., he will arrive at the Bedi Anjaneya Swamy temple. He will go to the Lord Venkateswara temple and present silk robes to the presiding deity. After an overnight stay, he will go for the darshan of Lord Venkateswara again on Thursday morning. Later, he will lay the foundation stone for the choultries of the Karnataka State Charities at Tirumala. The Chief Minister will arrive at the Renigunta airport at 10.20 a.m. and leave for Gannavaram.
23 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||World Tourism Day fete in Vizag on Sept. 27||The Tourism Department is gearing up to celebrate the World Tourism Day-2020 at VMRDA Children’s Arena in Visakhapatnam on September 27. Andhra Pradesh Tourism Authority (APTA) CEO and APTDC Managing Director Pravin Kumar has said Visakhapatnam attract thousands of domestic and international tourists as the place is surrounded by beautiful beaches, picturesque valleys and serene waterfalls. This year’s theme is ‘Tourism and rural development’, designated by the United National World Tourism Organisation (UNWTO). Mr. Pravin Kumar has said the occasion called for emphasising the significance of tourism and to influence the growth of social, cultural and global community.
23 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP vows to develop State as ‘Samrudh Andhra’||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has set a target to come to power with a goal to develop Andhra Pradesh as 'Samrudh Andhra'. Also, the party will not compromise on attacks on the Hindu temples. Addressing the BJP office-bearers here on Tuesday, BJP State president Somu Veerraju alleged that the State government was not responding though the Hindu temples were being attacked. The BJP would not keep silent if such attacks continue. When the BJP started questioning about the attacks on temples and Hindu religious institutions, some of the political parties have been attributing motives and giving communal angle. At the same time, no one attributed the religion to those who send the people to Mecca and Jerusalem with government expenditure, he observed. The BJP would not let go the issues related to continuous attacks on Hindu religion and temples across the State. Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Nani should withdraw his statements on declaration at TTD, he said. Referring to the party's programme, Mr. Veerraju said that the BJP would strive for a comprehensive and overall development of the State. Former Prime Minister late Atal Behari Vajpayee had developed the nation with a slogan Samrudh Bharat. Similarly, the BJP AP unit has planned Samrudh Andhra, he added.
23 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two PHCs get certification||PHCs in Penamaluru and Musunuru have been certified under the National Quality Assurance Standards by the National Health System. Collector A.Md. Imtiaz commended Dr. Ravi Kumar and Dr. Jagan Mohan on the achievement
23 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to launch YSR Jala Kala programme on Sept. 28||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the YSR Jala Kala programme as part of the Navaratnalu on September 28. Eligible small and marginal farmers can apply for digging of borewells free of cost either online or through their respective village secretariats. All applications would be scrutinised for eligibility criteria. After hydrogeological and geophysical surveys and based on the feasibility, drilling work would begin. Software application A software application has been developed to monitor the implementation of the programme. The status of application in every stage of scrutiny would be communicated to the applicants through SMSes. The entire process from scrutiny of the applications to payment to contractors will be completed in a transparent and time-bound manner, a release said here on Tuesday.
23 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water level in Krishna continues to rise||Flood in the Krishna river continues to rise with about 3 lakh cusecs of inflow and outflow at the Prakasam Barrage. As of 8 p.m. on Tuesday, the inflow to Prakasam Barrage was 3.02 lakh cusecs and outflow 3.03 lakh cusecs. As much as 2.96 lakh cusecs of water was being discharged, while the remaining was being released into canals. The inflow and outflow was more or less the same throughout the day and a similar situation is expected on Wednesday due to continuous discharge of water from the upstream projects and rainfall in catchment area. Hundreds of families from Krishnalanka and other low-lying areas were still taking shelter at the relief camps set up by the government.
23 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six more succumb to virus; toll rises to 371||After a brief lull, the district reported 406 fresh COVID-19 infections in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 47,922 here on Tuesday. The death toll rose to 371 after six more persons succumbed to the coronavirus in the last 24 hours, according to the COVID-19 bulletin. According to the bulletin, the number of active cases in the district is 4,322 and the number of persons discharged is 43,229. The Health Department officials observe that the infections are decreasing gradually this September. However, the death rate is yet to come under control, they say. According to the officials, in the first three weeks of August (August 1 to 21), the total number of cases reported in the district was 16,893. But during the same period in September, the number of infections reported was 9,385. Similarly, the deaths reported in first three weeks of August are 108, but in the same period during September, they are 100.
23 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||3 gangs busted, eight persons arrested||The city police on Tuesday busted three gangs, who were allegedly in various offences, in the city. The police arrested eight persons and took one juvenile into their custody. The Gajuwaka police arrested four persons and took one juvenile into custody, for allegedly being involved in a house break-in at B.C Colony. The arrested were identified as N. Naveen (19), E Sai Krishna (26), P. Madhu (23) and K. Sai Teja (25), all belonging to various areas of Gajuwaka. The police have seized gold, silver ornaments, mobile phones, all worth Rs. 80,000, from them. Addressing a press conference here on Tuesday, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that on July 27, they received a complaint from one K. Lokesh stating that some property in his house was missing. Special teams caught N. Naveen and a juvenile. Based on their confession, three receivers — Krishna, Madhu and Teja — were arrested. In another case, the PM Palem police arrested two persons, including an auto-rickshaw driver, for allegedly taking a passenger to an isolated place, assaulting him and taking away Rs. 15,000 from him. The arrested were identified as S. Lakshmi Narasimha Murthy (27), the auto driver, and G. Durga Sairam (24), . Police have recovered Rs. 10,000 out of stolen property. The East-Sub Division (Crimes) team arrested two persons N. Chandra Sekhar (20) and D. Rohit (20) who were allegedly involved in picking pockets near railway station.
23 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Establish CAT Bench, IIIT in Vizag, Vijaya Sai urges Centre||YSR Congress Party MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy has appealed to the Union Law Minister to set up a Bench of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT) in Visakhapatnam. Raising the matter in the Rajya Sabha during the zero hour on Tuesday, Mr. Reddy said that Andhra Pradesh has over 50,000 Central government employees, with over 60% of them residing in the proposed Executive capital Visakhapatnam. Due to the absence of a CAT Bench in Andhra Pradesh, the petitioners, many of whom are retired have to travel to Hyderabad, in Telangana, for resolution of their disputes. This inter-State travel is a cause of great inconvenience to many of the petitioners, he said. Visakhapatnam is ideal for a new CAT Bench as it has many Central government offices such as a steel plant, shipping and port trusts, HSL, DCIL, railways, railways, airport, customs, excise, HPCL and LIC, wherein thousands of employees work. Mr. Reddy also sought establishment of an Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) in Visakhapatnam. Though a triple IIIT was established in Chittoor, Andhra Pradesh, on the PPP mode, another IIIT was needed in Visakhapatnam, the most populous city in the State and is poised to become the Executive capital. He also sought early completion of permanent buildings for the Indian Institute of Management (IIM), which is presently being run from a temporary campus.
23 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||76% attend secretariat exams||The third day of the written examinations for posts in ward/village secretariats witnessed 76% attendance in the district. While 13,374 candidates were supposed to take the exams, 3,188 were absent. In the morning session, 6,384 of 8,648 applicants and in the afternoon session, 3,802 of the 4,906 candidates appeared.
23 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||FDNA’s appeal to GVMC Commissioner||The Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) has appealed to the GVMC Commissioner for replacement of the plaque, on the pedestal of the statue of legendary poet Gurajada Appa Rao, which gives the wrong date of birth of Gurajada. FDNA general secretary A. Aja Sarma noted that the date, month and year of birth were wrongly engraved as November 30, 1961 instead of September 21, 1862.
23 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||RPF celebrates 36th Raising Day||Officials from Railway Protection Force (RPF), Waltair Division, celebrated its 36th Raising Day, at RPF Parade Ground here on Tuesday. Senior Divisional Security Commissioner, RPF, Visakhapatnam, Jitendra Srivastava, and others took part.
23 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||14 kg ganja recovered from a rail passenger||Special team of Government Railway Police (GRP) and Railway Police Force (RPF) conducted checks and arrested M. Pandey (22), a resident of Patna, Bihar, for allegedly trying to transport 14 kg ganja, at Visakhapatnam Railway Station on Tuesday. Officials said that the accused was trying to head to his native place from Visakhapatnam when he was caught.
23 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 14 cr. sanctioned for bridge at Pandrangi||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao thanked Chief Minister Y.S, Jagan Mohan Reddy for according administrative sanction for Rs. 14 crore for the construction of High Level Bridge across Gostani river at Pandrangi village of Padmanabham mandal. The Panchayat Raj Department issued orders regarding the administrative sanction here on Tuesday.
23 September 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP doing vote bank politics: MLC||Telugu Desam Party MLC Dwarapureddy Jagadish has alleged that the YSRCP government is trying to consolidate the party’s vote bank by ‘raking up communal sentiments’ in the State. “The State has never witnessed attacks on temples and stealing of temple properties on such a scale. Such incidents have gone up after the YSRCP assumed the office,” he told the media.
23 September 2020||B. Chandrashekhar,TELANGANA||Srisailam gets over 3 lakh cusecs flood||Heavy flood from Krishna-Bhima and Tungabhadra rivers continues to sustain over 3 lakh cusecs of inflows into Srisailam reservoir for the last six days and it is forecast to continue further for a few more days with rains in the Central Maharashtra, Upper Krishna and Upper Bhima sub-basins. The water level in Tungabhadra river at Mantralayam which crossed the warning level of 310 metres in the wee hours of Tuesday went up to 310.87 metres at 8 a.m. but started coming down later. At 5 p.m., it was 310.6 metres and the Central Water Commission (CWC) has forecast that it is expected to come down below the warning level on Wednesday morning. The flood to Srisailam was about 3.6 lakh cusecs at 8 p.m. on Tuesday including over one lakh cusecs from Tungabhadra, over 2.4 lakh cusecs from Krishna-Bhima and the remaining inflows from the immediate local catchment area and Handri. Discharge of flood there was about 3.18 lakh cusecs from the 10 spillway gates and another 30,200 cusecs after power generation. The inflows into Tungabhadra dam at Hospet in Karnataka are expected to come down to 1,13 lakh cusecs by Wednesday morning. At Jurala, the inflows were nearly 2.3 lakh cusecs at 8 p.m. and the discharge of flood was 2.18 lakh cusecs from 27 spillway gates and 24,000 cusecs from power generation. In the downstream, the inflows at Nagarjunasagar were 2.83 lakh cusecs at 8 p.m. and the release of flood was nearly 2.39 lakh cusecs from 16 spillway gates and another 29,000 cusecs from the power house. As all the reservoirs in the Krishna Basin are full in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana-Andhra Pradesh, about 384.5 tmc ft of surplus flood was released to sea from Prakasam Barrrage as of Tuesday morning. More flood to SRSP Meanwhile, increasing flood from the upstream of Godavari following release of water from Jaikwadi and Siddeshwar dams in Maharashtra is expected to be around 1.73 lakh cusecs by Wednesday morning and coupled with supplementation from the catchment areas within Telangana the flood to Yellamapally and Medigadda barrages is also expected to go up to 1.98 lakh cusecs and 3.35 lakh cusecs, respectively. The flood at Medigadda is supplemented with inflows from Pranahitha.
23 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ghanpur WTP clubbed with reservoir||The Keshavapuram reservoir near Shamirpet, which has recently got forest clearance, has, over time shrunk in size, but not proportionately in cost estimate. Instead, works for laying pipelines and water treatment plant (WTP) proposed at Ghanpur have been fused into the Keshavapuram project, without separate bidding process. As solution to the city’s future water needs, the Keshavapuram reservoir was mooted by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) in 2017, with 20 tmcft capacity and a cost estimate of Rs. 7,700 crore. The reservoir was to get water through gravity from Konda Pochamma Sagar built as part of the Kaleshwaram Lift scheme. Capacity of the reservoir was brought down to 10 tmcft later when the government order was issued in October, 2017, with an aim to reduce the land acquisition cost. Project cost as per GO was fixed at Rs. 4,777.59 crore, inclusive of the water treatment plant and associated components. Tenders were called for accordingly, and in February, 2018, orders were issued approving the lowest bid by the Megha Engineering & Infrastructures Limited. Close to a year-and-half after awarding the contract, during a review meeting with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in July, 2019, it was decided to further cut down the reservoir’s capacity to five tmcft, apparently to reduce the acquisition of patta lands even further. It was also decided during the meeting to explore the possibility of drawing additional 10 tmcft of water from Konda Pochamma Sagar via WTP at Ghanpur. Fresh proposals were prepared for 5.04 tmcft capacity, reducing the project cost to Rs. 3363.37 crore, inclusive of GST, labour cess, land acquisition cost and other components. Also prepared was a report for additional drawl of 10 tmcft through Ghanpur, and the cost estimated was Rs. 1,006 crore. In February 2020, the government had issued orders revising the Keshavapur capacity to five tmcft, and allowing the HMWS&SB to entrust the Ghanpur pipeline and WTP works to the same agency, at a combined cost estimate of Rs. 4,369.37 crore. The justification given was that the combined cost was well within the original administrative sanction. However, the original administrative sanction was given for a storage reservoir with 10 tmcft capacity. Arbitrariness is in use of the sanction for an altogether unrelated work, which merited another call for tenders. Officials of the HMWS&SB justified the decision, saying the proposal to allot the Ghanpur works as supplemental works to the same agency at the previously agreed upon rates was cleared by the State Level Standing Committee under the Irrigation department. Officer in-charge of Keshavapuram project Ravi Kumar said the contractor had agreed to do the Ghanpur WTP and pipeline works at previous rates, and calling for tenders afresh would have escalated the project cost. The works were awarded as ‘authorised extras’, he said. However, engineering experts cite the PWD Code to say that the authorised extras should be related to the main work, and not independent. As per the PWD Code, supplemental works meriting as ‘authorised extras’ are “such items of work that are found necessary after letting out a contract and cannot be taken up for execution independently without interfering with the original work let out.”
23 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KCR for registration of non-agri properties within 15 days||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao directed officials to ensure registration of non-agricultural land holdings, including apartments, plots and individual houses, which are not registered so far, within 15 days so that they could be hosted online. Mr. Rao wanted officials of Municipal Administration and Panchayat Raj departments to ensure that all land related properties under their jurisdiction get registered and hosted online before the 15-day deadline set by the government. He directed them to complete the exercise before the Dharani portal, conceived as a one-stop solution to land related transactions, becomes operational. He gave these instructions at a high-level meeting to review the progress of updation of Dharani portal with senior officials of the Revenue department on Tuesday. The exercise follows the enactment of legislations aimed at overhauling the revenue administration in the State to rid the department of ‘corruption’. The CM revealed his intentions for a complete overhaul of the revenue administration for transparent transactions in the department citing that people, particularly farmers, developed a sort of hatred towards the department owing to harassment they were facing in land transaction related issues. Absence of IT intervention leading to maximum human interface and thus, to corrupt practices was a major reason behind the government’s decision to reform the department. Going online Accordingly, the State government has decided to host all land details online so that foolproof documents could be handed over to the owners. He wanted the officials of the Municipal Administration department as well as ground level workers of the Panchayat Raj department to expedite registration of properties online. Meetings should be convened with the District Panchayat Raj officers and the mandal level officers in this direction to ensure effective coordination between the departments concerned in the speedy completion of the process. People on their part should cooperate with the officials concerned by providing complete information about their holdings so that they could be hosted online. “The government has initiated the process to see that the revenue administration and the land record management is 100%transparent,” the CM said, exhorting officials to take steps to see that enough care was taken to see that the targets set by the government were reached. At the same time, focus should be on setting up Vaikuntha Dhamams, dump yards, Harita Haram as well as plantation of six saplings in each household in the rural areas. The Chief Minister said the government was mulling conducting surprise inspections to check on how solid and liquid waste were being lifted by tractors provided to villages and their disposal in line with the prescribed environmental norms. Flying squads were likely to be constituted in this direction to ensure that there was close check on the activities at the grass root level.
23 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana sees 2,166 fresh cases||The spike in COVID-19 cases in Telangana continues with 2,166 more persons testing positive. On Monday, 53,960 samples were tested and results of 1,528 were awaited. The tally now stands at 1,74,774. The toll has reached 1,052 with 10 more fatalities. Around 300 fresh cases continue to be detected in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region per day. That apart, the new cases include 166 from Rangareddy, 147 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 127 from Karimnagar, 113 from Nalgonda, 95 from Warangal Urban, 90 each from Mahabubabad and Nizamabad. Besides GHMC, Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri, high number of cases are consistently being reported from Karimnagar, Warangal Urban, and Nalgonda. Since March 2, when the first case in Telangana was detected, 25,73,005 samples have been tested and 1,74,774 have tested positive. Of those, 29,649 are now active while 1,44,073 have recovered, and 1,052 have died, as per the media bulletin. The recovery rate in the State is 82.43%. The number of government hospitals to attend COVID-19 patients were increased from 45 to 62. At the 62 government hospitals, 4,488 oxygen beds and 539 ICU beds were available on Monday. In case of 222 private hospitals, 2,283 oxygen beds and 2,057 ICU beds were vacant.
23 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Food delivery executives continue agitation||Cancelled orders, spats near restaurants, protests and picketing by partners of an online food delivery app continued for the eighth day on Tuesday in the city. The impact was felt by restaurant owners who were already reeling under the months-long lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Some diners who ordered food through Swiggy got a call back, saying that the order was being cancelled as delivery executives were not available. “Our business is down by 40% due to the strike. It was already affected by the long lockdown and now for the past one week, there have been very few online orders,” said Mohammed Majeed of Pista House. A majority of city restaurants, famous for biryani, reported lower sales. “There have been close to zero orders through Swiggy, Zomato has picked up. Over all, online delivery business through aggregators has been low for most of us, our guests prefer take-aways or get it delivered directly through us,” said Uttam Reddy of Rayalaseema Ruchulu, when asked about the impact of the strike. At some places, some executives got into fights with those picketing high-volume restaurants. “We are demanding restoration of an earlier format of payment where we used to get Rs. 35 per order instead of the current Rs. 15 for delivering in the 3 to 6 km radius,” said one of the striking workers. The Indian Federation of App-Based Transport Workers (IFAT) has submitted a memorandum to Jayesh Ranjan, IT Principal Secretary, seeking his help to resolve the issue. The delivery executives are also citing rising fuel prices as one of the reasons for restoration of old payment model. “We had big protests today at Madhapur and Gachibowli. We will not get back to work till they restore the old delivery incentives and rates,” said Shaik Salauddin of IFAT “Many restaurants have already shut down in the Gachibowli areas as many IT companies have a work-from-home policy. These offices are vacant. Our business is down by 60% as we have only walk-ins and takeaways. This has affected even that business,” said Muhammad Rabbani of Shah Ghouse Cafe. In a statement, Swiggy said that they were on course to resuming normal services. “Active DEs are around 4,500-5,000. Swiggy is available in 80% of the city, 50% of the orders done as per Swiggy standards. Our service is improving as the disruption is consistently reducing every day,” said the statement issued by a delivery-app official.
23 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC nodal officers appointed||GHMC Commissioner and Election Authority D. S. Lokesh Kumar, through an order on Tuesday, appointed nodal officers to attend various pre-election and election activities in the runup to GHMC polls. Nodal officers were appointed separately for preparation of electoral rolls, BC voter enumeration, appointment of returning and assistant returning officers, preparation of ballot paper, postal ballot, election material procurement, mobilisation of manpower, IT-related issues and webcasting, training, assessment and procurement of ballot boxes, enforcement teams, assessment and mobilisation of transport vehicles, identification of Distribution and Reception Centres, facilities at polling stations, liaisoning with observers, appointment of Micro Observers, media and awareness activities, call centre, election expenditure monitoring, and health care and welfare. He reviewed the arrangements for smooth conduct of elections with the nodal officers. The meeting reviewed preparation of electoral rolls, appointment of returning and assistant returning officers, appointment of master trainers to train up polling staff, procurement of election material, IT related issues, web casting, enforcement teams, polling staff, and distribution of polling material. Mr. Lokesh Kumar instructed officials to identify polling stations, setting up of complaint cell, call centre, and creation of awareness among voters. Additional Commissioners B. Santosh, Priyanka Ala, P. S. Rahul Raj, Jayaraj Kennedy, V. Krishna, EVDM Director Vishwajit Kampati and Chief Engineer Ziauddin attended the meeting.
23 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||EC directs preparation of rolls for two graduates’ seats||With election for two seats of the Legislative Council in the offing, the Election Commission of India (ECI) has focussed on the preparation of electoral rolls in the two constituencies. Two seats under graduates’ constituencies are falling vacant following completion of term of the members. The graduates’ constituency of Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Mahabubnagar will fall vacant following the completion of term by N. Ramachandra Rao representing the constituency on March 29 next year. Likewise, Khammam, Nalgonda and Warangal will fall vacant after Palla Rajeshwar Reddy retires on the same day. Accordingly, the EC said that notification for enrolment of eligible voters in the two constituencies would be issued on October 1. The last date for filing applications for enrolment in the voters’ lists is November 6. The draft voters’ list would be released on December 1 and objections and clarifications would be received till December 31. Applications received in respect of objections and clarifications would be disposed of by January 12 and the final list of voters would be published on January 18. The EC also issued notification for filling the vacant seats of two Teachers’ constituencies in AP — East and West Godavari and Krishna and Guntur.
23 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Doctors go beyond call of duty||Even as the role of convalescent plasma therapy in COVID-19 treatment is increasingly researched, several virus-recovered doctors are going above and beyond the call of duty to help patients in distress. Some of them are travelling more than 300 km while others are squeezing in time post their ICU duty just to donate plasma and give hope to patients battling severe forms of the novel coronavirus infection. These doctors, working in both government and private sectors, are members of Healthcare Reforms Doctors Association (HRDA). President of the association K. Mahesh Kumar said after receiving a request for plasma, they circulate the message in their association’s WhatsApp group as well as other groups comprising essential doctors. Those messages are further passed on to people from other professions who had successfully battled the infection. To place a request or donate, one can contact 9912878749. Till date, they have coordinated around 30 donations Though at least 50 more had reached hospitals to donate plasma, they did not have required levels of antibodies against the virus. Vice-president of the association Thota Kiran Kumar said they increased their pace of coordination after a 33-year-old COVID patient failed to get plasma despite his family’s best efforts. After initial donations, more doctors came forward to donate. “Even anaesthetists who attend COVID-19 patients for long hours have taken out the time to donate. Besides, many house surgeons have expressed willingness to donate plasma. Now, doctors diagnosed with COVID and still undergoing treatment ask us when can they donate plasma,” said Dr Kiran, who travelled from Banswada to Hyderabad in August first week to give plasma. A few weeks ago, three house surgeons who recovered from COVID travelled from Adilabad to Hyderabad. “We stayed in Hyderabad overnight, donated plasma, returned and resumed duties,” said Bavitha Reddy, a house surgeon. Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), which conducted PLACID trials in 39 hospitals across India, found that convalescent plasma therapy failed to benefit COVID-19 patients. This observation was discussed by doctors who wanted to donate. Dr Mahesh said that they are coordinating the plasma donation with a hope that the antibodies in convalescent plasma will help in early recovery of patients.
23 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IT firms in no hurry to call staff back to office: HYSEA survey||It will be some time before the offices, campuses and hubs of IT firms start buzzing again as Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA) says nearly 50% of companies that participated in its latest survey favoured retaining work from home (WFH) level at the existing 90-100% till December. Even by March, a little over 30% respondents expected 70-89% of the workforce to WFH, while 16.3% of the firms in the survey said the number could be 90-100%. Only some large companies showed a desire to get back to office in larger numbers. This is an indicator of a clear lack of confidence in returning to office, according to the State of Business Survey (September 2020) report of HYSEA. A voice of the IT and ITeS firms in Telangana, the association has around 300 members. “It is pretty much on expected line,” HYSEA president Bharani Kumar Aroll said on the survey findings. Given the apprehension among employers and employees in the backdrop of rising COVID-19 cases and the vaccine still away “we expected people working from home to be the first preference.” On number of companies that figured in the survey, HYSEA COO R.Srinivas Rao said it was close to 50, a sample size that had good representation from all categories — very large, large companies and SMEs. Mr.Aroll said once the vaccine arrives it could be a matter of time for the return of IT workforce in good numbers to campuses and with it the rest of the ecosystem such as the logistics sector back to business. But, “till end of this year we anticipate status quo,” he said. The survey said 95% of the companies across the board continue to operate with WFH in the 90-100% band. It has actually increased in the last two months or so and can be attributed to increase in COVID-positive cases, a statement from HYSEA said. Unlike the survey by HYSEA in June, companies this time around have begun talking about coming to terms. WFH, however, had its share of problems. Broadband connectivity, power supply and inadequate working atmosphere at homes, as well as low employee morale were some of the issues, the report said. On the road ahead for IT firms to go to Tier-II cities in Telangana, Mr. Aroll said the “pandemic has proved we can still sustain and continue to operate wherever we are… this will encourage companies to look at tier II cities.” Such a move will bring along a small reduction in operational expenses, keep attrition levels under check and retain talent as the competition, at least initially, will be less.  The pandemic has proved we can still sustain and continue to operate wherever we are… this will encourage companies to look at tier II cities. Bharani Kumar Aroll, President, HYSEA
23 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Only some special trains get patronage||The South Central Railway (SCR) is gradually increasing the number of special trains in the course of the last few months after the lockdown. Yet, save for a few select routes, most of the services are not running full unlike the situation before the pandemic. Such has been poor patronage from passengers that it had to suspend services of weekly special train towards New Delhi earlier this month. A look at the passenger bookings shows that the special trains towards Amritsar (from Nanded), Danapur, Howrah, Hazrat Nizamuddin and Visakhapatnam have been showing consistent passenger bookings of 100% or more. For instance, in June the special train towards Danapur had 138% occupancy ratio followed by Howrah at 128% and Visakhapatnam at 103% with Hazrat Nizamuddin and Amritsar having 94% and 92% occupancy rates, respectively. Poor patronage is for trains towards New Delhi and Tirupati from Nizamabad at 33% and 40%, respectively. The trend continued in July too with Danapur train showing 136%, Howrah 128%, and Amritsar 117% occupancy. Passengers continued to ignore special trains towards New Delhi and Tirupati with occupancy rates falling more to 19% and 46%, respectively, with the special train towards Guntur having 45% occupancy from Secunderabad. August was slightly different with Nanded-Amritsar having 140% occupancy, Mumbai 126%, Danapur 125% and Howrah 123%. The Secunderabad-New Delhi special train occupancy fell further to 16% while Guntur train improved to 70%. And, in the first 10 days of September, the Amritsar special train showed 153%, Mumbai 151%, Howrah 137% and Danapur 132% occupancy. The New Delhi special train occupancy just got to 18% and Guntur train occupancy to 86%. From just one special Rajdhani express towards Delhi on May 12, nine more trains were introduced by the South Central Railway from June 1, two more trains from Sept.12, and the lone clone train towards Danapur from Sept.20. Another 16 trains pass through the zone from Chennai and Bengaluru towards Delhi, Mumbai, Danapur, Guwahati etc., officials said. "It is clear passengers continue to be circumspect about long-distance travel on AC trains save for those towards Bihar, West Bengal and the like. There are many trains towards Delhi passing through and air travel which is just two hours is considered more safe," said officials.
23 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Harish seeks release of IGST dues before next meeting||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has demanded that the Central government take steps to release the IGST dues to the tune of Rs. 2,641 crore with immediate effect. He wanted the Group of Ministers constituted on IGST related issues to ask the Centre to release the dues before the next meeting of the GST Council slated on October 5. Mr. Harish Rao was participating in a meeting of GoM chaired by IGST convener and Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi through video conference on Tuesday. He said release of dues would be of significant help to the States whose finances were hit by COVID-19. Dues to the tune of Rs. 2,641 crore were pending to Telangana while there was minor variation in the calculation by the GST Council which pegged them at Rs. 2,638 crore. “The officials concerned will discuss about the exact quantum of dues and rectify the minor changes. But, it is very important that the GoM recommends payment of these dues before the next meeting of the GST Council,” he said. States would be forced to wait for three more months if a decision was not taken and dues were not released before October 5 meeting. Responding positively to the request, Mr. Modi assured that necessary steps would be taken and a meeting of the GoM would be convened on October 1. The Centre was yet to release IGST dues to 16 States, including Telangana, amounting to Rs. 25,058 crore since 2018. He suggested that the Centre could adjust the compensation fund pending recovery from 18 States through the compensation that would be paid to these States in the coming months. Principal Finance Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao, Commercial Taxes Commissioner Neetu Kumari Prasad and other senior officials participated in the video conference.
23 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||DCC presidents to have major say in party affairs, says Tagore||AICC in-charge for TS Manickam Tagore said that discipline would be of paramount importance and not an iota of indiscipline within the party would be tolerated, including campaigns against party leaders on social media. He said that social media should be used to take the Congress message to the public and not to tarnish the image of any Congress leader while addressing District Congress Committee (DCC) presidents of Telangana on Tuesday. Participating in the video-conference along with the TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, he assured that all DCCs would be given due recognition and importance and no major decision would be taken without consulting them, including selection of candidates. Tagore said that a new consultation mechanism would be put in place along with fixing accountability. Mr. Reddy said that almost all DCC presidents were doing their best to implement the AICC directions in carrying out nationwide agitation programmes despite harassment by the local police and administration. He announced that the Congress would launch a month-long agitation from September 25 against the new anti-farmer laws of the BJP government. He asked all DCC presidents to ensure active participation of the entire Congress cadre.
23 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS BJP wants ‘clean’ electoral rolls||TS BJP delegation led by former MLA N.V.S.S. Prabhakar along with other leaders, including S. Malla Reddy, met State Election Commissioner Parthasarathi at his office on Tuesday to discuss the preparations for the forthcoming local body polls for GHMC, Khammam and Warangal municipal corporations. They brought to the notice of the SEC certain irregularities that has occurred during the preparations of final draft rolls in the last GHMC elections, where they charged that genuine voters’ names have been deleted and scientific method was not used in finalising polling stations. The party also raised doubts about the delimitation of divisions as the method varied for those within the core area from those in the erstwhile municipalities. Mr. Prabhakar urged the SEC to ensure every genuine voter gets included in the electoral rolls and a massive awareness campaign be taken up to make first time voters register themselves online keeping COVID regulations in mind, a press release said.
23 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Brief stir by Gandhi outsourced staff||Around 100 outsourced staff at Gandhi Hospital boycotted duty on Tuesday demanding hike in salary and daily incentives. They later called off the stir following assurances that the process to address the demands is under way. Sanitation workers, security staff, and other Class-IV employees hired on outsourcing basis at Rs. 9,500 per month boycotted duty on Tuesday morning. The hospital administration said the protest was led by only one union. Other outsourced employees worked double shift, and some who were in quarantine attended duty to help patients. J. Kumaraswamy, president of Telangana United Medical and Health Employees Union, who led the protest, said they called off the strike after being assured that their demands are being addressed.
23 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC hears plea for reopening of park||When malls and Metro rail were thrown open to public, why should the KBR National Park be kept closed, Telangana High Court sought to know on Tuesday. Hearing a writ petition seeking a direction to reopen the park, Justice A. Rajasheker Reddy said there was no reason to keep the park inaccessible to people while social and political gatherings were permitted. Petitioner M. Jayanth Reddy, Chairman of the International Taekwondo Champions League, wanted the court to declare action of the authorities to keep the park closed as illegal and arbitrary. He requested the court to instruct the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and District Forest Officer (KBR National Park) to reopen the park immediately. The petitioner asked the court to ensure that existing Annual Entry Permit Card Holders till January 21 were permitted to walk in the park. Referring to Unlock-IV guidelines issued by the Centre, the petitioner’s counsel contended that there was no prohibition on opening KBR National Park, while yoga institutes and gymnasiums were opened from August 5, in compliance with standard operating procedures issued by Union Ministry of Health. The lawyer said the KBR Park Walkers Association had already requested the authorities to reopen the park with a set of standard operating procedures. COVID-19 affects mainly lungs, which require oxygen. Reopening of the park would be helpful to walkers as a lot of fresh air would be available to them, the lawyer said. Unlike other public places, social distancing could be easily observed and followed at the park with space available, the petitioner submitted. Next hearing was posted for Monday.
23 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TYC registers 12.3 lakh members||The Telangana Youth Congress (TYC) registered a membership of 12.3 lakh during the Youth Congress election process that came to an end on September 20, according to returning officer for Telangana Youth Congress elections Raju P. Nair. The membership was done fully online through the IYC app. In the next phase, the memberships will be verified thoroughly and identified with the one-time password (OTP) that was allotted to each membership. Membership applications with the duplicate mobile numbers and wrong OTP combination will be put on hold. The ID proof submitted with the membership will also be verified by the IYC during this process and this will take at least a month, said Mr. Nair. All the members had to vote at State, district and Assembly level for selection of Youth Congress leadership. The top three contestants who get the highest number of votes will be called for an interview and the State president will be announced based on that. Approximately, 1,550 candidates contested in the State, district and Assembly level in the internal election, Mr. Nair said.
23 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Moderate rain in districts||The twin cities may have been spared of heavy rains due to the low pressure off Bay of Bengal and the active southwest monsoon but elsewhere in Telangana heavy rainfall of 64.5-115.5mm has been recorded in Adilabad, Kumram Bheem Asifabad and Kamareddy districts. Moderate rainfall of 15.6-64.4 mm was received at Adilabad, KB Asifabad, Mancherial, Nirmal, Jagtial, Peddapalli, Karimnagar, Jayashankar Bhupalapally, Warangal Urban, Warangal Rural, Mulugu, Bhadradri Kothagudem and Kamareddy districts. Light rainfall of 2.5-15.5 mm was recorded at places in Adilabad, Kumram Bheem Asifabad, Mancherial, Nirmal, Nizamabad, Rajanna Sircilla, Jagtial, Peddapalli, Karimnagar, Jayashankar Bhupalapally, Warangal Urban, Warangal Rural, Mahabubabad, Mulugu, Bhadradri Kothagudem, Jogulamba Gadwal, Sangareddy and Kamareddy districts. Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast that two more days of rains are expected in different parts of the State while there is a likelihood of one or two showers in the capital with generally cloudy sky. Day temperature is to hover around 33 degree C while the night temperature is to be around 23 degree C.
23 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Nine hurt in road accident||Nine people on their way to Srisailam in an SUV suffered severe injuries after the driver failed to negotiate a curve on the hilly track and fell into a gorge at Eegalapenta in Nagarkurnool district on Tuesday evening. Nagarkurnool SP Y Sai Sekhar said the accident took place around 8.30 p.m. near Krishnaveni Guest House. Six wounded were shifted to Hyderabad, while three were shifted to Sunnipenta for treatment.
23 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fresh GO continues with sports quota in professional courses||In what can be deemed as a major fillip to achievers in sports, the Telangana State government has issued a fresh government order (GO Ms. No. 02) on Tuesday to continue with the 0.5 per cent sports quota in all the professional courses except MMBS and BDS, covering 31 disciplines in all. The GO will come into effect immediately. The order, issued by Secretary to State government, K.S. Sreenivasa Raju, has the following list of disciplines: Archery, athletics, badminton, ball badminton, basketball, boxing, canoeing and kayaking, chess, cricket, cycling, fencing, football, gymnastics, handball, hockey, judo, kabaddi, kho kho, roller-skating, rowing, sailing\yachting, shooting, softball, swimming, table tennis, taekwondo, tennis, volleyball, weightlifting, wrestling and yoga. The guidelines include taking the basis of their best performances in the preceding five years verifying the genuineness of the certificates (from 10-19 years) with Date of Birth certificate issued by the SSC Board\similar Boards of Central\State governments only to be considered. The candidates should necessarily possess the minimum pass mark for such entrance test under sports quota to claim admission basing on the highest achievement \representation and participation in any Game\Sport. Each candidate is eligible to claim only one highest sports achievement for the above priority and if candidates secured equal score in sports achievement, the tie can be broken by the concerned admission authority. In case of false certification or attestation by any concerned State Sports Association, that Association will be disqualified for three years besides criminal prosecution.
23 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||UoH V-C term extended||The tenure of Prof. Appa Rao Podile as Vice-Chancellor of the University of Hyderabad has been extended by one year. He completed his term on Tuesday. The Ministry of Education said the President of India, in his capacity as Visitor of the university, had extended the tenure of Prof. Appa Rao for one year or till new Vice-Chancellor is appointed, whichever is earlier.
23 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Page 3 Brief||Anurag University and Aurobindo Pharma signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on Tuesday for training pharmacy students and providing internship, apart from taking up joint research programmes. Anurag University Chairman and MLC Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, Vice-Chancellor S. Ramchandram, Aurobindo Vice-Chairman Nityananda Reddy and Director Madanmohan Reddy were present.
23 September 2020||Jajireddygudem (SURYAPET),TELANGANA||BC community hall becomes a bone of contention||The Backward Classes community hall at Jajireddygudem is probably one of its kind in Telangana. It does not foster social cohesion or civic pride, but causes rifts between groups, thanks to officials and leaders of the ruling party. Several rules of the District Mineral Foundation Trust (DMFT) were violated, since the start till the execution now, to build it in a private property owned by a sub-caste group. It was on December 3 last year that Thungathurthy MLA Gadari Kishore Kumar laid the foundation stone for the hall, almost 15 months after he got his proposal sanctioned by the DMFT. As per rules, for the Rs. 10 lakh work, the Panchayat Raj Engineering department, which is the building agency, must see to it that the site of construction is owned by the government. However, Jajireddygudem village and mandal leaders, who belong to a BC sub-caste, purchased a piece of land in October and arranged for all works to be done there, starting from the first stone laying by the MLA. The land was also registered in the name of the community. But interestingly, when a few persons raised the issue in the gram sabha, the panchayat passed a ‘majority resolution’ deciding the same place for the community hall on February 20, two months after the foundation stone ceremony. Petitions ignored “The DMFT-sanctioned community hall will be built in 0.04 gunta opposite the house of Reddimalla Vijaya,” it read. And whenever a few dissenters filed petitions under the Right To Information Act or registered complaints with the District Collector, works did not stop rather gained pace, and reportedly another rule was cited: “Works sanctioned and executed will not be cancelled.” A Registered Medical Practitioner J. Laxman protested the decision taken by the leaders of his community to build the hall there. “That is our property, bought after our members contributed. It may sound harsh, but what is their (other sub-castes) right over our property? They should contribute too, otherwise we can’t let them in,” he said, alleging political manipulation. For M. Satyanarayana, a local brick businessman, the mandal with about 10,000 population would have to face problems along caste lines in future, if officials don’t stick to rules. His wife, a ward member in the panchayat, had opposed the resolution. “BCs include tens of other sub-castes. This political and official play, for whoever’s advantage, must stop,” he said. When contacted, a PRE official said that the land in question was donated to gram panchayat by the community leaders recently. “However, registration in the GP’s name is pending, and remaining payments will be made only after that,” the official said.
23 September 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||PD Act against Miryalaguda advocate for land grabbing||A Miryalaguda-based advocate, Bantu Bucchi Babu, was booked under Preventive Detention Act for alleged land grabbing, and several related instances of forgery and criminal intimidation, Nalgonda police said on Tuesday. “He created fake documents to grab vacant plots in Miryalaguda town and surroundings, and encroached 220 acres of government lands in Damaracherla,” a police statement read. Along with his son Mahesh and brother-in-law Papayya, who were arrested, illegally settled land disputes and later set up real estate ventures in them, the police said. An inquiry was taken up by the department after a few victims approached officials that led to the arrests and invoking of PD Act.
23 September 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Four get lifer for murder in a land dispute||The Nalgonda Principal District and Sessions Judge M. V. Ramesh Babu on Tuesday awarded life sentence to four persons, convicting them for a murder they committed in October 2017. In addition to the life-term punishment, Chirra Saidi Reddy and Kancharakuntla Saidi Reddy were levied a penalty of Rs. 5 lakh each, and under the Arms Act – three years imprisonment and Rs. 10,000 fine. Two other convicts Aele Satish Reddy and Bodhanam Venkat Reddy were levied a penalty of Rs. 1 lakh each. The dispute was around the purchase of 3 acre 14 gunta agriculture land at GK Annaram on the outskirts of Nalgonda.
23 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Under construction houses demolished in Kandi mandal||Officials of the Revenue department demolished several under-construction houses and cattle sheds in Julkal village in Kandi mandal on Tuesday. While the officials claimed these structures were built on government lands, the villagers said that they have been residing at those places for the past several years and were even paying taxes. “We are living here for the past 14 years and in this house for the past eight years. We are even paying taxes to the panchayat and receipts are available. If this is illegal why did the panchayat allow us to pay tax? If the officials dismantle the house where do we go?” asked Patnam Lingamaiah and his wife Andal, who were forced to give an undertaking that they would vacate the house or it can be dismantled within one week. When contacted, Tahsildar U. Rama Devi said that the land in Survey No. 195 belongs to government and some people were issued pattas in the past. She said they were yet to check the records and conducted a survey on how many were issued pattas and to what extent occupations had taken place. “Every day we are getting complaints and photos of illegal occupation of government lands,” she added.
23 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Smartphones worth Rs. 2 cr. stolen in Medak||In a highway robbery, 2,442 smartphones worth around Rs. 2 crore were stolen from a container truck which was parked at a roadside dhaba at Masaipet in Medak district on September 16. However, the incident came to light only on Tuesday. According to police, the driver Srinivas noticed the tampering of the truck only after he had cruised for another 250 kilometres when he stopped the vehicle for refuelling. “After having dinner at the dhaba, the driver halted the vehicle only at Ichoda in Adilabad district in the wee hours of September 17 for refilling the fuel tank, where he noticed that the container’s door was tampered and the stock was missing,” Medak Superintendent of Police G. Chandana Deepti said. Soon, Srinvas informed his superiors at the transport company, who advised him to go back to Masaipet dhada, inquired and lodged a complaint with Chegunta police. The container was loaded at Sri City in Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh on the morning of September 16 and was on its way to Uttar Pradesh when the incident took place. It was loaded with Xiaomi’s Redmi Note 9 Pro of different configuration, she said. Ms. Chandana Deepti said that only 20 % of the consignment was stolen. “As Srinivas stopped the vehicle only at Masaipet, he suspected the burglary took place there,” she said. Based on the driver’s complaint, a case was registered and teams were formed to identify and nab the highway burglars, “Though there were CCTV cameras at the dhaba, there were so many vehicles parked and we are unable to trace them,” an official said. Similar highway burglaries took place in Chitttor and Guntur districts of Andhra Pradesh on August 26 and September 17, respectively. There the gang made away with a consignment of about 7,500 mobiles of Xiaomi brand worth about Rs. 6 crore in Chittoor and similar brand smart phones worth Rs. 80 lakh in Guntur.
23 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||Demanding the government to withdraw the Land Regularisation Scheme (LRS) immediately, BJP activists held a dharna before the Collectorate on Tuesday. They said that this was nothing but robbing middle class who had invested heavily but being forced to pay to transact assets. LRS is coming into the picture whenever the government needs money, and that is not right, they said.
23 September 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||BRF||To check cricket betting during IPL, district police has come up with an ‘information and reward strategy’. Any person giving credible information about betting would be suitably rewarded. SP R. Bhaaskaran said that a reward of Rs. 5,000 and more would be given. One can reach Suryapet’s CCS at 9346506767 and the district’s WhatsApp group at 9390564900.
23 September 2020||GURUGRAM,||Cong. accuses Centre of plot to ruin farmers||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee spokesperson Ved Prakash Vidrohi has accused the Narendra Modi government of abuse of power to clear the controversial farm bills and hatching a “conspiracy” to ruin farmers financially and socially and make them slaves of big corporate houses. He also termed the announcement of Minimum Support Price (MSP) for rabi crop a month earlier than usual an attempt to “emotionally blackmail” the farmers. Mr. Vidrohi, in a press statement on Tuesday, said the Modi government had, on the one hand, tried to “cheat” the farmers by clearing the farm bills with abuse of power and, on the other, played a cruel joke on them by announcing a paltry 2.5-6% hike in the MSP for rabi. He said the BJP government was committing “fraud” in the name of increase in the MSP as well. Mr. Vidhrohi said the Modi government had announced the MSP hike earlier this year to pacify the agitating farmers and “emotionally blackmail” them. He added the media had already begun the “sponsored acclaim” of the Modi government soon after the announcement. Mr. Vidrohi said the increase in MSP for wheat, gram, barley and other crops was “a drop in the ocean” when the farmers were hit the hardest by the economic crisis due to COVID-19. “Instead of extending adequate financial help to the farming community, the BJP government has rubbed salt to farmers’ wounds by announcing a meagre hike,” he said, adding that it was an attempt to fool the farmers on the continuation of MSP provision. Mr. Vidrohi, also president “Gramin Bharat”, an NGO, demanded that the BJP government, instead of making false promises, should come clean on the matter and bring a law to make the purchase of crops at MSP mandatory.
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police put Khalid in ‘centre’ of riots plot||The Special Cell of Delhi Police, in its chargesheet, has kept former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student Umar Khalid at the centre of the riots conspiracy and claimed that the plot was hatched by the activist “and his associates”. In a pre-recorded video made before his arrest, Mr. Khalid said the police were attributing false statements to him. “They had been trying to arrest me for the last few months and attributing false statements to me,” he said in the video. While seeking prosecution sanction under sedition and other sections, the police stated as ‘brief facts’: “Communal riots incidents of February 23-25 2020 were pre-planned and were hatched by Umar Khalid, a student of JNU and his associates, all linked with different – 2 groups [sic]”.  The police also attached the transcript of Mr. Khalid’s alleged speech, in court documents titled Transcription of Speech of Umar Khalid shown on Youtube by Republic World allegedly on 17 Feb 2020 at Amrawati, Maharashtra. In it, Mr. Khalid is quoted as saying that US President Donald Trump is coming to India on February 24 and “he will be informed that the government of India is dividing its people”. In his pre-recorded video, Mr. Khalid had said that just a few seconds of his 17-minute speech in Amravati has been extracted and shared online. “I did not even mention the words: riots and violence. In fact, I was talking about satyagraha and ahimsa . Now, they are using false narrative against me in the media and forcing people to give false testimonies against me. They are trying to put everyone who criticises the government behind bars,” he said. The police have claimed that Mr. Khalid gave provocative speeches at various places and instigated people to come out on the roads so that during Mr. Trump’s visit, “propaganda of minorities in India are being persecuted [sic]” gained international coverage. The documents further claimed that JNU student Sharjeel Imam created a WhatsApp group Muslim Students of JNU and three other WhatsApp groups: Students of Jamia , Delhi Protest Support Group and Hum Bharat Ke Log to allegedly mobilise people against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, and the National Register of Citizens. Protest sites The police claimed that initially two protest sites were created, which later expanded to 23 venues across the city. “The location of these protest sites were deliberately chosen in mix population areas, so that at an appropriate time, the sites could be turned into chakka jams (road blockades) and then into riots. These sites are also located at places, where there is history of past riots,” the documents state. The police further claimed that “it has come on record” that “secret offices were set up at most of the protests sites, where mobilisation of people, preparation, strategy, schemes, stock of aforesaid materials, speeches and slogans, were decided in a confidential and secret manner” and “fake vouchers were manufactured/forged” for funds. The police claimed that according to the “sinister and nefarious conspiracy”, the “façade of civil disobedience” was to be maintained “to buckle the government to agree to the illegitimate demands of the accused persons”. The motive, the police further claimed, was to go to “any extent possible”, including “instigation of riots” to “execute a secessionist movement in the country by propagating an armed rebellion against the lawfully constituted government of the day”. “The main target was to uproot the government,” the document read.  They [the police] are trying to put every-one who criticises the government behind bars Umar Khalid Former JNU student
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Woman held in luxury hotel gang-rape case||The police on Tuesday arrested a woman, who was also present in the room when a 27-year-old woman was allegedly gangraped by five men in a luxury hotel located on Ashoka Road in Lutyens’ Delhi, a senior officer said. The officer said that the three accused identified as Sanjay Chaudhary, Manoj Sharma and Jagdeep Singh were arrested on Monday. Two more accused who were from Andhra Pradesh are absconding. “The woman identified as Anushka, from Patiala in Punjab was arrested on Tuesday. She was pursuing a foreign language course from an institute in South Delhi. She was living in Delhi for around one year,” said the police officer. Photos of other women “We have recovered around 2,000 photos of other women from the mobile phone of the accused. We are trying to find out who are these women and if the accused knows them,” he said. The accused Manoj Sharma, a government contractor and liaisoner had invited two businessmen from Andhra Pradesh to the city for some deal. The hotel room was booked through a mobile application on September 18. Sanjay, Jagdeep and Anushka were also called to meet the businessmen. When the victim reached the room on Manoj’s invite, she found all of them consuming liquor. They offered her liquor and she fell unconscious after consuming it. Thereafter, all five men gangraped her while the other woman allegedly instigated and provoked them to sexually assault her. She hit the victim if she tried to shout for help. Manoj dropped the victim to her home. The woman called the police after reaching home. On Saturday, she filed a complaint at Connaught Place police station against the five men and a woman. “The medical examination report of the victim is awaited. We will also conduct medical tests of the accused,” said the officer.
23 September 2020||New Delhi,||EPCA raises red flag over Jhilmil industrial area, Anand Vihar ISBT||The Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority in its review of air pollution hotspots in the city has pointed out shortcomings by multiple departments, including the Delhi Development Authority (DDA) and the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC). It, however, also said that work had been done in several areas. Fire hazard The report said that despite five people dying in a fire in a rubber factory in Jhilmil industrial area, the situation still remained unsafe. “Industries are vertically placed up to three floors with hanging wires. This is an unsafe environment with potential of fire breaks. Safety is compromised,” the review report said. “BSES Yamuna Power Ltd has been directed to submit an action-taken report. The matter was also discussed with BSES officials and it was observed that substantial action is yet to be taken by them,” the report noted. The other problems pointed out by the EPCA include, waste burning, industries not providing information, violations in Tikri Kalan PVC market and dumping of construction and demolition waste in the open. Traffic congestion The report said that Anand Vihar ISBT is surrounded by metro station, bus station, railway station and it also shares the border with Uttar Pradesh. Due to this, there is traffic congestion which leads to air pollution. “Traffic [Department] informed the EPCA that they have drawn up short-term and long-term action plan. The EPCA chairman requested the traffic police to explore how the road can be declared a no-parking zone,” the report said. With regard to Jhilmil area, the report directed that boards be put up at all vacant plots to show ownership and who is responsible if waste is found there. It asked the Delhi Pollution Control Committee to write to the DSIIDC and the EDMC to identify such lands ensure compliance by the next date of review. The EPCA report further said that Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar is one of the major transport hub and caters to about 10,000-12,000 trucks everyday, but the facility is working without proper infrastructure. There is no proper road, parking area and movement of vehicle emits clouds of dust, it said. On construction and demolition waste being dumped in Dwarka, the EPCA said that the DPCC will take up the matter with SDMC, DDA and Flood and Irrigation Department. “The DPCC will work with these agencies to come up with a long-term plan for protection of land so that waste is not dumped,” the report said.
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||FB moves SC against summons||Facebook has moved the Supreme Court challenging the summons issued by the Delhi Assembly’s Committee of Peace and Harmony to appear before it in connection with “allegations” linked to the Delhi riots. The petition has been jointly filed by Ajit Mohan, vice-president and managing director of Facebook India Online Services Pvt. Ltd.; Facebook India Online Services Pvt. Ltd.; and Facebook, Inc., based in the U.S. The respondents are the Legislative Assembly, the National Capital Territory of Delhi, and the Union of India. The petition said the issue comes within the exclusive jurisdiction of the Union. Mr. Mohan has been summoned to appear before the House committee on September 23. The petition asked whether the privileges of the Assembly “include the power to compel the appearance of non-members to express their views or subject them to examination”.
23 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab govt. reduces levies on basmati rice||To provide a level playing field for basmati rice traders and millers from within and outside Punjab, especially in the light of the provisions of the new agriculture Bills, the Punjab government on Tuesday announced reduction in the Market Development Fee and the Rural Development Fee rates from 2% to 1% each. The move, which will also help keep Punjab basmati competitive in the international markets, will provide relief to the tune of Rs. 100 crore to basmati traders-millers, according to an official statement. “The change comes with the caveat that no refund of any fee will be allowed to any paddy, rice dealer, miller, trader for export of the basmati paddy-rice,” it added. The announcement was made by Chief Minister Amarinder Singh in response to a proposal of the Punjab Mandi Board, made after thorough examination of the representations received from the Punjab Rice Millers and Exporters Association and the Punjab Basmati Rice Millers and Exporter Association. They had submitted that the disparity in fees and other charges among the basmati producing States would be around 4%, making Punjab’s rice industry economically unviable.
23 September 2020||JAIPUR,||MGNREGA workers to get benefits on completion of 90 days||Workers engaged in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA) in Rajasthan will get the construction labourer cards on completion of 90 days of work in a year. The cards will enable them to get the benefits of various social security schemes. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said on Tuesday that the recent decision to give work at MGNREGA sites on demand had provided a major relief to the rural populace during the pandemic. The workers will now get the benefits such as accident insurance, free medical treatment and social security pension through the cards. With about 54 lakh labourers engaged under MGNREGA in June this year, Rajasthan had occupied the first rank in the country in providing jobs to migrant workers returning to their native villages during the lockdown. The construction labourers in the State are governed by the Rajasthan Building and Other Construction Workers (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Rules, 2009. Mr. Gehlot instructed the officials at a review of the Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Department to arrange for expeditious payment of wages to the workers. The department has preferred giving the individual beneficiary works, such as land improvement or ‘ Apna Khet Apna Kaam ’, construction of cattle sheds, goat sheds, poultry sheds and piggeries and the Pradhan Mantri Grameen Awas Yojana tasks during the pandemic. Mr. Gehlot said this approach would create livelihood assets that could bring the beneficiaries out of poverty permanently. In order to provide wage employment to a large number of labourers, the department will also focus on labour intensive community works, such as development of pastures, playgrounds and crematoriums, model water reservoirs, irrigation works and plantation.
23 September 2020||Mumbai,||HC impleads Sanjay Raut, BMC officer in actor Kangana’s plea||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday impleaded Shiv Sena’s Rajya Sabha Member of Parliament Sanjay Raut and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) Ward Officer to be a respondent in the plea filed by actor Kangana Ranaut against the demolition of her office at Bandra. Senior advocate Aspi Chenoy representing the BMC sought time to file a reply to the rejoinder filed by Ms. Ranaut on Monday, after the BMC replied to the amendments in the plea filed by her seeking Rs. 2 crore from the civic body. Senior advocate Birendra Saraf appearing for the actor submitted a DVD to the court that contained statements by Mr. Raut. To which the court said, “If you are going to rely on the DVD, then  he  [Mr. Raut] needs to be added as a party.” The Bench said it wanted both the advocates to address the circular issued by the BMC in 2012 on unauthorised construction. The court also directed Mr. Chinoy to keep the Executive Officers of the BMC present online for the proceedings. Advocate Saraf said he would argue on the malice of law. The court impleaded Mr. Raut and Bhagyawant Late, Designated Officer, H West Ward, to be added as a party in the case and posted the matter to be heard on Wednesday.Mr. Raut tweeted: “Case by an actress in Hon.High Court is about demolition of illegal structure by BMC which is an independent body & Demand is 2 make RS MP SanjayRaut a party! From Babri case 2 standing for Marathi pride,I have faced several cases! This wouldn't deter me from fighting for d pride of my city & my Maharashtra.”
23 September 2020||Mumbai,||Tourism, MCA to work on Wankhede stadium tour: Aaditya Thackeray||Maharashtra Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray on Tuesday said the Mumbai Cricket Association has in principal agreed to work with the State Tourism Department on a “stadium experience” tour of the iconic Wankhede cricket facility in south Mumbai for fans and tourists. Wankhede stadium is among the most famous sporting arenas in the world and hosted the 2011 Cricket World Cup final. “We at the Tourism Dept had requested @MumbaiCricAssoc to work with us on opening up of Wankhede Stadium for a stadium experience tour to tourists and fans from around the world. They have agreed in principle to work together on the same,” Mr. Thackeray said in a tweet. “Along with the stadium experience tour, I had discussed with Hon’ble Sharad Pawar sir earlier, and MCA President Vijay Patil ji, on having a museum of ‘Indian Cricket emanating from Mumbai’. The MCA has agreed for this as well, to be either in Wankhede or any suitable place,” the minister said in another tweet. He thanked MCA president Vijay Patil for agreeing to the partnership. “I’m thankful to the MCA apex committee for this key partnership. For most of us, Cricket is a religion. Wankhede is where India won the World Cup. This truly shall be a place for not just tourists, but for devotees of cricket and their fav players. Thank you @VijaypatilDji,” the minister added. The decision was welcomed by MCA Apex Council members Ajinkya Naik and Vihang Sarnaik.
23 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Panvel civic body issues notices to 281 buildings||Nearly a month after the Mahad building collapse, the Panvel Municipal Corporation has issued notices to 281 buildings for conducting a structural audit. The civic body had conducted an inspection and found the buildings in a dilapidated condition. It had asked the residents to either vacate or conduct a structural audit and submit a report to the corporation. However, residents of some of the buildings have asked the corporation to provide them the proof of their buildings being dilapidated. “The residents need to prove that their building is strong and for that they need to conduct an audit. But residents are responding by asking us to provide documents of proof. Of the 281 societies, around 12 have responded till now, and no one has yet conducted an audit and provided us the report,” Deputy Municipal Commissioner Vitthal Dake said.The corporation had conducted the survey by visiting buildings and looking for the damage to the columns.
23 September 2020||Satara,||Veteran actor Ashalata dead||Veteran actress Ashalata Wabgaonkar, who acted in a number of Marathi and Hindi films, died early on Tuesday morning at a private hospital here after battling COVID-19, according to hospital authorities. She was 79. Ashalata was also a noted Marathi theatre personality and had featured in several plays. She had tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to a private hospital on September 17 where she was diagnosed with bilateral pneumonia, a senior doctor said. “Her condition worsened on Monday evening and she was put on ventilator support. She breathed her last today (Tuesday) morning,” he said. The actor was in Satara in western Maharashtra for the shooting of a Marathi TV serial. Marathi actress Alka Kubal, who was with her during the shoot, said the shooting was on for the last one month. “Till yesterday, she was talking to us and suddenly she slipped into a coma. We never imagined that this pandemic will take her away from us,” she said. Expressing grief over her death, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray described her as a versatile artist. “We have lost a versatile actress who left her mark in Marathi theatre, films and the Hindi film industry with her performances,” Mr. Thackeray said. He said Ashalata excelled as a poetess, singer and writer and immortalised the characters she portrayed. PWD Minister Ashok Chavan said a talented personality has made her exit.
23 September 2020||Satara,||Veteran actor Ashalata dead||Veteran actress Ashalata Wabgaonkar, who acted in a number of Marathi and Hindi films, died early on Tuesday morning at a private hospital here after battling COVID-19, according to hospital authorities. She was 79. Ashalata was also a noted Marathi theatre personality and had featured in several plays. She had tested positive for COVID-19 and was admitted to a private hospital on September 17 where she was diagnosed with bilateral pneumonia, a senior doctor said. She was in Satara for the shooting of a Marathi TV serial.
23 September 2020||Thane,||Death toll in Bhiwandi building collapse rises to 20; search on||The death toll in the Bhiwandi building collapse rose to 20 on Tuesday, with the recovery of seven more bodies overnight, the police said. Bodies of a two-and-a-half-year-old boy and a young couple were recovered 24 hours after the crash. The number of those rescued has gone up to 25, with five more people being pulled out from under the debris. The dead include nine children, among them two toddlers, an official said. Those rescued are being treated at hospitals in Bhiwandi and Thane. The 43-year-old Jilani building collapsed at 3.40 a.m. on Monday. Two civic officials have been suspended in connection with the collapse and an offence has been registered against the building owner, an official said. The building in the powerloom town — which is around 10 km from Thane — had 40 flats and around 150 residents lived there, an official said. The building, located at Narpoli’s Patel Compound near Dhamankar Naka, collapsed while the residents were asleep. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force and personnel of the Thane Disaster Response Force are still at the spot as the search operation continues, he said. The building was not in the list of dilapidated structures of the Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation (BNMC), he said. Bhiwandi DCP Rajkumar Shinde said offences under Sections 337,338,304 (2) of the Indian Penal Code were registered against the owner of building, Sayyed Ahmed Jilani, after a complaint by civic officials. Mr. Jilani is yet to be arrested, he said. The BNMC suspended two senior officials. An inquiry committee has also been set up and will include the assistant town planner, he said. Meanwhile, a building resident said most residents of the building were tenants and included autorickshaw drivers, vendors and labourers. A civic official said the building was served two notices, one in 2019 and another in February, over alleged irregularities, but the residents did not leave as the rent was very low.
23 September 2020||Washington,||Hold China accountable for virus: Trump||Delivering a campaign style speech to the UN General Assembly’s 75th session, U.S. President Donald Trump said China must be held responsible for the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Trump also used his video message at the general debate to talk up the U.S.’s work to address the pandemic, his economic record and trade deals. “We will distribute a vaccine, we will defeat the virus, we will end the pandemic,” Mr. Trump said. ‘Plague unleashed’ “We must hold accountable the nation which unleashed this plague onto the world: China,” Mr. Trump said. “In the earliest days of the virus, China locked down travel domestically, while allowing flights to leave China, and in fact the world.” Mr. Trump alleged that America was being treated unfairly on its environmental record and called the Paris Climate Accord “one-sided”. The Trump administration had withdrawn the U.S. from the accord. “Those who attack America's exceptional environmental record while ignoring China's rapid pollution, they are not interested in the environment,” Mr. Trump said. “They only want to punish America. And I will not stand for it.” Mr. Trump said if the UN wanted to be an effective organisation, it would need to focus on the “real problems” of the world which he listed as including, “terrorism, the oppression of women, forced labour, drug trafficking, human and sex trafficking, religious persecution and the ethnic cleansing of religious minorities.” Greatest economy Mr. Trump — who faces an election in November — said that in three years he had built the “greatest economy in history”. The President talked about a peace deal he had facilitated between Serbia and Kosovo and a deal between Israel, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain to strengthen ties ( the “Abraham Accords”, signed last week at the White House). “We took an approach, and the approach worked. We intend to deliver more peace agreements shortly,” Mr. Trump said. The President said he was putting his country first and urged others to do so. He also implied he would be continuing as President next year. “As President, I have rejected the failed approaches of the past, and I am proudly putting America first, just as you should be putting your countries first. That's okay. That's what you should be doing. I am supremely confident that next year, when we gather in person, we will be in the midst of one of the greatest years in our history. And frankly, hopefully, in the history of the world,” Mr. Trump said.
23 September 2020||COLOMBO,||Sri Lankan govt. tables 20th Amendment Bill||Sri Lanka’s Justice Minister Ali Sabry on Tuesday tabled the contentious 20th Amendment Bill in Parliament, as Opposition members protested by raising slogans against the move. “We don’t want 20,” members of the main Opposition party Samagi Jana Balawegaya (SJB, or United People’s Front) chanted in chorus. The party is mulling moving the Supreme Court, according to political sources, to challenge the draft Amendment that greatly enhances the powers of the Executive President, while replacing the preceding 19th Amendment of 2015 that sought to clip them. In addition to strengthening the ambit and power of the President’s office, the Bill envisages a diminished role for the Prime Minister and Parliament. Last week, the government said it would revisit the Amendment and Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa appointed a committee to study the proposed legislation and give recommendations. However, it appears that no changes have yet been made to the draft that has triggered concern among public intellectuals, activists and government critics. ‘A bombshell’ Commenting on the draft 20th Amendment in a recent column, senior political scientist Jayadeva Uyangoda termed it a “constitutional bombshell”. Calling for resistance, prominent civil society activist Paikiasothy Saravanamuthu wrote “we cannot descend into majoritarian, populist, and authoritarian dynastic rule upon which the militarisation of our society will be set in stone for the foreseeable future and generations to come”. ‘Path to autocracy’ Other oppositional voices, including from Tamil political parties, have cautioned that the Bill might take Sri Lanka on the path to “autocracy” and “dictatorship”. Sri Lanka’s Attorney General, the government’s chief legal adviser, has said the draft Bill of the 20th Amendment will not require a referendum, and could be enacted by with a two-thirds parliamentary majority, which the ruling party of the Rajapaksas has comfortably secured after its big win in the August general election.
23 September 2020||Beijing,||Chinese tycoon and Xi critic jailed for 18 years for graft||A Chinese tycoon who called President Xi Jinping a clown and criticised his handling of the coronavirus outbreak was jailed for 18 years on Tuesday for corruption, bribery and embezzlement of public funds. Ren Zhiqiang — once among the ruling Communist Party’s inner circle — disappeared from the public eye in March, shortly after penning an essay that lambasted Mr. Xi’s pandemic response. His outspokenness had earned the former chairman of state-owned property developer Huayuan Group the nickname “Big Cannon”. Tuesday’s verdict said Mr. Ren embezzled almost 50 million yuan ($7.4 million) of public funds and accepted bribes worth 1.25 million yuan, according to a statement from the Beijing No. 2 Intermediate People’s Court. It said the 69-year-old “voluntarily and truthfully confessed all his crimes”, and would not appeal the court's decision.
23 September 2020||United Nations,||Xi defends China’s ambitions, warns of ‘clash of civilizations’||President Xi Jinping gave a robust defence of China’s ambitions on Tuesday in a speech to the UN, warning against the perils of a “clash of civilizations” during a pandemic that has ripped through the world. In an opening address presaged by a demand by his U.S. counterpart Donald Trump for China to be held “accountable” for the coronavirus outbreak, Mr. Xi said global unity was the only way to overcome the crisis. The world must “oppose politicisation and stigmatisation” over COVID-19, Mr. Xi said in the pre-recorded address, urging world leaders to embrace the “concept of a big family... and avoid falling into the trap of a clash of civilizations”. The U.S. and China are eyeballing each other over a raft of issues: the origins of the coronavirus, trade and tech dominance, security and disputed seas. The U.S. has called China out over its ambitions to control the strategically pivotal South China Sea as well as for its bid to crush democracy movements in Hong Kong and Taiwan. ‘No Cold War’ But Mr. Xi reassured world leaders his country had no desire for “hegemony, expansion or sphere of influence”. “China has no intention to enter a Cold War with any country,” he said, insisting that Beijing is instead a bulwark of international systems such as the World Trade Organization and a willing partner in the face of diplomatic spats. “We insist on dialogue to bridge differences and negotiation to resolve disputes,” he added.
23 September 2020||Beijing,||Labour scheme in Tibet has echoes of Xinjiang||China is forcing Tibetan farmers and herders into labour programmes similar to those used in troubled Xinjiang, a U.S. research institute alleged on Tuesday. The moves risk a “loss of cultural heritage” in the politically sensitive region, the group’s report warned. Authorities in Tibet, a predominantly Buddhist area, have touted the scheme — which puts rural workers to task in factories — as a tool for poverty alleviation. They say this is in line with President Xi Jinping’s goal of eradicating extreme poverty by the end of 2020. But researchers at the Jamestown Foundation said “militarised vocational training” is also a form of ideological indoctrination and assimilation towards ethnic Tibetans, who make up 90% of the remote border region’s population. It said more than 500,000 rural labourers — mainly herders and subsistence farmers — were trained in the first seven months of 2020, with each county assigned quotas. It didn’t cite any comparable figures for previous years. The training schemes aim to instil “work discipline, Chinese language and work ethics”, according to a 2019 Chinese government action plan quoted in the report. ‘Eliminate lazy people’ A 2018 report by the Nagqu city government also states that the purpose of the labour transfer scheme is to “effectively eliminate lazy people”. Companies that fulfil the hiring quota for workers are offered up to 500,000 yuan (about $75,000), the report said, while herders and farmers are also encouraged by the scheme to hand over their livestock and land to large state-run cooperatives. “In the context of Beijing’s increasingly assimilatory ethnic minority policy, it is likely that these policies will promote a long-term loss of linguistic, cultural and spiritual heritage,” wrote the report’s author Adrian Zenz, a researcher at the U.S.-based Victims of Communism Memorial Foundation.  The report claims there are similarities with labour schemes in the troubled Xinjiang region. The scale of the Tibetan work scheme is still dwarfed by that of Xinjiang — which trained an average of 1.29 million workers each year between 2014 and 2019, according to a government white paper released last week.
23 September 2020||London,||Assange ‘hears voices’ in prison: psychiatrist||WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange complained of hearing imaginary voices and music while detained in a high-security British prison, a psychiatrist who has interviewed him told his extradition hearing on Tuesday. Michael Kopelman, who has interviewed Mr. Assange around 20 times, said the former hacker would be a “very high” suicide risk if he were extradited to the U.S. for leaking military secrets. ‘Severe depression’ He cited as evidence Mr. Assange’s “severe depression” and “psychotic symptoms”, which included auditory hallucinations while in solitary confinement in his cell at the high-security Belmarsh Prison in London. Mr. Kopelman told the Old Bailey court that Mr. Assange said he hallucinated music and voices saying “you are dust, you are dead, we are coming to get you”. Mr. Assange’s suicidal impulses “arise out of clinical factors... but it is the imminence of extradition that will trigger the attempt”, he added, warning that “he will deteriorate substantially” if extradited. Mr. Assange’s partner, Stella Moris, has previously said she feared he would take his own life.
23 September 2020||Washington,||‘Resolve Kashmir in line with UN Resolutions’||A day after Pakistan’s Foreign Minister brought up Kashmir during a speech at the UN’s 75th anniversary commemoration event, the issue was raised again — this time by Turkish President Recep Erdogan during his general debate remarks. “The Kashmir conflict, which is also key to the stability and peace of South Asia, is still a burning issue. Steps taken following the abolition of the special status of Jammu-Kashmir further complicated the problem,” Mr. Erdogan said via a recorded video message. India had withdrawn Article 370 (special status for Jammu and Kashmir) and reorganised the former State into the Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. In August, India had called “unwarranted” similar remarks made by a Turkish Foreign Ministry spokesperson. In February, Mr. Erdogan, on an official visit to Pakistan, told its Parliament the Kashmir issue was as close to the Pakistanis as it was to the Turkish people. “We are in favour of solving this issue through dialogue, within the framework of the United Nations resolutions and especially in line with the expectations of the people of Kashmir,” Mr. Erdogan said on Tuesday.
23 September 2020||Penghu,||Taiwan’s Tsai visits frontline military base||President Tsai Ing-wen visited a military base on one of Taiwan’s outlying islands on Tuesday in a display of resolve following a recent show of force by China. Ms. Tsai spoke to air force pilots and crew members at the Penghu Magong Air Force base. Taiwan has the “ability” and “resolve” to safeguard its territory, she said. “I know that having to face the provocations of the People’s Liberation Army surrounding Taiwan, and their actions in disturbing the area’s peace, in the situation, everyone’s duty at the frontline air defense at Penghu has become heavier,” she said. “But I have faith in every individual, that every one of our well-trained air force brothers and sisters is able to lift this heavy responsibility.”
23 September 2020||Abu Dhabi,||Abu Dhabi, Sept 22, 2020 (AFP) -||UAE capital Abu Dhabi has abolished the requirement for permits to purchase and consume alcohol. “We are announcing the cancellation of permits for alcohol, and residents and tourists will have the right to buy it in authorised stores,” said a circular from the Department of Culture and Tourism, dated September 15.AFP
23 September 2020||Ramallah,||Ramallah, Palestinian Territories, Sept 22, 2020 (AFP) -||Palestinians have stepped down from a key Arab League role in protest at the regional bloc’s failure to take a stand against Israeli-Arab deals. Palestinian Foreign Minister Riyad al-Maliki announced the decision on Tuesday to resign from the rotating presidency of the Council of the Arab League.AFP
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||E-learning in India, a case of bad education||Equality of opportunity to all is one of the basic principles of our Constitution. From an educational point of view, John Dewey, American philosopher, psychologist, and educational reformer, strongly argued that “[A]n environment in which some are limited will always in reaction create conditions that prevent the full development even of those who fancy they enjoy complete freedom for unhindered growth.” Another point he makes equally strongly is that for good education, one must lead the child’s current interests and abilities organically to logically organised human knowledge. This second point is an indicator of the quality of education. The key issues Our education system was never very efficient even in the best of times. The COVID-19 pandemic has rendered it extremely biased and faulty. The main thrust of providing learning opportunities while schools are shut is online teaching. There are several sets of guidelines and plans issues by the government, the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) and the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) for this purpose. The Internet space is teeming with learning schemes, teaching videos, sites and portals for learning opportunities. The content of all government sites and schemes is primarily the NCERT-issued Alternative Academic Calendar (https://bit.ly/3kE5nCN), videos of teaching, digital editions of textbooks, and links to other such material. There are three pertinent issues in this whole effort of online education and schemes that need serious consideration. One, an exacerbation of inequality; two, the pedagogical issues leading to bad quality education; and three, an unwarranted thrust on online education, post-COVID-19. Exacerbation of inequality It is worth repeating a truism that calamities, be they natural or man-made, affect the underprivileged the hardest; COVID-19 is no exception. The plight of millions of migrant labourers, many of who walked thousands of kilometres right in the beginning of the lockdown, proved the point adequately. A similar but less noticed deprivation is being visited to children of the same people, which may push the next generation in a direction of even greater comparative disadvantage. In our society there is no large movement that may generate any hope of an improved situation in terms of equality and social justice. Therefore, any positive change that might come about will be a cumulative result of the development of capabilities and grit in individuals. The COVID-19 shutdown has affected this opportunity for the poor even harder than their counterparts from well-to-do sections of society. The government began plans for students with no online access only by the end of August. The plans themselves were the usual glib talk always served to the poor. These plans assume semi-literate or illiterate parents teaching children, community involvement, mobile pools, and so on. Anyone with an understanding of rural India will immediately note these to be imaginary. As a result, whatever online or digital education is available is for students with only online access. Thus, digital India may become even more unequal and divided than it already is. Even if one takes it as an emergency measure (that ‘something is better than nothing’) and also accept ‘for some is better than no one’ despite it being against the principle of equal opportunity, the quality of online teaching-learning leaves much to be desired. The NCERT declares in its Learning Enhancement Guidelines (https://bit.ly/3iWdxWD), or LEG that 60-70% students, teachers and parents consider learning satisfactory. However, its survey asks a single question on the feeling of students using the criteria of ‘joyful to burdensome’. The happiness or otherwise of the student while learning is, of course, important, but it says nothing about the quantum and depth of learning. Listening to lectures on the mobile phone, copying from the board where the teacher is writing, frequent disconnections and/or having blurred video/audio can hardly and organically connect the child’s present understanding with the logically organised bodies of human knowledge. No focus on concepts If one sees videos of teaching mathematics, science, history, and the English language, one can hardly avoid noticing problems with them. In the science and mathematics videos, in particular, there are many misconceptions and ambiguities. The emphasis is more on ‘tricks’ to remember for success in an examination than laying the stress on conceptual understanding. The government of Delhi also uses videos by the Khan Academy (“a nonprofit with a mission to provide a free, world-class education to anyone, anywhere”). Many American educators have questioned the quality of teaching and have pointed out inadequate or plainly wrong concepts, particularly in mathematics. To quote an article in The Washington Post , “Khan Academy: The revolution that isn’t” (July 23, 2012 – https://wapo.st/3mJU4dV): “teachers... are concerned that... the guy who’s delivered over 170 million lessons to students around the world... considers the precise explanation of mathematical concepts to be mere ‘nitpicking’.” The secondary students are in a better position still because of their relative independence in learning and possible self-discipline. The beginners in the lower primary can get nothing at all from this mode of teaching. An example of assumptions in the NCERT’s planning in LEG can be instructive; it is glibly pronounced that “for a child in grade I, the learning outcome — associates words with pictures — can be easily taught with the use of resources available from or at home such as newspapers, food packets, things at home, TV programmes, nature, etc. All that will be needed is guidance to the parents.” Well, if it were all that simple, then why are our children not learning to read and write? Education does not happen in chance encounters with print. As Michael Joseph Oakeshott who also wrote on education would say, it requires well-connected, regular efforts that are incrementally building to help the child focus his attention and to provoke him to distinguish and to discriminate, and develop a habit of staying on task. And this requires help from someone who knows the child as well as understands the objective of education. Food packets and newspapers in the hands of even ‘guided’ semi-literate parents will be good enough to present a plan on paper, but will be completely useless for the child’s learning. The thrust, post-COVID-19 IT has been presented as a harbinger of a revolution in education for more than three decades now. However, all reliable studies seem to indicate that Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in the classroom helps in already well functioning systems, and either has no benefits or negative impact in poorly performing systems. That does not indicate much hope from IT in our education system. The NCERT’s LEG states that “COVID-19 has created a situation which demands transformation in school education... the transaction mechanisms in school education may go through a drastic change. Therefore, even if the pandemic will get over, its traces will be there and school education needs to remodel itself....” It recommends that “alternative modes of education for the whole academic session including Internet-based, radio, podcast, community radio, IVRS, TV DTH Channels, etc.” should be developed. This transformation of schools in the current understanding of pedagogy, suitability of learning material and quality of learning provided through IT will further devastate the already inadequate system of school education in the country. Of course, IT can be used in a balanced manner where it can help; but it should not be seen as a silver bullet to remedy all ills in the education system. Institutional environment The importance of an institutional environment cannot be overemphasised when one thinks of online teaching. Even when the institutions function sub-optimally, students themselves create an environment that supports their growth morally, socially and intellectually in conversations and interactions with each other. The online mode of teaching completely forecloses this opportunity. In conclusion,our democracy and public education system have, as usual, left the neediest in the lurch and are providing bad education to those who matter. Rohit Dhankar is Professor, Azim Premji University, Bengaluru, and Founder Secretary, Digantar, Jaipur, Rajasthan. The views expressed are personal
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Recovery from COVID-19 can be a struggle||‘When will I feel normal again?’ This is a question every clinician gets asked daily. In most instances, historical narratives, research studies, guidelines and personal experiences equip us to provide an informed answer. Most research on COVID-19, however, has so far focused on reducing deaths, shortening hospital stays, and arresting the spread of the disease. With the cohort of COVID survivors getting larger, we are now cognisant of the fact that a significant proportion of patients who survive the illness suffer from sequelae that may not be short-lived. Support groups have mushroomed online of thousands of individuals reporting persistent symptoms months after recovering from the illness. A recent study from Italy reported that at an average of two months post-hospitalisation, only 12.6% individuals were free of any symptoms. The most common symptom reported in over half of all patients was fatigue. Unexpectedly, a significant proportion of individuals with ‘mild’ illness are also reporting long-standing symptoms. Effects of COVID-19 SARS-CoV-2 belongs to a family of single-stranded RNA viruses called coronaviruses. Viruses in this family have been known for their far-reaching effects, affecting the respiratory, neurological, cardiovascular (heart and blood vessels), hepatic (liver), and enteric (gut) systems. The focus of the present pandemic has been on the respiratory effects of the virus, which have been the most common manifestation and cause of morbidity and mortality. As many as 97% of all individuals with symptomatic disease have been reported to demonstrate abnormalities on a CT scan of the chest. In addition to the viral infection and the immune response to it, the use of oxygen and being on a ventilator can also cause injury to the lungs. Corticosteroids, the only drugs with a proven mortality benefit in COVID-19, have the potential to help reduce lung injury. However, their prolonged use can have ill-effects affecting multiple systems in the body. In the study mentioned above, 43% individuals reported shortness of breath two months after discharge. The involvement of the cardiovascular system has been a prominent feature of this pandemic, as reflected both by clinical and autopsy studies. Individuals have gone to hospital with inflammation of the muscle fibres of the heart, limiting the functioning of the heart and mimicking heart attacks, and clots in the blood vessels of the lungs, brain and veins. These have been attributed to the direct effects of the virus (the heart muscle has an abundance of the same receptors that the virus binds to in the lungs, the ACE2 receptors) as well as abnormalities in the clotting pathways secondary to a dysfunctional and exuberant immune response to the virus. A fifth of all hospitalised patients have blood markers that reflect dying heart muscle cells. A subset of individuals report persistent palpitations and have an elevated resting heart rate, chest pain and exercise intolerance months after the illness. Structural damage to the heart and damage to the nerve transmission that regulates the functioning of the heart and the tone of blood vessels have been hypothesised to cause these effects. The myelin sheath is a layer that covers nerves, facilitating transmission of signals along nerve fibres. Loss of this sheath, seen in demyelinating illnesses such as multiple sclerosis, is associated with severe fatigue and loss of muscle strength. Coronaviruses have been postulated to cause demyelinating disease through the direct effect on oligodendrocytes (cells in the nervous system), and through immune mechanisms in which similarities between the virus and myelin lead to T-cells attacking the body’s own myelin. The loss of smell that has been reported in COVID-19 is believed to be a result of the virus entering the brain through the olfactory bulb, and the presence of the virus has been demonstrated in the fluid surrounding the brain. The persistence of fatigue, ‘brain fog’, short-term memory loss, loss of smell and taste, and headaches are all being reported for months following the illness. These are possibly sequelae of the virus invading the nervous system. SARS-CoV-2 may have the potential for resulting in a cohort of individuals with progressive neurological disease, and long-haulers with such symptoms need to be followed-up closely. Survivors of SARS infection reported post-traumatic stress disorder, and a range of mental illnesses including increased suicidality in the months’ post-infection. In the three years following the SARS epidemic, 59% survivors reported a psychiatric disorder at some point. A study published in Sleep Medicine revealed very high rates of clinically significant insomnia (20%), acute stress (15.8%), anxiety (18.5%), and depression (24.5%). The isolation from family and friends during the period of hospitalisation, stigma associated with the disease, and anxiety because of lockdowns are all likely to contribute to mental illness after being infected. Especially in those admitted with the illness, it would be naïve to assume that a discharge from the hospital would lead to a return to normalcy. Whether the effects of the virus on the brain are responsible for the psychiatric long-term effects, or these are a consequence of the mileu in which we live, is unknown, but needs close monitoring. What can be done? So, what do we tell patients who ask us the question? What we know is that other viral illnesses have been known to cause a post-viral fatigue syndrome too. Persistent viral fragments leading to a constant immune response have been thought to play a role. What makes COVID-19 relatively unique though is that these symptoms are being reported in individuals who have had a mild illness and are often young and had been healthy prior to the illness. What is reassuring is that our experience with other viral illnesses suggests that most individuals return to a normal life, and only a small fraction have symptoms which persist. For long-haulers, the limited experience that present survivors offer is that rest helps; trying to push through the pain can be counter-productive, especially if one attempts vigorous exercise too soon. A recent guideline published in the British Journal of Sports Medicine has warned against exercising during the illness (might increase viral replication within the heart, causing long-term damage, and can also cause sudden cardiac death), and has suggested a detailed assessment before return to sport in individuals with symptoms. Close monitoring is key, as is the control of co-morbidities, nutritional deficiencies and illnesses such as endocrine disorders. A graded rehabilitation which includes building physical endurance and addressing mental health issues is crucial to a holistic recovery. Empathy is key, and research is needed to codify the illness and prevent the stigma that such individuals report having to face from their peers. It is becoming evident that post-COVID effects are real. We owe it to our patients to help them understand it better, and study ways in which we can alter its course. Dr. Lancelot Pinto is a Consultant Pulmonologist and Epidemiologist at P.D. Hinduja National Hospital, Mumbai. Dr. Nikita Mehra is an Assistant Professor of Medical Oncology and Researcher in Molecular Oncology at Adyar Cancer Institute, Chennai. Views are personal
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Making the language of the law comprehensible||The recent litigation over the language in which the Draft Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification 2020 should be published has brought much needed attention to the issue of official languages used by the central government in its functioning. The trigger for this debate has been litigation by citizens, who protested against the publication of the draft EIA notification in only English and Hindi, on the grounds that such a policy excludes a large number of Indians who do not speak Hindi or English from participating in the public consultation process. While two High Courts have asked the government to publish the notification in all 22 languages mentioned in Schedule VIII to the Constitution, the central government is pushing back against this order, arguing that it is not required by the law to publish these notifications in the 22 languages mentioned in Schedule VIII. One of the other reasons offered by the central government to resist the translation of the notification into 22 languages is that translations may result “in the meaning of the words being obfuscated and often even lost”, thereby leading to greater legal uncertainty. It is incredible for the government of the world’s largest democracy to make such a claim because there exists a central law called the Authoritative Texts (Central Laws) Act, 1973 (https://bit.ly/35Wkkfp) which creates a legal mechanism to recognise authoritative translations of all central laws into languages mentioned in the Schedule VIII to the Constitution of India. This law extends to rules and delegated legislation issued under central laws. The Legislative Department of the Law Ministry hosts these translations on its website. Separate from the question of accuracy of translations is the larger policy question regarding the languages used by the central government for communicating with the public. The Official Languages Act, 1963 (https://bit.ly/3mHWmuh) requires the publication of the law in only English and Hindi. As a result, the central government, de facto, ends up excluding non-English and non-Hindi speaking citizens from the law-making process only because of their linguistic identity. Language politics Surprisingly, this issue is yet to garner the political attention it deserves despite the fact that since Independence, language has been one of the main markers of political identity in India. The reorganisation of Indian States on linguistic lines in 1956 took place because of the agitations that followed the death of Potti Sreeramulu in 1952 after his 56-day long fast demanding the creation of a State for the Telugu-speaking people of the Madras Presidency. Ever since, language has played a key role in shaping Indian politics. The rise and success of several regional political parties such as the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, the Telugu Desam Party and the Shiv Sena have been associated with linguistic pride, which sometimes can boil into language chauvinism against other linguistic minorities. Language, therefore, is a powerful marker of political identity in India. Despite the importance of language to Indian politics, the key political parties which owe their existence to their politics around language, appear to be weak and inadequate in convincing Parliament or the central government in ensuring that all 22 languages recognised in the Schedule VIII to the Constitution are used by all institutions of the central government while communicating or interfacing with the public. At the very least, an inclusive language policy must be integral to the law-making and enforcement process. This should include mandatorily publishing all parliamentary debates and associated records such as reports of parliamentary committees, the entire record of the Gazette of India , all legislation and delegated legislation of the central government in all 22 languages that are incorporated in the Schedule VIII. Similarly, central government offices such as the passport office, dealing with citizens across the country should give citizens the option to engage with the government in a language of their choosing. So far, only the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) which runs the Aadhaar digital identity programme has an inclusive language policy allowing citizens to get identity cards in languages other than English and Hindi. Translations as legal right In many of the cases outlined above, especially with regard to legislative enactments, it is reasonable to argue that citizens are not bound by laws that are not made available to them in their local language. The Supreme Court of India in the past ( Harla v. State of Rajasthan , 1951) has ruled that citizens are not bound by laws which have not been published and publicised. The Court stated in pertinent part: “Natural justice requires that before a law can become operative it must be promulgated or published. It must be broadcast in some recognisable way so that all men may know what it is; or, at the very least, there must be some special rule or regulation or customary channel by or through which such knowledge can be acquired with the exercise of due and reasonable diligence.” It does not take much to extend this reasoning to argue that Indians are not bound by central laws unless Parliament makes its laws available in languages understood by all Indians. In the European Union The demand for greater availability of laws and public records of the central government in the 22 languages in the Schedule VIII is not a big ask. In other multi-linguistic jurisdictions such as the European Union (EU), all EU-level official documents are made available in all 24 official languages of member States (https://bit.ly/33SK4Xp) because the EU has a policy in place to respect the linguistic diversity of its member nations. This policy allows all EU nationals to communicate with EU institutions in any of the 24 official languages and these institutions are required to respond in the same language. It is appalling that the Government of India does not have a similar policy in place. It is not too late to put in place such a policy but this is unlikely to happen unless political parties such as the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam make it a national issue like they did in 1965 when the Official Languages Act was amended to make Hindi the sole official language of the central government. Prashant Reddy T. is a lawyer
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Uniting to combat COVID-19||With the pandemic showing no signs of abating, growth prospects for the world’s fastest-growing region, South Asia, appear grim. In April, the World Bank predicted that growth in the region would be 1.8%-2.8% this year. Governments in South Asian countries have responded in varying degrees to counter the health and economic crises. India resumed its economic activities on a limited scale following a strict lockdown imposed in late March and lasting through April. Bangladesh, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka did the same after an extended lockdown. Bhutan and the Maldives have managed to largely contain community transmission and avoid prolonged lockdowns due to a higher testing rate. This is consistent with the hypothesis that countries that have conducted more tests have been more successful in containing the pandemic. According to Worldometer, in South Asia, the Maldives has the highest number of tests per million population followed by Bhutan. Countries facing a surge in cases, such as India, could have flattened the curve by increasing the number of tests. Low mortality India has the second largest number of COVID-19 cases in the world (over 55 lakh) after the U.S. Bangladesh has around 3.5 lakh cases. Surprisingly, unlike other regions, South Asian countries are experiencing a lower mortality rate despite having a higher infection rate. Many have suggested that this could be due to the region’s tropical climate, protection offered by a tuberculosis vaccine (BCG), exposure to malaria, and a weaker strain of the virus. However, epidemiological studies and the World Health Organization’s reviews have been sceptical about the hypotheses which leave out one plausible explanation — the concern over data reliability. Many have suggested that in a region that houses one-fourth of the global population and one-third of the global poor, many COVID-19 deaths might have gone unnoticed, unreported or even under-reported. While India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and the Maldives have unveiled stimulus packages, the rest are yet to announce any concrete support for their low income and lower-middle income population still suffering from the economic fallout of the crisis. In late March, India announced a $22.5 billion relief package to ensure food security and cash transfers to save the livelihoods of an estimated 800 million people living in poverty. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) slashed the repo and reverse repo rate to create liquidity for businesses. In early April, Bangladesh announced a stimulus package worth about $8 billion in addition to an earlier $595 million incentive package for export-oriented industries. In late March, Pakistan unveiled a comprehensive fiscal stimulus package of $6.76 billion. Its central bank also slashed the interest rate. In late April, the Maldives government mobilised a $161.8 million emergency fund. It also announced a short-term financing facility for the tourism industry. Sri Lanka signed an agreement with the RBI for a currency swap worth $400 million to support domestic financial stability. In late February, the Afghan government allocated about $25 million to fight COVID-19. In addition, a $100.4 million grant was approved by the World Bank in April to Afghanistan. Although countries like India and Bangladesh announced financial and material stimulus packages, distribution concerns remain unaddressed. For instance, the Open Market Sale in Bangladesh appears ineffective as there is no physical distancing and, in some instances, there is political tampering and poor governance. In India, the announcement of the lockdown gave citizens less than four hours to prepare. Hoarding of supplies caused a shortage in the market. The lockdown disrupted supply chains. It was a similar situation in Nepal and Pakistan. A coordinated response mechanism Since this crisis is likely to result in prolonged economic setbacks in South Asia, leaders of the region need to look beyond narrow geopolitical rivalry and come together to work towards a well-coordinated response mechanism. A SAARC COVID-19 fund was created following Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call to South Asian leaders, but governments are yet to decide on its modus operandi. The region could leverage its existing institutional framework under the umbrella of SAARC to effectively respond to the crisis. For instance, SAARC Food Banks could be activated to tackle the imminent regional food crisis, and the SAARC Finance Forum can be activated to formulate a regional economic policy response. If leaders of the region can’t rise to the occasion even when faced with a common problem that is claiming lives, putting millions out of jobs and crippling economies, when will they? Syed Munir Khasru is Chairman of the international think tank, The Institute for Policy, Advocacy, and Governance. Email: munir.khasru@ipag.org
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Needless Booker brouhaha||Like every year, the Booker Prize shortlist has garnered a lot of attention in India. We also have an Indian-born author on the shortlist. Regardless, Booker Prize announcements are awaited with keen interest primarily by a minority community in the country largely comprising English language publishers, booksellers, critics, academics and readers. The Booker Prize-winning work is then translated into multiple Indian languages which is a pure economic decision rather than an artistic choice. A kind of neo-colonialism The obsession with the Booker is in tandem with our fixation for foreign awards and nominations. A kind of neo-colonialism or an imperialism of the mind is established when books and authors are considered important only vis-à-vis their mentions in the foreign press and nominations for ‘prestigious’ foreign awards. Many authors from the erstwhile Commonwealth clamour to write for the foreign press and gain entry into the exclusive club of a privileged few. If you win it, even better. There is very little attempt to discuss the winning title for its own merit. The awards create blinders. A slavish attitude is perpetuated through awards and longlists that refuse to read or recognise literature beyond honorifics or quotable quotes. Lest it be forgotten it should perhaps be said that awards are always a reflection of a handful or a jury comprising certain individuals and their likes and dislikes. That is the case with all jury and awards. This lack of criticality around the award is farcical. Also, how has the Booker really helped the reading or writing sphere in this country? It has encouraged a class of writers who write to win awards. Their writing, however, has to qualify for the pre-determined categories as to how the East or the rest of the world is imagined by the West. That debate is still not dated. Gender, colour, caste, conflict have been reduced to writerly templates and plot points to tick off the list of essentials a work of fiction from this part of the world must contain. The Booker Prize or any big award so to speak has done precious little to improve the Indian readership rather than creating momentary interest in the work or the author. There are some who attain permanent celebrity status based on the laurels of the award. This award-obsessed culture is a trap to jettison conversation about reading and writing and further drown us in the cult of the celebrity, a permanent fetish. We refuse to look beyond the individual. His or her writing becomes secondary and gradually of marginal interest. Books in India There are several awards in various Indian languages which regularly honour and recognise literary talent. Those awards barely find a mention in the mainstream media. We have to wait for translations to bridge that gap. While translations from Indian languages into English have peaked over the years, only a certain kind of writing is chosen or curated; writing that mainstream, metropolitan India might want to read from the provinces. This is a major limitation that we have to find ways to address. While we look away from our own, we constantly strive to understand the foreign, the different. There is a lot of glib talk about the role of literature in expanding the horizon but it shouldn’t be done at the cost of ignoring local knowledge systems and writing cultures. We often talk about building bridges through literature. While that is surely welcome, it should not hold our imagination hostage to foreign awards and juries which do precious little to improve our lives as readers and thinkers especially in a country known for its widely varied and constantly evolving literary cultures beyond the English speaking and writing sphere. Kunal Ray teaches literary and cultural studies at FLAME University, Pune
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||A new world order||At a special session marking 75 years of the United Nations on Tuesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for reform of its “outdated structures”, pointing out that in the absence of comprehensive changes, the world body today faces a “crisis of confidence”. While the words appear harsh given the occasion, they can hardly be faulted. India has been at the forefront of demanding reform in the UN, particularly its principal organ, the Security Council, for decades, staking its claim as one of the world’s largest economies and most populous countries, with a track record in promoting a rules-based international order, and contributing to peacekeeping through UN forces. The UN was born in the crisis of the World War era, and the realities of that time can hardly be compared to the present. The UNSC’s permanent, veto-carrying members, chosen by virtue of being “winners” of World War II — the U.S., the U.K., France, Russia and later China — can hardly claim adequate representation of the world’s leadership today. The UNSC does not include a permanent member from the African, Australian and South American continents, and the pillars of the multilateral order, such as the G-4 group of Brazil, India, Germany and Japan, have been ignored for long. Other, more representative options exist, and that has been the crux of the battle for change. Also, there is a deep polarisation within the UN’s membership, so decisions are either not taken, or not heeded. Frequent divisions within the UNSC P-5 end up blocking key decisions. These issues are underlined in a year where the coronavirus pandemic has brought the world to a standstill; yet, the UN, the UNSC, and WHO have failed to play an effective role in helping nations deal with the spread. For India, what has been most frustrating is that despite the dysfunctional power balance that prevails, the UN’s reform process, held through Inter Governmental Negotiations (IGN) has not made progress over decades, despite commitments. The UN has chosen to “rollover” the discussions of the IGN, which are looking at five major issues: enlarging the Security Council, categories of membership, the question of the veto that five Permanent members of the UNSC wield, regional representation, and redistributing the Security Council-General Assembly power balance. It is some comfort that the UN’s 75th anniversary declaration passed by all member countries this week pledges to “upgrade the United Nations” with a commitment to “instil new life in the discussions on the reform of the Security Council”. Those words can only be realised if the UNSC’s permanent members recognise the deep peril the UN faces and support the reform process, an act that will require looking beyond their own interests for the greater good of the world and its peace-building architecture.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Precarious houses||Bhiwandi, a suburban town in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, has witnessed a building collapse in the receding weeks of the monsoon, killing at least 20 people including minors, and exposing once again, the precarious condition of many dwellings in one of India’s more prosperous States. Many more hapless residents and workers of a powerloom unit operating in the aging three-storeyed building were trapped under the debris. Legal liability and responsibility for the disaster have inevitably fallen on the owner of the structure and some municipal officials, for failing to abide by pre-monsoon safety audits. The monsoon has brought such disasters unfailingly to coastal Maharashtra, including Mumbai, for years now. In July, seven people died in the commercial capital, when two chawl buildings in densely populated working class areas crashed after heavy rain. Another incident in Mahad, in the rain-drenched Raigad district, killed many in August. These traumatic calamities, similar to many others in recent years, point to a worrying trend. Coastal Maharashtra has often received a staggering quantum of monsoon rainfall, and Thane district, where Bhiwandi is located, recorded 320 cm three years ago, over the average of about 240 cm. This is an alarm signal to the government. Flimsy buildings, particularly those constructed in the 1970s, are in danger of collapse, while their owners and residents are unable to fund their maintenance. A weaker economy in the post-COVID-19 phase will render expensive repairs even less feasible. Ending the tragic episodes of building collapses will require Maharashtra to raise the bar for municipal services, beginning with safety audits. It is true that Mumbai’s municipal government has been identifying and classifying buildings based on hazard levels for some time now, and last year found 499 to be in a dangerous state. This programme must now include suburban local bodies such as the Bhiwandi Nizampur City Municipal Corporation, which lack the capacity and resources to carry out a comprehensive check. On the other hand, building owners must be incentivised to carry out safety repairs, with support from the Centre and the State, making such certified expenditure tax-deductible. Mumbai’s municipal engineers have, in the past, complained of political interference in the enforcement of safety norms, but as Monday’s accident makes clear, safety depends on quality. A more profound question is whether purely market-led approaches to housing can support Mumbai’s ambitions for growth, when its poorly-housed workers might be better served by a hybrid solution that includes decent, affordable social accommodation. The immediate priority for Maharashtra is to understand the scale of the problem, identify the weakest structures and launch a plan to prevent disasters.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||10,000 dead in Jordan fighting||The United Arab Republic Minister for Information, Mr. Mohamed Heikal, said to-day [Cairo, September 22] that 10,000 people had died in the fighting in Jordan between King Hussein’s troops and the Palestine guerillas. He told a press conference that the situation in Amman was “extremely dangerous”. Palestine guerillas to-day reported losing 8,000 dead and tens of thousands wounded in the past five days of savage fighting in Jordan, but vowed to fight King Hussein’s tanks and troops until they won. Before the fighting commenced last Thursday, guerilla numbers were believed to be between 20,000 and 30,000 full-time commandos with as many again of part-time militia. The Jordanian forces numbered around 55,000. Their losses have not been stated but could be heavy, particularly in the weekend tank battles in North Jordan with a Syrian-based armour force. Amman airport was still closed to air traffic, but one Red Cross relief plane was able to get through last night with drugs and medicine.
23 September 2020||MUMBAI,||SEBI mulls stress tests, swing pricing for MFs||The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) is contemplating policy measures such as stress-testing, minimum asset allocation in liquid assets, and a swing pricing like mechanism to address liquidity issues in debt mutual funds (MFs), said Chairman Ajay Tyagi. Addressing the 25th AGM of AMFI on Tuesday, Mr. Tyagi said said one of the areas for improvement was to enhance the liquidity of the portfolio of open-ended debt MF schemes. He said SEBI was facilitating the setting up of an expert committee to frame a stress testing methodology, encompassing liquidity, credit and market risks, for all open-ended debt oriented mutual fund schemes. The committee would also design a framework to determine the minimum asset allocation required in liquid assets, taking into account the nature of the scheme’s assets, the type of investors, outcome of stress-testing, and minimum redemption requirement during gating. In the interim, SEBI would be stipulating a minimum holding of liquid assets by all debt-oriented schemes. Mr. Tyagi said the proposed committee would examine liquidity risk management tools such as swing pricing or anti-dilution levy for passing on transaction costs to the transacting investors. The tools will apply to both the incoming and outgoing investors, thereby protecting the interests of existing investors.  SEBI was pursuing a multitude of measures to not only increase liquidity in secondary markets, but also to enable greater issuances of paper rated below AAA, Mr. Tyagi said. Repo trading SEBI was also deliberating on a limited purpose central clearing corporation for guaranteed settlement of tripartite repo trades in all investment grade corporate bonds, including those below AAA rated, to boost repo trading in corporate bonds. “As major holders of corporate bonds, the MFs, who regularly have buying/selling needs, would be one of the biggest beneficiaries of a liquid market,” the chairman said. “Issuers will also be significant beneficiaries of a liquid and stable market in terms of lower borrowing costs,” he added. The markets regulator is also examining setting up a backstop facility which can trade in relatively illiquid investment grade corporate bonds and be readily available in times of stress to buy such bonds from various market participants in the secondary market. Debt MFs should not act like banks while dealing with investors’ money and needed to remember that there was a difference between ‘investing’ and ‘lending’, Mr. Tyagi remarked.
23 September 2020||Chennai,||Daimler Buses pins hopes on Diwali||Daimler Buses India, a unit of Daimler India Commercial Vehicles (DICV), is optimistic about the revival of the domestic bus market after Diwali, said a top official. “The industry is down by 95% due to the pandemic, whereas we are performing better than the industry with DICV bus sales down by 50%,” said Karl-Alexander Seidel, CEO and India head, Daimler Buses. “We expect the market to pick up during the festive season starting October,” Mr. Seidel added. “Orders are slowly coming. The forecast for 2020 is very low and recovery can be foreseen only in 2021,” the chief executive noted. “The 2019 domestic bus sales for the industry was pegged at 43,000 units, while from January to August 2020, the sales stood at 12,500 units,” he said. Sales to more than halve “Going by the current trend, the segment might end the year in the range of 17,000 to 20,000 units for 2020, a contraction of more than 50%. “Last year, we had 35% of the sales coming from school bus segment, 55% for staff transportation and rest from tourist segment.   “This year, orders for school buses is dead. We are getting orders mainly for staff and tourist needs and balance for chassis.” Refusing to disclose the sales numbers of DICV, he said it was very much on track. The pandemic did not alter DICV’s time frame for achieving break-even. Mr. Seidel said DICV was ranked number three in the bus segment, behind Ashok Leyland and Eicher Motors. It would take time to occupy the second position and till then, DICV would keep pace to maintain its current position, he said. Since 2016, DICV had sold 7,500 BharatBenz buses, of which 3,000 units were exported. DICV currently exports buses to South Africa, Southeast Asia and Latin American markets. About two-thirds of the volume caters to domestic needs and the balance is exported. He also said DICV switched over to BS VI norms with ease and had cleared BS-IV stocks ahead of the deadline. No job losses, pay cuts To a question on the impact of COVID-19, he said it did affect the company’s production. But, it did not result in pay cuts or job losses. The bus division at Oragadam worked a single shift and truck division two shifts. Right now, all the dealership outlets were working in full swing across the country, he added.  This year, orders for school buses are dead. We are getting orders only for staff, tourist needs
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Separation from Tata Group ‘necessary’, SP Group tells SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Mistry family-owned Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) Group to maintain the status quo on pledging their shares in Tata Sons to raise capital. The SP Group, in a statement, said it had told the SC that a separation from the Tata Group was necessary due to the potential impact that continuing litigation could have on livelihoods and the economy, and sought early resolution. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde ordered that no “further action” should be taken with regard to the shares that had been pledged. “By consent of the parties, list the main appeals and connected appeals along with the instant interlocutory application on October 28 for final disposal,” the Bench ordered. The SP Group owns 18.37% stake in Tata Sons. Pallonji group heir, Cyrus Mistry, was ousted as chairman of Tata Sons in 2016. The dispute, following a National Company Law Appellate Tribunal decision, is pending in the apex court. Before the court ordered status quo, senior advocate Harish Salve, for Tata Sons, said his client may be open to buying the SP Group’s shares at a fair market value. “If they need the money, I [Tata] will buy the shares from them... What is the problem?,” he said.
23 September 2020||mumbai,||‘PSBs pip private banks in retail credit inquiries’||State-run lenders are seeing faster pick up in retail credit inquiries than their private counterparts on quicker reopening of branch network, a report by a credit information company (CIC) said. Despite inroads made by digital alternatives, through which lenders are receiving inquiries and even disbursing loans online, branch offices continue to play an important role, Transunion Cibil said in the report. The lenders get in touch with CICs while doing diligence on every credit proposal, which triggers inquiries. It can be noted that many analysts have said that a large share of the incremental credit demand is coming from the more aggressive private sector lenders who also have larger capital buffers. “Public (sector) lenders saw the biggest rebound in inquiries in July and August 2020, most likely because they were early in recommencing operations than their private and NBFC (non-bank finance companies) counterparts,” the report by Cibil said. Inquiries from over a dozen state-run lenders for the two months were at 102% of the same observed in January-February this year and 118% of that in the same period a year ago, it said. The same numbers for the private lenders were at 70% and 78%, respectively, while for NBFCs and housing finance companies, inquiries were much lower at 51% of the pre-COVID-19 period in January-February and 57% of the levels in July-August last year.
23 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Borrowing by States increase 45% this fiscal||Eleven States raised a total of Rs. 14,298 crore at the auction of State government securities or State development loans (SDLs) held on Tuesday. This is Rs. 1,500 crore more than the notified amount of the auction as Maharashtra and Gujarat had accepted an additional Rs. 1,000 crore and Rs. 500 crore respectively, CARE Ratings said in a report based on RBI data. From April 7 to September 22 in this financial year, 27 States and 2 Union Territories have cumulatively raised Rs. 3.26 lakh crore via market borrowings, which is a 45% increase from the borrowings in the corresponding period of 2019-20. Having faced a sharp decline in revenues, State governments have been increasingly resorting to market borrowings. Barring the seven States of Arunachal Pradesh, Tripura, Manipur, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Jharkhand, the borrowings of all the other States have seen a notable increase from year ago, CARE said. Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Rajasthan have been the top 5 borrowing States, accounting for 54% of total borrowings by States so far. Karnataka, Maharashtra and T.N. have seen their market borrowings increase by more than 100% from the year earlier period.  From April 7 to Sept. 22, 27 States and 2 UTs have raised Rs. 3.26 lakh cr. via market borrowings
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||TRAI recommends body to monitor net neutrality||The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India on Tuesday recommended the creation of a multi-stakeholder body (MSB) to ensure that Internet access providers adhere to the provisions of net neutrality. The MSB, which could include telecom service providers, Internet service providers, content providers, researchers, academic and technical community, civil society organisations, and the government, should be set up as a non-profit entity. “The role of the MSB shall be to provide advice and support to DoT in the monitoring and enforcement of net neutrality principles,” TRAI said. The MSB may also be required to investigate complaints regarding the violation of net neutrality. TRAI also suggested that the MSB help DoT in maintenance of a repository of reasonable traffic management practices. The net neutrality principles adopted by DoT were technology neutral and would apply equally to 5G technology, the telecom regulator clarified.
23 September 2020||MUMBAI,||NSE, SGX pact to boost Nifty liquidity||The National Stock Exchange (NSE) and Singapore Exchange (SGX) have entered into a formal agreement to cement the key terms for operationalising the NSE IFSC-SGX Connect which will bring together international and Gujarat International Finance Tec-City (GIFT) participants to create a bigger liquidity pool for Nifty products in GIFT City. Both NSE and SGX have also decided to withdraw the arbitration proceedings. The exchanges have recently received further regulatory clarifications from the relevant authorities on the implementation of the Connect, as per a statement.
23 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Ambadi rebuffs Valli Arunachalam’s board bid||Majority of shareholders of Ambadi Investments (AIL), the holding company of the Rs. 38,000 crore Murugappa Group, have voted against the induction of Valli Arunachalam, the eldest daughter of former executive chairman M V Murugappan, to the board. While 91.36% of the shareholders voted against the resolution, 8.64% voted for the proposal, at the AGM held on September 21. Dr. Arunachalam, 59, has been battling for the right to be recognised as her father’s successor on the board for a long time after her father’s demise in 2017. Along with her mother and sister, she holds an 8.15% stake in AIL. She had sent a notice in August 2020 proposing her candidature for directorship. “I am shocked at the manner in which the family, which is the majority shareholder, in this case, has conducted itself. Our family branch has been asking the majority shareholders in AIL to settle our shareholding in a fair manner,” Dr. Arunachalam, karta of M V Murugappan HUF (Hindu undivided family) said. “We will definitely pursue justice and take all the steps needed for the same,” she added. Murugappa Group declined to comment.
23 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Dixit named PMC Bank administrator||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has appointed a new administrator for the scam-hit Punjab and Maharashtra Co-operative (PMC) Bank Ltd. “The present Administrator J.B. Bhoria is stepping down on September 22 due to health reasons. It has been decided to appoint A.K. Dixit, ex-general manager, Union Bank of India, as the new Administrator of the bank with effect from September 23,” the RBI said in a statement. PMC was placed under RBI’s administration onSeptember 23, 2019. The directive is presently valid till December 22.
23 September 2020||mumbai,||‘NBFC-MFI disbursals plunge 96%’||Loan disbursements by non-banking financial companies-microfinance institutions (NBFC-MFIs) declined 96% to Rs. 570 crore in the first quarter of the current financial year, according to a report by Microfinance Institutions Network (MFIN). It had stood at Rs. 15,865 crore in the corresponding quarter of the previous year. The data pertains to NBFC-MFI members of MFIN, an industry association of the microfinance sector. Analysis of NBFC-MFIs is based on data collected from 54 members registered with the Reserve Bank of India, MFIN said.
23 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Strides receives USFDA approval for its tablets||Strides Pharma Science Ltd. on Tuesday said its step-down wholly owned subsidiary, Strides Pharma Global Pte. Ltd., Singapore, had received approval from the United States Food and Drug Administration for Butalbital, Acetaminophen, and Caffeine tablets USP, in strengths of 50 mg/325 mg/40 mg, indicated for relief of “symptom complex of tension headache”.
23 September 2020||New Delhi,||Hindustan Zinc to raise up to Rs 4,000 cr through NCDs||Vedanta Group firm Hindustan Zinc Ltd. said its board-constituted panel has approved raising up to Rs. 4,000 crore through debentures. “The duly authorised committee of directors approved offering for subscription, up to 40,000 unsecured, rated, listed, redeemable, non-convertible debentures of a face value Rs. 10,00,000 each,” it said in a filing.PTI
23 September 2020||New Delhi,||IL&FS case: Sebi raises penalty to Rs 1 cr each on 3 rating agencies||SEBI enhanced the penalty to Rs. 1 crore each on ICRA, CARE and India Ratings, in connection with lapses while assigning credit rating to the non-convertible debentures of IL&FS. The regulator, in December 2019, imposed a fine of Rs. 25 lakh each saying the default by IL&FS occurred due to “lethargic indifference and needless procrastination and laxity” of these rating agencies.PTI
23 September 2020||New Delhi,||Post-paid tariff war: Jio unveils JioPostpaid Plus with entertainment, int’l roaming, other benefits||After unleashing a price war in mobile tariffs and fibre-broadband services, Reliance Jio on Tuesday unveiled post-paid plans, bundling up to 500 GB of data and subscription to Netflix, Amazon Prime and Disney + Hotstar. JioPostPaid Plus for mobile customers will have a monthly tariff from Rs. 399 to Rs. 1,499 with different benefits, the company said in a statement.PTI
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Samson’s six-hitting clinic, Archer’s cameo leave CSK in a daze||Rajasthan Royals, riding on brilliant knocks from Sanju Samson and skipper Steve Smith, began its IPL campaign with a 16-run win over Chennai Super Kings at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium on Tuesday. Chasing 217 for victory, Super Kings started well, scoring 53 in the PowerPlay overs. Shane Watson looked good during his knock of 33 before Rahul Tewatia castled him. Shreyas Gopal accounted for M. Vijay in the next over. Tewatia had Sam Curran and debutant Ruturaj Gaikwad stumped off successive deliveries, reducing CSK to 78 for four in the ninth over. Faf du Plessis, who made only 17 off his first 18 balls, switched gears to score 44 off the next 12 with six sixes and a four. His 72 (37b, 1x4, 7x6) and M.S. Dhoni’s three consecutive sixes in the final over off Tom Curran reduced the margin of defeat. The CSK skipper remained unbeaten on 29 off 17 deliveries. CSK missed the services of Ambati Rayudu, the star of the opening match, who was not 100% fit. Ruturaj, who had recovered from COVID-19 just a few days back, earned a call-up. Earlier, after being invited to bat, Samson and Smith, who promoted himself as opener, demolished the CSK bowlers at the start before Jofra Archer slammed four sixes in the final over to power Royals to 216 for 7. Electing to bowl, Deepak Chahar struck early, removing debutant Yeshasvi Jaiswal, before Samson took centrestage. The Kerala batsman got into his groove straightaway, stroking Sam Curran for a four and six and pulling Chahar for a six in the next over. Samson turned his attention to Ravindra Jadeja, smashing the left-arm spinner for two sixes straight down the ground and launching into Piyush Chawla. The leg-spinner saw the ball disappear into the stands four times in his first over — Samson hit three sixes and Smith one — as he conceded 28 runs. Blazing away Samson, who raced to his half-century off just 19 deliveries, added 121 with Smith for the second wicket off just 9.2 overs. CSK pulled things back once pacer Lungi Ngidi sent back Samson for 74 with a slower one. In the same over, a smart piece of fielding from the deep by Ruturaj saw the dangerous David Miller getting run out without even facing a ball. CSK kept chipping away at the Royals line-up as Curran came back strongly, picking up three crucial wickets, including that of Smith (69). Curran had dropped the Australian at long-off when the latter was on 52. Just when CSK thought it could keep Royals to less than 200, Archer launched into Ngidi in the final over, smashing the South African pacer for four sixes. The match witnessed 33 sixes (Royals 17, CSK 16), equalling the record for most maximums set in 2018 in the contest between RCB and CSK at Bengaluru.
23 September 2020||Abu Dhabi,||It will be a battle of big hitters as MI takes on KKR||Grace and strength will be on one side while poise and killer instinct on the other when a revamped Kolkata Knight Riders takes on Mumbai Indians on Wednesday. MI will be keen to bounce back while KKR would look for a perfect start as it will be a battle between big hitters on both sides on a sluggish Abu Dhabi track. It will be Shubman Gill’s third IPL, the one where he would like to make the stage his own with his languid grace and effortless hitting, which he is so capable of. He can hit sixes over extra-cover with grace and caress the ball through the covers too. These are exactly the traits that made Rohit Sharma, the great white ball exponent that he is.  But it’s not just grace which makes T20 so appealing. The brute masculinity of power that sends the ball soaring into the orbit is what makes it so special. Hardik Pandya can unleash his firepower against Sunil Narine and Kuldeep Yadav as well as pacer Pat Cummins. But Hardik will find his match in Andre Russell, easily the most destructive batsman in current T20 cricket. Russell had openly criticised the team management last year for sending him down the order. But this time, he has been promised a No. 3 slot and this could spell doom for any opposition. KKR has Eoin Morgan, easily the best white ball captain in international cricket at the moment, who could advice Dinesh Karthik on how to handle the tense moments. Pace spearhead Jasprit Bumrah had a rare off-day, leaking 43 runs against CSK and he would like to hit the straps once again.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Dealing in virtual reality — both on and off the cricket field||In the first week of the IPL, it is the stories around the tournament that might turn out to be more significant than the accounts of matches lost and won. As the number of COVID-19 cases in India keeps rising, cricket will have to look beyond the boundary if television is to survive. Hence the importance of the agreement between the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and the Emirates Cricket Board (ECB) to “boost cricketing ties.” We know about the agreement thanks to a tweet from the BCCI secretary Jay Shah. Perhaps there will be a media conference to give us the details. Perhaps not. The BCCI probably thinks what is good enough for President Trump is good enough for its office-bearers – social media news-dispensation. This probably means India are looking to the UAE to help honour their international commitments. In January-March next year, India are scheduled to play England at home. Is this series being shifted to the UAE? India are reluctant to give up the home advantage but that could change. These are early days yet. If the BCCI has worked out an understanding, then it must be commended for foresight and keenness to avoid last-minute confusion. This is, of course, assuming that things don’t get worse in either country, and the tour goes ahead. The same applies if the “boosting” means UAE might host next year’s IPL too. At the time of writing, India has nearly 56 lakh cases and 89 thousand deaths. The UAE has 85 thousand cases and 405 deaths. As the IPL progresses, both cricket boards will learn how well the bio-secure system in the UAE has worked. There is no need to rush to a decision on either England's tour or the IPL, but it is not a bad idea while hoping for the best to prepare for the worst. In times of uncertainty, beacons of possibility are comforting. Alternative world The UAE – for a decade Pakistan’s ‘home’ ground, and later for a while Afghanistan’s too – thus emerges as the cricket world’s favourite substitute venue, now including India’s. Twice now India have taken the IPL there, earlier in 2014 owing to the general elections (which, every five years, will clash with the tournament – in 2009, the IPL was shifted to South Africa, while in 2019 it was held earlier than usual, ahead of the ODI World Cup). Another significant takeaway from the current tournament is the sense that large stadiums exclusively for cricket might soon be a thing of the past. For one, packed houses can no longer be guaranteed. And for another, telecast of matches, with ambient crowd noises in empty stadiums has shown that auricular illusions are possible. It needs fine tuning but there is promise. Technology is already telling us if a batsman is in or out when there is an appeal for a run-out; technology is also telling us that it doesn’t matter if the audiences are in or out, it is the sound they might have made that lends texture to a telecast. It won’t be long before virtual and augmented reality further enhance the viewer experience for those not at the stadium. Already technology is available which can place a fan watching the game at home next to a fielder taking a catch, for example. Since the larger audience is outside the stadium, technology is working to give it a more involved, interactive experience. Not just on television, but phones too. Conventional wisdom will soon be turned on its head – watching a match on television (or phone or watch) might be more exciting than watching it live! Large stadiums – which fill up only in India and only for specific matches, usually T20 – are often single-use behemoths, since cricket pitches do not welcome football matches or rock concerts. Drop-in pitches might make stadiums more useful, allowing them to be employed for a greater range of activities. Shifting sands The pandemic is causing changes all around, from the manner in which tournaments are held in bio-secure environments to the way in which fans watch matches. One thing that hasn’t changed, though, is the BCCI’s contempt for rules. The president and secretary are still in their posts, although their tenures ended in July and May respectively. President Sourav Ganguly has said “if the Supreme Court tells us to go, the matter ends there.” Here we go again. Virtual reality! When Delhi Capitals’ skipper Shreyas Iyer thanked Ricky Ponting and Sourav Ganguly for mentoring him, he shone a light on the issue of conflict again. Ganguly already endorses two sponsors who are rivals of the board’s official sponsors; one of them is the principal sponsor of the Delhi Capitals team for which Ganguly was, till recently, mentor. Confusing? The pandemic has turned out to be the universal justification for all kinds of activity. Or inactivity.
23 September 2020||BENGALURU,||Chahal changed the game for us, says Kohli||Royal Challengers Bangalore skipper Virat Kohli praised leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal for his star turn in the 10-run victory over Sunrisers Hyderabad at Dubai. Chahal picked up three wickets, including two in an over to trigger an SRH collapse. “Yuzvendra comes in, the strike bowler that he’s been for us, and changes the game completely in that over. Not many other spinners got too much out of the pitch, but tonight he showed that if you have skill in the wrist, you can get purchase on any track,” Kohli told host broadcaster Star. He added that IPL debutant Devdutt Padikkal, who made a classy 56, was ‘outstanding’. Chahal stated that he was encouraged by Kohli to go for wickets. “Virat told me to bowl attacking deliveries, so I gave the ball flight. When Vijay (Shankar) came in to bat, Virat and A.B. (de Villiers) told me to bowl a googly first ball,” Chahal said in an RCB video. A.B. de Villiers, whose 30-ball 51 took RCB to a respectable 163, stated “my goal when I was batting was to get the team to 160. Anything less would have put us under pressure”. SRH skipper David Warner stated that Mitchell Marsh’s ankle injury “doesn’t look great”, and that the latter cannot put any weight on it.
23 September 2020||Rome,||Rome sets the tone for Paris campaign||Novak Djokovic picked up where he left off before his US Open default two weeks ago, winning a fifth Italian Open title on Monday, days before the start of Roland Garros. The World No. 1 lifted a record 36th Masters crown, one more than Rafael Nadal, beating Diego Schwartzman 7-5, 6-3 in the final at the Foro Italico in Rome. “Turning to Paris, I couldn't ask for a better tournament here in Rome. Another big title and I'm super pleased,” said Djokovic. “I don't think I played my best tennis throughout the entire week, but I think I found my best tennis when I needed it in the decisive moments.” Djokovic extended his record to 31 wins from 32 matches this year, with his only loss the US Open disqualification for accidently hitting a line judge with a ball. For Djokovic it was a fifth victory in 10 finals in Rome, but the first since 2015, having finished runner-up three times since, including last year to Nadal. “It's been a good week, even if I haven't played my best tennis. I'm satisfied,” said Djokovic.
23 September 2020||MUMBAI,||MCA apex council clarifies stand||The Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) apex council has clarified its stand after the Cricket Improvement Committee (CIC) head Lalchand Rajput had accused an apex council member of trying to influence the CIC in the coach appointment procedure using Sachin Tendulkar’s name. “It was made clear that none of the Apex Council members had used the name of Mr. Sachin Tendulkar to influence any appointments. The Hon. president had authorised Mr. Amit Dani to provide his suggestions to the CIC considering that he is a First Class cricketer and actively involved in cricket at the grassroot level,” Sanjay Naik, MCA secretary, said after the meeting. Only suggestions “Mr. Dani had only made certain suggestions regarding the candidates to be interviewed and he had in no way recommended any name for appointment.”  The Hindu on September 12 had reported that Rajput in a letter to all the apex council members had alleged Dani was trying to pressurise him by using Tendulkar’s name. While Tendulkar has maintained a public silence over the issue so far, it is understood that the legendary batsman has written a letter to MCA president Vijay Patil. While MCA officials remained tight-lipped, it is understood that referring to disconcerting coverage in the media over the issue, Tendulkar has clarified he has no interest in appointment of individuals as long as they serve Mumbai cricket with sincerity. Tendulkar has also made himself available to the MCA should it need his suggestions on any issue. Selectors age barred Meanwhile, the apex council has decided to not consider individuals who are over 70 years of age for the role of selector. This would rule out the possibility of Milind Rege, former captain and who was one of the longest-serving Mumbai selectors, returning as chief selector for the forthcoming season. Since Rajput had objected to Naik attending the coach interview procedure last week, the apex council resolved that “the secretary and in his absence the joint secretary will attend the CIC meetings along with the Chief Executive Officer of the association.” “The applicants for the position of coach and selectors will be interviewed and appointed by the CIC,” Naik added. “The appointment of support staff for the teams will be finalised by the Selection Committee as per the Constitution.”
23 September 2020||KOLKATA,||‘Gill will exceed all expectations’||Kolkata Knight Riders captain Dinesh Karthik is optimistic that the talented Shubman Gill will exceed everyone’s expectations in the IPL. On the eve of KKR’s opener against Mumbai Indians, Karthik, when asked about his opinion on Gill and Sunil Narine forming an opening pair, showered praise on the young Indian. “I really liked him. I think his uncomplicated batting style with Narine makes things easy for us. Shubman is a quality player and there’s a lot of expectations from him around the world as a batter and I’m sure he will exceed all expectations. We are confident about him as a player and as a person,” Karthik said during an online press conference on Tuesday. Strength in variety Karthik sounded confident about KKR’s pace attack. “One of our strengths is the variety we have in our fast bowlers. All four Indian pacers are shaping up really well. You know it’s going to be a hard decision to make who’s going to start the tournament… but that’s a good sign.” Karthik said it was good that KKR was meeting MI early on in the tournament. Looking at the trend this time, the KKR skipper said 160 looked like a par score. “But there is no reason why a higher total cannot be achieved or a lower total cannot be defended,” said Karthik. England captain Eoin Morgan said the pitches in the UAE looked greener than expected. “So if anything so far in the tournament, I think this will continue to change. They’ve been more similar to English pitches than any other,” said Morgan. About players like Morgan, Narine, Pat Cummins, Andre Russell and Ali Khan — who played some competitive cricket recently — KKR coach Brendon McCullum said, “There are some guys who have got that [game time] under their belt. But we certainly have no excuses from the preparation point of view.”
23 September 2020||Berlin,||Bayern fans return Super Cup tickets||Around 800 Bayern Munich supporters have returned tickets for Thursday’s UEFA Super Cup in Hungary amid fears the showcase match could become a “super spreader” event. Budapest will host the match between Bayern Munich and Europa League holder Sevilla. However the fixture is facing growing criticism. Germany has declared Budapest a risk zone, after new infections in the Hungarian capital climbed above the threshold of 50 new cases per 100,000 people. “Everyone should think twice before going there,” said Markus Soeder, state premier for Bavaria, on Tuesday after tightening the region’s regulations. Any Bayern fans returning from Budapest must “either be tested or be quarantined,” Soeder added. As a pilot project towards the return of fans in stadiums, Bayern and Sevilla were both given 3,000 tickets for the game in Budapest. However, UEFA expect only 500 Sevilla supporters and 1300 Bayern fans at Budapest. “Will the Super Cup become the Super Spreader Cup?” questioned German daily Bild . On Tuesday, UEFA told AFP subsidiary SID the Super Cup match will go ahead as planned.
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Analytical coach Ciriello resigns||It's official. Chris Ciriello has become the third high-profile name to quit Indian hockey in a month, increasing the uncertainty around the men’s national team and headaches for the federation. Health issues  The Hindu had first reported earlier this month that Australian Ciriello, the men's analytical coach, was unlikely to return due to health issues. On Sunday he formally sent in his resignation. Ciriello had joined the side in 2018 primarily for penalty corners but was soon an important part of the coaching staff. The former World Cup winner has been suffering from extreme skin cirrhosis and is undergoing treatment. The rising cases of COVID-19 in the country also influenced his decision.  With less than a year to go for the Tokyo Olympics, Hockey India is struggling with the loss of personnel from the men's coaching staff. In fact, the team only has coach Graham Reid and trainer Robin Arkell left at the SAI Centre, Bengaluru, besides Shivendra Singh and Piyush Dubey as assistant coaches. Sources say foreigners unwilling to travel and the derecognition by the Sports Ministry has added to the federation’s troubles.
23 September 2020||MUMBAI,||I like to take on the big players: Boult||At a time when Mumbai Indians appears to be on the lookout for a reliable death bowler, it will be up against Kolkata Knight Riders on Wednesday, which has Andre Russell, the most destructive finisher in T20s. Yet, Trent Boult, the left-arm pacer who made his MI debut against Chennai Super Kings on Saturday, appeared undeterred. In fact, Boult stressed that he looks forward to taking on the “big players” in the opposition. “He (Russell) is one of the most destructive batsmen in the game and therein lies the challenge. That’s personally why I play the game, I like to take on the big players and look to take wickets.” Onus on Bumrah With Lasith Malinga pulling out due to personal reasons, the onus is on Jasprit Bumrah to play the lead role. However, having recovered from a major injury and being woefully short of game-time reflected in Bumrah’s performance on Saturday. But Boult was confident Bumrah will “bounce back” since he has been “working very hard the last couple of days to find that rhythm”. Russell has enjoyed the upperhand against Boult and Bumrah in their previous battles. KKR will be banking on the Caribbean to come good again. If Russell gets going, MI could find things extremely difficult.
23 September 2020||New Delhi,||Tokyo Games will be my best: Atanu||Indian archer Atanu Das has vowed to dish out his best performance at next year’s Tokyo Games, saying he is much better prepared, having worked on various aspects of his game after an ordinary outing at the Rio Olympics. The 28-year-old Atanu went down fighting against South Korean Lee Seung-Yun in the round of 16 in his maiden Olympics. “I was very excited for my first ever Olympic Games. I had given my best and pushed myself but unfortunately I lost in the quarters. May be that was my best of that time. I learnt a lot after that loss,” he said in an online live chat show. Thought process “I noted down my strong and weak points and worked on them. I was so disappointed after that loss that I didn’t want to talk to anyone for [the] first two months. It’s very important how you manage your thought process even at the time of practice as well. “You have to be honest with yourself. After one month from Rio, I started working on the mental aspect of the game.” Atanu, who is part of the national camp and is currently training at ASI Pune, has qualified for the Tokyo Olympics along with compatriots Tarundeep Rai and Pravin Jadhav in the men’s recurve team event with an impressive show at the 2019 World Championships. “I’m preparing very hard for the 2021 Olympics. Rio 2016 was my first one but Tokyo will be the best one, I will be a lot more prepared,” he said.
23 September 2020||KOLKATA,||AIFF grants solidarity fund to associations||The All India Football Federation (AIFF) has decided to come to the aid of its affiliates by sanctioning a Rs. 3 crore solidarity fund to the State associations. AIFF, which held a virtual meeting with State representatives on Monday, also decided to waive off the Central Registration System (CRS) fees of all players — Rs. 1.32 crore to be paid to the federation — and the academy accreditation fee of Rs. 34.5 lakh for the 2020-21 season. The decision was taken as many of the state associations appealed to the parent body for assistance owing to the suspension of football activities across the country because of the COVID-19 pandemic. AIFF president Praful Patel accepted the plea and agreed to release the grant to help the affiliates recover from the financial distress. However, the Western India Football Association (Maharashtra) and the Indian Football Association (Bengal) decided to forego the grant. “I understand that the COVID-19 pandemic has made life difficult for all of us — not just for football but for all issues regarding our livelihood,” the AIFF president said in the meeting. “Despite the difficult situation we hope to move ahead with the planned calendar,” Patel said, referring to the I-League Qualifiers starting on Oct. 8.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Uddhava’s doubts cleared||Srimad Bhagavatam details Lord Krishna’s advice to Uddhava. Uddhava asks Lord Krishna a series of questions, which the Lord answers, said P.T. Seshadri in a discourse. Uddhava wants to know the meaning of yama, niyama, sama, dama, titiksha, dhrti, daana, tapas, saurya, satya, saucha, dhana, yajna, bala, aiswarya, laabha, vidya, jugupsa, sukha and duhkha. The Lord says that yama is of twelve types. Ahimsa, satya, asteya (not stealing), being detached, being self-controlled, not accumulating wealth, believing in Brahman, Brahmacharya, not talking much, having an unwavering mind, having patience and being fearless are the twelve types of yama, says the Lord. Niyama is of twelve types — purity of mind, purity of body, japa, tapas, honouring guests, worshipping God, bathing in sacred rivers and visiting pilgrim centres, helping others, being content with what God has given you and serving one’s Acharya. Tranquillity of mind comes from focusing on the Lord always. Dama is keeping the senses under control. Titiksha is to bear troubles patiently. Dhrti is control over one’s tongue and indriyas. Not hurting any form of life and offering protection where needed is daana. Giving up desires is tapas. Saurya means bravery and the Lord says that it means conquering one’s evil tendencies. Seeing everyone as equal and being non discriminatory is satya. Rta refers to the pleasing and truthful words of sadhus. Saucha is being unattached to the results of the karmas that one does. What you give to others is dhana (wealth). The Lord says that He Himself is yajna. Whatever havis is offered in a yaga, it reaches Him. He is yajna svaroopa. Doing pranayama is bala. Serving the Lord is aiswarya. Bhakti towards the Lord is laabha. Knowing that the body and the atma are different is vidya.
23 September 2020||LONDON,||Goals galore!||The Premier League set a new record for the highest number of goals in a single round of matches on Monday as Manchester City’s Gabriel Jesus scored the milestone 44th in stoppage-time of City’s 3-1 win at Wolverhampton Wanderers. After 39 goals were scored across Saturday and Sunday’s eight games, City, Wolves and Aston Villa all netted on Monday to surpass the previous Premier League best of 43. In the 20-team Premier League era, 43 goals were scored in a single game-week across February 5 and 6, 2011.
23 September 2020||NEWPORT,||‘Original 9’ nominated for tennis HoF||The ‘Original 9’ group, which took a stand against a disparity in prize money and playing opportunities for women in professional tennis and whose efforts ultimately led to the creation of the WTA, headlined the list of nominees up for induction into ITF Hall of Fame (HoF). The ‘Original 9’, who took a stand against a disparity in prize money and playing opportunities for women in professional tennis, were nominated in the contributor category. The ‘Original 9’ includes Peaches Bartkowicz, Rosie Casals, Julie Heldman, Billie Jean King, Kristy Pigeon, Nancy Richey, Valerie Ziegenfuss, Judy Tegart Dalton, and Kerry Melville Reid. Lleyton Hewitt, Juan Carlos Ferrero, Jonas Bjorkman, Lisa Raymond and Sergi Bruguera were nominated in the player category.
23 September 2020||WOLVERHAMPTON,||City off to a winning start||Manchester City got its Premier League campaign off to a flying start with a 3-1 win at Wolverhampton Wanderers on Monday. Wolves beat City home and away last season but Pep Guardiola’s side were full value for its victory despite a strong response from the home side after they went 2-0 down. Ake makes debut Guardiola gave a debut to close-season signing Nathan Ake, the Dutch defender signed from Bournemouth PFA Player of the Year Kevin De Bruyne put City in front with a penalty in the 20th minute after he broke into the box and was brought down by Romain Saiss. City’s trademark passing game was at its very best for its second goal just past the half-hour, Phil Foden ending a fine move with a clinical finish from a low Raheem Sterling cross. Different story Wolves goalkeeper Rui Patricio did well to keep out a De Bruyne effort as City threatened to put the game beyond them before the break but it was a different story after the interval. The home side gained some reward in the 78th minute when Jimenez headed home a Podence cross, but in stoppage time Gabriel Jesus made sure of the win for the visitors with a shot which deflected off Conor Coady. Aston Villa got its season up and running with a laboured 1-0 home win against 10-man Sheffield United with Ezri Konsa’s second-half header proving enough to settle a dour game. In Serie A, AC Milan’s veteran forward Zlatan Ibrahimovic scored twice, but also missed an open goal, to give his side a 2-0 win over Bologna and the season’s campaign off to a good start.  The results:   Premier League: Aston Villa 1 (Konsa 63) bt Sheffield United 0; Wolves 1 (Jimenez 78) lost to Manchester City 3 (De Bruyne 20-pen, Foden 32, Jesus 90).   Serie A: AC Milan 2 (Ibrahimovic 35, 51-pen) bt Bologna 0 .
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 07:44 IST,||Sudoku - September 23, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Learning life lessons on the move||Gangadhar Krishnan and his wife Ramya Laxminath lived a fast-paced life in the corporate world for over a decade — achieving “milestones” as described in the conventional sense. But then, the Hyderabad-based couple realised how important travel was for them and wanted their twin daughters to see beyond the grind of standardised tests and structured classroom learnings. In 2018, Gangadhar quit his corporate career of 18 years, started a travel startup and hit the road. Now the family of four is “roadschooling” — homeschooling on the road — while sharing tips on their social media pages and networking with parents across cities who are on a homeschooling journey. Their nine-year-old daughters Ananya and Amulya — who were pulled out of school last year — learn through these journeys. Last year, they went on a 90-day family roadschooling trip in their car travelling across 13,000 kilometres, 15 states and three international borders. In Cherrapunji, the girls learnt about the water cycle. In Arunachal Pradesh, they ploughed a farm field and learnt about sustainable agriculture. In another remote village in the Northeast, when they were stuck in the middle of nowhere, the girls learnt another life lesson when unknown villagers offered help — that kindness can be unconditional. “We believe in unstructured education and travel is an integral part of it. When we are not travelling, we follow a child-centric schedule. The girls decide what they want to do every day. So, if one morning they wish to take lessons in Kannada (our mother-tongue), we just facilitate that,” says Gangadhar, who runs a travel company named Unwind@Unexplored. During their journey through the Northeast, they followed a minimalistic approach — pitching a tent and sleeping under it for many nights. On others, they stayed with the local people at places they passed by. The pandemic temporarily halted their journey, but soon they were back on track. Last month, the family set off on their first contactless travel from Hyderabad to Mysore and back through Shravana Belagola, Shimoga, Honnemaradu, Jog Falls and Murudeshwar. At Honnemaradu, they met Nari Shakti Puraskar-awardee Nomito Kamdar, who has been promoting outdoor learning, environmental conservation and social development. “It was a wonderful learning experience for us all, especially the kids,” says Gangadhar. Throughout their journey they maintained a contactless travel approach, carrying two kinds of tents — one each for changing and camping. “Every morning, we would set up our changing tent in the rural countryside. At nights, we pitched tents at different places — once even inside a petrol bunk,” he adds. One of their important travel gear was a camping pocket stove which was immensely helpful in cooking or making hot tea and coffee.
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||For the people, by the people||There is a new addition to the Bengaluru cityscape. The façade of the Museum of Art and Photography (MAP) on Kasturba Road, which was under construction, has been transformed into a large, colourful mural. The project was brought to life over 10 days by Aravani Art Project, a city-based transwomen art collective. The artwork titled Story of Bangalore or Bengaluru Kathegalu, features  the myriad people that make the bustling metropolis: from the morning walker and thepourakarmikato the traffic policeman, complete with orange reflector jacket. Says Kamini Sawhney, director of MAP, “We are a museum that is located in Bengaluru, and it is so important to connect with the community. We have been doing this over the last two years with education programmes, talks and so on. Once COVID-19 happened, things came to a standstill but we decided that this artwork was a good way to tell Bengaluru that we are here. I also think that the two important pillars of MAP are inclusion and accessibility and this project conveys that message.” Stating that the concept was decided after brainstorming with the Aravani team, she says, “The important points that came up were that this is essentially a garden city that still has beautiful trees and flowers. So, the mural has trees and flowers. Then we decided to have a building that identifies with Bengaluru so you have the High Court in Cubbon Park.”
23 September 2020||New Delhi,||Over 3,800 cases in 24 hours; 55% beds vacant||As many as 3,816 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours taking the tally to 2,53,075, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Also, 37 more deaths have been reported in a single day, taking the toll 5,051. Of the total cases, 2,16,401 people have recovered and there are 31,623 active cases. Out of the total 14,652 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 55.3% are vacant, as per government data on Thursday. But 62.9% of the ICU beds with ventilators are occupied and 68.7% of the ICU beds without ventilators are occupied. The positivity rate (percentage of people testing positive for every 100 tests done) has dropped to 6.4%, from 7.5% on Monday. The number of containment zones in Delhi jumped from 1,889 on Monday to 1,937 on Tuesday — the highest till date. The Delhi government has significantly ramped up testing in the past few days. The number of tests conducted and corresponding fresh cases reported, ranged from 24,198 (2,312) on September 1 to 61,973 (4,071) on September 19. On Tuesday, 59,013 tests were conducted, compared to 33,733 on Monday. The number of tests done per million now stands at over 1.38 lakh while the total number of tests done stands at over 26.37 lakh. Health Minister Satyendar Jain also took a meeting with medical directors and medical superintendents of all Delhi government hospitals.
23 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Akali Dal to protest against farm Bills on September 25||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Tuesday said the party will hold a State-wide ‘chakka jam’ (road block) on September 25 in protest against the farm Bills. A decision was taken at a meeting of the party’s core committee, which was presided over by party president Sukhbir Singh Badal. It was also decided that Mr. Badal would visit various parts of the State from September 26 to 29 to interact with the party cadre. Party spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema said party leaders and workers have been asked to hold the ‘chakka jam’ in all constituencies in league with the farmers, farm labourers and commission agents. “The party will observe a three-hour programme from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. Party workers have been asked not to come in the way of emergency services,” he said. He said the core committee also decided to contact all like-minded regional parties across the country to evolve a joint strategy to forge a united fight to get the anti-farmer Bills revoked. “It also resolved to pursue all logical steps to ensure the discrimination being meted out to the farmers was removed,” he added.  APMC Act Mr. Cheema said Chief Minister Amarinder Singh should inform the State’s farmers and farm labourers as to why he was refusing to rescind the Punjab APMC Act, 2017, which he himself implemented. Mr. Badal said the Chief Minister was responsible for amending the APMC Act in 2017 to allow the creation of private yards, e-trading and direct marketing. “The special Assembly session should also discuss the Congress party’s role in the framing of the agricultural ordinances which became Bills recently.” He said the State government was part of the high-power committee which framed the ordinances. “Subsequently the Congress government even sent a note to the Centre agreeing with many of the provisions of the ordinances. Farmers want to know why the Chief Minister kept this entire exercise secret and why he did not take any clearance from farmers before taking a decision which would destroy their future generations.”  Special Assembly session should discuss Congress’s role in framing of the farm ordinances
23 September 2020||New Delhi,||Court stays govt. order to reserve 80% ICU beds in private hospitals||The High Court on Tuesday stayed the Delhi government’s order directing 33 big private hospitals here to reserve 80% of ICU beds for COVID-19 patients. Justice Navin Chawla said the Delhi government’s September 13 order was prima facie arbitrary, unreasonable and violative of fundamental rights of citizens guaranteed under the Constitution. The court also issued notices to the Delhi government and the Centre on a plea by ‘Association of Healthcare Providers’ to quash the order. It said the operation of the order shall remain stayed till the next date of the hearing on October 16. Reacting to the development, the Delhi government said, “It is extremely important to reserve ICU beds in private hospitals to deal with increasing virus cases. We are challenging this order tomorrow [Wednesday].” Before the High court, the Delhi government defended its decision saying it is only for 33 hospitals and 20% ICU beds remain for non-COVID-19 patients and it has been done keeping in view the sudden spike in virus cases. The association, in its plea filed through advocate Sanyam Khetarpal, said that private hospitals routinely get patients suffering heart attacks, grievous injuries, acute pulmonary disorders, complex fractures, and even other conditions like cancer, transplant and cardiac patients, which require urgent intervention and critical care. Denial of urgent care “Reserving 80% of beds in the ICU will deny urgent care to seriously ill patients, requiring vital surgical interventions and critical care. These beds, which may constitute 15-20% of overall bed capacity in some of the hospitals, are not usable for COVID patients since very rarely does a patient of that age require critical care,” the petition stated. “Currently, non-COVID patients constitute 45-55% of all admission in the private hospitals in Delhi. Some of these patients are to be mandatorily kept in ICU post their procedure,” it said. “Hence, reserving ICU beds for COVID patients would mean either hospitals don’t admit non-COVID patients facing imminent death or accept sub-optimal outcomes, both of which may not be the intended purpose of the order, but sadly would be the direct result of this order,” the association said. The petition also claimed that government hospitals such as Lok Nayak have vacant capacity exceeding up to 40% of the ICU beds earmarked for COVID-19 treatment. It said that the capacity available in government hospital ought to have been exhausted before directing private hospitals to reserve ICU beds.
23 September 2020||New Delhi,||Ram with mask, contact-free abduction of Sita may mark Ramlila 2020||The epic battle between good and evil amid the pandemic will be contact-free and unfold between socially-distanced, face-masked Lord Ram and Demon King Ravan, each armed with sanitised weaponry and minimal warriors from their mythical armies during the staging of Delhi’s Ramlilas, if permitted by the Centre. What all to expect From off the stage changes — including an audience downsized from thousands to a few hundred — to on-stage tweaks such as drastic reductions in the number of artistes, especially in the vanar (monkey) and rakshas (demon) armies, and the skillful use of collar mics and smoke guns to mask the contact-free abduction of Goddess Sita, are among a slew of suggestions that have poured in from organisers to ensure a COVID-free festival. Highlights of this year “Not only in terms of tradition but also given developments related to the Ram Temple, the bhoomi pujan — which was done by Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself —, make this year doubly significant in terms of staging Ramlilas. We expect the Centre to give a positive decision on the issue and guidelines within this week,” said Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri. On Monday, Mr. Bidhuri and Ashok Goel Devraha, General Secretary of the Delhi Dharmik Sangh — an umbrella body which facilitates the organisation of Ramlila events in Delhi every year — called on Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy requesting that permission for these be granted. According to Mr. Goel, an estimated 700 Ramlilas are organised across the city every year of which around a hundred are among the oldest and most popular. Usually, by this time of the year, he said, preparations for various Ramlilas, both big and small, start getting under way but such is not the case this time given the pandemic. “There have been several rounds of discussion between the organising committees and the Delhi Dharmik Sangh about how the events can and should be staged this year. The audience at Ramlila events can be limited to 500 and its members will be sanitised before both entering as well as exiting the venue. Masks will be compulsory both off and on stage,” he said. ‘No-contact battles’ “Similarly, we will limit the number of artists on the stage — for example, smaller armies engaging in battle from either side. There will also be no contact during battle scenes. We will make collar mics mandatory and the conflict will be more audio-based — like it used to be in movies earlier with sound effects connoting punches etc,” he explained. Given the significance of social distancing due to the circumstances, organisers would also, seemingly, have to rely on their audience’s willing suspension of disbelief as the effectiveness of handheld smoke guns. These would play a crucial role when it came to one of the most significant events in the epic — the abduction of Sita, said Mr. Goel. “Traditionally, there is slight contact between Ravan and Sita when she is forced onto the Pushpak Viman and flown off to Lanka by him. This time, it has been suggested that we utilise smoke guns to mask a deliberate dash by the artist playing the Goddess onto the Pushpak Viman herself before the smoke clears as part of the abduction scene,” he added.  The audience at Ramlila events can be limited to 500
23 September 2020||New Delhi,||Virus death toll in G.B. Nagar rises to 50||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar recorded one more fatality linked to COVID-19 that pushed the district’s death toll from the pandemic to 50 on Tuesday, official data showed. The district also recorded 244 new COVID-19 patients and its tally of cases reached 11,663, while the number of active cases climbed to 1,623, according to the data released by the UP Health Department for a 24-hour period. On the brighter side, 198 more patients got discharged during the period.
23 September 2020||New Delhi,||Isn’t English ads on farm Bills making fun of farmers, asks AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Tuesday said that the BJP has created a record of “false propaganda” in reference to the Farmers Bills. “Modi government at the Centre has made a unique record of false propaganda in this country,” AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said about advertisements by the Central government in English language newspapers on Farm Bills and Minimum Support Price (MSP). “Which farmer in the country will read English advertisement along with his morning cup of cappuccino to understand MSP and public procurement and public distribution?” the AAP leader asked. “On one hand, many agencies under the BJP are not able to pay salaries of doctors and nurses and on the other hand, the BJP government is spending lakhs and crores of rupees to give English advertisements. I want to ask the Modi government, isn’t giving advertisements [on Farm Bills and MSP] in English making fun of poor farmers?” Mr. Chadha asked. He questioned whether this is not unwanted spending of the taxpayer’s money. “Is this not a way to make their own faces shine and mislead people through false propagandas? We want to warn the BJP, the way you have tried to rob and deceive the farmers, and now Modiji is trying to brighten his own face by giving an English ad. The farmers of this country will always remember this. They will make you repent your deeds from the streets to Parliament,” he said.
23 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Akali Dal rebels approach Election Commission to register new party||Shiromani Akali Dal rebels, led by Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, have approached the Election Commission of India to register their new political outfit Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic), party leader Parminder Singh Dhindsa said on Tuesday. Mr. Sukhdev Dhindsa and his son, former Finance Minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa, were expelled from the SAD for “anti-party” activities earlier this year. They had rebelled against the top party leadership, demanding Sukhbir Badal’s resignation to restore the party’s “lost glory”. Mr. Parminder said an application has been submitted to the EC. “We had applied a couple of days ago. We are hopeful once the required process is completed the party will be registered,” he said. Mr. Parminder said the party’s objective would be to provide good governance to the State and its people, and to fight for the rights of Punjab. Hitting out at the SAD, Mr. Parminder said it had lost all credibility among the masses. “The Badal family has been using the party for their personal interests.” He said the party will also be looking forward to forge alliances with like-minded parties.
23 September 2020||GUWAHATI,||President urged not to extend NE Hill University V-C’s term||Teachers, non-teaching staff and students of North Eastern Hill University (NEHU) have appealed to President Ram Nath Kovind not to extend the term of Vice-Chancellor S.K. Srivastava. The Joint Action Committee of the Meghalaya-based university on September 21 wrote to the President, requesting him “not to give even a single day extension” to Prof. Srivastava for “bringing the university down to the lowest level in all ranking assessments”. The JAC comprises the university’s Teachers’ Association, Non-Teaching Staff Association and Students’ Union. Extending his term after “his non-performance and mismanagement” shall “remain incorrect on moral grounds”, JAC chairman Xavier P. Mao said. He also alluded to cases of sexual harassment in the National Commission for Women and the National Scheduled Tribes’ Commission against the V-C by professors of the university. The committee also said Prof. Srivastava had “damaged the university beyond immediate repair”. The Meghalaya Congress joined the chorus for action against him, with P.T. Sawkmie, the Opposition Chief Whip, petitioning the Union HRD Minister against granting him any extension. Prof. Srivastava had earlier trashed the allegations against him.
23 September 2020||New Delhi,||Stay on publication of book on Asaram quashed||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday quashed a stay on the publication of a book on self-styled preacher Asaram Bapu, Gunning for the Godman: The True Story Behind Asaram’s Conviction.  Justice Najmi Waziri passed the direction on HarperCollins’ plea challenging a trial court’s order which had put an interim stay on the publication and distribution of the book on a suit by woman co-convict Sanchita Gupta alias Shilpi. Asaram was sentenced to life imprisonment in a case of sexual assault on a minor in April 2018. ‘Add disclaimer’ The High Court, however, ordered that the already printed copies of the book be sold along with disclaimer that it was based on the judgment of a trial court against which an appeal is pending in the Rajasthan High Court. The High Court said that the disclaimer should be attached either inside of the front cover or back cover of the book. For online sale, the disclaimer should be given electronically, it added. The publisher had stated that the book is authored by Ajay Lamba, Additional Commissioner of Police, Jaipur, and Sanjiv Mathur, and was scheduled to be released on September 5. Evidence during trial It argued that the book was written on the basis of the record of the case. It said the book was based on the evidence recorded during trial. The woman’s counsel objected to the plea on the ground that the contents of the book were not found in record. The counsel said if the book was allowed to be published, it will cause her irreparable loss. A trial court here had on September 4 stayed the publication of the book on the ground that the appeal against the conviction in the rape case was pending before the Rajasthan High Court.
23 September 2020||New Delhi,||Bills to double farmers’ income: BJP||Farmers’ Bills introduced by the Centre and passed by Parliament had paved the way for doubling the income of farmers, the Delhi BJP said here on Tuesday. It also alleged that the Delhi government stood with middlemen instead of farmers. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri announced that the party would protest against the ‘anti-farmer Kejriwal government’ along with thousands of farmers outside the Chief Minister’s house. “There is a big question mark on the Delhi government: why has it not yet given the status of farmer to those who cultivate 50,000 hectares of land? Why it has not given any facility to them? Why does it not have any Ministry to solve their problems? The Kejriwal government is anti-farmer,” he alleged. He argued that in Haryana, the BJP government gives free electricity to farmers while the Kejriwal government provides electricity at rates ranging from Rs. 1.50/unit to Rs. 8/unit in addition to a fixed charge of Rs. 125/unit per month.
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘AAP govt. not paying CBSE exam fees’||The Delhi Congress on Tuesday alleged that the Delhi government was going back on its promise of paying examination fee of the CBSE students. Delhi Congress chief Anil Kumar said the Kejriwal government had promised that it would deposit the registration and exam fees of 3.15 lakh students for their 10 and 12 CBSE exams, but has not done so citing “no funds”. “Each student will now have to deposit Rs. 2,450-2,950... The Kejriwal government had no financial crunch in spending Rs. 151 crore for its self-promotion publicity,” Mr. Kumar said.
23 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||IYC protests against rising unemployment||The Indian Youth Congress (IYC) on Tuesday protested outside Parliament House against the rising unemployment among the youth and “anti-farmer” bills but were soon detained by the Delhi Police. The IYC alleged that the government in the Centre is anti-youth, anti-farmer and was suppressing the voice of people. National president of IYC, Srinivas B.V., said: “If these anti-people laws are not withdrawn, there will be fierce protest and Satyagraha on the streets. Today we have surrounded the Parliament to awaken this dumb and deaf government.” He also said: “The Centre gets votes from the youth, but when the youth asks for employment, then they get beaten with sticks.”
23 September 2020||September 23 2020 00:00 IST,||The great escape||Waking up to the sounds of a gurgling Cauvery and soaking up spectacular views of monsoon-drenched mountains, it was a blissful morning in Coorg for Archana N Vidur. “After being cooped up for five months, it felt like I was breathing again,” she says. Archana and her family based in Bengaluru are just back from their first road trip post lockdown. “We had to get some fresh air and flush out the negativity that has entered our lives during COVID-19. Connecting with Nature, frees you up mentally,” she adds. They booked an entire property, the Carpe Diem Homestay at Kushal Nagar, which is a five-hour drive from Bengaluru. “We selected a place that is cut off from ‘touristy’ destinations. We packed blankets, bed sheets and toiletries. We carried our plates, glasses, cutlery and a dishwasher too! Of course, we kept our masks on at all times. We packed our used clothes in sealed plastic bags and washed them immediately on return.” Backyard tourism has now emerged as a favourite activity. Now that there are fewer restrictions on travelling across states, people are venturing out on short and safe vacations close to their cities — from weekend drives to isolated home stays to exploring the countryside on bikes. Author and travel blogger Manjulika Pramod is contemplating a road trip to Machilipatnam beach which is 80 kilometres away from her home in Vijayawada. “I want to go to a place where I can easily avoid human contact. So, it’s best to go to a beach where we can take our own food. Nature, especially the sun, sand and waves will definitely cheer me up,” she says. The monsoon has also ushered in some much-needed cheer. “It is the best time to explore the green countryside of my state, Jharkhand,” says Manish Kumar who lives in Ranchi and blogs in Hindi about travelling and conservation. “I indulge myself with trips within 50 to 80 kilometres over the weekends to places like the beautiful Patratu Valley on the outskirts of Ranchi, or the isolated Dhurva dam, which is a haven for migratory birds. Another popular place is the Ramgarh countryside for its lush green paddy fields,” says Manish. Running wild and free However, travelling during lockdown comes with its fair share of challenges. One has to follow handy tips to travel safe. Says Archana, who runs travelbynation, a couple travel and lifestyle blog, “COVID-19 is not the time for surprise vacations. We took all safety precautions as we travelled with our parents who are senior citizens and our two Lhasa Apso dogs. We packed our food, including coffee, and stopped at the outskirts cut off from the city to have our meals before reaching Coorg.” In a post-lockdown scenario, a road trip is also a way to finally reunite with family or friends after months of isolation. “A protocol is in place. Those joining avoid outside travel before the planned trip. They get tested and take off from a common point,” says Delhi-based Rashmi Chadha, founder of Wovoyage, a startup for women-centric travels. “Recently, we organised a road trip for a group of seven to eight women, most of them friends who travelled in two cars to Kanatal in Himachal to spend a few weeks in solitude. Some of our clients in Mumbai are taking off to Lonavala over the weekends. Those in Delhi now make trips to Rajasthan. The trend now is to travel with close-knit groups.” She also points out that the lockdown is encouraging people to explore their own backyards. “Domestic tourism is picking up. People are travelling to different places within their State, for example people in Madhya Pradesh are exploring places like Chanderi Fort and Jhansi Fort.” Most travellers, however, choose to reconnect with Nature after months at home. Says Bajan Bopanna of Evergreen County Resorts, located inside a coffee estate in Coorg, “We see a rise in bookings. They want to trek or go on plantation trails within the property or enjoy a private camp fire.” Col VG Pandey (retired) of Vama Resorts at Nandi Hills near Bengaluru says families from locations within the State have been visiting the military-themed resort and camp. “They engage in activities that we offer, like how to improve mind-body coordination, overcome fear of enclosed spaces, to name a few.” Some take a road trip for a change of scenery like Richa Gupta, a digital media marketer for travel brands, who lives in Pune. “We wanted to beat the boredom. We checked in at Taj Fort Aguada resort at Sinquerim Beach, Candolim in Goa, which is located on a cliff overlooking an ocean. The check-in was contactless, safe and clean. We spent time at the beach and went on treks. Now, I am ready to be cooped up.” Nishu Boralia, a chartered accountant based out of Bengaluru, plans to pitch a tent inside the forest in Chikmagalur. “The professional and personal space has become blurry. I am craving for open skies, a bubbling waterfall, and birds chirping around me.”
