24 August 2020||August 23 2020 21:57 IST,||Russia is jumping the gun with its vaccine||Earlier this month, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced the ‘approval’ of Russian COVID-19 vaccine, Sputnik V, dubbed after the Soviet spacecraft of the 1950s. Numerous scientists around the world, however, found the announcement ridiculous, as the approval came before phase III of the required clinical trial was even started. In its developing stage, a vaccine must go through three phases of rigorous experimental testing on human beings, referred to as clinical trials, to judge its safety and efficacy. With an average sample size of less than 100, phase I is the preliminary study of safety, where the objective is to find the acceptable dose level which will not cause serious side-effects. Phase II is a study of safety and efficacy together, with a few hundred people or even fewer. Doses appearing to be simultaneously effective and safe are forwarded for a phase III study, which is a detailed evaluation of effectiveness in comparison to some existing treatment or some similar-looking treatment having no effect (called placebo). Hundreds or even a few thousand people are given either the vaccine or a placebo. They are then tracked over months to determine whether the people receiving the vaccine get infected less than people who get the control. This stage even allows scientists to look for rare side-effects that can’t be spotted in smaller, earlier stage trials. After the three phases, if the vaccine is found to be safe and effective, the study report is forwarded to the regulatory agency, which, if convinced, permits its usage en masse. Phase IV is the postmarketing surveillance stage. Such surveillance can only be conducted after the drug is marketed. Also read | Russian COVID-19 vaccine | Sputnik V is safe and effective, says RDIF CEO Note that the phase I/II of the much-hyped Oxford trial had 1,077 participants, whereas Russia has claimed to have tested its vaccine on just 76 people in the first two phases. Even as researchers worldwide are rushing to develop vaccines for COVID-19, following standard practice, they continue to publish their studies in peer-reviewed journals, which are constantly scrutinised by the relevant scientific community. The community, in effect, enhances the credibility of these studies. However, no such article is available in the public domain about the Russian vaccine. The race to find a vaccine is more of a marathon than a sprint. Top scientists such as the U.K.’s chief scientific adviser, Sir Patrick Vallance, and his U.S. counterpart, Anthony Fauci, and even the World Health Organization (WHO) have repeatedly maintained that a vaccine is not expected before 12-18 months. In contrast, the Russian vaccine is dangerously rushed — it got approval in less than two months of starting the trial. A Nature Medicine article in June stated that SARS-CoV-2 antibodies may last only 2-3 months after a person becomes infected. Another recent study of King’s College London found that levels of antibodies that can destroy the virus peaked about three weeks after the onset of symptoms and then started declining. Certainly, if antibody levels due to infection wane in 2-3 months, the vaccine might potentially do the same thing. And nobody knows the durability of the antibody created by the Russian vaccine — is it durable for a few years or a few weeks? This should be scientifically settled before the vaccine is used. Also, carefully conducted clinical trials might even show that a vaccine could be harmful for a section of the population. For example, a new type of measles vaccine in the early 1990s was found to be detrimental to baby girls, and so it was never licensed for the general population. Also read | Germany claims Russian COVID-19 vaccine not sufficiently tested In a 2018 research article published in the journal Biostatistics, a group of MIT scientists analysed data of 4,06,038 trials on drugs and vaccines in 2000-15. They observed that for vaccines of infectious diseases, the probability of success from phase II to phase III was 58.2%. And the approval rate of vaccines that passed phase III successfully was 85.4%. An approval, however, doesn’t always mean the vaccine works particularly well. For example, the seasonal flu vaccine was approved with no good alternatives being available. Thus, the Russian vaccine at the moment seems to be a lethal game of chance, such as the Russian roulette. In this dangerous game, a bullet is loaded into one chamber of a revolver, the cylinder is spun, and then the trigger is pulled while pointing the gun at one’s own head. In fact, in a survey of 3,040 Russian doctors and health specialists, conducted by the Doctor’s Handbook app, 52% said they were not ready to be vaccinated; only 24.5% said they were. And just a fifth said they would recommend the vaccine to patients, colleagues or friends. What’s more, a leading respiratory doctor in Russia has quit the Health Ministry citing “gross violations” of medical ethics in the development of the COVID-19 vaccine. Also read | China administering COVID-19 vaccines since July, says official Also, a vaccine should come out with clear-cut guidelines. For instance, the guidelines should specify whether one or more booster doses would be required. An inadequately vetted vaccine is not only potentially dangerous for the people who receive it, it could also impede global efforts to develop quality COVID-19 immunisations. Another Russian experience might illustrate the importance of the trust factor in vaccination programmes. In the 1990s, the massive re-emergence of diphtheria in the Newly Independent States of the former Soviet Union was the result of the fall in rates of the diphtheria-tetanus-pertussis vaccination due to rapidly decreased trust in the public health system. Could Russia not imagine the possible worldwide outrage over its sudden premature announcement of vaccine? In early August, the WHO warned against “vaccine nationalism”, noting that unless countries cooperate, an actually successful vaccine could touch off a worldwide frenzy. While a premature Russian vaccine might have partially been triggered by Russian nationalism, weren’t there similar shades when Dr. Fauci expressed “serious doubts” about the effectiveness of the Russian vaccine? The Russian vaccine might even emerge as a very effective vaccine in future. Also, didn’t Russia want to capture the huge world market for COVID-19 vaccines? That’s a potential market of billions of dollars. Ethics, however, should be the driving force for developing a vaccine. People taking the Russian vaccine at this stage would effectively be part of a grand phase III clinical trial. And I’d not like to be a guinea pig of the trial in this way. Atanu Biswas is Professor of Statistics at the Indian Statistical Institute Kolkata
23 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Real estate dealer shot at in K.R. Puram||A real estate dealer was shot at and attacked with weapons by unknown assailants outside his office at K.R. Puram on Saturday night. According to police sources, Babu, a resident of Channasandra, near Ramamurthynagar, sustained a bullet injury and cuts. He is being treated in a private hospital, said a police officer. Around 9.30 p.m. on Saturday, a group of people on two motorcylces allegedly stopped at Babu’s office and opened fire. “When he tried to escape, they attacked him with a machete and fled,” the officer said. The police are probing the motive for the attack, but suspect it is connected with a fight he got into with a group of people over parking problems. “He had asked a group of people not to park their bikes haphazardly and create nuisance. When they continued to do it, he took it up with them again. This led to a fight,” said the police officer. A case of attempt to murder has been booked.
23 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Movement of vehicles inside Cubbon Park resumes from Monday||Vehicular movement will be allowed inside Cubbon Park from Monday, much to the dismay of citizen activists and regular walkers who have been pushing for a complete ban. With the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic in the city, entry of people and vehicular movement in all the parks in the city were prohibited. After the lockdown restrictions were lifted, people were allowed inside Cubbon Park and other parks as long as they wore masks and maintained social distance from one another. Vehicular movement was still not allowed. On August 21, however, the Department of Horticulture issued a circular allowing movement of vehicles in Cubbon Park. Confirming this, Rajender Kataria, Secretary of the departments of Horticulture, Agriculture, and Sericulture, told The Hindu that the department had decided to allow vehicular movement inside the park following requests from the Bengaluru Traffic Police. “There is no order on banning traffic inside the park. We are only restoring what was being followed before COVID-19 restrictions,” he said. Regular visitors to the park said there has been a noticeable improvement in the air quality since March 24 when vehicles were banned. Mr. Kataria, too, said Cubbon Park was thriving and that the air quality had also seen a marked improvement. “The department is in favour of completely restricting vehicular movement inside the park. A decision on the same is likely to be taken by this month-end and the proposal is before Horticulture Minister K.C. Narayana Gowda,” he said. The traffic police, however, maintain that with no alternative roads, the department had recommended allowing vehicular movement inside the park again. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Narayan said the traffic police had also urged the Horticulture Department to not allow parking inside the park. The decision to allow vehicles inside the park again has not gone down well with citizens’ groups. Priya Chetty Rajagopal from Heritage Beku said though the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) council had passed a resolution against vehicular traffic inside the park, the government had decided on the contrary. “As part of #CubbonParkUlisi, we got opinions from 15 experts, including the Directorate of Urban Land Transport. All of them favoured a complete ban on vehicular movement inside the park,” she said and pointed out that traffic was banned inside Lalbagh nearly two decades ago. The move does not augur well for the park, she said and added that citizens would strongly oppose and protest it.
23 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Metro stations on extended lines to have better infrastructure||Ever since they were thrown open for commercial operations, Namma Metro stations built under Phase I have come under criticism for lack of infrastructure such as adequate access points to enter the stations, non-availability of bus bays, and congestion owing to lack of space for autorickshaws. Having learned from its past mistakes, Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL) has included these features in the stations under Phase II. Stations in the extended Green Line on Kanakapura Road (Yelachenahalli to Anjanapura), which is likely to open for commercial operations in November, will have “features that were missing in Phase I”, said officials. Pedestrian friendly BMRCL officials said they have also taken into consideration the needs of pedestrians who may want to cross the road but do not have tickets. “In Phase I, entry points to the station were provided at main lanes. Under Phase II, stations have been designed in such a way that entry points have been built by extending the road. This way, pedestrians can use metro stations to cross the road without entering the paid area,” said Mr. Chavan. Washroom facilities will be made available in the concourse level and can be used by non-metro users too. Easier access Chief PRO of BMRCL B.L. Yeshwanth Chavan said that while designing the metro stations, provisions have been made for bus bays and autorickshaw and taxi pick-up points. Entry points to the station have been provided on service roads instead of the main road, while lifts for the elderly and differently abled people will be available on either side of the road. Congestion outside metro stations has also proven to be a problem for bus drivers. A Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) official expressed hope that this problem would be addressed. “Most of the existing metro stations are located on busy roads. Barring a few stations such S.V. Road and Mysuru Road, there are no bus bays in others. A designated place for buses to stop will help passengers to reach the stations safely,” said an official. Commuters find it difficult to access many metro stations owing to the lack of pavements, subways, and footbridges. More often than not, if there are pavements, they are badly maintained. For example, on Tumakuru Road, stations are located at one end of the road and proposals to build subways to connect the stations still remain on paper. BMRCL officials said such problems have been addressed.  Green Line stretch to open in November Commercial operations on the 6-km extended Green Line — with five stations at Konanakunte Cross, Doddakallasandra, Vajarahalli, Talaghattapura, and Anjanapura — are slated to begin in the first week of November. The trial run on the line will start by August-end. It will be the first line to open under Phase II, which has a total length of 72 km. This line will have automatic fare collection boxes that will allow QR code-based tickets and common mobility cards. “Due to space constraints, parking facility will be made available for only two-wheelers and bicycles,” said Mr. Chavan. Prajwal H., a resident of Talaghattapura, said, “For over a year, there has been speculation about the opening of the line. After missing several deadlines, the BMRCL has announced the line will open in November. We are hoping that they will stick to the revised deadline.”
23 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Cases are on the rise in all southern zones of city||The Greater Chennai Corporation has, over the past week, registered a rise in fresh cases of COVID-19 in 10 of the 15 zones of the city, including all five southern zones. The growth rate of cases in the southern zones was higher than the city's average growth rate of 1.4% last week.  The southernmost zone, Sholinganallur, registered a 5.2% growth in cases over the past seven days. Valasaravakkam (4.8%), Perungudi (3%), Adyar (2.9%) and Alandur (1.7%) also registered a higher growth in cases when compared to the city's average figure.  Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, in the northern part of the city, registered a growth rate of 10.1%. The Ambattur zone, which saw several fresh infections over the past few weeks, now has a negative case growth rate.  City Health Officer Jagadeesan said over 60% of the fresh cases were caused by “family contacts”.  The civic body is planning to intensify containment measures to prevent a spike in cases. “We may revert to stringent measures again. The relaxation of norms has led to a rise in cases in some areas. We are monitoring the situation,” an official said.  Civic officials said a huge number of guest workers and professionals from other regions had reached the city. They were not being monitored.  “At least 10% of the guest workers who had arrived here without an e-pass have tested positive for COVID-19,” an official said.  The number of containment zones in the city has increased to 23, and is set to grow further in some zones.  The case fatality rate is 2.07%. The total number of residents who have tested positive has crossed 1.25 lakh.  The number of active cases accounts for 10% of the total cases. As of Sunday, there were over 13,000 active cases in the city.
23 August 2020||August 23 2020 20:52 IST,||Reader’s Mail||Freedom of speech During the 74th Independence Day celebration in Chennai, it was disappointing that the Chief Minister gave a speech on financial aspects of the State instead of highlighting how we got freedom and how freedom of speech should be exercised in our country. It is sad that recently a senior lawyer, Prashant Bhushan, is facing two contempt of court cases in the Supreme Court in our independent India. Arun Shourie, a senior journalist, faced a contempt case over an article. Similarly, a number of cases have been filed against social activists. This should have been highlighted.  G. Stanley Jeyasingh, Nagercoil Kudos to police N. Maheswari, Inspector of Armed Reserve Police, Tirunelveli, attracted the attention of people due to her duty consciousness despite the sudden demise of her father the night before she led the parade during Independence Day celebration. Apart from her, Pettai Police too deserve praise for booking culprits involved in a chain-snatching attempt. Although the incident happened on August 2, a Crime Branch team arrested two of the four suspects within 13 days. The other two are at large. Kudos to the police. G. Purushothaman, Tirunelveli New door numbers Some years back, Ramanathapuram municipality provided computerised assessment numbers for drinking water tap connections. However, the old door numbers of buildings are retained in receipts issued though new door numbers were given years back. These dual door numbers lead to confusion among the tax-payers. I appeal to the district administration to set this right by providing the present door numbers in receipts. Asmabagh Anvardeen,  Ramanathapuram Online classes  This is with reference to the news, ‘Online classes out of reach for many college students’ ( August 17). Apart from teaching, schools often conduct slip tests, monthly tests, quarterly and half-yearly examinations. Papers are evaluated and students get progress of their performance. This develops a competitive spirit among them. Further, science subjects are taught with experiments in the lab.  Though both the government and private institutions have been taking several initiatives to conduct online classes for students, the children are unable to concentrate on studies due to distractions like TV, mobiles and gaming. Classes held through TV broadcasting have no interaction with learners.  Children in rural areas don’t have a learning atmosphere at home. Reducing syllabus and homework may not give any desirable results. Instead, the standard of education will be further diluted.  Hence, online classes are not effective in the process of teaching or learning and is a poor substitute for classrooms. Until vaccination is invented and administered to all for COVID-19, reopening of schools and colleges is impossible.  Hence, this academic year 2020-21 should be skipped. To compensate for this gap, the maximum age for getting an appointment in the government sector should be revised accordingly. R. Chandrasekaran, Madurai The new causeway constructed after demolishing the Kuruvikaran bridge has many potholes. It does not have any street lights, making it unsafe for everyone. Although it may be easy for four-wheelers to drive through the steep entry points of the bridge, cyclists may find it tiresome. l request the authorities to rectify the defects. M. Selvaraj, Madurai
23 August 2020||NEW DELHI ,||Chess | Carlsen tour Season 2 in November||After the stupendous success of the inaugural million-dollar Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour, the second season will commence in November. The Tour witnessed some engaging chess involving some of the best names in the game. It recorded a whopping 70 million views across various online platforms and select TV channels. For the record, out of the five events, including the $300,000 Chess Tour finale, Carlsen won four. The next season promises to offer more prize-money and invite more world-class players.  Talking about this signature event, Carlsen said, “It has been a dream come true to see the growth of chess and the fans embracing online chess as a thrilling spectator sport.”
23 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Chess Olympiad | India outwits China, reaches the quarterfinals||India shocked second seed China and topped Pool A at the online Chess Olympiad on Sunday. The 4-2 victory in the final round in the preliminary league helped the seventh seed finish with 17 points, one more than the Chinese. The top place in the group means India will progress directly to the quarterfinals, while China and Germany, which took the third place, will have to go through the play-offs. The victory against China, which began the tournament as one of the strong favourites, should do India’s confidence a world of good. It was the juniors that helped the team pull off the memorable win, as R. R. Praggnanandhaa and Divya Deshmukh took full points off Liu Yan and Zhu Jiner, respectively. All the four boards featuring the seniors were drawn. Earlier in the day, India defeated Georgia 4-2 and Germany 4.5-1.5. India thus won eight of its nine matches in the league. It should have been nine out of nine if power failures at Nashik and Vijayawada hadn’t interrupted the games of captain Vidit Gujrathi and Koneru Humpy in the match against Mongolia on Saturday. The match was drawn 3-3. “I was in a winning position against Batkhuyagiin Munguntuul, but I lost the internet connection and thus the game,” Humpy told The Hindu. “These things happen when you play chess online. ”Bharat Singh Chauhan of the All India Chess Federation has informed Vidit and me that arrangements have been made to play our remaining matches from a five star hotel if we want to,” said Humpy.
24 August 2020||Pune,||10,441 new cases take Maharashtra tally past 6.80 lakh||Maharashtra reported a spike of 10,441 COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking its total case tally to 6,82,383. The State also recorded 258 more deaths, pushing its total toll to 22,253. The State had reported an average spike of more than 14,000 cases for three consecutive days, but in the past 24 hours, just 50,000 samples were tested as opposed to the daily average of 70,000 samples. As many as 8,157 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the total recoveries to 4,88,271, while the active cases, which stood below the 1.50 lakh mark 10 days ago, has now risen to 1,71,542. The State’s recovery rate has risen to 71.55%, while its case fatality rate has reduced to 3.26%.  Pune reported a spike of over 2,500 cases to take its total case load to 1,50,207, while 67 deaths pushed its total toll to 3,741. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases has risen to 31,200, with the district’s recovery rate standing at 75.73%. Mumbai reported 1,406 new cases to take its tally to 1,34,228, of which 18,299 are active. With 42 new fatalities, the city’s death toll has climbed to 7,356.  In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Navi Mumbai reported eight deaths as its toll climbed to 591, while a spike of 348 cases pushed its total case tally to 25,599. Thane reported a surge of 293 cases as its total case load crossed the 43,000 mark, while five more deaths saw its total death toll rise to 1,382. Nagpur district reported 818 new cases and 22 more deaths, pushing its case tally to 19,668, of which 8,755 are active, and toll to 504. Kolhapur had a spike of 522 cases, taking its total case load to 17,531, of which 6,902 are active. With 13 new deaths, the district’s death toll has gone up to 476. Sangli reported 11 deaths as its total death toll climbed to 297. With 325 fresh cases, the district’s total case tally has reached 8,904 of whom 3,381 are active.  Nashik district in north Maharashtra reported 476 fresh cases as its total tally reached 31,864, of which 10,667 are active. With 12 new deaths, the district’s total death toll has risen to 749. The adjoining district of Jalgaon saw a massive spike of 627 cases, while reporting four new deaths. The district’s total case tally has risen to 22,049, of which 6,411 are active ones, while the death toll has now climbed to 750.  Ahmednagar district reported yet another spike of 497 cases as its total case tally rose to 16,432, of which 3,722 are active. With 12 new deaths, its total death toll has climbed to 227.  “Of a total of 36,16,704 laboratory samples tested so far, 6,82,383 (18.86%) have tested positive. Around 50,000 samples were tested across the State in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate. A total of 12,30,982 people across the State are in home quarantine, while 34,820 are in institutional quarantine facilities.
23 August 2020||Pune,||Can’t allow second COVID-19 wave in Maharashtra: Uddhav||While the process of unlocking may have started in earnest, Maharashtra cannot allow a second COVID-19 wave to throw it off-guard, Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said on Sunday while inaugurating Pune’s first jumbo COVID-19 hospital. Mr. Thackeray also urged the people of the State not to be complacent. “The recurrence of a second novel coronavirus wave has been observed in countries the world over. There is no hope for a vaccine before December. So citizens cannot afford to let their guard down and must keep taking preventive measures. They should not congregate needlessly during festive occasions like the ongoing Ganesha festival,” said Mr. Thackeray. After a rain-induced delay of nearly five days, the fully air-conditioned 800-bed facility — 600 oxygenated and 200 ICU beds — with negative pressure rooms was opened at the College of Engineering Pune. “I congratulate all authorities of the Pune administration, workers and agencies for having managed to complete this arduous task in record time. It is admirable that this facility could be set up despite heavy showers in Pune,” he said. The Chief Minister said more than ventilators, oxygen beds were the need of the hour. “I am happy that the facility has negative pressure oxygen beds as it is vital for patients before they become critical,” he said. Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar said the facility would start operations from Tuesday. He said it would ensure the availability of oxygen and ICU beds to patients. “Furthermore, 20% of the patients in Pune’s hospitals are from other districts. They too need quality treatment. These jumbo facilities will prove crucial,” he said.  Pune Divisional Commissioner Saurabh Rao said a second jumbo facility would begin operations by Wednesday at Annasaheb Magar grounds to cater to patients from Pimpri-Chinchwad, and the third hospital would be completed by Friday. He said, “The third facility at Balewadi is being set up through the CSR funds of the Pune Municipal Corporation. It will have 250 oxygenated beds and 44 ICU beds.” Mr. Rao said 1,200 people worked round-the-clock amid heavy rain to complete the facility. “The jumbo facility, where the patient and IT management systems are just like in a normal high-end hospital, is completely fire-proof and water-proof. It is commendable that it was set up in barely 20 days at a time when Pune district received its heaviest [75%] rain,” he said. Following his visit to Pune city, Mr. Thackeray had urged the district administration to expedite the process of setting up the jumbo facilities while regularly monitoring the bed availability in hospitals across Pune.  “There has been a lot of discussion in the past month of Pune having one of the highest active cases in the country. However, in the past two months, the maximum testing in the country has taken place in Pune,” said Mr. Rao, adding that the district authorities have been successful in reducing the COVID-19 case fatality rate. Mr. Rao said the recovery rate had shot up to over 75%, while complaints about non-availability of beds had dipped. He said, “On July 30, during his visit to Pune, the Chief Minister expressed concern about bed management. We had been directed to set up at least two jumbo facilities. Since then, we have added 1,500 beds and 200 ventilators while centralising bed management.”
24 August 2020||Mumbai,||State Congress bats for Rahul as party president||On the eve of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting and with interim party chief Sonia Gandhi offering to step down, the party’s Maharashtra unit on Sunday said Rahul Gandhi should now lead the party.   Maharashtra Congress president and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat said, “Rahulji should now lead the Congress. To have a courageous, sensitive and intellectually committed leader is not only the need of the Congress party but also the need of the country. With respect to Rahulji’s sentiments, we would like to say, ‘Come back, Rahulji’.” Mr. Gandhi has said in the past that the party should have ‘a non-Gandhi president’. His views were echoed by his sister and party leader Priyanka Gandhi-Vadra. In a statement, the State Congress said under Mr. Gandhi’s leadership, the party will be the voice of millions of Indians, determined to make history. “Under your able leadership and guidance, we would like to work for the poor and neglected in this country,” the party unit said.  The party unit said until Mr. Gandhi takes over as president, Ms. Sonia Gandhi should remain the interim president. “Soniaji’s struggle and hard work is a source of inspiration for the members of the Congress family, like us,” it said.
23 August 2020||Mumbai,||Sushant Singh Rajput death | CBI questions actor’s friend, house helps||CBI sleuths on Sunday questioned actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s friend Siddharth Pithani, cook Neeraj Singh and domestic help Deepesh Sawant at the DRDO guest house in Mumbai in connection with his death and later visited the actor’s flat in Bandra along with them, an official said.  In the morning, Mr. Pithani, Mr. Neeraj and Ms. Sawant arrived separately at the DRDO guest house in Kalina area of Santacruz, where the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) officials probing the case are staying, an official said.  These three persons, who were present in the flat when Rajput, 34, was found hanging in his room on June 14, were questioned for about five hours following which the CBI sleuths took them to the late actor’s residence at Mont Blanc Apartments in suburban Bandra around 2.45 p.m., he said.  Forensic science experts were also part of the CBI team that visited Rajput’s residence, the official said.  Mumbai Police officials were also present at the actor’s house, he added.      On Saturday also, the CBI team accompanied by Mr. Pithani, Mr. Neeraj and Ms. Sawant visited the late actor’s house in Bandra to reconstruct the sequence of events before he was found dead.  Another CBI team on Saturday visited the State-run Cooper Hospital in the city, where autopsy had been performed on Rajput’s body.  A third CBI team had visited the Bandra police station to meet Mumbai Police officials who were investigating Rajput’s alleged suicide earlier.  On Friday, the CBI officials recorded the statements of Mr. Pithani and Mr. Neeraj.  The Supreme Court on Wednesday upheld the transfer of an FIR, lodged by Rajput’s father in Patna against actor Rhea Chakraborty and others for allegedly abetting his suicide, to the CBI.  After Rajput was found hanging in his apartment in June, the Mumbai Police registered a case of accidental death.  Later, Rajput’s father filed a police complaint in Patna, accusing Ms. Chakraborty and her family of abetting the actor’s suicide and misappropriating his money.
23 August 2020||New York,||Andy Murray makes triumphant start to year at the Western and Southern Open||Britain’s Andy Murray made a triumphant ATP comeback Saturday, defeating Frances Tiafoe 7-6 (8/6), 3-6, 6-1 in his first match of 2020 at the Western and Southern Open. The 33-year-old Scotsman advanced in hot and humid conditions to a second-round date with German fifth seed Alexander Zverev at the COVID-19 quarantine bubble that will also be used for the US Open, which starts on August 31. Murray won the 2012 US Open as well as the 2013 and 2016 Wimbledon titles plus the 2012 and 2016 Olympic gold medals. Former world number one Murray, now ranked 129th, suffered a pelvic injury at Davis Cup last November and that, combined with the pandemic shutdown, kept him out of competition until he faced 22-year-old Tiafoe in a meeting of wildcard entrants. Murray broke Tiafoe for a 2-0 lead in the third set when the American missed a volley, broke again to 5-1 with a backhand return winner and held at love to finish matters after two hours and 28 minutes. Murray was the 2008 and 2011 winner in this Grand Slam tuneup event, usually staged in Cincinnati but moved to New York due to the COVID-19 pandemic that wiped out much of the season, including Wimbledon. Tiafoe, ranked 81st, forced the only break point of the first set in the 11th game with a lob winner but Murray dismissed it with a service winner up the middle and held to 6-5 on a second-serve ace. In the tie-breaker, Tiafoe jumped ahead 5-2 before Murray roared back, saving a set point to reach 6-6 when Tiafoe sent a backhand wide and taking the set two points later on a passing forehand winner. Tiafoe, whose only ATP title came at the 2018 Delray Beach Open, saved a break point with an ace in the fifth game of the second set and took the first break of the match for a 5-3 lead on a backhand drop volley winner before holding to force a third set. The match was played on the National Tennis Center Grandstand court, the event’s feature court with no matches until the US Open scheduled at Arthur Ashe Stadium or Louis Armstrong Stadium. On the women’s side, Greek 13th seed Maria Sakkari defeated US teen Coco Gauff 6-1, 6-3 in 64 minutes. Sakkari could face 23-time Grand Slam winner Serena Williams in the third round. Russia’s Ekaterina Alexandrova ousted Kazak ninth seed Elena Rybakina 7-5, 7-6 (8/6). Among those set to play later were seven-time Grand Slam champion Venus Williams and 2014 US Open winner Marin Cilic of Croatia.
23 August 2020||August 23 2020 11:09 IST,||A car touchscreen you don't have to touch||(Subscribe to our Today's Cache newsletter for a quick snapshot of top 5 tech stories. Click here to subscribe for free.) Cambridge University and Jaguar Land Rover (JLR) have developed a contactless touchscreen technology for car infotainment systems. The new contactless technology – predictive touch, uses artificial intelligence and sensors to control touchscreen systems in a car “without needing to touch the screen,” Jaguar Land Rover said in a statement. A gesture tracker uses vision-based or radio frequency-based sensors to combine contextual information, such as user profile, interface design and environmental conditions, with data available from other sensors, such as an eye-gaze tracker, to infer user’s intent in real time, it added. JLR says the technology predicts a user’s intended target on the screen early in the pointing task, speeding up the interaction process and reducing time and effort needed to use a touchscreen by up to 50%, based on lab tests and on-road trials.     Touchscreen systems are becoming an integral part of a car’s infotainment system. Individual’s driving style and other factors like road and weather conditions may lead to a few missed attempts to control the screen. “The technology also offers us the chance to make vehicles safer by reducing the cognitive load on drivers and increasing the amount of time they can spend focused on the road ahead,” Lee Skrypchuk, Human Machine Interface Technical Specialist at JLR, said. Since it is a software-based solution, it can also be used on existing touchscreens and interactive displays, provided the machine learning algorithm receives accurate sensor data. It can also be personalised for a user or a particular display size owing to the design flexibilities. “Our technology has numerous advantages over more basic mid-air interaction techniques or conventional gesture recognition, because it supports intuitive interactions with legacy interface designs and doesn’t require any learning on the part of the user,” said Dr. Bashar Ahmad of Cambridge University.
27 August 2020||Hyderabad,||These electric scooters are becoming a favourite across India’s smaller settlements||Rohit Vedara is excited to speak about ETrance+, a new electric scooter with a low carbon footprint which is geared towards the budget-conscious market: meant for those looking to get around town for under ₹60,000. Rohit is the CEO of PureEV, a Hyderabad-based startup that has made a corner in the EV (electric vehicle) market in India. The startup, just under five years old, already has an in-house battery manufacturing facility and a research setup based out of IIT-Hyderabad campus, Sangareddy. This is where their research and development team works on core areas of battery thermal management system for development of long range and high-performance Lithium batteries. The ETrance+ is not PureEV’s first release, they have the ETrance, Etron+ and EPluto, as well the EPluto 7G which is their higher-end scooter, priced at around ₹90,000 roughly. Rohit shares that servicing and dealership points across the country are available for PureEV’s scooters; and the list keeps growing.  “In the last one or two years, we are seeing only a positive trend as more players come into the market,” he says, inferring this is helpful to the bigger picture of green vehicles and the environment. He describes an interesting challenge with regards to materials supply chain too: “Though the EV industry is growing fast, not everyone has the depth of expertise required. So we have to make sure that suppliers of materials for our EVs are convinced of our growth rate and impact.”     PureEV, since the lockdown, has seen considerable sales, on track to reach 1,000 vehicles a month across India by Deepavali. “We have seen sales in not just major metro cities but also across the smaller settlements,” says Rohit, adding, “the growth rate is extremely fast”. It is not just because of the prices and eco-friendly aspects, but also because the charging facilities are easy to work with. “You can remove the battery from the scooter and plug it into an at-home outlet safely for charging,” he points out.  There is certainly a cultural shift towards greener vehicles in India, but one of the main points of hesitation is the harmful chemicals needed to make an e-vehicle battery. In about 5 to 10 years, PureEV will implement the use of recycled batteries — Lithium batteries which have been created ages ago but put back in the circular loop of recycling.  “We will recover all the metals for those batteries too,” he says, “and in India, there are many requirements by which to abide, policy-wise, to use these batteries, including where we have a solid tie-up with a recycling company. The recycling stage will come in about three to four years (in, say, 2023) because that’s the life cycle of this type of battery. We are taking steps to avoid batteries don’t end up sitting in a dump-yard.”
23 August 2020||August 23 2020 18:58 IST,||Top news of the day: Sonia Gandhi reportedly tells Congress to find a new president; Harsh Vardhan predicts COVID-19 vaccine in India by year-end, and more||Faced with an unprecedented situation of senior leaders questioning the party’s top leadership, Congress president Sonia Gandhi is learnt to have asked her colleagues to find new party chief and expressed her desire to step down in a letter. Three COVID-19 vaccine candidates, including two indigenous ones, are in different phases of development in India. India continued to be placed behind Brazil and the United States in the overall case load and, at 56,706 deaths, had only half as many as Brazil and less than a third as that of the U.S. Several countries have expressed concern over the continued custody of their nationals, say diplomats. “‘Contact Minimisation’ is at the core of the SOP. This will be ensured by minimal physical contact and sharing of props, PPEs for hairstylists and make-up artists among others,” Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said. The Delhi Police has recovered a large quantity of explosives and an Islamic State flag from the house of Mohammad Mustakim Khan, alias Abu Yusuf, in Balrampur in Uttar Pradesh two days after he was arrested in the national capital. The BJP president’s assertion through the virtual meeting comes at a time when the JD(U) and the LJP are engaged in a bitter war of words. The third warning was withdrawn at 11 a.m. on August 23 in Andhra Pradesh as the water inflow started falling in the Godavari at the Sir Arthur Cotton (SAC) Barrage at Dowleswaram in East Godavari district. Amidst cheering, Mr. Modi is seen saying Mr. Trump “needs no introduction” and that “his name comes up in almost every conversation”. The former Prime Minister left for the U.K. in November 2019 after the Lahore High Court granted him four-week permission to go abroad for treatment. Indian economy was in a troubled state when the pandemic hit the world. Before the COVID-19 crisis hit India, the real GDP growth had moderated from 7% in 2017-18 to 6.1% in 2018-19 and to 4.2% in 2019-20. India has inked FTAs with several countries, including Japan, South Korea, Singapore, and ASEAN members. Pune-born Lisa Sthalekar is the 27th from Australia and the ninth woman player in the list, which includes five from her country.
23 August 2020||August 23 2020 07:38 IST,||Morning Digest: Supreme Court overreacted in Prashant Bhushan case, says Soli Sorabjee; India’s COVID-19 tally crosses 3 million, and more||“The court may at the most give a lecture to Prashant now. Warn him, but not punish him... It is rather a delicate balance to keep,” Mr. Sorabjee told The Hindu during an interview. He said the court could have ignored the first tweet and the second tweet was merely an opinion. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said India has the “best” COVID-19 recovery rate of about 75%, which is improving every day, and the “lowest” mortality rate of 1.87% in the world. Persons desirous to travel to India on Vande Bharat flights, will register themselves with the Indian missions in the country where they are stranded or residing, along with necessary details as prescribed by Ministry of External Affairs, the SOP said. In the backdrop of a renewed debate over the issue of leadership and a full time president, the meeting assumes great significance in terms of direction and the future of the party. If Pakistani Counter-Terror authorities do follow through on the order and add the names from the UNSC list to their own national terror listing, this would be the first time the Mumbai blasts mastermind would be acknowledged as a terrorist by Pakistan government, officials said. Spokesperson in the Ministry of External Affairs Anurag Srivastava said the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir is an “integral and inalienable” part of India and that it expects the parties concerned not to interfere in the country’s internal matters. The publishing house faced massive backlash online on Friday after an advertisement of the book launch on Saturday with BJP leader Kapil Mishra as a guest of honour did the rounds on social media. In a video excerpt, Mr. Trump initially told interviewer Steve Hilton “we don’t have to” do business with China, and then later said about decoupling: “Well it’s something that if they don’t treat us right I would certainly, I would certainly do that.” Either Paris Saint-Germain will pick up the European Cup for the first time or Bayern Munich will become six-time winners of the continent’s premier competition. The 33-year-old Scotsman advanced in hot and humid conditions to a second-round date with German fifth seed Alexander Zverev at the COVID-19 quarantine bubble that will also be used for the US Open, which starts on August 31.
25 August 2020||August 23 2020 19:24 IST,||What air travel looks like in the new normal||For Rajarshi Mukherjee, a frequent flyer, the pandemic has put a spoke in the wheels. His work meetings are now over Zoom calls, and all his getaways are restricted to virtual tours. With domestic flights resuming in May, however, he finally braved a flight back home to Kolkata from Hyderabad where he works. “I felt the aisle seat would be a bad idea as it would involve brushing against people walking by,” he says over phone from Kolkata. Of course, the middle seat was out of the question too. “So, I paid extra and bought a window seat,” he says. Other than his face shield (provided by the airline), he also had on a cap and a full sleeve jacket to make sure his head and hands were not exposed. Since July, however, airlines such as Vistara and Indigo have come forward to ease distancing fears with the offer of a ‘double seat’, an option that allows flyers to book the seat next to theirs at a reduced cost. It is safety while flying that concerns Rajarshi the most. On his flight to Kolkata, he observed that “some people did not bother to wear their masks”, but a few did have on PPEs and shower caps. “I guess it depends on how stringent the airlines are with their safety measures.”     Willy Boulter, Chief Commercial Officer, IndiGo, says, “We are disinfecting the aircraft before every flight. We also do periodic fumigation of the aircraft. Social distancing is maintained at all points — airport entry, baggage drop counters, security checks, boarding gates, coaches, ramp and baggage claim. All common surfaces such as the baggage drop counters, boarding gates, wheelchairs, tray tables, armrests, overhead nozzles and lavatories are disinfected using cleaning agents,” he says. There are other novel ways with which airports are seeking to minimise person-to-person interaction while flying. A spokesperson for GVK-MIAL, which operates the Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport, Mumbai, says passengers are encouraged to check-in online from their home or office, and make use of contactless payment at the airport restaurants and retail stores. From imprinting ‘blooming flower’ floor markings and disinfecting common surfaces (including elevator buttons, escalator handrails and security check trays) to making provisions for “the eventuality” that any symptomatic passenger is identified at the airport, GVK-MIAL says that it is working to ensure smooth functionality at the Mumbai airport. At the Chennai airport, “touchless measures” in screening and stamping services among others, with deep cleaning of the whole terminal, fogging, and social distancing markers are what passengers can expect at the departure terminal.     However, there is still a growing fear of picking up infection from flying, something that Boulter says is a long shot. “It has been analysed that the risk of COVID-19 transmission from one passenger to another on board is low because the customers sit facing forward and not toward each other. The seat backs provide a barrier, the use of HEPA filters and the direction of air flow on board (from ceiling to floor), and the limited movement in the aircraft once seated only add to the onboard protection,” he says.  Agrees Sunil Bhaskaran, CEO of Air Asia India, that has just rolled out the Digi Yatra services in association with the Bengaluru International Airport Limited, “This particular virus is 6.602.14 microns, and through the HEPA filters, 99.99% of this size gets filtered out.”   “The flights have full air circulation, with fresh air every two to three minutes. Which means, the full air is changed 20 to 30 times an hour , it gets filtered out,” Bhaskaran adds. For now though, in-flight dining is a thing of the past, but the pandemic has nudged people to embrace technology; some of the existing services such as online web check-in have gone up by 90-95%. “If you had asked this during pre-COVID-19, I would have said it’ll take us three years to get to this number,” says Bhaskaran.  Bhaskaran feels that while the number of people travelling is few, there is also an uncertainty about quarantine laws which tend to differ from city to city. “If that uncertainty gets taken out, we will have a better picture of how people will travel,” he says, hoping to see an increase in the number of fliers. “Compared to last year, the passenger load this year in June was 16% and in July it was 18%. We were hoping for an increase of 30% to 40%,” he adds. In Chennai, the airport has seen an increase of about 15% to 20% in the number of passengers since May. “On the first day since flights resumed, approximately 4,500 flyers flew out of Chennai,” says the spokesperson for Chennai Airport. Capped airfares is a big reason behind these few number of flyers. Boulter admits that capping was “a positive measure” to revive demand while still keeping it feasible for airlines to operate. “However, once the demand picks up, the Government should re-look at the capping for airlines to be able to reduce cash-burn and retain jobs. We are hopeful to see competitive strength return by April 2021, which will help us cover our costs and break even,” he says, adding, “We expect to emerge out of this crisis stronger than before.”
23 August 2020||Moscow,||Alexei Navalny was under surveillance by police during Siberia trip||Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny, who fell gravely ill on Thursday after what his allies believe was poisoning, was under intense police surveillance in preceding days, a Russian tabloid newspaper cited law enforcement sources as saying. Before he collapsed on a flight during a trip to Siberia Navalny was followed by plainclothes FSB officers and his movements were closely monitored via CCTV, the report in the Moskovsky Komsomolets newspaper said. Mr. Navalny, a long-time opponent of President Vladimir Putin and campaigner against corruption, was flown in an air ambulance on Saturday for treatment in Germany. Also read | Comatose Russian dissident Alexi Navalny visited by wife, aide in Germany Mr. Navalny, 44, was in an induced coma when he was evacuated from the Siberian city of Omsk, but there has been no word yet from the Charite hospital in Berlin on his condition. His team were due to host a briefing via YouTube on Sunday evening to discuss “everything we know so far about Alexei’s poisoning,” but subsequently cancelled it saying they were not ready, press secretary Kira Yarmysh and campaign HQ head Leonid Volkov wrote on Twitter. Citing security service sources, the Moskovsky Komsomolets described the timeline of his trip before he fell ill. An apartment rented for him by one of his supporters was discovered by police surveillance, the paper reported, when a sushi takeaway was ordered to the address by one of Mr. Navalny’s supporters. In its report, the Moskovsky Komsomolets paper cited security sources as saying that their surveillance of Mr. Navalny’s movements did not reveal any suspicious contacts that could be related to his illness. Security services believe that if Mr. Navalny was poisoned, the incident took place either in the airport or on the plane, the newspaper wrote. However the paper said they are still awaiting results of laboratory tests.
23 August 2020||Sydney,||Christchurch shooter arrives for sentencing||The suspected white supremacist who killed 51 Muslim worshippers last year, a massacre that prompted a global campaign to stamp out online hate, arrived in Christchurch on Sunday ahead of sentencing hearings. Brenton Tarrant disembarked a New Zealand air force plane at Christchurch Airport on Sunday afternoon, wearing a protective vest and helmet and escorted by armed officers, before being directed into the back of a white van, television footage showed. He has pleaded guilty to 51 charges of murder, 40 charges of attempted murder and one charge of committing a terrorist act. Tarrant was transported to Christchurch, the city where the shootings occurred, from Auckland Prison at Paremoremo, the New Zealand Herald reported. A court in Christchurch will begin multi-day sentencing hearings on Monday, where survivors of the attack and family members of those killed will deliver victim impact statements. Tarrant, an Australian, will be sentenced after being allowed to make a statement. Murder convictions carry a mandatory sentence of life in prison. The judge can impose a life term without the possibility of release, a sentence that has never been used in New Zealand. A police spokeswoman declined to comment on Tarrant’s movements, referring to the Department of Corrections. A spokeswoman there declined to comment, citing ”the interests of public safety and operational security”.
24 August 2020||August 23 2020 20:18 IST,||Coronavirus | China administering COVID-19 vaccines since July, says official||China has since July 22 been administering its domestically-developed COVID-19 vaccines to a broad range of people whose number may soon be in the hundreds of thousands, including medical workers, the armed forces, and employees of companies who are working overseas on Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) projects, said a health official on August 22. Also read: China grants country's first COVID-19 vaccine patent to CanSino, says media report China has eight different vaccines which are going through clinical trials, and none have so far been approved for the market. Some of the vaccines have, however, been administered on an “urgent use” basis for the past month, Zheng Zhongwei, director of the Development Centre for Medical Science and Technology of the National Health Commission, which is leading the vaccine development programme, told State media. Authorities have permitted administering vaccines to medical workers, border officers and those employed overseas, while the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) has also begun inoculating military personnel. Vaccines are being administered in two doses, with the second given one month after the first shot. “The number of people being vaccinated on an urgent basis may reach hundreds of thousands across China, considering that personnel in wider sectors are being offered free injections,” Tao Lina, an immunology expert, was quoted as saying by the Communist Party-run newspaper, Global Times. “But it’s difficult to give an accurate figure since the Chinese military has begun mass vaccinations but has not released details.” Also read: COVID-19 cases tick up in China’s Urumqi That number could rise further by this winter. Mr. Zheng said that ahead of a possible wave of cases this winter, the vaccines would be made available “to people working in food markets, transport systems and services industries.” Those who have previously tested positive for COVID-19 will not be among the early group. Mr. Zheng said when the vaccine reaches the market, it would be priced slightly lower than the estimate given by one of the producers, Sinopharm, of around 1,000 Yuan, or ₹10,800 for two shots. Sinopharm has said a vaccine may be given the green light for marketing by the end of the year, which was “dependent on the progress of late-stage clinical trials overseas”. More than 20,000 people in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) had taken vaccines in Phase Three clinical trials, while Sinopharm has signed agreements with three other countries, Peru, Morocco and Argentina, for trials. Also read: WHO advance team ends visit to China to probe COVID-19 origin The Global Times quoted an employee of a state-run enterprise working on overseas projects as part of the BRI as saying “all staff in her company have been offered inactivated vaccine injections on a voluntary basis for free.” The employee took the vaccine on August 7 and said “at least 10% of the employees, mainly those in charge of projects overseas, have been vaccinated in groups since they were notified on July 30.” The inoculation of workers going overseas has, however, raised questions with some of the countries receiving them, with Papua New Guinea barring the entry of Chinese workers on a mine project who had been inoculated on August 10 before travelling.
23 August 2020||Lahore,||Pakistan terms Sharif an ‘absconder’, approaches U.K. for extradition||The Pakistan government has declared former prime minister Nawaz Sharif, currently in London for treatment, an absconder and approached the U.K. government for his extradition. Adviser to the Prime Minster on Accountability and Interior Shahzad Akbar said that Sharif’s four-week bail on medical grounds expired in December last year. The government is treating him (Sharif) as an absconder and has already sent a request to the British government to extradite him, Mr. Akbar was quoted as saying by the Dawn News on Saturday. Mr. Sharif, who was sentenced in a graft case by an accountability court, informed a court in Lahore last month that he is unable to return to the country as his doctors have told him not to go out due to the coronavirus pandemic. Mr. Sharif submitted his medical report to the Lahore High Court (LHC) through his counsel and said doctors have recommended him to avoid going outside due to the coronavirus as he has low platelet counts, diabetes, heart, kidney and blood pressure related problems.     Mr. Akbar said the government would request the National Accountability Bureau (NAB) to pursue Mr. Sharif’s extradition as well and it was also looking into legalities of guarantees of Shahbaz Sharif, who was supposed to escort his elder brother back to Pakistan after his medical treatment. His comments came after a new picture was shared on social media which shows Mr. Sharif walking on the streets of London with his son, Hassan Nawaz holding an umbrella. His stroll on London roads is a slap in the face of the judiciary and the government cannot allow this. There is nothing personal in it: we are only trying to implement the law and fulfil its requirements, the adviser was quoted as saying. The 70-year-old three-time premier is currently in London for treatment after he was diagnosed with an immune system disorder. He left for the U.K. in November last year after the Lahore High Court granted him four-week permission to go abroad for treatment. Mr. Akbar alleged that the ex-premier had submitted fake lab reports.     The adviser said that on October 29 last year the court granted Mr. Sharif an eight-week bail for treatment within Pakistan and on November 16, he got a four-week permission to travel abroad for treatment. He said that the former prime minister was supposed to keep the court and the Punjab government updated about his treatment by sharing the details of the process of his treatment and test reports which he did not do. He said that Mr. Sharif applied to the Punjab government for bail extension on February 19. “A medical board was constituted which sought details of medical procedures being done and test reports of Mr. Sharif, but nothing was shared,” he said. He said that the law ministry, NAB and the prison department were informed about the bail expiry and rejection of its extension when the medical board got nothing as evidence document.     He said the U.K. government was also informed about the development on March 2 with a request for his extradition. Commenting on recent pictures of Mr. Sharif, Mr. Akbar said that the former premier looked perfectly fine in the pictures shared by his sons, the daily reported. His daughter Maryam Nawaz had said her father was a high-risk patient therefore his cardiac catheterisation/coronary intervention had been postponed owing to COVID-19.
23 August 2020||Berlin,||Comatose Russian dissident Alexi Navalny visited by wife, aide in Germany||Alexi Navalny’s wife and a top aide visited him on Sunday in a Berlin hospital where the comatose Russian dissident is being treated by German doctors after a suspected poisoning. Mr. Navalny was flown to Germany on Saturday from Siberia after doctors determined he was stable enough to be brought to the capital’s Charite hospital for treatment.  After his arrival, hospital spokeswoman Manuela Zingl said the 44-year-old would be undergoing extensive diagnostic tests and that doctors wouldn’t comment on his illness or treatment until they were able to evaluate the results.  On Sunday, Navalny’s wife, Yulia Navalnaya, and aide Leonid Volkov visited the Russian opposition leader in the hospital, making no comments to reporters. Mr. Navalny, a politician and corruption investigator who is one of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s fiercest critics, was admitted to an intensive care unit in the Siberian city of Omsk on Thursday. His supporters believe that tea he drank was laced with poison — and that the Kremlin is behind both his illness and a delay in transferring him to Germany. Mr. Navalny fell ill on a flight back to Moscow from Siberia on Thursday and was taken to the hospital after the plane made an emergency landing.  While his supporters and family members insist that Mr. Navalny was poisoned, doctors in Omsk have denied that, theorising a metabolic disorder was the most likely diagnosis and that a drop in blood sugar may have caused Mr. Navalny to lose consciousness.  Russian health authorities on Saturday said that tests done so far haven’t shown any poisons in his system.  When German specialists arrived aboard a plane equipped with advanced medical equipment Friday morning at his family’s behest, Mr. Navalny’s physicians in Omsk initially said he was too unstable to move. The dissident’s supporters suggested that was just a ploy to delay his departure until the poison was out of his system.  The Kremlin denied that resistance to the transfer was political, with spokesman Dmitry Peskov saying that it was purely a medical decision. However, the reversal to allow him to leave came as international pressure on Russia’s leadership mounted. Mr. Navalny’s own doctor, Yaroslav Ashikhmin, who has treated him since 2013, said the politician has always been in good health, regularly went for medical checkups and didn’t have any underlying illnesses that could have triggered his condition.  Like many other opposition politicians in Russia, Mr. Navalny has been frequently detained by law enforcement and harassed by pro-Kremlin groups. In 2017, he was attacked by several men who threw antiseptic in his face, damaging an eye.  Last year, Mr. Navalny was rushed to a hospital from jail where he was serving a sentence on charges of violating protest regulations. His team also suspected poisoning then. Doctors said he had a severe allergic reaction and sent him back to detention the following day.  If he was poisoned, it would not be the first time a prominent, outspoken Russian was targeted in such a way — or the first time the Kremlin was accused of being behind it.
23 August 2020||Seoul,||South Korea elevates distancing as epidemic nears spring levels||Beaches and churches are closed and baseball games will be played in empty stadiums on Sunday after South Korea added hundreds to its growing coronavirus caseload amid concerns the epidemic is getting out of control.  The 397 new cases reported by South Korea’s Centers for Disease Control and Prevention marked the 10th day of triple-digit increases and indicated that the speed of viral spread was nearing the levels last seen during the worst of the outbreak in spring.  The resurgence, which began in the densely populated capital area before reaching practically every major city and provincial town over the past week, is a major setback for the country that had been eager to tout its hard-won gains against the virus.  KCDC Director Jeong Eun-kyeong said things will probably get worse before they get better. The daily jumps could become even bigger in the coming days because health workers are increasingly struggling to keep up with the pace of infection, scrambling to trace and test the contacts of virus carriers, she said. “We don’t see the current state as the peak ... we believe that infections could further increase,” Mr. Jeong said during a virus briefing.  Patients are increasing not only in the Seoul metropolitan region, but also across the 17 (major) cities and provinces throughout the country, pushing us on the verge of a massive nationwide outbreak. After avoiding stringent social distancing measures because of concerns over hurting the economy, officials stepped up restrictions nationwide on Sunday.  They banned gatherings of more than 50 people indoors and 100 people outdoors and shut nightclubs, karaoke rooms, buffet restaurants and computer-gaming cafes. Churches can hold online services only while fans were removed from professional sports, just weeks after baseball and soccer teams had been allowed to sell limited portions of their seats.  The Seoul city government said it will require people to wear masks in public — indoors and outdoors — starting Monday. It wasn’t immediately clear how the city could effectively enforce such requirements. Seoul has been mandating masks on mass transport since May, but enforcement has been relatively lax as it depends on bus drivers and subway station workers.  Some experts say such measures are too little and too late. There’s a possibility that government officials this week could further elevate social distancing measures to Level 3, which could include prohibiting gatherings of more than 10 people, shutting schools, halting professional sports and advising private companies to have employees work from home.  Sunday’s jump in infections marked the third consecutive day they’ve crossed 300. Most of the new cases come from the Seoul area, home to half of the country’s 51 million population. Cases were also reported in other major cities such as Busan, Gwangju, Daejeon and Daegu, the epicenter of the previous major outbreak in late February and March.  The country managed to stabilize the situation in the Daegu area by April through aggressive testing and contact tracing. That approach worked because much of the infections had been tied to a single church congregation with thousands of members.  But it’s unclear the formula would be as effective now, with the virus spreading nationwide and new clusters popping up from unpredictable places and groups as people increasingly venture out in public.  South Korea has 17,399 confirmed cases, including 309 deaths.  With the number of virus patients rising rapidly, it has become difficult for anti-virus measures alone to contain the outbreak — the reduction of human-to-human contact is crucial, Jeong said.  Churches have constantly been a major source of infection. More than 840 cases so far have been linked to a northern Seoul church led by a bitter critic of the country’s President.  The spread worsened after thousands of anti-government protesters, including members of the Sarang Jeil Church and its conservative pastor, Jun Kwang-hun, marched in downtown Seoul last week despite official pleas to stay home. Mr. Jeong said at least 136 infections have so far been linked to the protest. Jun has been hospitalised since Monday after testing positive.  Health workers have used cellphone location data to identify some 50,000 people who spent more than 30 minutes on the street during the protest on Aug. 15 and have been alerting them to get tested.
23 August 2020||LOS ANGELES,||Trump ordered to pay $44,100 in Stormy Daniels legal fees||A California court ordered President Donald Trump this week to pay $44,100 in attorney fees to porn actor Stormy Daniels to pay for her legal battle over her effort to cancel a hush money deal brokered to keep her quiet about their sexual relationship a decade ago.  The order in Superior Court in Los Angeles determined Daniels won her lawsuit against Trump over the agreement that was signed 11 days before the 2016 presidential election. As a part of that deal, the losing party would pay the lawyers fees.  The White House did not immediately respond to a request for comment about the decision.  The President’s personal lawyer at the time, Michael Cohen, paid $130,000 to Daniels, who filed the suit under her legal name Stephanie Clifford. After Trump’s election, Daniels sued to void the agreement.  Trump and his supporters denied the President knew about the payment for several years before Trump acknowledged it on Twitter in May 2018 and said he reimbursed Cohen for the money paid to Daniels.  Daniels’ suit over the non-disclosure agreement was dismissed before going to trial or a settlement because the parties were no longer quiet. Trump’s lawyers said Daniels didn’t win the case and therefore wasn’t entitled to lawyer fees, but Judge Robert Broadbelt III disagreed in his ruling Monday, posted online by Daniels’ lawyers.  Trump’s lawyers also argued Daniels didn’t prove the president was a part of the non-disclosure agreement which was made under the name “ David Dennison,” but Broadbelt wrote there was a large amount of evidence showing Cohen chose Dennison as a pseudonym for Trump.  After her lawyer announced the decision, Daniels wrote on Twitter- “Yup. Another win.”  But they haven’t all been wins for Daniels. She also sued Trump for defamation after the president’s comments on Twitter that a man she said threatened her to stay quiet about their alleged affair in 2011 was “nonexistent.” Trump also posted side-by-side photos of the composite sketch of the man making the threats and Daniels’ husband.  The defamation lawsuit was thrown out and Daniels is appealing the decision and an order to pay Trump almost $300,000 in attorney fees.  A judge in that case ruled Trump’s statements on Twitter were protected speech under the First Amendment.  Since Trump’s election, Daniels has remained in the adult entertainment industry, using her new fame to promote strip club appearances and shows, including her latest venture called “Spooky Babes Paranormal Show” where she said she is leading a team of investigators to hunt ghosts and get answers for people here on Earth. She also still takes shots at the president on Twitter. Meanwhile, Cohen pleaded guilty to campaign finance charges and lying to Congress, among other crimes, and was sentenced to three years in prison in 2018.
23 August 2020||LONDON,||London's famous Tower Bridge gets stuck in an open position||London’s famous Tower Bridge, which crosses the River Thames in the heart of the British capital, was stuck open on Saturday, leaving traffic in chaos and onlookers amazed at the sight.  The historic bascule-and-suspension bridge failed to close after opening to allow ships to pass underneath on the Thames.  City of London police tweeted shortly after 5 p.m. that the bridge was closed to pedestrians and traffic and mechanics were working to fix the problem. An hour later, police tweeted that the bridge had reopened.  Tower Bridge is 800 feet long and its towers are 213 feet high. I t was built between 1886 and 1894.
23 August 2020||Washington,||Trump campaign releases commercial for Indian-Americans featuring PM Modi||Trying to specifically woo Indian American voters, the Trump campaign has released a commercial featuring footage of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and U.S. President Donald Trump held in Houston almost one year ago and in Ahmedabad in February.  While the data show that Indian Americans mostly vote Democrat, the Republican party is trying to target voters who are likely to be switch loyalties based on the Modi-Trump camaraderie.    America enjoys a great relationship with India and our campaign enjoys great support from Indian Americans! pic.twitter.com/bkjh6HODev   Tweeting out the ad , Kimberly Guilfoyle ,  who heads a fundraising unit for the Trump campaign  wrote “America enjoys a great relationship with India and our campaign enjoys great support from Indian Americans!” This is the first Trump campaign ad is specifically for an Indian American audience. Also read: PM gets rapturous reception at ‘Howdy Modi!’ event in U.S. The commercial was conceptualized by Al Mason, a Trump supporter who is advising the U.S. president on the Indian American vote. The clip shows Mr Modi holding up Mr Trump’s arm on the stage in Houston and a shot of the two walking around the arena, hands clasped. There is also a clip of Mr Trump’s Ahmedabad address. “America loves India, America respects India….we have come to know the splendour of the four million Indian Americans, they are truly spectacular people,” Mr Trump says in the clip. Both the GOP and Democrats are appealing to Indian voters, especially those in battleground states, where the number of Indian American voters — at least in some cases — exceeds the difference in vote margins between Mr. Trump and his 2016 opponent Hilary Clinton. A relatively small number of votes could help the candidate win the entire state (i.e., the electoral college votes for the state). These states include Arizona, Georgia, Iowa, Michigan, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Texas and Wisconsin with a total of 1.3 million Indian American voters according to data from CRW Strategy shared at a Democratic Party campaign event. Republicans such as Mr Mason are hoping that Indian Americans will move in sufficient numbers from the Democratic Party to the GOP in battleground states. Mr Mason talks about  “grassroots polling efforts” in a July op-ed he authored and said the results of these efforts “show that as many as 50 percent of potential Indian American voters, the vast majority of whom traditionally have voted Democratic in presidential elections, will defect from the Democratic Party and vote for President Trump.”  No details of the survey methodology or numbers were provided however. The Hindu has reached out to Mr Mason for these.    Democrats too have been specifically pursuing the Indian American vote. In the middle of July, Democratic National Committee (DNC) Chairman Tom Perez spoke at a virtual ‘ Indian Americans for Biden’ townhall and drew attention to the  battleground states. Democratic Presidential and Vice Presidential nominees, Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, also sent out Independence Day greetings during a Democratic event organized for that purpose on August 15 and Mr Biden’s campaign has released a specific set of policies addressing Indian American concerns.
23 August 2020||Medan (Indonesia) ,||Indonesia’s Sinabung volcano spews new burst of hot ash||A rumbling volcano in western Indonesia on Sunday unleashed an avalanche of scorching clouds down its slopes.  Authorities are closely monitoring Mount Sinabung on Sumatra, one of Indonesia’s main islands, after sensors picked up increasing activity in past weeks.  The volcano in North Sumatra province was shooting smoke and ash more than 1,000 meters (3,280 feet) into the air on Sunday morning, and hot ash clouds travelled 1 kilometer (0.6 mile) southeast, Indonesia’s Volcanology and Geological Hazard Mitigation Centre said.  Villagers were advised to stay 5 kilometers (3.1 miles) from the crater’s mouth and should be aware of the peril of lava, the agency said. Air travel was not impacted by the ash so far, the Transport Ministry said.  There were no casualties from the eruption, said Armen Putra, an official at the Sinabung monitoring post. He said villages outside the red zone were not in immediate danger.  Some 30,000 people have been forced to leave homes around Sinabung in the past few years.  The 2,600-metre (8,530-feet) Sinabung was dormant for four centuries before exploding in 2010, killing two people. Another eruption in 2014 killed 17 people, while seven died in a 2016 eruption.  The volcano, one of two currently erupting in Indonesia, has sporadically come to life since then.  Sinabung is among more than 120 active volcanoes in Indonesia, which is prone to seismic upheaval due to its location on the Pacific Ring of Fire, an arc of volcanoes and fault lines encircling the Pacific Basin.
23 August 2020||Washington,||In recordings, Trump’s sister says he ‘has no principles’||President Donald Trump’s older sister, a former federal judge, is heard sharply criticising her brother in a series of recordings released Saturday, at one point saying of the President, “He has no principles.”  Maryanne Trump Barry was secretly recorded by her niece, Mary Trump, who recently released a book denouncing the President, Too Much and Never Enough: How My Family Created the World’s Most Dangerous Man. Mary Trump said on Saturday she made the recordings in 2018 and 2019.  In one recording, Ms. Barry, 83, says she had heard a 2018 interview with her brother on Fox News in which he suggested that he would put her on the border to oversee cases of immigrant children separated from their parents.  “His base, I mean my God, if you were a religious person, you want to help people. Not do this,” Ms. Barry says.  At another point she says: “His goddamned tweet and lying, oh my God.” She adds: “I’m talking too freely, but you know. The change of stories. The lack of preparation. The lying.”  Ms. Barry can also be heard saying that she guesses that her brother has never read her opinions on immigration cases. “What has he read?” Mary Trump asks her aunt. Ms. Barry responds: “No. He doesn’t read.”  The recordings were first reported by The Washington Post. The Associated Press then obtained the recordings.  The recordings came to light just a day after the late Robert Trump, brother to Maryanne and the President, was memorialised in a service at the White House. Later, the President was dismissive of the recordings.      “Every day it’s something else, who cares. I miss my brother, and I’ll continue to work hard for the American people,” Mr. Trump said in a statement. “Not everyone agrees, but the results are obvious. Our country will soon be stronger than ever before.” In the weeks since the release of Mary Trump’s tell-all book about her uncle, she has been questioned about the source of some of its information. Nowhere in the book does she say that she recorded conversations with her aunt.  On Saturday, Mary Trump revealed that she had covertly taped 15 hours of face-to-face conversations with Ms. Barry. Ms. Mary realised members of her family had lied in prior depositions, said Chris Bastardi, a spokesperson for Mary Trump. He added: “Anticipating litigation, she felt it prudent to tape conversations in order to protect herself.” The President has frequently spoken highly of his sister; the recordings are the first time a family member, outside of Mary Trump, has been critical of him.  The recordings illuminate the tension between the President and his sister. At one point Ms. Barry says to her niece: “It’s the phoniness of it all. It’s the phoniness and this cruelty. Donald is cruel.”  Mary Trump’s book was filled with attacks on her uncle, including the assertion — he denied it — that he paid someone to take the SATs for him as he sought to transfer into the University of Pennsylvania.  In one recording, the federal judge says that a Joe Shapiro took the test for Mr. Trump. The President was friends with a person at Penn named Joe Shapiro, who is deceased. Mr. Shapiro’s widow and sister have said he never took a test for anybody. Mr. Bastardi said of Mary Trump: “She never expected to learn much of what she heard, including the President’s sister, federal judge Maryanne Trump Barry, state that Donald Trump had paid someone to take an SAT exam for him.”
23 August 2020||Beijing,||China successfully launches new optical remote-sensing satellite||China successfully launched a new optical remote-sensing satellite from its Jiuquan Satellite Launch Centre in northwest China on Sunday.  The satellite, Gaofen-9 05, was sent into orbit by a Long March-2D carrier rocket.  A multifunctional test satellite and another satellite named Tiantuo-5 were also launched via the rocket.  Sunday’s launch was the 343rd mission of the Long March rocket series, state-run Xinhua news agency reported.
23 August 2020||WASHINGTON,||Watch | 'Pink, hairless, size of a stick of butter': world celebrates on-camera birth of panda cub||A brand new giant panda cub is sparking pandemic-fuelled panda-mania, and officials at the National Zoo said traffic on their livestream spiked 1,200% over the past week. “I’m pretty sure we broke the Internet last night,” National Zoo Director Steve Monfort said Saturday. The zoo’s ever-popular Panda Cam traffic has been crashing since venerable matriarch Mei Xiang’s pregnancy was announced this past week. When she actually gave birth on Friday evening, zoo officials said they had a hard time getting into their own livestream, and they’re now working to boost their capabilities.     “Everybody is getting bumped off,” said Deputy Director Brandie Smith, a former curator of the zoo’s giant pandas, who has overseen multiple births here. “When we have a giant panda baby, the whole world celebrates.” On camera, the actual moment of birth at around 6.35 p.m. is obscured, but the results become immediately obvious from the new cub’s robust squealing. The massive mother immediately picks up and cradles the infant, which officials say is the size of a stick of butter. “We can tell the cub is doing well from its vocalisations and the mother’s behaviour,” Ms. Smith said. Zoo staff remain ready to intervene if something seems wrong, but Ms. Smith said Mei Xiang, who has reared three cubs to adulthood, “knows exactly what she is doing.” For now, zoo staff are letting the new pair share some private time. Mei Xiang will remain with her baby (gender still unknown) in a small indoor enclosure where she has built a modest nest out of branches. Although the place looks tiny for a big panda, the zoo said giant pandas in wild give birth in small dens. “They stay in these dens for about the cub’s first 100 days,” the zoo said on Instagram.     See and listen to the joyous moment when our giant panda cub was born at 6:35 p.m.! The animal care team reports mom Mei Xiang and cub appear to be doing well. #PandaStory #PandaCubdates pic.twitter.com/An1wx3FZG8   For about a week, the new mother will not leave the baby’s side even to eat or drink. The cub, who will not be named for its first hundred days in accordance with tradition, will remain in the den for its first few months of life. For now it is pink and hairless; the distinctive black and white fur markings come later. Meanwhile father Tian Tian seems blissfully oblivious, rolling around his outdoor enclosure Saturday morning. Giant pandas are almost entirely solitary, and in the wild it would be normal for Tian Tian to never meet his offspring. “There’s no real role for the male to play in the baby’s care,” Mr. Monfort said. “He’s probably more interested in what’s for breakfast this morning.” Mei Xiang, was artificially inseminated in the spring shortly after the entire zoo shut down on March 14 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Normally they would have used a combination of frozen sperm and fresh semen extracted from Tian Tian. But in order to minimise the number of close-quarters medical procedures, zoo officials used only frozen semen. It was the first successful procedure of its kind in the U.S. using only frozen sperm and Mei Xiang, at 22, is the oldest giant panda to successfully give birth in the United States. The oldest in the world gave birth in China at age 23. Mei Xiang has three surviving offspring, Tai Shan, Bao Bao and Bei Bei, which were transported to China at age 4 under an agreement with the Chinese government. With the indoor section of the panda house closed due to COVID-19 restrictions, the panda cam is really the only way to view the newborn. The zoo reopened on a limited basis July 24 with visitors needing timed passes to keep the crowds down. For now, zoo officials are directing panda-maniacs to the live cam, and are expecting unprecedented interest from a global population sheltering under pandemic restrictions and desperate for a bit of good news. “Something like this is kind of a miracle for us,” Mr. Monfort said. “It lifts the spirits and of my team and the whole world.” Ms. Smith said it’s also a fresh chance to direct those passions toward fundraising efforts that can help support global conservation initiatives. “Conservation only happens when people care, and people really care about giant pandas” she said.
23 August 2020||San Francisco (US),||In just a week, wildfires burn 1 million acres in California||Firefighters in California were racing to slow the spread of wildfires that burned nearly one million acres in a week and destroyed hundreds of homes as weekend weather threatened to spark new fires and overwhelm the state’s firefighting ability.  Responding to the emergency, President Donald Trump issued on Saturday a major disaster declaration to provide federal assistance. Gov. Gavin Newsom said in a statement that the declaration will also help people in counties affected by the fires with crisis counselling, housing and other social services.  Two clusters of wildfires in the San Francisco Bay Area broke old records to become the second- and third-largest wildfires in recent state history by size.  Light winds, cooler and more humid night-time weather helped fire crews make a bit of progress, but their efforts could be hurt by warm, dry weather, erratic wind gusts and lightning in the forecast, state fire officials said.  The National Weather Service issued a red flag warning of high fire danger across the Bay Area and along the Central Coast, beginning from Sunday morning to Monday afternoon.  “The worst is not behind us. We are in a battle rhythm,” California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection Chief Thom Porter tweeted.  Since thousands of lightning strikes began on August 15, the state responded to 585 wildfires that have burned nearly a million acres, or 4,046 square kilometers, according to CalFire.  Many were small and remote. The bulk of damage was from three clusters of fire complexes that were ravaging forest and rural areas in the San Francisco Bay Area and wine country north of San Francisco. They have burned 2,700 square kilometers.  The third one was burning in the Santa Cruz Mountains and along the coast of San Mateo County, south of San Francisco.  The fires have killed five people, torched nearly 700 homes and other structures and forced tens of thousands from their houses.  “Tuesday night when I went to bed, I had a beautiful home on a beautiful ranch,” said 81-year-old Hank Hanson of Vacaville. “By Wednesday night I have nothing but a bunch of ashes.” Earlier in the week, fire officials in charge of each of the major wildfires said they were strapped for resources. Some firefighters were working 72-hour shifts instead of the usual 24 hours.  By Friday, the approximately 13,700 firefighters on the line began to get help on the ground and in the air from 10 states, along with the National Guard and U.S. military.
23 August 2020||WASHINGTON,||Trump says without proof that FDA ‘deep state’ slowing COVID trials||U.S. President Donald Trump on Saturday accused members of the “deep state” at the Food and Drug Administration, without providing evidence, of working to slow testing of COVID-19 vaccines until after the November presidential election. In a Twitter post, Mr. Trump said the deep state “or whoever” at the FDA was making it very difficult for drug companies to enroll people in clinical trials to test vaccines and therapies for the novel coronavirus. The comment came after Reuters exclusively reported on Thursday that a top FDA official said he would resign if the Trump administration approved a vaccine before it was shown to be safe and effective. “Obviously, they are hoping to delay the answer until after November 3rd. Must focus on speed, and saving lives!” Mr. Trump wrote, tagging FDA Commissioner Stephen Hahn in the tweet. U.S. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said it was a “dangerous statement” and that the president was “beyond the pale” for accusing the FDA of playing politics. The FDA could not immediately be reached for comment. Drug manufacturers in coordination with the FDA and National Institutes of Health are ramping up production while testing is underway in order to respond as soon as possible with a vaccine for COVID-19, which has killed nearly 800,000 people worldwide. Mr. Trump often uses Twitter to criticize federal agencies, sometimes accusing them of being controlled by the “deep state” in an apparent reference to long-serving staff who, in Mr. Trump’s eyes, are determined to undermine his agenda. His tweet increases the pressure on the FDA after Peter Marks, director of its Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, last week said on a conference call with government officials, pharmaceutical executives and academics that he would resign if the agency rubber-stamped an unproven vaccine. Scientists, public health officials and lawmakers are worried that the Trump administration will push the FDA to approve a vaccine in advance of the vote, even if data from clinical trials do not support its widespread use. Mr. Marks, whose division regulates cutting-edge biotech treatments, vaccines and gene therapies, said he has not faced any political pressure and that the FDA would be guided by science alone. Should that change, he said on Thursday, “I would feel obligated (to resign) because in doing so, I would indicate to the American public that there’s something wrong.”
23 August 2020||JERUSALEM,||Pompeo to visit Israel and UAE with peace, Iran and China on agenda, sources say||U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo will visit Israel on Monday and the United Arab Emirates a day later to discuss the countries’ normalisation deal, two sources briefed on his itinerary said. Also on Pompeo’s agenda will be the security challenges posed by Iran and China in the region, said the sources, who declined to be identified by name or nationality. Israel and the UAE announced earlier this month that they would normalise diplomatic ties and forge a broad new relationship. Under the accord, which U.S. President Donald Trump helped broker, Israel agreed to suspend its planned annexation of areas of the occupied West Bank. The deal also firms up opposition to regional power Iran, which the UAE, Israel and the United States view as the main threat in the conflict-riven Middle East. White House senior adviser Jared Kushner, Trump’s son-in-law, is expected to travel to Israel and the UAE in early September, and may stop in other countries as well, an administration official said. Kushner will be accompanied by Avi Berkowitz, Trump’s Middle East envoy, the official said. Kushner and Berkowitz will thank Israel and the UAE for completing the deal, the official said.
23 August 2020||KHARTOUM,||Sudan ready to cooperate with ICC over Darfur, says PM||Sudan’s prime minister said on Saturday the country was ready to cooperate with the International Criminal Court (ICC) so those accused of war crimes in Darfur appear before the tribunal, a list that includes ousted President Omar al-Bashir. Bashir, who has been in jail in Khartoum since he was toppled after mass protests last year, is wanted by the ICC for alleged war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity in Darfur in a conflict that killed an estimated 300,000 people. The government reached a deal with rebel groups in February that all five Sudanese ICC suspects should appear before the court but Prime Minister Abdalla Hamdok had not previously publicly affirmed Sudan’s position. “I reiterate that the government is fully prepared to cooperate with the ICC to facilitate access to those accused of war crimes and crimes against humanity,” Hamdok said in a televised address on the anniversary of his ascent to office. Sudan’s transitional government, a three-year joint civilian-military arrangement led by Hamdok, says it is close to a peace deal with some rebel groups active in Darfur, a vast region roughly the size of France. The government and some of the rebels are expected to initial an agreement on Aug. 28. Hamdok also said during his TV address that Sudan had come a long way towards being removed from the U.S. list of state sponsors of terrorism. There are intense communications with the American administration about removing Sudan from the list and significant progress is expected in the coming weeks, a senior government source told Reuters on Sunday. Washington added Sudan to the list in 1993 over allegations that Bashir’s Islamist government was supporting terrorist groups at the time. The designation makes Sudan technically ineligible for debt relief and financing from the International Monetary Fund and World Bank. The U.S. Congress would need to approve Sudan’s removal from the list.
23 August 2020||JERUSALEM ,||Protests against Israeli PM continue with momentum||Thousands of Israelis protested outside the prime minister’s official residence Saturday as summer-long demonstrations against Benjamin Netanyahu maintained their momentum.  The protesters want the embattled Netanyahu to give up his post while he is on trial for corruption charges. The government’s mishaps in handling the coronavirus crisis after relative success in its early stages has also fueled the demonstrations.  Saturday’s protest comes ahead of Tuesday’s deadline in which the coalition government must agree on a budget plan or trigger new elections that would be the fourth in just over a year.  Ignoring police suggestions for alternative routes, the protesters marched from several parts of Jerusalem through key roads trying to reach Netanyahu’s residence on Balfour Street.  Outside the residence, they hoisted giant balloons depicting smeared heads of Netanyahu and his rival-turned-coalition partner Benny Gantz of the centrist Blue and White party, waved Israeli flags and the black flag of one of the grassroot protest movements.  A sign read “Balfour is in our hands,” referring to the residence address. Other signs called on Netanyahu to quit and a placard described him as “Crime Minister.”  Israeli police said they arrested seven protesters “on suspicion of violating public order and assaulting police officers.”  Last week, Netanyahu announced a U.S.-brokered deal to normalize ties with the United Arab Emirates, making it the third Arab country to establish full relations with Israel. The historic breakthrough has not helped calm the demonstrations against him.  Netanyahu has rejected calls to step down while he is on trial and claimed the protests are the work of leftists and the media.  Israel appeared to contain the pandemic in its first phase last spring, but the quick reopening of the economy led to a spike in cases. Over 100,000 Israelis have tested positive for the virus. The pandemic has caused unemployment numbers to hover over 20%.  Netanyahu was charged last year with bribery, fraud and breach of trust in three long-running corruption investigations. In January, the trial will move to a witness phase with three sessions a week.
23 August 2020||Minsk,||Lukashenko orders Belarusian army to defend borders ahead of protests||Belarus’s authoritarian leader Alexander Lukashenko on Saturday ordered his defence minister to take “stringent measures” to defend the country’s territorial integrity after mass protests erupted against his claim to election victory. The 65-year-old, who said he won a sixth presidential term with 80% of the vote in the August 9 ballot, made the comments while inspecting military units in Grodno, near Belarus’s border with Poland, according to the president’s press service. Lukashenko denounced the recent mass protests, which he said were receiving support from Western countries, and ordered the army to defend western Belarus, which he described as “a pearl”. “It involves taking the most stringent measures to protect the territorial integrity of our country,” Lukashenko said. His visit comes ahead of large-scale military exercises planned in the Grodno region between August 28 and 31. The former collective farm director said that NATO troops in Poland and Lithuania were “seriously stirring” near their borders with Belarus and ordered his troops into full combat readiness. NATO said the claims were “baseless”.  “As we have already made clear, NATO poses no threat to Belarus or any other country and has no military buildup in the region,” it said in a statement.  Both countries also denied the accusation. “The regime is trying to divert attention from Belarus’s internal problems at any cost with totally baseless statements about imaginary external threats,” Lithuanian President Gitanas Nauseda told AFP. The Polish president’s chief of staff, Krzysztof Szczerski, for his part dismissed the claim that Poland planned to violate Belarusian territorial integrity as “regime propaganda”, calling it “sad and surprising”. “Poland... has no such intention,” he told the Polish news agency PAP. Lithuania’s foreign ministry announced that US Deputy Secretary of State Stephen Biegun will visit Vilnius and Russia next week for talks on Belarus and the elections fallout. He is notably planning to meet with Lukashenko’s election challenger Svetlana Tikhanovskaya in Lithuania, where she is now in exile, her representatives told AFP. Tikhanovskaya, who fled Belarus after the disputed ballot in which she claims victory, said Saturday “we are not afraid.” “I am so proud of Belarusians now because after 26 years of fear they are ready to defend their rights,” she told AFP. “I call them to continue, not to stop, because it’s really important now to continue to be united in the struggle for the rights.” Opponents of Europe’s longest serving leader have organised strikes and the largest demonstrations in the ex-Soviet country’s recent history to protest his re-election and demand that he stand down. The opposition has called for a major rally in Minsk on Sunday after more than 100,000 people flooded onto the streets of the capital and other cities in Belarus last weekend demanding Lukashenko’s resignation.  The European Union this week rejected his re-election and vowed to levy sanctions against what it said was a substantial number of people responsible for rigging the vote and cracking down on protests. The Belarusian authorities have opened a criminal investigation into the opposition’s Coordination Council, whose members are seeking new elections and a peaceful transition of power. Lukashenko has rejected the idea of holding another ballot, dismissed calls to resign and accused the opposition of attempting to seize power. On Friday he vowed to “solve the problem” of the protest movement. Tikhanovskaya said this week that Belarusians would “never accept the current leadership again” after the crackdown on post-election protests.
23 August 2020||SAN JUAN,||Two tropical storms heading for double blow to U.S. Gulf Coast||Two tropical storms advanced across the Caribbean on Saturday as potentially historic threats to the U.S. Gulf Coast, one dumping rain on Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands while the other was pushing through the gap between Mexico’s Yucatan Peninsula and Cuba.  Tropical Storms Laura and Marco were both projected to approach Louisiana at or close to hurricane force just two days apart next week.  Two hurricanes have never appeared in the Gulf of Mexico at the same time, according to records going back to at least 1900, said Colorado State University hurricane researcher Phil Klotzbach. The last time two tropical storms were in the Gulf together was in 1959, he said.  The last time two storms made landfall in the United States within 24 hours of each other was in 1933, Klotzbach said.  The projected tracks from the U.S. National Hurricane Center on Saturday afternoon pointed to both storms being together in the Gulf on Tuesday, with Marco hitting Louisiana and Laura making landfall in the same general area a little less than a day later. But there was uncertainty over that time span, and forecasts have varied greatly so far for the two storms.  “We are in unprecedented times,” Mississippi Gov. Tate Reeves said at a news conference Saturday as he declared a state of emergency. “We are dealing with not only two potential storms in the next few hours, we are also dealing with COVID-19.”  A hurricane watch was issued for Intracoastal City, Louisiana, eastward to the Mississippi-Alabama border.  Laura flung rain across Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands on Saturday and was expected to drench the Dominican Republic, Haiti and parts of Cuba through Sunday on its westward course.  Puerto Rico Gov. Wanda Vŕzquez declared a state of emergency and warned that flooding could be worse than what Tropical Storm Isaias unleashed three weeks ago because the ground is now saturated. The storm knocked down trees in the island’s southern region, and left more than 200,000 clients without power and more than 10,000 without water across the U.S. territory.  “No one should be out on the streets,” she said.  The storm was centered about 125 miles (200) kilometers east-southeast of Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, late Saturday afternoon, with maximum sustained winds of 50 mph (85 kph). It was moving west at 18 mph (30 kph).  Officials said they were most concerned about the thousands of people in Puerto Rico who still have been living under blue tarps since 2017’s Hurricane Maria and the hundreds of families living along the island’s southern coast in homes damaged by a string of strong earthquakes this year.  As the storm approached Hispaniola, crews in the Dominican Republic began evacuating dozens of families in flood-prone areas.  Marco, meanwhile, was strengthening while centered about 50 miles (85 kilometers) west of Cuba’s western tip, headed to the north-northwest at 13 mph (20 kph). It had maximum sustained winds of 65 mph (100 kph) and was expected to become a hurricane later Saturday.  Carlos Joaquţn Gonzŕlez, governor of Mexico’s Quintana Roo state, celebrated that Marco’s changed trajectory spared his state’s beaches, including those in Cancun, the country’s top tourist destination.  The National Hurricane Center said it expected the storms to stay far enough apart to prevent direct interaction as the region braces for the peak of the Atlantic hurricane season, which is forecast to be unusually active.  Both storms were expected to bring 3 to 6 inches (8 to 15 centimeters) of rain to areas they were passing over or near, threatening widespread flooding across a vast region.  “A lot of people are going to be impacted by rainfall and storm surge in the Gulf of Mexico,” said Joel Cline, the tropical program coordinator for the National Weather Service. “Since you simply don’t know, you really need to make precautions.”  It seems fitting for such an unusual twin threat to arrive in 2020, said University of Miami hurricane researcher Brian McNoldy.  “Of course, we have to have two simultaneously land-falling hurricanes,” McNoldy said. “It’s best not to ask what’s next.” )  Forecasters said that while atmospheric conditions were favorable for Laura to grow, its passage over Puerto Rico and the mountains of Haiti, the Dominican Republic and Cuba could tear it apart or weaken it before it entered warm Gulf waters conducive to growth.  Officials in the Florida Keys, which Laura might pass over on its route into the Gulf, declared a local state of emergency Friday and issued a mandatory evacuation order for anyone living on boats, in mobile homes and in campers. Tourists staying in hotels should be aware of hazardous weather conditions and consider altering their plans starting on Sunday, Monroe County officials said in a news release.  Citing both storm systems, Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards declared a state of emergency Friday night. “It is too soon to know exactly where, when or how these dual storms will affect Louisiana, but now is the time for our people to prepare for these storms,” Edwards said in a statement.  Laura had earlier forced the closure of schools and government offices in the eastern Caribbean islands of Anguilla and Antigua, according to the Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency.
23 August 2020||WASHINGTON,||Trump says could ‘decouple’ and not do business with China||U.S. President Donald Trump, in a Fox News interview airing Sunday, raised the possibility of decoupling the U.S. economy from China, a major purchaser of U.S. goods. In a video excerpt, Mr. Trump initially told interviewer Steve Hilton “we don’t have to” do business with China, and then later said about decoupling: “Well it’s something that if they don’t treat us right I would certainly, I would certainly do that.” Mr. Trump entered into a high-stakes trade war with China before reaching a partial Phase 1 trade deal in January. Mr. Trump has since shut the door on Phase 2 negotiations, saying he was unhappy with Beijing’s handling of the pandemic. In June U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said a decoupling of the U.S. and Chinese economies will result if U.S. companies are not allowed to compete on a fair and level basis in China’s economy.
23 August 2020||New York,||TikTok says it will sue Trump over crackdown||Video app TikTok said Saturday it will challenge in court a Trump administration crackdown on the popular Chinese-owned service, which Washington accuses of being a national security threat. As tensions soar between the world's two biggest economies, U.S. President Donald Trump has claimed TikTok could be used by China to track the locations of federal employees, build dossiers on people for blackmail, and conduct corporate espionage. Mr. Trump signed an executive order on August 6 giving Americans 45 days to stop doing business with TikTok's Chinese parent company, Bytedance.  That is the order the video-sharing platform will target in its suit.  “To ensure that the rule of law is not discarded and that our company and users are treated fairly, we have no choice but to challenge the Executive Order through the judicial system,” TikTok said in a statement. TikTok has repeatedly denied being any threat to U.S. security, and Beijing has called the Trump crackdown political manipulation.
23 August 2020||WASHINGTON,||U.S. House votes to block Postal reforms seen as threat to mail-in ballots||The Democratic-led U.S. House of Representatives voted on Saturday to provide the cash-strapped Postal Service with $25 billion and block policy changes that have stirred concerns about mail-in balloting ahead of the Nov. 3 election. The 257-150 vote sent the legislation dubbed the “Delivering for America Act” on to the Republican-controlled Senate, which is not expected to take it up. The White House strongly opposes the legislation and has said it would recommend that President Donald Trump veto the measure. More than two-dozen Republicans broke ranks to join Democrats in approving the bill, during a rare Saturday session called by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi in the middle of the congressional August recess. With mail-in voting expected to surge during the coronavirus pandemic, Trump has alarmed Democrats by repeatedly denouncing mail-in ballots as a possible source of fraud. Postmaster General Louis DeJoy recently suspended cost-cutting measures that have slowed deliveries in recent weeks. Democrats, who accuse Trump of trying to discourage mail-in balloting to gain an electoral advantage over Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden, cast themselves as defenders of a public that relies on the Postal Service for vital deliveries, including prescription drugs. “The American people do not want anyone messing with the Post Office. They certainly do not want it to be politicized. They just want their mail, they want their medicines and they want their mail-in ballots delivered in a timely way. And that is exactly what our bill does,” said Democratic Representative Carolyn Maloney, who authored the legislation. Maloney also released a Postal Service document showing an 8% slowdown in the processing of first class mail, most of it occurring after DeJoy became postmaster in June. Republican leaders denied that the Postal Service was in any danger and criticized Democrats for moving legislation forward before DeJoy could testify at a House hearing slated for Monday. “This is the result of a legislative process only slightly less absurd than the conspiracies, insinuations and fabrications that gave rise to the purported need for it,” said Republican Representative James Comer. The 26 Republicans who supported the measure represented more than one in 10 House Republican members. Another 23 Republicans did not vote. As lawmakers prepared to vote, Trump took to Twitter to accuse Pelosi and Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer of seeking unnecessary funding for the Postal Service and trying to pull off a “Universal Mail-In Ballot Scam.” “Vote NO to the Pelosi/Schumer money wasting HOAX which is taking place now,” the president wrote. DeJoy told a Senate committee on Friday that the Postal Service would deliver ballots “securely and on time” in the November election but said bigger changes could come after that. In fact, the House bill would prevent DeJoy from taking any action that would impede service until after next January or the end of the coronavirus health emergency, whichever comes later. “Our legislation is not just about the election. It's about - surprise, surprise, Mr. Postmaster General - the coronavirus!” Pelosi told a news conference. Pelosi insisted that congressional action is necessary, calling DeJoy's assurances ambiguous and unsatisfactory. “His comments are one thing. His actions will be another. And that's why we have this legislation,” she said. She said Trump's attacks on mail-in voting were part of a larger effort to suppress voting that also includes his recent call for law enforcement officers to monitor voting at polling places.
23 August 2020||August 23 2020 00:30 IST,||The Hindu Explains | What does Chinese interest in the Teesta mean for India?||The story so far: India’s Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla paid a two-day visit to the Bangladesh capital Dhaka on Tuesday and Wednesday (August 18-19) and discussed a two-year road map for bilateral relations. The visit took place amid reports that Bangladesh is likely to receive assistance from China for $1billion for an irrigation project on the Teesta which has been at the centre of a water-sharing negotiation with India. During Mr. Shringla’s visit, a host of issues were discussed, but not Teesta. In September 2016, the Bangladesh Water Development Board entered into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Powerchina or the Power Construction Corporation of China to carry out a technical study to better manage the Teesta for the benefit of northern Bangladesh’s greater Rangpur region. Bangladesh requires around $987.27 million for the Teesta River Comprehensive Management and Restoration Project. Officially, Bangladesh maintains that it has been in talks with the World Bank, the Japan International Cooperation Agency and the Government of China. But Kabir Bin Anwar, Senior Secretary, Ministry of Water Resources, has told the media that China has expressed interest in funding the mega project. The Hindu Explains | How did the Teesta water issue come about? Any foreign funding agency is expected to provide at least $853.05 million as financial assistance for the project. Comments from officials of the Ministry of Water Resources in Dhaka indicate that talks are at an advanced stage with the Chinese side. The China-Bangladesh plan includes extensive dredging of the river and its many tributaries, the building of dams, reclamation of land wherever necessary, stopping erosion of the embankments during the monsoon months, and help in maintenance of a certain level of water during the lean season. A large reservoir to store water is also part of the plan. The overall project will free substantial land from the river’s embankments and allow Bangladesh to build new economic zones. Bangladesh has been trying to combat two aspects of the Teesta. The river causes difficulties for the Rangpur region in north Bangladesh throughout the year. During the lean months (December to May), the Teesta goes dry, affecting agriculture. Bangladesh claims that the dry Teesta during these months is because of India holding most of the winter supplies of the river’s water. The Teesta, which flows for around 113 km inside Bangladesh before meeting the Meghna/Brahmaputra, swells up within weeks after the arrival of the monsoons and causes enormous flooding and erosion of embankments as the water level rises. As a result, the triangular area including Lalmonirhat has become difficult to develop. The negotiation with India at least since 2011 has been aimed at ensuring that the river would get the necessary water during the lean season to ensure a minimum level to help the agriculture sector of north Bangladesh. The negotiation with the Chinese was aimed at rejuvenating the river, and stopping it from claiming the embankments during the monsoon months which will also help in better manage the river water for supply during the lean season. Also read | Sheikh Hasina discusses two-year road map with Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla  The Teesta makes headlines every monsoon as dozens of villages and townships along its banks in Bangladesh are affected. Once the river is dredged and the water is managed with the help of necessary dams, it will most likely be tamed and the damage in the nearby areas reduced. China can put up a tough challenge if it can construct this approximately $1 billion river irrigation and rejuvenation project on one of the toughest Himalayan rivers. It will also be the first time that China will construct a mega river management project in Bangladesh. Bangladesh officials have gone on record to say that the project will also rejuvenate nearby markets, townships, and industrial zones will be able to generate additional revenue for Dhaka. The impact will also be in the display of China’s engineering abilities. Theb project will not get Bangladesh the additional water from the Teesta that India alone can provide during the lean season. However, it will reduce the annual devastation that the river causes during the monsoon months. This will allow Bangladesh to use the water of the Teesta optimally as a dredged river can be “managed” better during the lean months. The Teesta negotiation between India and Bangladesh was about the water volume of the river. Dhaka wants around 50% of the water of the Teesta from India during the lean months of December to May. The dialogue was not about the building of new infrastructure. It was about water that arrives from the Himalayan source, mountains and monsoon rain. Bangladesh has been saying that the hydropower projects in Sikkim and constructions in West Bengal stop the river from flowing with its natural volume during the lean season. During the monsoon months, India cannot hold back the enormous flows in the upstream Teesta and releases them which causes devastation in the plains of Rangpur. Even during last July, extensive flooding in the Rangpur division, especially in Lalmonirhat district was caused when India had to release the extra water. The Bangladesh-China discussion on the Teesta is elementally different from India-Bangladesh negotiation. The former is aimed at reviving the river and for building economic zones in neglected areas such as Gangachara and Lalmonirhat. The discussion began in 2016, a year after Sheikh Hasina had sealed the landmark Land Boundary Agreement with India. Sheikh Hasina after having achieved the Land Boundary Agreement, began negotiation for better management of the Teesta with the assistance of the Chinese. Mr. Kabir Bin Anwar was cited by Bangladesh’s The Independent as saying that the project will allow Bangladesh to build a major water reservoir which can hold water for the lean season. In this way, Bangladesh;s dependence on India releasing water during the lean season will probably decrease. According to observers, consequently the long-winding negotiation for Teesta waters with India, which is stalled because of West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee’s objection and political skirmishes between Delhi and Kolkata , will lose significance. It is unlikely that it will affect India. But a major display of Chinese engineering in Bangladesh next door is likely to intensify criticism of India’s inability to deal with river-related annual problems in northern and eastern India where the annual monsoon wreaks havoc in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh. and Assam. That apart, loss of significance of the Teesta water-sharing negotiations will highlight the fact that India failed to deliver despite repeated positive assertions from South Block.
25 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Virtual, yet real: Chennai students beat lockdown blues with online ventures||LakshyaShala The brains behind edu-tech firm LakshyaShala in Chennai, Class XII student Tanya Elizabeth Ken noticed something new during lockdown. “Most children from underserved communities are dropping out of school because their parents, who are daily wage earners, cannot afford the fees. So we decided to work on ensuring that the children stayed on in the education system without burdening their parents,” says Tanya. As a student ambassador of Technovation — a US-based global tech education non-profit for girls — and Ariel Foundation, Geneva, Tanya has launched and been part of teams that create applications to solve social problems. This year, she mentored three teams virtually with their submissions for the annual Technovation competition, and debuted an app called ‘Goal Shadowing’ to help children from socially disadvantaged backgrounds complete their education milestones. “Most companies talk about diversity and inclusion, but millions of poor children still get left behind in the job market,” says Tanya, adding, “Our app acts as a platform for social workers and NGOs to aid children from underserved communities so that they don’t drop out of school.” Currently, the app is being tested in a community based in Perungudi, Chennai. Tanya knows that the app alone will not make a difference. So, LakshyaShala launched self-help groups to help women from low-income families become self-sufficient by equipping them with skills to earn a living during pandemic-like situations. “We have got people making handicrafts that are sold through our Good Cause website, growing azola as fodder and marketing quail eggs,” she says. LakshyaShala’s programmes in Tirusulam, Perungudi and Padhai centre for destitute children that are sustained through collaborations with non-governmental organisations and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) funding, have reached around 800 families. Its learning module apps are free for students in need. “We will be charging fees for a few of our modules like DNI Funnel which provides corporate recruiters with access to talent from the underserved communities, a tool that was not available before,” says Tanya. Tanya, who has been doing her senior-level studies through Open Schooling, hopes to specialise in Computer Science in college. “I’d like to explore Artificial Intelligence and machine learning because they can work well in the field of education.” YouTube Kids channel Fun with A&A  If Science lessons make you shudder, siblings Atharv and Amara Jain, aged eight and four respectively, are here to bring the excitement and wonder back into the subject. The Chennai-based Sishya School students began with a video in June for their school’s Instagram page, and today have their own YouTube channel (Fun with A and A) with over 280 subscribers. Unscripted, and full of easy banter between its hosts, Fun with A and A has a range of videos on science concepts with Class III student Atharv doing most of the explaining, while his sister, who is in LKG, helps out with the experiments. Amara pitches in with tips to help Atharv take the narration forward. Both kids are at ease in front of the camera, and also sportingly laugh away their bloopers while sticking to the subject at hand. While he does most of the talking, Atharv also ensures to include his sister in the proceedings, often breaking off to explain things separately to her.     Atharv picks the topics and researches them on his own before he sets up the experiments, says his mother Chetna Jain, who films the videos on her phone. “Science and math are his favourite subjects, and he enjoys demystifying complex theories for the audience,” she says. Using easily available home supplies like baking soda, vinegar, food colouring, shaving cream and dishwashing liquid, Atharv sets up scenarios that explain the mechanics behind natural phenomena like volcanoes, rain clouds and capillary action in plants. Fresh episodes (ranging from three to 15 minutes) are uploaded every Saturday, and the comments section has been switched off for now to protect the children’s privacy. “We have also had offers from science toy makers for unboxing videos but we have declined them. We don’t want Fun with A and A to get commercialised,” says Chetna. Ilo by Vane online art gallery Best friends Neharika Kishore and Vaishnavi Girish Ramdas decided that the world could do with some ‘Ilo’ (meaning: joy, in Finnish) during lockdown, and decided to start an online art gallery. “Neharika is the artistic one. I just wanted to do something for charity, so we managed to combine that in Ilo by Vane,” says Vaishnavi. The Class X students put together their non-profit art showcase from scratch almost entirely on their own. ‘Vane’ is a combination of the first letters of the founders’ names. “We needed our parents’ help to open the bank account for the website besides some guidance on the long-term plans for Ilo by Vane (it is currently registered as a trust). Otherwise, it’s been mostly the two of us working on the idea. We are trying a new logo now,” says Neharika.     Using a template website and Instagram to get artists on board, the girls have decided to donate their sales proceeds to cancer patients through the Ray of Light Foundation in Chennai. The venture features the work of over 40 young artists (from 12-22 years), and prices are fixed according to the size of the paintings. “We consciously decided to stick to this age group, because a lot of our artists aren’t supported by their families since they think it’s just a hobby,” says Neharika, adding, “Anyway, older artists have many more opportunities to exhibit their work.” Over 19 pieces have been sold since the venture was launched in July. Subjects range from abstracts, Impressionists, portraits and line drawings. Aspiring artists can submit their artwork on the website for consideration. Vaishnavi hopes to study engineering, while Neharika is aiming at Art studies and interior design. But Ilo by Vane will continue to bring joy to young artists and art lovers for a long time to come, say the friends.
14 August 2020||August 23 2020 00:43 IST,||First photo of Earth from the moon||Before landing humans on our moon, one of the important points of consideration, obviously, were the landing sites. In response to this need of obtaining detailed photographs of potential Apollo landing sites, NASA’s Lunar Orbiter program was born. The plan included a series of three-axis stabilised spacecraft to be inserted into lunar orbit, with each of them comprising a main engine and four solar panels.  The first of these was the Lunar Orbiter 1, designed primarily to photograph the smooth areas of the lunar surface. For this, it was fitted with a Eastman Kodak imaging system that weighed 68 kg.  The system, which employed both wide and narrow-angle lenses, had the ability to develop exposed films, scan the images and relay them back to Earth. The Eastman Kodak camera flown on the Lunar Orbiters, in fact, had been originally developed by the National Reconnaissance Office (NRO) and used in spy satellites – a truth that was revealed only after the Cold War ended.  While imaging was the primary objective, the spacecraft was also equipped with other instruments to collect data regarding radiation intensity and micro-meteoroid impact, among others. Launched on August 10, 1966, it was placed in an Earth parking orbit before being fired towards the moon. During its cruise to the moon, the spacecraft experienced failure to its Canopus star tracker (probably due to stray sunlight) and overheating. The former issue was resolved by navigating with the moon as the reference, and the latter was taken care of by orienting the spacecraft at a different angle off the sun.  On August 14, Lunar Orbiter 1 was injected into an orbit around the moon and began working on its objective of photographing nine potential Apollo landing sites, seven secondary areas and some sites on the far side of the moon. It successfully completed this work by August 28, with over 200 images to boast about.  Even though some of the early high-resolution images lacked quality due to smearing, the mission was largely successful as it was able to capture images covering over 5 million sq.km. of the moon’s surface. While the wide-angle images taken by this system showed resolutions up to 0.5 km, the narrow-angle pictures were accurate up to 60-80 m. Among these photos was that of the first Earthrise, captured unintentionally. During its 16th orbit around the moon on August 23, Lunar Orbiter 1 took the first photograph of our Earth taken from the moon. The image, which was shot just before the spacecraft was about to pass behind the moon, shows the crescent of the Earth. The image data was transmitted by Lunar Orbiter 1 and received at the NASA tracking station at Robledo De Chavela near Madrid, Spain.  Lunar Orbiter 1 continued working, turning its attention away from photography and focussing instead on engineering goals from September 16. The spacecraft’s condition, however, deteriorated by October 28, forcing the ground controllers to command it to impact onto the lunar surface.  On October 29, on its 577th orbit around the moon, Lunar Orbiter 1 crashed on the moon’s far side to prevent its transmission from interfering with the Lunar Orbiters to come. By the time the Lunar Orbiter program, which consisted of five orbiters, came to an end, 99% of the moon’s surface was photographed down to a resolution of 1m!     As for the first Earthrise photo, it proved to be a remarkable image, despite the fact that the image released then was starkly black, wide and had poor resolution. The full resolution of the image wasn’t obtained from the mission data up until 2008.  The Lunar Orbiter Image Recovery Project at NASA Ames Research Center went about their task then, obtaining original mission data from tapes and restoring it to an operational condition by combining modern electronics with 1960s era parts. The result was a beautiful high resolution image of the first Earthrise photograph, a touched up version of which has been used with this story.
24 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Coronavirus | Dip in cases as 397 test positive in Thiruvananthapuram||The State capital recorded a slump in COVID-19 cases on Sunday with the daily caseload falling below 400 for the first time after a week. A total of 397 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on the day, taking the number of COVID-19 patients in the district to 5,425. With two more deaths—those of an 80-year-old Gandhipuram native and a 49-year-old Poojappura native, both of who died on August 19—being attributed to COVID-19, the official death toll in the district has gone up to 60. Keeping up the trend of pandemic spread in the capital district, close to 97% of the cases have been attributed to local transmission. While these included 382 cases including 17 health workers, the sources of infection in 56 of these cases were unknown. Thirteen imported cases were also reported. The number of recoveries was recorded as 125. Meanwhile, 51 prisoners who had been diagnosed with the disease in the Poojappura Central Prison have recovered from the illness. As many as 54 COVID-19-infected inmates were subjected to antigen tests on the day. With this, the number of prisoners who have tested negative for the infection has gone up to 158 within three days. The Central Jail had been categorised as an institutional COVID-19 cluster with 485 cases. Meanwhile, District Collector Navjot Khosa conducted a webinar with cross-sections of the public as part of ensuring public participation for the containment efforts in the backdrop of the Onam festival season. Elaborating on the COVID-19 scenario in Thiruvananthapuram, Dr. Khosa said that the district which had 12,294 cases contributed 21% of the total cases reported in the State till date. With 60 deaths, the case fatality rate in Thiruvananthapuram stood at 0.47%, slightly higher than the State average of 0.39%. The recovery rate is currently 57.9%, while the State average stood at 65.8%. Currently, the district had 29 clusters of which 14 were large clusters with over 100 cases.
23 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Reaching out to the COVID-hit coastal belt||The city Corporation has launched a ‘sanitiser holder making challenge’, to raise funds for the civic body’s project to provide food kits to families in Poonthura and surrounding areas of the capital's coastal region. The effort is to help them tide over the crisis following the COVID-19- induced lockdown and ban on fishing.  The Corporation on Sunday organised a workshop for making the sanitiser holder using cloth. As part of the challenge, participants can make sanitiser holders and sell them at ₹25 each, which can be contributed to the fund for providing food kits to the coastal families. The Corporation will give certificates for organisations or individuals who manage to make 100 sanitiser holders and contribute to the project.  The sanitiser holders being used in the workshop were made by green army volunteers Akhila S. Raj and Hashmi. Mayor K. Sreekumar has released a step-by-step video in his Facebook page on making the holders. Organisations including Prathidhwani, C5, Indus Cycling Embassy, Nehru Yuva Kendra, and others were part of the workshop.  Public can contribute to the Corporation’s initiatives to help the coastal community through the website www.donatetmc.in. Contributions could be sent to the Consumerfed’s account in the Palayam branch of the Federal Bank (Ac no- 10210200020231, IFSC FDRL0001021 ).
23 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Lacklustre Onam rush at Chala market||Sukumaran Nair remembers the previous Onam seasons, when Chala market used to be teeming with the young and the old, to buy flowers in bulk to make the customary Athappookkalam. Business would start before daybreak, and go on till late in the night. Now, florists like him consider themselves lucky if they get a handful of customers each day. “Business has been bad in the past two years too, due to the floods. But, still we used to make decent profits. This year is something else altogether. It is unprecedented. My forefathers had begun this flower business in Chala several years ago. Till date, we have not experienced a slump like this. In the initial period of COVID-19, we had a hope that things would get better by Onam,” says Sukumaran Nair, who runs the KSP florists shop in Chala market. The flower stock in Chala market usually arrives from Thovala, Hosur, Dindigul and Salem. According to the traders here, around 15 to 20 loads of flowers used to arrive here daily during Onam. Now, one or two loads arrive here each day. “Earlier, some bigger dealers used to have one or two entire loads arriving for them alone. Now, all of us together pool in to get our stuff in a single load or two. The total sales of all florists put together used to be more than ₹50 lakh during the good years. The only sales that happen now is for temple rituals and such regular orders. In Thovala and Hosur too, they have drastically cut down on cultivation, due to which prices of flowers like rose have gone up from ₹150-200 per kilogram to ₹300 now,” says Sreekumaran, who runs SSK Flower Mart and is the joint secretary of the Trivandrum Florists Association. College and school Onam celebrations, Athappookkalam competitions organised by various organisations, and official celebrations in various government and private institutions had earlier ensured a steady business during the season for the florists. With schools and colleges remaining closed and offices now running with skeletal staff, they do not expect the business to pick up in the days leading up to Thiruvonam, when business used to peak. Pared-down wedding celebrations, with a handful of guests, have also affected their sales. Florists say that some used to spend more than ₹1 lakh for floral arrangements at the mandapam, while those organising weddings now prefer minimal arrangements.
23 August 2020||Mumbai,||Ekta Kapoor, Boney Kapoor welcome Centre’s SOPs for resumption of films, TV shoots||Bollywood producers, including Ekta Kapoor, Boney Kapoor and Ashoke Pandit, on Sunday lauded the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for resuming shooting of films and TV programmes announced by the Centre. Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar announced guiding principles and SOPs on preventive measures for media production to contain the spread of coronavirus. These include measures such as social distancing and mandatory use of face cover or masks for cast and crew, except for actors in front of the camera. The move came nearly three months after the Maharashtra government allowed shooting of films, TV serials and web series with conditions laid down to contain the spread of the pandemic. Ekta Kapoor, whose TV shows like “Kasautii Zindagii Kay” and “Kumkum Bhagya” went on floors recently, said the SOPs are an important step towards going back to normalcy amid the pandemic. “Considering the ongoing pandemic and its resulting consequences, it is extremely crucial for all of us to follow the standard operating procedures strictly and diligently. “The preventive measures for media production released by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, is an accurate step in the direction of safekeeping and containing the virus while getting back to normalcy,” said Ekta Kapoor, joint MD, Balaji Telefilms and MD, ALTBalaji, in a statement. The producer said the safety of the crew, talent, and employees at her production house is of “utmost importance“. “We will ensure that our entire cast and crew adhere to the SOPs given by the Ministry,” she added. Boney Kapoor, who had Ajay Devgn-starrer “Maidaan” in production when the COVID-19 induced nationwide lockdown was announced in March, expressed gratitude towards the government. “Big thank you to @PMOIndia @AmitShah @MoHFW_India @PrakadhJavadekar and @MIB_India for releasing SOP for resumption of work in media production industry. We look forward to resuming work safely (sic),” he tweeted.
23 August 2020||COLOGNE,||Europa League | Sevilla wins thriller for sixth title||Sevilla clinched the Europa League title for the sixth time with a 3-2 win over Inter Milan, after an overhead kick by defender Diego Carlos in the 74th minute deflected by the Italian side’s top scorer Romelu Lukaku settled a thrilling contest, on Friday. It was an astonishing anti-climax to Lukaku’s first season after he had set the longest scoring run by a player in UEFA Cup/Europa League history when he netted in the 11th successive game to give Inter an early lead with a penalty conversion in the fifth minute.  Luuk De Jong, who scored Sevilla’s winner in the semifinal, showed his predatory instinct again with a pair of headers which turned the tide in the side’s favour. However, Sevilla’s joy was short-lived as it was undone by a fine set piece three minutes later, with Marcelo Brozovic swinging in a free kick for Diego Godin to head home from close range. Julen Lopetegui won his first trophy as coach at senior level after a torrid period which saw him sacked by Spain and Real Madrid.  The result: Sevilla 3 (de Jong 12, 33, Lukaku 74-OG) bt Inter Milan 2 (Lukaku 5-pen, Godin 35).
23 August 2020||ATHENS,||Man United captain Harry Maguire released after assault hearing||Manchester United captain Harry Maguire was released by a Greek prosecutor after appearing in court on Saturday following two days in detention over a brawl on the island of Mykonos, the Premier League club confirmed. England international Maguire, 27, will respond to the charges against him on August 25, according to local police. In a statement, Manchester United said: “Following the appearance in court today we note the adjournment of the case to allow the legal team to consider the case file.” “Harry has pleaded not guilty to the charges. It would be inappropriate for the player or club to comment further while the legal process takes its course.” Maguire left the court building in an unmarked van for an undisclosed destination. He and the two other defendants were charged with multiple instances of assault and battery in regard to a fight they had with others on Mykonos, an island in the Cyclades group in the Aegean Sea. Police tried to break up the fight. Maguire and another defendant are also charged with attempted bribery and assault against a policeman. Quoting a local website, Mykonosvoice.gr, Greece's Ethnos newspaper said the charges against Maguire, getting into an altercation, were considered misdemeanours. Under Greek law that means Maguire can be represented by his lawyers in court in a hearing, rather than appear in person. Maguire's lawyer was not immediately available for comment. Manchester United had previously issued a statement on Friday saying they were aware of the incident and that Maguire was fully co-operating with the Greek authorities. Maguire joined United from Leicester City for 80 million pounds — a world record fee for a defender — in August 2019. He had travelled to Mykonos for a holiday following United's exit from the Europa League last week. (With inputs from AP)
23 August 2020||Vijayawada,||Flood in Krishna inching close to first warning level at Prakasam Barrage||Several houses in Krishnalanka of Vijayawada and other low lying areas were inundated following the increase in flood levels in the Krishna River downstream of Prakasam Barrage. The inflows to Prakasam Barrage from upstream are increasing by an hour due to heavy discharge at the projects upstream. As of 10 a.m. today, the inflow to Prakasam Barrage was at 4.10 lakh cusecs and the outflow was at 3.16 lakh. The first flood warning would be issued once the outflow touches 3.96 lakh cusecs. The outflow of Pulichintala project is around 3.2 lakh cusecs. Meanwhile, district Collector A.Md. Imtiaz visited flood-affected areas in Krishnalanka. Several houses built beyond the second canal bund were flooded. People were shifted to flood relief centres set up in IGMC Stadium and schools nearby. Vijayawada Municipal Corporation has set up 32 flood relief centres which can accommodate 8,900 persons. About 50% to 30% fewer number of persons are being accommodated in each centre to ensure COVID safety measures and physical distancing, as per the orders issued by the Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh. The areas prone to severe flooding in the city are Rana Devi Nagar, Bhupesh Gupta Nagar, Taraka Rama Nagar of Krishnalanka and few areas of Ramalingeswara Nagar in the downstream area. In the upstream area Bhavanipuram, Vidyadharapuram and a few other areas will be affected. VMC has set up helpline desks to help flood victims. Those in need can dial 0866-2424172 or 0866-2422515.
23 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Gaiety marks Ganesh idol immersion in city||With COVID-19 restrictions in place, it was an eco-friendly Ganesh puja for Vizagites. Dressed in traditional attire, devotees performed puja and celebrated the festival with fun and gaiety at home. While many made idols on their own, and painted them with eco-friendly colours, others worshipped idols made with turmeric.  Residents of various apartments also celebrated the festival by installing 3-foot high idols and organising special prayers on Sunday evening for collective good.  Social media was flooded with messages as people wished their loved ones. A few pandals were set up in interior areas of rural areas and police had asked to take them off and urged them to celebrate the festival indoors.  “It is true that we missed a lot of fun. Having a pandal in the colony makes a Ganesh puja special. However we celebrated the festival in our homes. We prepared different delicacies and exchanged them. By evening, we went to Beach Road and spent time with friends,” said K. Avinash, a resident of Madhurawada area. A large number of people took part in the Ganesh immersion programme on Sunday morning and evening. People along with their family members came to the beach, where they took part in the immersion ceremony. Jodugullapalem, Tenneti Park, Sagar Nagar, stretch near Rushikonda, Bheemili, Mudasarlova and a few other water bodies witnessed a number of people coming for immersion of Ganesh idols. As a measure to keep beaches clean, sanitary staff from the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) stood at the entrance of the beach and sought people to dump flowers wastes, agarbathis, plastic bags in dumpbins and immerse only idols. Local fisherfolk were seen bargaining with people to immerse idols in water as the tides were high.  The youth charged ₹10 for their service.
23 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||With 451 new cases, district tally crosses the 30,000-mark||The number of COVID-19 cases crossed the 30,000-mark in the district with 451 new cases being reported on Sunday.  The total number of cases has now gone up to 30,216. What seems to worry the Health Department officials is that the last 10,000 cases are reported in a span of just 13 days. According to COVID-19 bulletin released by the district administration, as many as 991 news cases were reported in the last 48 hours, including 451 on Sunday. As many as 11 persons succumbed to the virus, including five on Sunday, taking the death toll to 213 in the district. On August 22, as many as 733 patients recovered from the virus. Sunday saw 463 more persons recovering from the COVID-19, which takes the total number of patients recovered to 1,196 in two days.  The total also includes patients being treated at home quarantine, apart from those who were admitted to hospitals and COVID-19 care centres. According to the officials, the total number of active COVID-19 cases is 5,042 and the discharged is 24,961, as on Sunday. Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College, P.V. Sudhakar, said that the total number of clusters in the district is 736. Of them, very active clusters are 141, while active clusters are 81. Similarly, the number of dormant clusters is 514. As many as 171 clusters have been denotified.
24 August 2020||August 23 2020 23:02 IST,||Any investment options for U.S./Canada NRIs? Answers to your personal finance queries||G.V. PADMANABHAN A. The investment options for U.S./Canada NRIs per se are limited. And, it gets more complex with the person being a U.S. citizen. First, for any investment that is permitted, be it a deposit or policy, your U.S.-citizen-granddaughter needs to have an OCI (Overseas Citizenship of India). Even with that, many options are closed to NRIs and more specifically U.S./Canada NRIs. For example, most mutual funds do not offer schemes for U.S./Canada residents as the respective regulatory authorities abroad require local firms to report to them on such investments by their residents. Similarly, Post Office deposits are not available for NRIs. While there may be insurance policies available, such child policies are best avoided as either their cost structure can be poor, or they would be market-linked and would require you to track the performance. Stocks are permitted but it is best not done in a minor’s name. Unless your granddaughter has any plans to come to India or shift her citizenship, it is best that you do not invest in the name of the minor. Instead, you can choose any of the following options: one, you can simply continue investing in a mix of FDs and mutual funds (if you are familiar) in your name and add her as a beneficiary for some of these investments. Two, spell out in a simple Will, what you would like to leave for her. Three, you can simply do an international money transfer for her education as and when needed, as a gift. You can do $2.5 lakh per financial year. Please consult your auditor for any tax implications. Ajay Kumar A. Yes, you need to redeem fully and reinvest. Once you realise your fund is a poor performer, there is no point removing it systematically, unless the amount is exceptionally large. Please consult your auditor on the tax impact and exit in one shot. Given that equity gains of up to ₹1 lakh are free of tax and your fund’s performance has anyway been mediocre, you are unlikely to see large gains as the market itself has not delivered much in the past 5-10 years. Generally, when you move from one equity fund to another, there is no timing risk. You remain invested in equity as an asset class — just that you move to another fund. However, most investors worry that reinvesting a lump sum in the new fund in one shot may result in losses if the market is at a peak. Again, technically it doesn’t as you need to consider your original entry as the point of investment in equity. Hence, we leave it to the investors to make the choice. If this timing issue worries you, exit in one shot and use an STP (from a liquid fund and no other category) to invest in 12-18 months. Else, move in one shot and top it up immediately with monthly SIPs to ensure you average, in case markets fall after your new investment. (The author is co-founder, Primeinvestor.in)
21 August 2020||August 23 2020 23:01 IST,||Yellow metal can be the flavour for all seasons||Is this a good time to invest in gold? And if it is, should you buy physical gold or invest in gold Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs)? In this article, we discuss whether market timing is important for investing in gold.  Your decision on when to invest in gold (market timing) should be determined by your objectives. Are you planning to invest in gold for consumption purpose? If so, market timing is not important. Why? Suppose your objective is to buy gold for your daughter’s marriage 10 years hence. You can set up a systematic investment plan for 120 months to achieve this objective. This way, you will be setting aside money from your monthly income and also spreading your investments through the ups and downs in gold prices. Your objective is to buy jewellery for your daughter’s wedding, not to profit from fluctuations in gold prices.  What if you are considering gold as an investment asset? Your objective then is to buy and sell gold to capture short-term movements in gold prices. Market timing is, therefore, important. You can apply technical analysis to time your investments. Investors also buy gold during market crises that occur because of a natural disaster or pandemics such as COVID-19 or events such as the 2008 sub-prime crisis. During such times, gold prices rise because of ‘flight to quality’ — investors consider gold to be the safest asset during a crisis. It is preferable not to have more than 15% of your total portfolio in gold. You should consider investing in gold ETFs and not physical gold for two reasons. One, you can easily liquidate your investments at the spot price of gold. Selling physical gold is not easy. Also, the merchant who buys your gold will charge a commission (charge) on the spot price. Note that your objective of buying gold was to sell the investments close to the wedding date and use the sale proceeds to buy jewellery. So, using gold as collateral to raise money cannot be argued as a reason for buying physical gold. Importantly, investing in gold ETFs allows you to buy trendy jewellery closer to the wedding without worrying about the increase in gold prices. Why? If gold prices move up, so will your investments in the gold ETF, as the ETF tracks the spot price of gold. If you are investing in gold to capture short-term gains, market timing is easy with ETFs. Not only can you buy and sell ETFs intraday, you can also convert your investments into cash in quick time. Two, storing your financial gold is easy; you need a demat account to keep your gold ETFs. In contrast, you need a bank locker to store your physical gold. Now, getting a bank locker is difficult. Also, lockers have become expensive in recent times. Before you buy a gold ETF, check the proportion of physical gold that the ETF holds in its portfolio; higher the proportion of physical gold, closer the ETF will trade to the spot price of gold. And, that means your objectives will be well served.  You can find an ETF’s portfolio composition from the fact sheet available on the investment firm’s website. Also, ensure that the gold ETF you intend to buy is actively traded in the market; active trading will help keep the ETF’s price closer to its net asset value. Note that asset management firms also offer gold fund-of- funds, an open-ended fund that invests in a gold ETF managed by the same firm. You should buy gold ETFs, not the fund of funds; for the latter will charge you a fee in addition to the fee for investing in the gold ETF. (The author offers training programmes for individuals to manage their personal investments)
23 August 2020||August 23 2020 23:00 IST,||Taking cover during a pandemic||During the ongoing pandemic, insurance products — health and term-life insurance in particular — have started gaining traction. More and more people are now becoming aware of the importance of having health or life insurance, with insurance shifting from being a push product to becoming a pull product. Even though people seem well in control of their financial health and related matters, they are extremely worried about the risk to their and their family’s physical health. As a result, the perception of the importance of health and life insurance is now more than ever before. This indicates that both life and health insurance have started becoming the cornerstone of personal financial planning in times of COVID-19.  The pandemic has definitely accelerated awareness about insurance in India where coverage remains relatively low despite the country being the world’s second-most populous with a population of 1.35 billion.  Since the nationwide lockdown due to COVID-19 in the last week of March, demand for health insurance policies has seen a huge spurt. As per general and specialised health insurers, online sales of health insurance policies have doubled between March and May compared with the same period of the previous year.  Business — in terms of fresh policies issued — of the health insurance industry grew by 40% in the last two months while the year-on-year growth was 13%. A prominent reason for the continued growth of the health insurance business is health insurers are doing their best to ensure seamless service and support to policyholders.  Most insurers have started offering health insurance policies through tele-underwriting or telemedical process in the place of physical medical check up to follow social distancing norms and keep people off the medical centres. Through telemedical process, you can buy a health insurance policy of up to ₹1 crore sum insured. To make sure that the maximum number of people are covered under some kind of health cover against COVID-19, on the directions of IRDAI, general and health insurers have started offering Corona Kavach, a standard, indemnity-based health plan and Corona Rakshak, a fixed-benefit health insurance policy. PolicyBazaar.com sells almost 1,000 policies per day on an average with a conversion rate of 10-15%. Customers buying these policies are mostly young individuals. The most preferred tenure is 9.5 months with 70% customers choosing the tenure while buying the policy. Similarly, the most preferred sum insured is ₹5 lakh, which is the maximum allowed under the policy construct. Among Corona Kavach and Corona Rakshak, 85% of customers opt for Kavach and 15%, Rakshak. People buying health insurance plans with a higher sum insured have increased drastically. Earlier, the share of people buying health insurance plans with ₹20 lakh — ₹1 crore sum insured was less than 5%. However, in the situation, the share has now increased to 50% over the last two-three months. Moreover, insurers are now focussed on how they can use digital technology to better solve customers’ access problems. With everyone being sure that COVID-19 is here to stay for a while, most processes in the insurance sector are now shifting online.   The pandemic has also changed the people’s perception of term life insurance as the demand for such policies has seen a significant rise since the lockdown began. Reports suggest that demand for term insurance picks up during epidemics, with insurers also reporting a rise in the number of queries for pandemic covers by businesses even as savings’ policies may remain weak.  Surely, COVID-19 has awakened public awareness of the need for term life insurance.  With the world almost shut down and media reports filled with stories of tragic loss of life, people are becoming increasingly aware that a long life is not something they can take for granted. Reports suggest that online sales of term life insurance have increased by 40% in the last 3.5 months. Life insurers have also started to ramp up their telemedical tools with an increased volume of physicians and other health professionals lined up to consult with patients who are concerned about visiting physical centres.  Issuance of life insurance policies through the telemedical process is catching on. During the lockdown, PolicyBazaar.com issued 58% of the policies via the online process compared with the pre-COVID-19 period figure of 36%. Talking about life insurance, under the telemedical process, the insurer checks the credit score of the customer along with his/her financial history of before issuing a term plan.  This is because term plans have a sum assured that is approximately 1000 times of the premium paid. While buying a term plan, the maximum sum assured that one can opt while taking a plan through telemedical process is ₹2 crore.  (The author is Health Business Head, Policybazaar.com)
23 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Tata Motors to strengthen its used car business||Tata Motors Ltd said it would focus on strengthening and scaling up its used car business ‘Tata Assured’, amidst market speculation that the company could enter into the brand agnostic used car business like Maruti’s ‘True Value’ and Mahindra’s ‘First Choice Wheels’ by October this year. “Tata Motors through its ‘Tata Assured’ vertical has a strong presence in used car industry with over 150 outlets pan India. It has been helping Tata Motors dealers to exchange vehicles and also provide certified used cars,” a Tata Motors spokesperson said, responding to a query on a differentiated service offering under a new brand. “While we continue to explore various opportunities in the used cars space, at this stage there is no additional information to share. We will continue to focus on strengthening and scaling up ‘Tata Assured’ and reinforcing customer centric initiatives” the spokesperson added. During the pandemic, the used car market has received traction in metro cities with people preferring a low cost, used car rather than a brand new one for personal transport, following the suspension of metro rail and local train services. Additionally, the fear of contamination through other modes of transport has created demand for personal mobility. According to industry officials, a robust used car business by an automaker also helps in enhancing dealers' income when new car sales have been impacted due to economic slowdown and spread of COVID-19. When the future is uncertain, the income from used car business has the potential to help in meeting overall costs of the dealer besides aiding the main business to get traction. In July, new car sales declined 4% year on year to 1,82,779 units as against 1,90,115 units, according to SIAM data. On the other hand, the used car market is believed to have sold more cars as the ticket size is small. No comprehensive sales data is available because this segment is highly fragmented and mostly unorganised.
23 August 2020||New Delhi,||Bloomsbury says it won’t publish book on Delhi riots after social media backlash||Bloomsbury India on Saturday said that it will not publish an upcoming book on the February Delhi riots after there was outrage over a virtual pre-publication launch, which it said was being organised without its knowledge. The authors — advocate Monika Arora and Delhi University teachers Sonali Chitalkar and Prerna Malhotra — were however, undeterred, saying one publisher may have declined but there many others to publish the book. The publishing house faced massive backlash online on Friday after an advertisement of the book launch on Saturday with BJP leader Kapil Mishra as a guest of honour did the rounds on social media. There have been allegations that several leaders including Mr. Mishra made inflammatory speeches targeting anti-citizenship law protesters before the violence broke out in Northeast Delhi on February 23. Bloomsbury India issued a statement saying it strongly supports freedom of speech but also has a deep sense of responsibility towards society. (Stay up to date on new book releases, reviews, and more with The Hindu On Books newsletter. Subscribe here.) “Bloomsbury India had planned to release Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story in September, a book purportedly giving a factual report on the riots in Delhi in February 2020, based on investigations and interviews conducted by the authors.” “However, in view of very recent events including a virtual pre-publication launch organised without our knowledge by the authors, with participation by parties of whom the publishers would not have approved, we have decided to withdraw publication of the book. Bloomsbury India strongly supports freedom of speech but also has a deep sense of responsibility towards society,” the statement said. The authors slammed “left liberals and intellectuals” for launching a social media campaign against the book, its writers and guests of the launch including senior BJP leader Bhupender Yadav, Mr. Mishra and Bollywood filmmaker Vivek Agnihotri. “The book very well reveals how the urban Naxals and jihadists are weakening the theory of Indianness that is based on democracy, the Constitution and elections in the country,” Mr. Yadav said. Reacting to Bloomsbury India’s decision to withdraw itself from publishing the book, Ms. Arora said, “If one publisher withdraws, ten will rise. The messiahs of freedom of speech are scared of this book. They mounted a frontal attack on its writers, publisher and guests of the launch even before the book was released and one could go through it.” Mr. Mishra asserted “no power in the world can stop this book from coming out and people want to read it” and the “contractors of freedom of speech are scared that the book will expose how training was given for the riots and the propaganda machinery was involved in it“. Mr. Yadav said those behind Shaheen Bagh protest against the citizenship law earlier this year did not raise the issues of rights of women but spread “poison” in the society. Ms. Arora said that the Delhi riots need to be probed by the NIA, claiming it was “pre-planned”. She said the book has been divided into eight chapters and five annexures, all based on ground research in the riot-affected areas. The chapters of the book were about urban-Naxalism and jihadist theory in India, CAA, Shaheen Bagh Model, among others, she said. Ms. Malhotra said that the book was opposed by the “so-called leftist thinkers and intellectuals” who earlier “spread lies” that the citizenship law was against the Muslims. “The Delhi riots were an outcome of the urban Naxal and Islamic fanatics and the book exposes it,” she said. Ms. Chitalkar said the book was a result of “thorough ground research.” “We talked to everyone, including Muslims. We were not biased. This books takes stand against urban Naxals and Islamic jihadists, it is not an anti-Muslim book,” she claimed. Communal violence broke out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after citizenship law supporters and protesters clashed with each other in the area, leaving 53 people dead and nearly 200 injured. A number of people took to Twitter to react to Bloomsbury’s decision with many decrying it. “I have not read the book in question & have no idea if it is good or bad. However, this is obviously not a quality control problem but about censorship. I commit to never publish a book with @BloomsburyIndia,” tweeted author, economist and Principal Economic Advisor in the Ministry of Finance Sanjeev Sanyal. “Bloomsbury is doing a Facebook and feels that their giving platform for hate will pass in India. Oh well appeasement of Sanghi falsehoods will not work. Will it adopt similar standards to legitimise and glorify and racists and fascists in America and Europe?,” tweeted All India Student Association (AISA). Author Ashwin Sanghi said, “What utter hypocrisy @BloomsburyIndia ... why did you agree to publish it if you had problems with the book?” Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi said, “After facing massive outrage, publishing house #Bloomsbury India has decided to withdraw the book titled Delhi Riots 2020 - The Untold Story, which was slated to be launched on 22 August by #BJP leader #KapilMishra. Sense prevails & so does spine.” Novelist Nilanjana Roy tagged a news report on the Delhi riots and tweeted, “Hi, @BloomsburyIndia. Some reasons why you should never have published a book that pushes the rightwing’s rotten conspiracy theory about the Delhi riots: Safoora, Meeran, Ishrat, Khalid, Devangana, Natasha, scores of local residents who are jailed.” The authors also put out tweets saying how their book exposes several wrong theories about the Delhi riots.
23 August 2020||August 23 2020 11:54 IST,||SOPs for resuming shooting of films and TV serials||Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar on Sunday announced the release of standard operating procedures (SOPs) for resuming shooting of films and TV programmes. These SOPs have been finalised after consulting the health and home ministries, he said. Click here to read the full guidelines
23 August 2020||New Delhi,||Coronavirus lockdown | No people, no show for folk artistes||The pandemic has forced Shamshad Beharupiya to play a different role these days. Every morning, he fills his cart with footwear and heads to villages near Bandikui town in Dausa district of Rajasthan to make ends meet.  At times, villagers taunt him and ask if he is the same Shamshad who dressed up as Ram at the invitation of the Yogi Adityanath government last year for the Deepotsav in Ayodhya or as Krishna, his favourite act, during the Haryana government’s 2019 Surajkund Mela, where he was the face of the festival. Also read | Pandemic paints a grim picture for artists in Telangana “They say ‘Yeh kya Bhagwan theli par!’ (What is this, God pulling a cart!),” says Mr. Shamshad. With a lump in his throat, he explains that hunger will not wait. “It fills me with shame. But then some of them buy an extra pair just because they have been our yajmans (patrons),” he adds. “This disease has dried up all art-related work,” says Mr. Shamshad. “Between the festivals, we used to go to our yajmans, who would pay us in cash or kind for putting up a show on the occasion of a birth, birthday or wedding. All that has become a thing of the past during the last four months.” Mr. Shamshad comes from a family of beharupiyas — folk artistes who don various costumes to play figures from mythology, folklore and traditional stories — that once used to serve Maharaja Sawai Madho Singh of the erstwhile Jaipur kingdom. They are also said to have helped freedom fighters during the struggle for Independence. Also read | How The Artist Project is supporting rural artisans during the pandemic Mr. Shamshad’s father Shivraj Beharupiya, known for playing Lord Shiva, was selected by the Ministry of Culture to travel to different festivals in India and abroad. When the rajas (kings) gave way to rajnetas (politicians), Shamshad says, his father travelled to Uttar Pradesh and other States with his acts. He and his five brothers carried forward the tradition, playing different characters from Hindu mythology and Mughal history. “For us, Ram, Krishna, Akbar, Majnu are iconic characters of our shared past. We play them with all sincerity but don’t take them home... like actors in films. And most of our benefactors respect it,” he explains. But the lockdown since March this year has robbed the performers of a crucial tool — mobility.  Also read | How to support the arts during a pandemic Shivram Nat, another street performer known for his aerial rope acts, first turned park keeper in the residential areas of Jaipur for survival but is now working as a labourer in a private construction company on the Jaipur-Udaipur road.  Hailing from a village near Bharatpur, Shivram used to perform in top hotels of Jaipur and Agra before the lockdown. Well-know and even having featured in the television show Hindustan Ke Hunarbaaz, the lockdown made Shivram realise that despite the fame and popularity, he hasn’t risen much on the social ladder. “When my niece passed away, her body was taken down down from the funeral pyre in Kakarpura village of Agra as the Thakurs and the village pradhan objected. We had to take her body to another village more than seven kilometres.” It was only when the news went viral, says Shivram, that the district administration promised to allow the Nats to cremate their dead in the gram sabha cremation ground. Also read | Bhopal’s zardozi artists hanging by a thread Mahipal Sapera from a community of snake charmers, is keen on getting an MNREGS card made to tide over the lockdown. Son of a well-known snake charmer, Sheesha Nath, Mahipal says there was a time when their village on Badarpur border figured in every Delhi hotel’s must-visit list for foreign tourists. He says animal rights’ groups defanged their art by taking the snake out of the performance. “We can’t use them but we are still called when a snake is spotted in a residential area or somebody gets bitten in a village,” he says of their deep relationship with the reptile. Left with only their beens, a wind instrument made from a bottle gourd and bamboo, Mahipal says people still call them to weddings. “The government takes us to festivals as some signposts of the past. But the lockdown has put a full stop to even that. Do you expect an artist to lift bricks? Will such a person find social acceptance?” he says, as he rushes to buy medicines for his father who is recovering from a heart attack. Shailaja Kathuria, director of the Centre for New Perspectives (CNP), a non-profit working with street performers, says what they need is “creative dignity”. She feels the pandemic has proved harsher for street performers living in urban spaces as in rural areas the ties with patrons are still intact. Also read | During lockdown, reaching out to artistes in distress The CNP has come up with a crowdfunding campaign to organise a virtual Tama Show wherein they are working with street performers to tell innovative picture book stories to children. Recently, dancer Arupa Lahiry performed a story, while a street magician performed an online ‘levitation’. “We are also working with classical musicians and dancers to upscale their skills. Flautist Rajat Prasanna is working with the snake charmers to help them learn new tunes. We are trying to rope in an Uzbek acrobat who knows Hindi to train Shivram in developing floor acts, as he only knows aerial ones,” says Ms. Kathuria. Comment | Protecting artists and the arts The most important aspect, notes the CNP director, is that the sooner performing artistes think out of the box and shift from dependence on State patronage, the better. “And digital literacy and digitally innovative performances is an important cog in this process. We are approaching the Sangeet Natak Akademi to include their performances in their online calendar so that they could get regular work,” she says. Both Shamshad and Junaid Rehman — son of street magician Rehman Shah — say they are up to the task as far as performing online is concerned. “I am now familiar with Zoom meetings, etc. and have put up a virtual show of levitation with my father,” says the high-school student, who meanwhile, is selling oranges to add to the family’s income during the pandemic.
23 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||New publisher for book on Delhi riots, say authors||A day after publishing house Bloomsbury India withdrew a book on Delhi riots, the authors on Sunday said the decision was in breach of contract and that the publishers would “invite civil and criminal liability.”  The authors said the book would be brought out by another publisher.  The book, ‘Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story’ by advocate Monika Arora and Delhi University teachers Sonali Chitalkar and Prerna Malhotra, was set to be released next month. The authors organised a launch event in which BJP leader Kapil Mishra was the guest of honour, leading to backlash on social media. Mr. Mishra had given a speech a day before the riots broke out in northeast Delhi in February, asking for the anti-Citizen (Amendment) Act, 2019 protesters to be removed from the area. The authors write about what they call “the urban Naxal and jihadi riot model.”  “Bloomsbury India had planned to release ‘Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story’ in September, a book purportedly giving a factual report on the riots in Delhi in February 2020, based on investigations and interviews conducted by the authors. However, in view of very recent events including a virtual pre-publication launch organised without our knowledge by the authors, with participation by parties of whom the publishers would not have approved, we have decided to withdraw publication of the book. Bloomsbury India strongly supports freedom of speech but also has a deep sense of responsibility towards society,” the publishing house said in a statement on Saturday. In a letter to Bloomsbury on Sunday, a copy of which Ms. Arora posted on Twitter, the authors said they had not been given a reason for the publisher’s decision to withdraw. They said they only received a phone call shortly before the online launch of the book on Saturday informing them that Bloomsbury U.K. had told the India office to distance itself from the book due to pressure from “social media campaign.” They said the draft of the book had been finalised by the publisher. They termed it a “breach of contract, unethical and unprofessional conduct” and said the publisher would be “liable to pay damages to the authors for damaging their reputation, disowning them publicly, causing mental agony ...” Later on Sunday evening, Ms. Arora said in a tweet that Bloomsbury had not responded in writing to the authors. “We have no option but to go with another publisher,” she wrote. In another tweet, she said: “As per peoples sentiments, we are going ahead with @GarudaPrakashan LET THE TRUTH BE REVEALED #DelhiRiotsTheUntoldStory (sic).”
23 August 2020||Pune,||Coronavirus | Serum Institute says reports of Covishield vaccine availability in 73 days false||The city-based Serum Institute of India (SII) on Sunday clarified that claims in the media regarding its COVID-19 vaccine Covishield’s availability in 73 days are completely ‘false’ and ‘conjectural’. Full coverage on coronavirus There were reports in certain sections in the media claiming that the SII would be able to commercialise its vaccine, which is being developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University, in the next 73 days. “The SII would like to clarify that the current claims surrounding Covishield’s availability in the media are completely false and conjectural. Presently, the government has granted us permission to only manufacture the vaccine and stockpile it for future use,” read a statement issued by the company. It said the Covishield would be commercialised once the trials were proven successful and all the requisite regulatory approvals were in place. Also read: If everything goes well India would get COVID-19 vaccine by year-end: Harsh Vardhan “The phase-3 trials for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine are still under way. And only once the vaccine is proven immunogenic and efficacious, SII will confirm its availability, officially,” it said. With the trials of the Covishield vaccine showing encouraging results, Adar Poonawalla, CEO of the Serum Institute of India (SII), had earlier said at least 300 million doses would be ready by December.
24 August 2020||New Delhi ,||Ahead of CWC, Congress CMs and 10 State units back Sonia Gandhi||The chorus to retain Sonia Gandhi as the Congress president started hours after a news report about a letter written by senior Congress leaders demanding clarity on the leadership question. All the four Congress Chief Ministers — Ashok Gehlot, Captain Amarinder Singh, Bhupesh Baghel and V. Narayansamy — along with more than 10 State units have come out in her support. Also read: Find a new Congress chief, Sonia Gandhi tells party The outpouring came a day before the Congress Working Committee is to meet making the outcome a foregone conclusion. The CWC has three options in front of it: one, Sonia Gandhi can be pressed to continue as a full time president foregoing the “interim” tag; second, Rahul Gandhi who was elected for a term till 2022, is persuaded to return to the post; and third to place a dummy candidate, who can sit-in for the Gandhi family. The current CWC is heavily tilted in favour of the Gandhi family. However, among the members — Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Jitin Prasada — had endorsed the letter to Ms. Gandhi asking her to settle the leadership question. Another CWC member Deependra Hooda’s father Bhupinder Hooda is also one of the signatories of that letter. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot in a series of tweets said at this “crucial juncture” in the fight to save the ethos of democracy, Ms. Gandhi should continue to lead the party. Also read: Congress must give consensus a chance instead of elections for leadership, says Salman Khurshid “But if she has made up her mind, I believe @RahulGandhi should come ahead and be the Congress president as the country faces the biggest challenge to save our Constitution-Democracy,” Mr. Gehlot said. Mr. Baghel, in a written statement in Hindi, giving credit to former Congress president Rahul Gandhi for the electoral victories in Chattisgarh and Rajasthan and impressive performance in Gujarat, said, “In the troubled times our country is going through, Rahul-ji and Sonia-ji are the only ray of hope.” Puducherry CM V. Narayansamy said the letter written by senior Congress leaders will only create confusion in the minds of millions of Congressmen. Also read: Millions of party workers want Rahul Gandhi back as chief, says Congress Lok Sabha floor leader for the Congress Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury in a letter to Sonia Gandhi hit out at those demanding an overhaul. “We the members of Parliament representing the length and breadth of the country, have heard and read with dismay and disbelief these claims being made by even those members of the party who have benefited and grown in the Congress due to your encouragement and the faith that you placed in them,” Mr. Chowdhury wrote. Mr. Chowdhury is also a member of the CWC. Also read: Should the Gandhis disengage from the Congress? Another CWC member Indian Youth Congress President B.V. Srinivas tweeted: “Whether it was the freedom struggle in this country or the whole journey of building India, the Gandhi family has always sacrificed, martyred for the sake of this country.” Lok Sabha MP from Virudhnagar constituency, B. Manickam Tagore, said the bogey of a “leadership crisis” is being raised at the behest of some interested parties in a deliberate attempt to weaken the party. Earlier in the day senior Congress leader Salman Khurshid had said consensus must given a chance instead of an election. Also read: ‘Team Rahul’ takes on UPA Ministers at Congress meeting Adding that Rahul Gandhi enjoys full support of party leaders and workers, Mr Khurshid said, “I have said very clearly that the Gandhis are leaders of the Congress. Nobody can deny this, even the opposition cannot deny this. I am quite happy having a leader, I don’t worry about whether or not we have a president, we have a leader (in Rahul Gandhi) and that is comforting for me.”
24 August 2020||Srinagar,||BJP critical of joint front of six J&K parties||The coming together of J&K’s six main political parties on the restoration of Article 370 and 35(A) is reshaping the polity of the Union Territory (UT), over a year after the special status of J&K was ended. The BJP, however, reiterated that the August 5, 2019 decisions “can’t be reversed”. Also read: Six J&K parties forge alliance to fight for pre-August 5 position “Restoration of Article 370 and 35 (A) is next to impossible. These Articles only resulted in a wall of hatred and poor growth and development of J&K,” said J&K BJP president Ravinder Raina. Party spokesperson Darakshan Andari described the new grouping as “a conglomerate of mafia who are trying to re-open their closed business”. J&K’s six political parties — the National Conference (NC), the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the Congress, the J&K Peoples Conference (PC), the CPI(M) and the Awani National Conference (ANC) — on Saturday decided to fight jointly for the restoration of Article 370 and 35 (A) under the Gupkar Declaration, a document signed by these parties on August 4, 2019. Also read | Jammu and Kashmir bifurcation updates | U.P., Haryana police told to ensure safety of Kashmiri students Two more regional parties, the J&K Peoples Movement (J&KPM) and the Peoples Democratic Front (PDF), supported it. “Whosoever will work for bringing Article 370 and 35(A) back will get my support unconditionally. I have been called up by a few signatories to join the collective fight. I will soon come up with the final decision,” PDF chairman Hakeem Mohammad Yasin said. PDP patron Muzaffar Hussain Beg termed the declaration “a good step”. “I feel glad to see the political parties assembling on a single platform for the larger benefit of people of J&K.” Also read | A year on, Article 370 and Kashmir mythmaking CPI(M) leader M.Y Tarigami said he expected more people from all the regions and the communities “to join this process so that the dignity of J&K is restored”. Senior Congress leader and former Home Minister P. Chidambaram has appreciated the mainstream parties for joining hands. “Salute the unity and courage of the six mainstream Opposition parties who came together yesterday [Saturday] to fight the repeal of Article 370. I appeal to them to stand resolutely behind their demand. Ignore the uninformed criticism of self-styled nationalists who do not read history but try to rewrite history,” he tweeted.
23 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Babri Masjid demolition case: Supreme Court gives court one month to deliver verdict||The Supreme Court has given a court hearing the Babri Masjid demolition case against several accused persons, including prominent BJP leaders like L.K. Advani, Murali Manohar Joshi and Uma Bharti, time till September 30 to complete the trial and deliver its verdict. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Rohinton Nariman allowed a request made by Special Judge S.K. Yadav for more time. The deadline was August 31. The Bench noted that the trial was drawing to a close and a month more would be sufficient to complete the proceedings and deliver the judgment. The BJP and the Sangh Parivar leaders are accused of criminal conspiracy which led to the demolition of the 16th century mosque by kar sevaks in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992. In 2017, the apex court had invoked the maxim — “Let justice be done though the heavens fall” — to flex its extraordinary constitutional powers under Article 142 to bring the case to justice. The apex court had transferred the Rae Bareilly case, languishing in a Magistrate court, to the CBI Court in Lucknow for a joint trial. The Rae Bareilly case accuses the BJP and the Sangh Parivar leaders of delivering hate speeches. The Lucknow case, investigated by the CBI, is against “lakhs of unknown kar sevaks” and deals with the actual act of demolition and violence. With the clubbing of the cases and revival of the conspiracy charge, the accused political leaders are being tried under a composite chargesheet filed by the CBI on October 5, 1993.
23 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Vande Bharat train sets tender cancelled to maintain transparency: Railways||The Railways on Sunday said the tender for 44 Vande Bharat train sets was cancelled to maintain transparency as some bidders had revealed financial details of their offer even before clearing the technical evaluation. Also read: Newly designed rakes for Vande Bharat trains likely only in 2023 “While evaluating the technical bids, the tender committee noticed that some of the details of the financial offer have been wrongly revealed...Financial bids of only those bidders are opened who qualify in the technical bids,” Railway Board Chairman V.K. Yadav said. He said to have complete transparency, while evaluating the technical bids, financial bids are not available to the tender evaluation committee to enable “evaluation purely on technical conditions”. “This practice is followed worldwide… the tenderers are given standard instructions for this system [two-packet system]...we have finalised a number of tenders based on this system... There are at least seven paragraphs where it has been clearly mentioned that technical bids should not have any details of the financial offer...I don’t know how, but some of the bidders have made a mistake,” the Chairman said. Hence, the tender committee recommended to invite fresh tenders. The Tender Accepting Authority, the ICF general manager, accepted it and fresh tenders will be invited within a week, he said.  Mr. Yadav said as part of the Atmanirbhar Bharat initiative, an increase in the indigenous content from the present 50% is being examined.  “The fresh tender will have provision to manufacture Vande Bharat train set at all the three production units of the Railways — ICF, MCF & RCF. The timeline for manufacturing them will be compressed.”  The Railways had earlier this week announced cancellation of the tender. While a specific reason was not given, an official statement had said fresh tender will be floated within a week as per the Revised Public Procurement (Preference to Make in India) order. This gave rise to speculation that the presence of CRRC Pioneer Electric, in which China’s CRRC is a joint partner, among the six bidders could be one of the reasons, especially due to renewed focus of the ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’.
23 August 2020||CHENNAI ,||MHA had warned of plot to trigger blasts in Indian city||Against the backdrop of the Delhi Police recovering large quantity of explosives from the house of a suspected IS operative in Uttar Pradesh, it has come to light that the Ministry of Home Affairs had warned of terror modules of religious fundamentalists, backed by Pakistan intelligence, to trigger blasts in one of the cities in India. Acting on intelligence inputs, the MHA issued an alert to all States two days before the Independence Day celebrations that members of some banned outfits had planned to cause IED blasts in Jammu & Kashmir, West Bengal and some other places in the north-east along the Indo-Myanmar and Indo-Bangladesh border, police sources told The Hindu on Sunday. The MHA also relied on interception of a conversation between two foreign agents who quoted a Pakistan-based source as saying that “something big is being planned in one of the cities in India,” the sources said. The alert said Pakistan’s ISI and handlers stationed in other places had tasked some absconding gangsters to vitiate the communal atmosphere in Punjab while another input detailed Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen, Bangladesh, plan to trigger low-intensity blasts in West Bengal. JMB chief Salahuddin Salehin was reported to have visited a number of places in West Bengal and Jharkhand in March-April 2020. Another banned organisation, Sahadat-e-al-Hikma was also reported to have been involved in imparting training to some radicalised youth in Mushirabad, Uttar Dinajpur and Burdwan in West Bengal to cause explosions along the Indo-Bangla border. It also pointed to the camping of about 10-12 terrorists of Jaish-e-Mohammed and Lashkar-e-Taiba organisations in a Pakistan village close to the border with a plan to infiltrate into India and create “disturbances”, the sources said.
23 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Attorney General refuses consent to initiate criminal contempt against Swara Bhasker||Attorney General K.K. Venugopal has refused consent to a plea to initiate criminal contempt action against actor Swara Bhasker for “scandalising” the Supreme Court, saying her comment regarding the Ram Janmabhoomi title dispute verdict “appears to be a factual one” and her “perception”. The prior consent of the Attorney General is required for the Supreme Court to initiate criminal contempt action in a case. The contempt plea was filed by Karnataka resident, Usha Shetty. Ms. Shetty has now sought the consent of Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. She wrote to Mr. Mehta on Sunday, saying she “respectfully differs” with Mr. Venugopal. The contempt plea refers to a public address made by Ms. Bhasker in a meeting organised by Mumbai Collective following the Supreme Court’s judgment in the Ram Janmabhoomi title dispute case in November last year, in which the court ordered the handing over of the disputed land to the Hindus to build a temple. The petition quoted Ms. Bhasker as saying “We are living in a country where the Supreme Court of our country states that the demolition of Babri Masjid was unlawful and in the same judgment rewards the same people who brought down the mosque”.     Mr. Venugopal, in a two-page note dated August 21, said, “The statement in the first part appears to be a factual one, and is a perception of the speaker.” “The comment refers to the judgment of the Supreme Court, and is not an attack on the institution. This does not offer any comment on the Supreme Court itself or say anything that would scandalise or tend to scandalise, or lower or tend to lower the authority of the Supreme Court. In my opinion, this statement does not constitute criminal contempt,” Mr. Venugopal wrote. The top law officer and constitutional authority then proceeded to the second statement made by Ms. Bhasker which Ms. Shetty found contemptuous, namely that “ ... we are now in a situation where our courts are not sure whether they believe in the Constitution or not...” Mr. Venugopal said this was a vague statement not related to any particular court. “Something which is so general that no one would take any serious note,” he said. “I do not think that this is a case where the offence of scandalising the court or lowering the authority of the court would arise. I therefore decline consent to initiate contempt proceedings against Ms. Swara Bhasker,” the Attorney General concluded.     Ms. Shetty, represented by advocates Anuj Saxena, Prakash Sharma and Mahek Maheshwari, had said Ms. Bhasker’s statements, in her address on February 1, this year, were “derogatory and scandalous in nature, putting a big question on the judiciary and their integrity to the Constitution”. The petition said Ms. Bhasker’s statements were not only a cheap publicity stunt to get a brief applause but an attempt to turn the masses to resist and revolt against the Supreme Court. What she said amounted to scandalising the court to “provoke a resistance against the judiciary as an institution”, the petition said. In fact, advocate Maheshwari’s complaint on a tweet by civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan about Chief Justice S.A. Bobde on a bike was suo motu taken cognisance of by the top court recently. The court last week reserved its judgment and gave Mr. Bhushan time till August 24 to tender an “unconditional apology”.
23 August 2020||New Delhi,||Centre forms National Council for Transgender Persons||The Ministry of Social Justice and Empowerment has constituted the National Council for Transgender Persons, a requirement under the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Act, 2019.  A notification by the Ministry on August 21 stated that the Social Justice Minister would be the chairperson of the Council and members would include officials of the Ministries of Health and Family Welfare, Home Affairs, Housing and Urban Affairs, Minority Affairs, Human Resources Development, Rural Development and Labour and Employment, the Department of Legal Affairs, the Department of Pensions and Pensioners Welfare and the NITI Aayog. The council also includes five nominated members from the transgender community — Laxmi Narayan Tripathi, Gopi Shankar Madurai, Meera Parida, Zainab Javid Patel and Kak Chingtabam Shyamcand Sharma.  Terming the constitution of the council historic, Laxmi said on Sunday that the council would work with States to ensure that transgender welfare boards are set up in all States and essential needs of the community, like housing, food, healthcare and education are met.
24 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pakistan denies Dawood Ibrahim’s presence in its territory||Pakistan denied that two Special Regulatory Orders (SROs) issued by its Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA), that included Dawood Ibrahim and other designated terrorists believed to be in Pakistan, amounted to an ‘admission’ that Dawood Ibrahim lives there.  The listings published on August 18 included three residential addresses and five Pakistani passports issued to the former underworld don and directed Pakistani authorities to ensure that Ibrahim and hundreds of others named in the UNSC ISIL and Al-Qaeda sanctions committee list of designated terrorists would be denied access to funds, arms and transit travel through Pakistan.  “The assertions made by some sections of the Indian media, as to Pakistan admitting to the presence of certain listed individuals on its territory, based on the information contained in the SRO, are baseless and misleading,” said a Foreign Ministry statement, also denying that the measures were ‘new’. Pakistan also said the SROs were issued “periodically as a routine matter” and the same list has been issued in the past, including last in 2019.  Government sources however said Dawood Ibrahim and LeT operations chief Zaki-ur-Rehman Lakhvi had not been included in past lists issued by Pakistan, though they appear on SROs from 2015 and 2019 on the MFA website now. They suggested those had been ‘backdated’ to comply with stipulations of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF) where Pakistan’s actions are being scrutinised.      In October, the FATF plenary session is expected to take a decision on whether Pakistan would be cleared from the ‘greylist’ it is on or be downgraded to a ‘blacklist’ as a “high-risk jurisdiction” and face stringent financial sanctions. Pakistan has thus far cleared 14 of a 27-point action plan handed down by the FATF, directing it to bring its laws in line with international terror conventions and take firmer action to counter terror financing and money laundering.   The SRO is one step towards bringing the international terrorist list issued by the Security Council committee in line with Pakistan’s own list under its Anti-Terrorism Act and displayed as Schedule IV list of Proscribed Persons by the National Counter Terrorism Authority (NACTA). Significantly, neither Dawood Ibrahim nor Lakhvi is included in the NACTA list yet, though LeT chief Hafiz Saeed and even Jaish-e-Mohammad chief Masood Azhar, who was put on the UNSC list most recently, are both included. Pakistan has repeatedly said it has no knowledge of their present whereabouts.  Officials said to complete its FATF commitment, Pakistan will have to add both Ibrahim and Lakhvi to their own watchlist, which would be the first time it will acknowledge Dawood Ibrahim Kaskar, wanted in India for masterminding the Mumbai blasts of 1993 in which 250 people were killed, as a terrorist.
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||Himachal Pradesh Police probe ‘links’ in Chinese hawala scam||After the recent arrest of a Chinese businessman by the Income Tax authorities for money laundering, the Himachal Pradesh Police said it is also conducting investigations as “possible links” have emerged in the State. The businessman at the centre of the scam, identified as Charlie Peng, 43, alias Luo Sang, was arrested by the Delhi police in 2018 for cheating and living in New Delhi on a forged Indian passport. Peng crossed over to India from Nepal in 2013. After his arrest, he spent a brief period in jail and was now out on bail. Security agencies suspect that Peng was allegedly bribing some Tibetan monks in Delhi to get information on the Dalai Lama. Dharamsala in Himachal Pradesh is the headquarters of the Dalai Lama’s office. On August 11, the IT department said in a press statement that a “few Chinese individuals and their Indian associates were involved in money laundering and hawala transactions through a series of shell entities”. Only Peng has been arrested in the case so far. Himachal’s DGP Sanjay Kundu told The Hindu, “We are investigating as possible links of hawala transactions have emerged here also. There will be a clarity in a couple of days.” Another police official said a few monks have been detained and are being questioned but language is a barrier. The crackdown against the Chinese hawala racket comes in the wake of transgressions by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in Eastern Ladakh. China has occupied positions within India’s perception of the Line of Actual Control (LAC) since April-May and has refused to go back. After the Dalai Lama’s flight to India from Tibet in 1959, the Indian government gave assistance to Tibetans for a temporary settlement. In 2015, the Modi government came out with a new policy for the Tibetan refugees and sanctioned a scheme of providing grant-in-aid of ₹40 crore to the Dalai Lama’s Central Tibetan Relief Committee (CTRC) for five years. A senior government official said Peng was communicating with the monks on We Chat, a secure Chinese messaging platform that was banned recently. The office staff of Peng have reportedly admitted to delivering packets of money to some monks at Majnu Ka Tila in Delhi, a Tibetan settlement. The Dalai Lama’s office said in a statement to The Hindu the “Chinese spy” Charlie Peng’s involvement in forging documents and hawala rackets in India is dangerous and alarming and at this difficult time of the pandemic, China should pay more attention to contain the domestic health and economic issues, rather than sending spies to India and creating problems at India’s borders. “Thanks to the strong security measures adopted by the Central and State government, till now these Chinese spies have not been able to get close to His Holiness the Dalai Lama. The Tibetan Administration in Dharamsala is working closely with the local security offices to thwart any attempts by Chinese spies to create troubles and steal information,” the statement by T.G Arya, the Dalai Lama’s Information Secretary, said. The senior official said the IT Department had zeroed in on a Delhi-based chartered accountant who was running more than 40 bank accounts to help Peng and his associates in hawala transactions. The official said transactions of more than ₹300 crore done on behalf of the Chinese companies has been tracked so far. A chargehseet filed by the Delhi police in 2018 says Peng had married a woman from Mizoram and was living in Gurgaon. He was dealing in Chinese medicines and currency exchange. After coming to Delhi he was living in a flat in South-west Delhi’s Dwarka and had procured an Aadhaar card. He had applied for a passport in Delhi but it was rejected. He then got his Aadhaar card transferred to an address in Manipur and procured a passport from the Regional Passport office in Guwahati. A visit by the Delhi police to the Manipur village mentioned in the passport revealed that Peng was not its resident. The chargesheet says Peng has no knowledge of “English, Hindi or Buddhism” and could only converse in ‘Chinese’.
23 August 2020||Balrampur/Lucknow,||Could have never imagined he would take to terrorism: Father of IS operative held in Delhi||The father of alleged IS operative Mohammad Mustakim Khan, alias Abu Yusuf Khan, who was arrested in Delhi, on Sunday said people know his son as a “very good person” and he could have never imagined that he would take to terrorism. Kafeel Ahmed told a news channel that his son has always been very polite and never fought with anyone. Khan’s wife, Ayesha, however, said she had told him not to indulge in “wrong activities” but he did not listen to her. Khan, 36, from Badhiyaa Bhaisaahi village in Uttar Pradesh’s Balrampur district was arrested from central Delhi’s Ridge Road area late on Friday night following a brief exchange of fire with police, according to officials. Two “fully ready” IEDs were recovered from him and he planned to carry out a “lone wolf” strike at a heavy footfall area in the national capital, the officials said. Mr. Ahmed said Khan left home on Friday for Rath in U.P.’s Hamirpur district and after that his whereabouts were not known. “On Saturday, we learnt that he has been arrested in Delhi,” he said. Asked about Khan collecting explosive material and testing bombs in a graveyard, Mr. Ahmed said, “I have not heard anything about explosive material. If I had any idea that he was collecting explosive material, I would not have allowed Abu Yusuf to stay in my house.” “Only after the police came in the evening and found the material I realised what it is,” he said. He claimed he had never been inside his son’s room. Mr. Ahmed said he is “deeply saddened” by what has happened. “Everyone knows that Abu Yusuf is a very good person. He used to speak very politely, and did not get into fights with anyone,” he said. Khan had been on the police radar for over a year now, according to the officials. Ms. Ayesha said, “I had told him (Khan) that you are indulging in wrong activities and you should refrain from such activities but he did not listen to me.” On items recovered from her room, she said, “Two jackets, one belt, one bottle, some explosive material, and some pellets (chharra) were recovered. These were kept in a box.” Khan and his wife have four children — two sons and two daughters. Khan has been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act. He was remanded to eight days in police custody and taken to different places in Uttar Pradesh, including Balrampur, for further investigation, the officials said.
23 August 2020||New Delhi,||Prime Minister posts video of him feeding peacocks||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday posted a video on his social media accounts in which he is seen feeding peacocks at his residence during his morning exercise routine. The 1.47-minute video also has a few glimpses of the Prime Minister’s daily walk from his home to his office within the Lok Kalyan Marg residence. Peacocks are often a regular companion of the Prime Minister during his exercise, sources said, noting that he has long shared an “unbreakable bond” with the environment and has also written two books on the matter. At his residence, Mr. Modi has placed elevated structures, often found in rural India, where birds can make their nests, they said. Mr. Modi also posted a Hindi poem, an ode to nature, with the video. He first put the video on his Instagram account and shared on Twitter later. The two books written by the Prime Minister to highlight his vision for the environment are ‘Convenient Action: Gujarat’s Response to Challenges of Climate Change’ and ‘Convenient Action- Continuity for Change’, the sources noted. His other book, ‘Aankh Aa Dhanya Che’, has poems on nature. It was originally written in Gujarati and then translated to several other languages. When the world spoke of climate change, Mr. Modi talked about “climate justice” and linked human value systems with the fight against climate change, they said. “The Prime Minister pioneered the launch of International Solar Alliance to harness solar energy for a better future. He appeared on the show ‘Man Versus Wild’ where he highlighted India’s ethos of living in harmony with nature,” the sources added. As Chief Minister of Gujarat, Mr. Modi ensured that it was among the first States in India and the world to have a climate change department, they said.
24 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Coronavirus | With 3 million positive cases, experts say rise unlikely to abate soon||India crossed three million cases after adding nearly 69,239 cases on Saturday — the fourth straight day that it had added over 69,000 cases. India continued to be placed behind Brazil and the United States in the overall case load and, at 56,706 deaths, had only half as many as Brazil and less than a third as that of the U.S. India on Saturday reported having tested a million samples — the first time it surpassed this milestone. India has been conducting an average 8,89,935 testings in the last five days and had tested 34.4 million samples till August 21. Only about 23% of the confirmed cases, or about 7,00,000, are active cases requiring treatment and the case fatality ratio — or the confirmed deaths per ratified cases — has dipped to less than 2%. Also read | 3.52 crore samples tested for COVID-19, average daily positive rate dips to 7.67% in past week: Health Ministry Experts say the relentless spread of the virus and infectiousness was inevitable and evident from several epidemiological projections from March. “India is politically and culturally one country but epidemiologically it’s many countries rolled into one,” said Dr. Jacob John, retired professor of virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. “This is a respiratory virus and it was always a mistake to think that a single strategy — a national lockdown for instance — would be effective for the whole country,” he said in a phone conversation. Herd immunity, the idea that once a large fraction of the population were infected, would signal the end of the pandemic was also a misnomer as that would only mean that the virus would have fewer hosts to infect, and was a sign that it had at best become endemic (capable of causing sporadic outbreaks). “Only a vaccine can prevent infections and help bring out herd immunity. A critical mistake in strategy during February and March was not doing enough to ramp up testing as well as restricting it to the sole laboratory at National Institute of Virology, Pune. We repeated mistakes that were made during the swine flu epidemic of 2009,” he added. Also read | If verything goes well India would get COVID-19 vaccine by year-end: Harsh Vardhan Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh are the top three contributors to the overall case load with a little over a million or about a third of India’s case load. India’s doubling time was nearly 30 days with most states with over 50,000 cases recording a doubling time of 30-40 days. Delhi, is an exception with a current doubling time of over 70 days.     An official associated with the national COVID-19 taskforce said the spurt in cases was likely “until September or even October” given that testing and the spread of the infection had concomitantly risen. “The strategy now is to ensure deaths remain low and that is by detecting cases and contacts early. In March and April, we lacked enough infrastructure to ramp up testing. We have learned from the experience of Europe and therefore don’t have the fatality rates of Italy and France.”
23 August 2020||New Delhi,||Explosives, ball bearings found in U.P. terror suspect’s house||A day after alleged terror suspect was arrested from Delhi, a team of Delhi police special cell unit recovered a large quantity of explosives and an ISIS flag from the house of Mohammad Mustakim Khan in Uttar Pradesh’s Balrampur, a senior police officer said on Sunday. An alleged ISIS operative, Khan, armed with two pressure cooker IEDs, was arrested in central Delhi’s Ridge Road area on Friday night following a brief exchange of fire. Khan was sent to eight-day police custody by a Delhi court on Saturday. A Delhi Police Special Cell team took him to his Badhiyaa Bhaisaahi village in Balrampur district. A brown jacket containing three explosives packets and a blue-check jacket containing four explosives packets were recovered from his house, a senior Delhi Police officer said. "Each explosives packet, removed from the jackets, was wrapped with transparent tape which contained explosives and cardboard sheet pasted with ball bearings, and electric wires were coming out from it," Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) P.S. Kushwah said in Delhi.     Police on Sunday conducted raids at several places. Two bicycle shop owners were among those questioned in Uttar Pradesh, possibly over the origin of the ball bearings found by police.   Khan’s father Kafeel Ahmed and wife Ayesha were also questioned, an official said. Mustakim Khan had planned to carry out a “lone wolf” strike at a heavy footfall area in the national capital, police said. “One ISIS flag, one leather belt containing around three kilogram explosives, eight to nine kilogram explosives in four different polythenes, three cylindrical metal boxes containing explosives and electric wires wrapped with transparent tape and two cylindrical metal boxes in which ball bearings were pasted were recovered from his house,” the DCP said.     Other material recovered from his house included: “One wooden broken box (for target practice), 30 ball bearings of different diameters, one packet containing 12 small boxes of ball bearings, three lithium batteries — two of 4V and one of 9V, two cylindrical metal boxes, one ampere meter, yellow colour.” “Two iron blades, attached parallel to each other, connected to electric wires from sides, one wire cutter, two mobile chargers, a table alarm watch attached with electric wires and one black colour tape were also recovered from his house,” Mr. Kushwah said. Security was stepped up in the national capital and neighbouring Uttar Pradesh following the arrest. Khan, 36, planned to strike in the national capital on August 15, but could not do so due to heavy security arrangements, police said. He had been under the watch of security agencies for the last year. Khan was first handled by Yusuf-al Hindi, ISIS chief of India operations, who was killed in Syria in 2017. After that he was handled by Abu Huzaifa Al Bakistani, a resident of Pakistan, who was killed in a drone strike in Afghanistan in July 2019. Later, another handler instructed him to carry out strikes, police said. He had tested a small IED near the burial ground in his village. After the successful test, he used the same method to make two pressure cooker IEDs. Television footage showed Khan, in handcuffs, being taken to the room at his Balrampur home where items that could be used for improvised bombs were stored.
23 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Five months on, Tablighi Jamaat cases become diplomatic headache for government||Five months after the government ordered a crackdown on all members of the Tablighi Jamaat present at their headquarters or ‘Markaz’ in New Delhi when a number of coronavirus cases were detected, the matter is becoming a diplomatic headache for the government. The action ordered by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in March included 2,550 foreigners from about 45 countries who belonged to the ultra orthodox Islamic sect; and several countries have expressed their concern to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) over the continued custody of their nationals in India, diplomats and officials told The Hindu.  The MEA has been left to coordinate the various cases with “real time coordination” with the MHA and the Bureau of Immigration, even as they deal with the diplomatic missives, say officials.  Also read | Tablighi Jamaat, an island unto itself Earlier this week, Bangladesh Foreign Secretary Masud Bin Momen said he had raised the issue of about 173 Bangladeshis still being held in India when he met Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla in Dhaka on Wednesday, asking him to expedite their return. According to diplomatic sources privy to the meeting, the Bangladesh government is particularly worried as many of them have run out of money, and may not be able to pay the fines of ₹5,000-10,000 in order for them to leave. .  “The Bangladesh Foreign Secretary during his meeting with the Forign Secretary acknowledged that most of their nationals have returned home, and we will continue to work with the relevant authorities to ensure that for others who remain, their return will be facilitated,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava in response to a question from The Hindu, adding that about 550 foreigners charged in the Tablighi cases had been able to leave thus far, while 1,030 have been allowed to leave by courts.  Also read | Bombay High Court quashes FIRs against foreigners who attended Tablighi Jamaat congregation Indonesian and Malaysian officials, whose nationals make up the majority of cases, have also raised the issue of their nationals not being able to return both through their embassies and even at a recent India-ASEAN meeting of senior officials, where such bilateral and consular matters are rarely raised. The U.S. Embassy said it had been in contact with the Government of India on the arrests of about six U.S. nationals. “The safety and security of American citizens is the Department of State’s highest priority. We are in contact with multiple U.S. citizens who were arrested by the Indian authorities in connection with the Tablighi Jamaat case,” a U.S. Embassy spokesperson said.  Several other missions, some of whom did not want to be identified, said that as the months drag on the matter is becoming a fraught one in their diplomatic communiques, citing terrible conditions for their nationals, many of whom had not even attended the Tablighi Jamaat ‘Ijtema’ or conference where the COVID-19 virus had allegedly spread from visiting delegates.  Also read | Tablighi Jamaat: ED conducts multi-city searches According to the Brazilian Embassy, four of their nationals had been caught unawares when their flight from Delhi was cancelled due to the “Janata curfew” announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 22, and they took refuge at the Tablighi Markaz in Delhi’s Nizamuddin. The police not only stopped them from taking the next flight, they kept them forcibly in quarantine. They could only return home four months later, after accepting they had committed visa violations, paid fines, and now have been blacklisted from returning to India for 10 years.  Not everyone is accepting their guilt in order to leave the country, however.  Also read | Tablighi Jamaat: Delhi Court allows 121 foreigners from 2 countries to walk free on payment of fine Australian marketing professional Irfan, 39, and his wife Fatima, both members of the Tablighi Jamaat, who came to India to visit relatives in Tamil Nadu, said they had “stopped by to pay respects” at the Nizamuddin Markaz during a sightseeing trip to Delhi. Days later, the police tracked them to their lodgings and forced them into a local quarantine centre for a 60-day isolation period. “If the purpose was to quarantine us for coronavirus symptoms, when we had tested negative, then why were my wife and I separated, kept in squalid conditions and exposed to malaria and dengue as well?” he asks. Mr. Irfan and Ms. Fatima, who haven’t seen their son, who was left with grandparents in Australia for nearly six months now, say they will not go back on what they call “false testimonies”, and will fight the case in court along with 40 others who have also refused the plea bargain. Under the official visa manual, visiting Tablighis are allowed to attend religious discourses, but not to carry out “Tablighi work” or preaching, and all of them deny violating the rule.  Lawyers say even those who have signed the plea bargain documents weeks ago have not been able to leave as Lookout Circulars (LoCs) against them still exist from different police stations, and not all have been withdrawn. “Above all, the procedures followed against this group contravene the Right to Dignity and the Right to Return to their home countries, both guaranteed under Article 21 [of the Constitution],” says Fuzail Ahmed Ayyubi, advocate who has filed four writ petitions representing 34 petitioners from 33 countries being heard by the Supreme Court, with the next hearing set for Tuesday. A judgment by the Bombay High Court on Friday, which quashed FIRs against 29 foreign Tablighi Jamaat members, and criticised the government for making them “scapegoats” during the pandemic has also given other petitioners hope.  Also read | Foreign Tablighi Jamaat members are free to return, Centre tells Supreme Court Government officials who have followed the movement say the Jamaat with tens of millions of followers in 150 countries, is a revenue and ‘soft power’ earner for India, much like pilgrims from other religious groups are. They also pointed out that blacklisting members would only benefit neighbouring countries like Pakistan and Bangladesh, which have for years vied to take over the leadership of the movement that has been headquartered in India since it was founded in 1926 .  (With inputs from Kallol Bhattacherjee and Vijaita Singh)
24 August 2020||New Delhi ,||Find a new Congress chief, Sonia Gandhi tells party||Faced with an unprecedented situation of senior leaders questioning the party’s top leadership in a letter, Congress president Sonia Gandhi is learnt to have asked her colleagues to find new party chief as she was not keen to continue as interim president. Also read: Congress must give consensus a chance instead of elections for leadership, says Salman Khurshid Ms. Gandhi is believed to have conveyed this to a senior party leader who handles organisational matters soon after completing a year as the party’s interim chief on August 10. However, the party’s chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala denied that ‘Ms. Gandhi has spoken to anyone or written any letter’. However, ahead of the crucial meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Monday, several senior leaders including Punjab Chief Minister (CM) Amarinder Singh, Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, former Karnatak Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, former Law Ministers Ashwani Kumar and Salman Khurshid were among leaders who openly came out in support of the Gandhis on Sunday. Opposing the bid by some Congress leaders to challenge the Gandhi family’s leadership of the party, Captain Amarinder said the move by these Congress leaders demanding a rehaul of the party at this critical juncture would be detrimental to the party’s interests and the interests of the nation. Also read: Millions of party workers want Rahul Gandhi back as chief, says Congress “Currently no other leader in the Congress can give the party a strong leadership,” the Punjab Chief Minister said in a statement on Sunday, adding, “any move to divide or destabilise the party would give advantage to the dictatorial forces.” “Sonia Gandhi should continue to helm the Congress as long as she wanted and then Rahul should thereafter take over as he was fully competent to lead the party,” he added. Ms. Gandhi’s response follows a letter from a group of senior leaders including Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal, Lok Sabha member Manish Tewari, former union minister Veerappa Moily, former Chief Minister Bhupinder Hooda among others. Also read: Should the Gandhis disengage from the Congress? In their letter, written about two weeks ago, the group questioned the Congress party’s style of functioning and suggested sweeping reforms. Multiple sources told this reporter that nearly 300 party functionaries across different State units have endorsed the contents of the letter,which are likely to be made public depending on the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting on Monday. The group has called for a “full time and effective leadership who are active in the field, a mechanism for collective leadership and elections to the CWC”.  The group met late on Sunday ahead of the CWC meeting. Also read: ‘Team Rahul’ takes on UPA Ministers at Congress meeting The letter was leaked to a prominent newspaper after the party announced the dates for the CWC meeting as Mr. Surjewala had earlier denied the existence of it. The group is also said to be opposed to attempts being made to hand the reins back to former party chief Rahul Gandhi and would rather push for decision-making through a Parliamentary Board. Other leaders, supporting the Gandhis, however, lashed out at the group claiming that “personal interests more than concern from the party” prompted the letter. Also read: Congress Working Committee may have to give extension to Sonia Gandhi “Only a year ago, party persons literally begged Sonia Gandhi to lead the party and she agreed as a call of duty. The timing and the motivation of the letter are suspect. Although some Congressmen of long standing are signatories to the letter, there are some who have harmed the party repeatedly even after receiving more than their just dues. The time for political justice is here and hopefully the letter will expose such ‘leaders’,” said Ashwani Kumar. Mr. Narayanasamy tweeted: “I saw the news in some newspapers that ex-congressmen wanted overhaul and changes in Congress party. This kind of statement will create confusion in the minds of millions of Congressmen. This a ploy by BJP to divert attention of people from Facebook controversy”. “At a time when the very bedrock of India’s constitutional strength was under threat, it was important for every Congress man and woman to stand firmly and unitedly behind the Gandhis, who had held the party together all these decades and could continue to do so. Electoral defeats could not be the yardstick for leadership change,” said Captain Amarinder. Also read: ‘Sense of drift’ in Congress; high time party gets full-time president: Sandeep Dikshit “Mr Azad is finishing his Rajya Sabha term early next year and is concerned about his political future. Similarly, the Lok Sabha MPs are upset at being passed over for the party leader's post and so on,” said a leader loyal to the Gandhis. Some of the points raised in the letter have also been publicly articulated by leaders like Mr. Tewari and Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor. On August 2, in an interview to The Hindu, when Mr. Tewari was asked what could revive the party, he had said, “A full time president, elected by the All India Congress Committee (AICC) in terms of Article 18(h) of the [party’s] constitution.” Also read: Analysis | Priyanka Gandhi faces uphill task to revive Congress in Uttar Pradesh “The options are: (a) Rahul Gandhi could withdraw his resignation. (b) If he is reluctant for whatever reasons then Ms. Sonia Gandhi should be persuaded to continue notwithstanding her known disinclination for the job. (c) If the two are not willing then elections should be held to the presidency,” he added. “The elected positions in the CWC should be filled through elections, the Congress Parliamentary Board should be revived, AICC sessions like in the past should be held bi-annually and the process of internal elections should be externally supervised like the IYC. However most importantly ideological and strategic clarity is imperative going forward,” Mr. Tewari had said.
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||Coronavirus | 3.52 crore samples tested for COVID-19, average daily positive rate dips to 7.67% in past week: Health Ministry||Testing over eight lakh samples for six days in a row, India’s total COVID-19 tests have touched 3.52 crore, while the average daily positivity rate has come down from 9.67% during August 3-9 to 7.67% over the last week, the Centre said on Sunday. So far, 3,52,92,220 samples have been tested for detection of COVID-19 with 8,01,147 being tested on Saturday.  The steep rise in testing is a result of effective implementation of the aggressive testing strategy of the Centre through a focussed and graded approach, the ministry said. “The rising average daily tests during the past three weeks present a strong depiction of the progress made in the enhancement of COVID-19 tests across the country. The rise in daily testing has been followed by a decrease in the average daily positivity rate,” the health ministry highlighted. Also read: Coronavirus India lockdown Day 152 updates  Keeping a sharp focus on the ‘test, track and treat’ policy, tests per million population have seen a boost, touching 25,574 as on date. “It is only by aggressive testing that positive cases can be identified, their contacts tracked in a timely manner and promptly isolated, as well as the severe and critical patients provided the needed clinical treatment,” the ministry said.  The testing strategy also ensured a steady expansion of the laboratory network. Today, with 983 labs in the government sector and 532 private labs, a total of 1515 labs are providing comprehensive testing facilities to the people, it said.  With a single-day spike of 69,239 infections, India’s COVID-19 caseload mounted to 30,44,940, while the death toll climbed to 56,706 with 912 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 a.m. showed.
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||Coronavirus | India could get COVID-19 vaccine by year-end, says Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan has said that if everything goes well, India would get a vaccine against the novel coronavirus by the end of this year. Three COVID-19 vaccine candidates, including two indigenous ones, are in different phases of development in India. The phase-one human clinical trials of the two indigenous COVID-19 vaccine candidates, one developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with ICMR and the other by Zydus Cadila Ltd, have been completed and the trials have moved to phase-two, ICMR Director General Dr. Balram Bhargava had said recently. The Serum Institute of India, which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the COVID-19 vaccine candidate developed by the University of Oxford has been permitted for conducting its phase two and three human clinical trials in India. It is likely to start the trials next week. In a tweet in Hindi, Mr. Vardhan said on Saturday, “I hope that if everything goes well, India will get a coronavirus vaccine by the end of this year.” Meanwhile, the apex health research body, ICMR, is in the process of developing an online vaccine portal which will provide information related to COVID-19 vaccine development in India and abroad, with the majority of the updates in several regional languages in addition to English. The aim of creating the website is to provide all information and updates relating to the COVID-19 vaccine development on one platform as all the information in this regard is scattered as of now, Samiran Panda, Head of Epidemiology and Communicable Diseases at ICMR, told PTI on Saturday. The idea behind making the updates available in regional languages is to make sure that every citizen is able to access the information. The portal is likely to be functional by next week, Mr. Panda said.
23 August 2020||New Delhi ,||Congress must give consensus a chance instead of elections for leadership, says Salman Khurshid||Amid calls from within the Congress to hold polls for presidency, senior leader Salman Khurshid on Sunday said the party should give consensus a chance instead of elections which create divisiveness. Mr. Khurshid also said Rahul Gandhi enjoys the “full support” and “endorsement” of party leaders and workers, and it does not matter whether he wears the label of a president or not. Also read: Should the Gandhis disengage from the Congress?  “I have said very clearly that the Gandhis are leaders of the Congress. Nobody can deny this, even the opposition cannot deny this. I am quite happy having a leader, I don’t worry about whether or not we have a president, we have a leader (in Rahul Gandhi) and that is comforting for me,” the former Union minister told PTI in an interview.  His remarks assume significance as they come just ahead of the meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s highest decision making body, which is likely to deliberate on the leadership issue that is in the spotlight with Sonia Gandhi completing a year as interim chief.  Also read: ‘Team Rahul’ takes on UPA Ministers at Congress meeting Also, 23 Congress leaders, including some ex-ministers have written to party president Sonia Gandhi for the overhaul of the organisational structure.  Asked about the section of party leaders calling for elections to the CWC and presidency, Mr. Khurshid hit out at those asking for internal polls, saying why are people so anxious to make these demands in the Congress when they are not made in any other party. Also read: Congress Working Committee may have to give extension to Sonia Gandhi  “I am very surprised. I have not heard a single demand being made in the Communist party or in the regional parties or in the BJP. I have not heard about demand for elections in any of those parties,” Mr. Khurshid said.  “Elections are important, but the historical context in which elections have to be held, circumstances, have to be taken into account. Consensus has been an important part of the political process in the Congress,” he said.  Giving up consensus and opting for elections, without reflecting upon the implications and consequences might be running into “unknown, unchartered territory”, he said. Mr. Khurshid also said that such issues should be discussed within the party and not outside it.  His comments come days after Shashi Tharoor had said that he has been advocating elections to the CWC and for the post of the president as it would certainly have a number of beneficial outcomes for the party.  Congress leader Sandeep Dikshit had also said recently that it is “high time” that the Congress appoints a full-time president by “selection or election”.  Asked if consensus was the way forward instead of internal polls, Mr. Khurshid said, “My instinct says this. My understanding of the Congress says that consensus is extremely important.”   “People react to that by saying that you are being anti-democratic. I don’t know if consensus is in some way an undemocratic thing to happen. It should be a genuine consensus. Of course it should not be a forced consensus. I think we should give consensus a chance,” he said.  On whether polls can lead to divisiveness in the party, Mr. Khurshid said elections do divide. Also read: Analysis | A year after he quit as Congress chief, Rahul continues to shape party’s stand on key issues  Elections, in the right spirit, should not divide, but the ground reality is that elections do divide, he said.  “So, let us just hope we gradually mature to a stage where elections will not divide,” he said.  Asked if Rahul Gandhi should come back as party chief, Mr. Khurshid said it was up to him to make his decision and leaders should allow him to take a call.  “When you give someone your allegiance as a leader then you have to listen to the leader and whatever the leader wants to do. There is a view in a large number of people that he should not stay away from presidentship of the party,” he said.  Noting that Gandhi has his own reasons to keep himself away from the presidentship, Mr. Khurshid said party leaders should respect his decision and not in any way create a situation that becomes difficult for him.  “Let us wait for him to take a call, I think he understands what people’s expectations and hopes are and I think he will respond to those hopes,” he said.  Asked about Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s remarks carried in a book endorsing Rahul Gandhi’s views that the party should have a non-Gandhi president and whether that person would be under pressure of the Gandhis, Mr. Khurshid said where is the question of pressure as there “may be a president who is a non-Gandhi, but there will also be a leader who is a Gandhi”.  “Even the president will have to accept ‘the leader’ Gandhi. You cannot choose a leader who is already chosen. People have given full support and have given their endorsement to Mr Rahul Gandhi and that will remain a fact,” he said.  “Whether he (Rahul) wears the label of a president or he doesn’t wear the label of a president, he remains a leader,” Mr. Khurshid said.  If Rahul Gandhi is a leader, surely, he should also be respected for his views on what the presidential structure or what the organisational structure should be in the future, he said. Mr. Khurshid said if Rahul Gandhi is the leader and he gives respect to a president, everybody will give respect to the president, he said.  The party should not be breast-beating about the leadership issue and it will get resolved, Mr. Khurshid said.
23 August 2020||New Delhi ,||Heed appeal of NEET, JEE candidates: Rahul Gandhi urges govt.||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi urged the government to consider the demands raised by students across the country on deferring the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) and the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) scheduled for September. Also read: Supreme Court rejects plea to postpone NEET, JEE examinations “GOI must listen to the #StudentsKeMannKiBaat about NEET, JEE exams and arrive at an acceptable solution,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted. Party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, in a tweet in Hindi, said that since the COVID-19 situation was yet to normalise, it was only obvious that the government listen to the concerns raised by students and parents regarding the two exams. Other Congress leaders too have echoed similar views. Leader of the party in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chaudhary, in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has said that the government should consider the concerns raised by the students. “Aspirants are under tremendous mental pressure as to how they can remain immune while attending exams physically,” he wrote. Also read: Flights are available, SC tells NEET candidates abroad Former RS MP B.K. Hariprasad called the government decision to conduct the exams as per schedule “arbitrary”. “Government’s decision to conduct the exam in this #covid crisis is utterly arbitrary, whimsical & violative of the student’s fundamental right to life. The exams of JEE as well as NEET should be postponed,” he tweeted. The Supreme Court on Monday dismissed a plea seeking postponement of JEE (Main) and NEET undergraduate examinations amid the spurt in COVID-19 cases, saying “precious year of students” cannot be wasted and life has to go on. Also read: NRI candidates seek NEET postponement The JEE (Main) is scheduled to be held between September 1 and 6 while the JEE (Advanced) on September 27. The NEET will be held on September 13. On Friday, Education Ministry officials said the JEE (Main) and the NEET-UG would be conducted in September as scheduled.
23 August 2020||New Delhi ,||No rise in complaints of crimes against children during lockdown: NCPCR chief||There has been no increase in the number of complaints of crimes against children during the coronavirus-induced lockdown in the country, National Commission for Protection of Child Rights chairperson Priyank Kanoongo said.  In fact, the NCPCR, the country’s apex child rights’ body, reported to authorities some reports claiming otherwise, he said.  Speaking to PTI, Mr. Kanoongo also said the NCPCR took various steps to address the challenges faced by children due to the coronavirus pandemic and the subsequent lockdown.  Asked if the number of complaints related to crimes against children saw a rise during the lockdown, which began on March 25, he said “no“. “In fact, we reported to authorities a few reports that claimed that there has been a rise during this period,” he added.  On concerns that there maybe a rise in the dropout rate for schoolchildren due to the pandemic, Mr. Kanoongo said having such apprehension even before the schools reopen is “not correct“. “It will be unfair to challenge the wisdom of children. Children fulfil their national duty by going to school and studying. Children, even in difficult circumstances, are attending schools, so we should not have a negative approach towards them,” he said. Mr. Kanoongo said the NCPCR asked states to ensure shelters for children when labour migration began in the country in March, and also took up complaints regarding online education with them. “The children were supplied with ration and milk and we ensured that rights of the children are not affected in any way,” he said. “Secondly, we received several complaints related to online education. We also took up this matter with all state governments. How issues related to fees must be addressed, we also took that up with the state governments,” he said. On the issue of child trafficking during the lockdown, Mr. Kanoongo said the commission is moving from a child-centric approach to a family-centric approach. “Till now, the NCPCR had a child-centric approach to deal with cases of trafficking. But now, from a child-centric approach, we are moving towards a family-centric approach. We spoke to all state commissions on this matter,” he said. “One point is very clear, the main reason for trafficking is poverty so it is essential to undertake preventive measures at the source from where a child is trafficked. Vulnerable children and their families can be mapped and they can then be linked to different social schemes for which we have prepared a strategy and shared it with states,” he said.  The NCPCR chief said the child rights’ body revamped procedures to address the issues faced by street children due to the pandemic. “The worst sufferer of poverty is a child so we need a plan to rehabilitate these children. We need to remember that a family is a unit and the first protection mechanism a child gets is from his family. So we must ensure that in the best interest of the child the whole family is rehabilitated. “We must strengthen the family to ensure the safety and security of children. We need a family-centric approach,” he said.
23 August 2020||New Delhi,||No change in Pranab Mukherjee’s health, says doctors||There is no change in the health of former President Pranab Mukherjee and he continues to remain on ventilator support, the Army’s Research and Referral hospital said on Sunday.  Doctors attending on the 84-year-old Mr. Mukherjee said his vital parameters are stable. Mr. Mukherjee was admitted to the hospital in Delhi Cantonment on August 10 and was operated for removal of a clot in the brain. He had also tested positive for COVID-19.  Thereafter, he developed lung infection and is being treated for the same, doctors have said.  “There is no change in the condition of Shri Pranab Mukherjee this morning. He remains in a deep coma and on ventilator support. His vital parameters are stable,” the hospital said in a statement. Mr. Mukherjee was the 13th President of India from 2012 to 2017.
23 August 2020||New Delhi,||I&B Ministry releases SOPs for resuming production of films and TV series||Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar released a six-page standard operating procedure (SOPs) for the resumption of production of films and television series. Read the full standard operating procedures “‘Contact Minimisation’ is at the core of the SOP. This will be ensured by minimal physical contact and sharing of props, PPEs for hairstylists and make-up artists among others,” Mr. Javadekar said.  Explaining further, he said that only the characters who were in front of the camera would be exempt from wearing masks. Work had slowly started on this front in Mumbai, and many other States too had permitted filming and production work while adhering to the COVID-19 protocols. Also read: Lockdown guidelines: Govt's Standard Operating Procedure for social distancing at workplace  Announcing the decision on Doordarshan, Mr. Javadekar said that the SOP was part of the decision to restart all economic activities. “For the last six months, this industry had come to a standstill and many people had lost their jobs. We hope all States will adopt this SOP,” the Minister added. The SOP reiterates the Health Ministry advisory laying down the physical distancing norms. In addition to this, it has asked the production houses to ensure extensive planning. “Aspects such as scenes, sequences, set-ups, camera locations, positions of various crew members, seating arrangements, food and catering arrangements, staggered meal timings, etc. shall be planned while giving due consideration to physical distancing norms,” the advisory states. Also read: COVID-19: With no SOP, factories adopt different norms  The Ministry has advised that a minimum number of cast and crew be involved, no visitors or audience are to be allowed, and in case of outdoor shootings necessary coordination has to be done with local police and administration to minimise spectators. “Staggered call and pack-up timings for different production units shall be ensured by studios having multiple sets,” the advisory states.   The SOP ensures adequate distancing at shoot locations and other work places and contains measures including proper sanitization, crowd management and provision for protective equipments pic.twitter.com/BCTTIzKffG Today @MIB_India have released a detailed SOP for resuming work in the media production industry. The general principles behind the SOP will help create a safe working environment for cast and crew in the industry. pic.twitter.com/UU0NbqONeO 'Contact Minimisation' is at the core of the SOP. This will be ensured by minimal physical contact and sharing of props, PPEs for hair stylists and make-up artists among others. pic.twitter.com/fBdkfEXcR9  Common locations such as sets, cafeteria, make-up rooms, edit rooms, vanity vans and washrooms have to be sanitised regularly. The Ministry has advised the industry to discontinue usage of lapel mics or at least to ensure that these are not shared. Costumes, hair wigs and make up items for actors should not be shared. Make-up artists and hairstylists have been advised to use PPE. “Artists should be encouraged to do their hairstyling and make-up remotely with the help of professionals,” the SOP states. Malayalam film industry welcomes move for resuming production A designated COVID-19 supervisor shall be nominated from among the cast and the crew. This person will be responsible for implementing the SOP and other protocols. It will be the supervisor’s responsibility to support the health authorities for contact tracing in case of contingencies.
23 August 2020||New Delhi,||Home Ministry issues SOP for international passengers||The Ministry of Home Affairs on August 22 issued Standard Operating Protocol (SOP) for international travel on non-scheduled commercial flights under Vande Bharat scheme and air transport bubble arrangement. Accordingly, persons desirous to travel to India on Vande Bharat flights, will register themselves with the Indian missions in the country where they are stranded or residing, along with necessary details as prescribed by Ministry of External Affairs. However, such a registration may not be required on flights operating under air transport bubbles arrangements, the SOP said. People who will travel to India by non-scheduled commercial flights as allowed by Ministry of Civil Aviation (MOCA) and ships as allowed by Department of Military Affairs (DMA) and Ministry of Shipping (MOS). The SOP for the operations of these flights or ships will be as issued by MOCA or DMA or MOS from time to time. India so far has bilateral air travel arrangements or air bubbles with the U.S., the U.K., Germany, France, Qatar, Maldives and the UAE while negotiations are going on with 13 more countries.  The Vande Bharat flights have been operating since May 6 and currently the Scheme is in Phase-5. Only those crew and staff, who are tested COVID-19 negative, will be allowed to operate these flights and ships. The SOP said priority will be given to compelling cases of in distress, including migrant workers and labourers who have been laid off, short term visa holders faced with expiry of visas, persons with medical emergency/ pregnant women and elderly persons or those required to return to India due to death of family member, and students. The cost of travel, as specified by the carrier, will be borne by such travellers. Based on the registrations received for Vande Bharat flights, the MEA will prepare flight or ship wise database of all such travellers, including details such as name, age, gender, mobile phone number, place of residence, place of final destination; and information on RT-PCR test taken and its result.  This data base will be shared by MEA with the respective State and UT in advance.  In case of flights operating under air transport bubbles, passenger manifest containing the same details as given above for Vande Bharat flights or in a revised format as may be finalised by the MEA with the country concerned, will be submitted by the airlines to the Indian mission in the country concerned.  For out-bound flights, the category of persons, who will be eligible to travel on these flights, will be as permitted by MHA from time to time.  The MOCA will display on its website the category of persons eligible to travel out of India.  Such persons will apply to MoCA or to an agency or agencies designated by MoCA for this purpose, along with necessary details, including the places of departure and arrival.  The travel from India shall be on the non-scheduled commercial flights, as are allowed by MoCA.  Indian seafarers and crew seeking to accept contracts to serve on vessels abroad, can travel on the non-scheduled commercial flights as allowed by MOCA or the flights arranged by their employers subject to clearance given by the Ministry of Shipping.  Before the tickets of such persons are confirmed, the airline concerned will ensure that the destination country allows entry of such persons with valid visa in that country.  The conditions, if any, imposed by the destination country, will have to be fulfilled by the person intending to travel.
23 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM / SRIKAKULAM,Andhra Pradesh||Surge of cases continues in Vizianagaram, Srikakulam||Notwithstanding the COVID-19 protocols, both Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts have, in the last one week, been witnessing 800 to 1,000 positive cases every day on an average. The number of positive cases in both the districts is more than 34,000.  In Srikakulam district, the number of cases registered so far stands at 18,367, and the number of active cases is 5,958. With new cases being reported in the district headquarters too, the government has imposed complete lockdown on Sundays. Vending of vegetables, fish and meat too was not allowed, and violation of any kind was being viewed seriously.  Authorities of the municipal corporation imposed ₹10,000 fine on Vishal Mart for violation of the lockdown norms.  Municipal Commissioner P. Nallanayya said that complete lockdown would be in force every Sunday.  In Vizianagaram district, the total number of cases stands at 15,763. District Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal and Superintendent of Police B. Rajakumari have directed the civic authorities to take steps to control the spread of the virus.
24 August 2020||TIRUPATI,Andhra Pradesh||Stay safe, but do not isolate those in need, says MLA||YSRCP legislator Bhumana Karunakar Reddy has appealed to the people to reach out to those who are helpless and are dependent on public support for their survival. At a time when the COVID-19 pandemic has widened the ‘social distance’, the MLA’s participation in the novel programme organised by the Manava Vikasa Vedika on the city’s streets on Sunday seemed to suggest to the people not to widen the distance between two hearts.  Taking cognisance of a few complaints that leprosy patients remain socially isolated during the pandemic and are devoid of any help, Mr. Karunakar Reddy pulled the wheel-cart used by them for mobility for a distance.  “The message I intend to send out to the people is to reach out to the needy in the times of the unprecedented crisis. Staying safe does not mean that you have to remain socially isolated and unreachable to the needy,” he observed.  Mr. Reddy had earlier championed the cause of those who succumbed to the virus by participating in their cremation. He had appeal to the people to pay respects to the deceased by attending their funeral. He also appealed to the celebrities to walk out of their cocoons and send out a positive message to the people to help those in need.
23 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,Andhra Pradesh||COVID-19 tally crosses 3.5 lakh-mark in State||The State’s COVID-19 tally crossed the 3.5 lakh-mark with the registering of 7,895 cases and 93 deaths in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning.  On Saturday, 10,276 cases and 97 deaths were reported.  As per the Health Department’s bulletin, the tally reached 3,53,111 and the toll mounted to 3,282, putting the death rate at 0.93%.  The number of recoveries continues to rise. In the 24-hour period, 7,449 patients were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,60,87. With this, the recovery rate further increased to 73.66%. At present, there are 89,742 active patients in the State.  Meanwhile, the tests per million ratio has crossed the 60,000-mark to reach 60,637. A total of 32,38,038 samples had been tested so far, including the 46,712 samples in the last one day. The positivity rate of the tests is put at 10.91%. Nellore reported 16 new deaths. It was followed by West Godavari (13), Chittoor (11), Kurnool (10), Prakasam (9), Kadapa (8), Srikakulam (6), Visakhapatnam (5), East Godavari (4), Anantapur, Guntur and Krishna (3 each) and Vizianagaram (2).  East Godavari reported 1,256 new cases, the highest. It was followed by Nellore (985), Chittoor (934), Prakasam (923), Kurnool (685), West Godavari (671), Guntur (507), Anantapur (466), Visakhapatnam (451), Kadapa (448), Srikakulam (227), Vizianagaram (200) and Krishna (142). The tally of East Godavari is inching closer to the 50,000-mark, while the figure of Guntur has crossed the 30,000-mark. West Godavari, Chittoor and Visakhapatnam tallies are closer to the 30,000-mark.  The tallies of other districts are as follows: East Godavari (49,245), Kurnool (38,835), Anantapur (34,793), Guntur (30,392), West Godavari (29,860), Chittoor (29,830), Visakhapatnam (29,804), Nellore (22,361), Kadapa (20,523), Srikakulam (18,449), Prakasam (16,581), Vizianagaram (15,668), and Krishna (13,875).
23 August 2020||V. Raghavendra ,Andhra Pradesh||German bank to aid energy-efficiency measures in State||German development bank KfW has agreed to support the promotion of low carbon technologies and energy-efficiency measures in various sectors in the State, especially in MSMEs and agriculture.  In a conference call with Energy Secretary N. Srikant, KfW officials responded positively to a request to help the State in scaling up energy-efficiency initiatives as part of the larger goal to provide quality and sustainable energy to the domestic and industrial sectors. Mr. Srikant said the State was implementing certain energy efficiency and conservation programmes with the support of the Bureau of Energy Efficiency. KfW executives complimented the A.P. government for promoting energy efficiency in rural water supply, MSMEs, domestic and agriculture sectors.  They observed that KfW and the A.P. government shared a common objective of judicious use of electricity and promotion of energy efficiency and demand-side management.  Meanwhile, the Energy Department also requested the German development agency GIZ to extend technical support in the area of energy research, development and training.Mr. Srikant said the State offers a huge potential for adoption of new energy-efficient technologies in energy-intensive industries and agriculture. The government was focusing on long-term energy security and was committed to supplying quality and interruption-free power to the consumers, said Mr. Srikant.Besides, emphasis had been laid on creating 10,000 MW of renewable energy capacity in addition to the existing 7,500 MW.
23 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,Andhra Pradesh||‘AyushBindu’ helps find blood donors in no time||In an attempt to make it easy for the people in need of blood and plasma amid the coronavirus pandemic, a group of youth have developed a smartphone application, ‘AyushBindu’, bringing the donors and the patients on a common platform.  With the app supported by the GPS technology, those in the need of blood or plasma can browse through the list of available donors in their vicinity on a real-time basis and seek help.  Ilapakurthy Sri Krishna Vamsi and Tanuj Palepu, both students, conceived the idea and sought the technical support from the Suvarchala Solution and Konexions, two Hyderabad-based software firms, to help design the app. V. Sai Charan, Kartik Sridhar,Varad Arun Choudhari, Phani Raja Mitra are the part of the team which developed the app. “The users can download the app from Google Play and register themselves as donors or patients. With the help of GPS technology, the app can help locate the right donor nearby, saving time. The app also provides an in-built communication channel throrugh which the donors and the patients can interact,” says Mr. Sri Krishna Vamsi. The app has features to ensure privacy of the users who can choose from 11 major Indian languages for interaction. “Now, we are visiting blood banks and voluntary organisations involved in blood donation in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts and create awareness about the app,” says Mr. Sri Krishna Vamsi, a BBA second year student.  The use of technology at optimum level is need of the hour to save patients as only 40 lakh registered blood donors are available in the country, he says. “Only 2,708 blood banks are functioning in India at present and 81 districts don’t even have such facility. The existing blood banks are also unable to cater to the the demand which has gone up in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic,” he explains.  According to Indian Red Cross Society which operates a blood bank in Srikakulam, the demand-supply gap of blood is more than 50%.  “The demand for blood is 35,000 units per annum in the district, but hardly 12,000 units are available. Promotion of blood and plasma donation is need of the hour,” says P. Jaganmohana Rao, Chairman of IRCS Srikakulam district. Srikakulam Lions Club-Central president Chintada Krishna Mohan and secretary Badana Devabhushana Rao who set up a blood bank recently says that app would help patients immensely. “Many victims of road accidents die owing to non-availability of blood. More lives can be saved if blood is available in time and this app will go a long way to ensure it,” adds Mr. Krishna Mohan.
23 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,Andhra Pradesh||Gold, silver, cash seized from ex-APCO official’s houses||The officials of the Crime Investigation Department (CID) seized huge cash, gold and silver ornaments and documents from several houses belonging to the Andhra Pradesh Handloom Weavers Cooperative Society (APCO) former chairman and his staff. The CID team, along with its personnel from Tirupati and Nellore regional offices, conducted searches at the houses of APCO former chairman Gujjala Srinu and his staff in Kadapa and Hyderabad, and seized ₹1.11 crore in cash, 10.481 kgs of gold, 19.564 kgs of silver ornaments, apart from 43 bank passbooks and 515 other documents. Two computer CPUs and a digital locker box were also confiscated during the raids. The CID registered a case a few months ago and raids were conducted on the houses of Mr. Srinu and his relatives at different places. The seized valuables, bank passbooks, records of the society and other documents would be produced before the court, said CID Additional Director General P.V. Sunil Kumar.
23 August 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,Andhra Pradesh||Panic grips Polavaram village as Necklace Bund becomes weak||Tension gripped Polavaram and Patha Polavaram villages as the Necklace Bund, constructed to protect the low-lying villages, became weak owing to the flood in the Godavari.  With the flood water remaining at the danger level for the last seven days, the bund has been damaged and it may develop a breach at any time, said the villagers. As the flood situation continued unabated at Bhadrachalam, the second warning was sounded on Sunday.  Water is flowing at the height of five feet, touching the Necklace bund, and if it develops breach, Polavaram and Patha Polavaram will wash away, said the officials. As a precautionary measure, the villagers have been shifted to safer places. Meanwhile, Polavaram MLA Tellam Balaraju, West Godavari Collector Revu Mutyala Raju, Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik, K.R. Puram ITDA Project Officer (PO) R.V. Suryanarayana, Irrigation Superintending Engineer (SE) Nagireddy and other officials rushed to Polavaram village. They monitored the ongoing bund strengthening works which continued till the early hours on Sunday. Irrigation officials supported the bund by packing it with sand bags and boulders. “Around 1000 families live in Polavaram and Patha Polavaram villages. About 5,000 people, most of them tribals, are living in the villages along the bund,” said Mr. Suryanarayana.  Speaking to The Hindu, Mr. Narayan Naik, who is camping at Polavaram village, said the residents of Polavaram, Patha Polavaram and Yedlagudem have been evacuated as the Necklace bund has become vulnerable to breaches.
23 August 2020||VELERUPADU (WEST GODAVARI) ,Andhra Pradesh||Downstream villages in West Godavari in knee-deep water||The flood water level in the Godavari was recorded at 44.80 feet at Bhadrachalam at 8 p.m. on Sunday, and the first warning was in force. Many habitations in the downstream of the river were under knee-deep water. The water level of the Godavari was at 29 metres at the Coffer dam and 14.9 metres at Polavaram. Sabari River, which is in spate, was flowing at the height of 15.3 metres at Thallagudem. However, the officials said that the flood was receding at some places. Speaking to The Hindu, Polavaram MLA Tellam Balaraju said 79 habitations in the low-lying areas of the Agency were facing the threat and around 10,000 families have been shifted to rehabilitation centres. “We have shifted the residents from Paidakula Mamidi, Sirivaka, Kondrukota, Tekuru, Singanapalli, Kachluru, Mamidigondi, Cheeduru, Gaddapalli, Koruturu, Paidipaka, Rudramakota, Tatakuru Gommu, Tella Dibbala, Madapuram, Kothuru, Kukunur, Lachigudem, Repaka Gommu, Gommugudem and other habitations,” said the MLA. The government is supplying plastic covers for erecting tents, rice, kerosene, dal, vegetables, candles and other essentials to the villagers, he said. Meanwhile, thousands of people from the flood-hit areas in Kukunur, Velerupadu and Polavaram mandals trekked to the nearby hills. Many Koya and Kondareddy tribal families have been taking shelter in the hilly areas since a week. Communication to Kothuru, Repaka Gommu, Gutala, Rudramakota, Mahadevapuram, Tella Dibbala and other tribal hamlets has been cut off, said the ITDA officials. “Around 5,000 families are camping on the hills in the Agency area of West Godavari district, and the government is providing medical aid and ration to the victims,” said Polavaram Sub-Collector R.V. Suryanarayana. Power supply to many flood-hit habitations have been disrupted and the restoration works will begin once the flood recedes. “Generators have been arranged at the rehabilitation centres and boats are kept ready for emergency,” said Mr. Suryanarayana, who is also the ITDA Project Officer.  As many rivulets are in spate and flood water has inundated the main roads, road link has been cut off to many tribal hamlets. The Revenue and the ITDA officials are supplying essentials to the tribal people. “Medicines and groceries are being supplied to some island villages by launches. The officials are camping in the villages and monitoring the situation,” said the Sub-Collector.
23 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,Andhra Pradesh||Jagan has let people down on capital issue, says TDP||MP Kesineni Srinivas (Nani) on Sunday accused Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy of letting down the people of the State who had voted him to power believing his “hollow promises.” Mr. Srinivas was speaking at a meeting organised by the Amaravati Parirakshana Samithi’s Joint Action Committee (JAC) to mark the completion of 250 days of the agitation in support of the demand that the government drop the plan to shift the capital to Visakhapatnam and continue Amaravati as the single capital . In a novel protest, the JAC members and leaders of the opposition parties submitted copies of a memorandum to the statues of B.R. Ambedkar and the Lady Justice, and raised slogans in support of their demand. Mr. Srinivas said the TDP government had finalised Amaravati as the capital after taking into consideration many key aspects. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who was the Leader of the Opposition then, had extended his support to the government’s proposal, but went back on his word after coming to power. The MP said that the Chief Minister had taken the people for a ride by promising that his party would fight for the Special Category Status to the State and in getting special funds to take up development projects, but none of his party MPs had raised the issue in Parliament. He said the agitation for Amaravati had entered the 250th day and it would continue till the government gave up its plan to shift the capital. He also said that people were watching the developments and they would teach a fitting lesson to the YSRCP at the right time. CPI leader K. Ramakrishna said the capital cannot be shifted when five-crore people wanted it to continue in Amaravati. He said it was unfortunate that the Chief Minister did not speak even once to the people who had been protesting for the last 250 days. CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu said Amaravati as a capital had the consent of every political party. When the State was fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s focus was on shifting the capital, he said. Jana Sena Party leader P. Mahesh, Congress leader Sunkara Padmasri, former Krishna ZP chairperson Gadde Anuradha, and Aam Aadmi Party leader Varaprasad spoke.
23 August 2020||SAKHINETIPALLI LANKA (EAST GODAVARI),Andhra Pradesh||Boatmen emerge as new frontline warriors||The boatmen deployed in the Godavari flood relief operation emerged as the new frontline warriors in the fight against the COVID-19 battle in the island villages cut off from the mainland in the Konaseema area in East Godavari district.  The flood water has cut off at least 76 habitations in the Konaseema area, pushing those infected into further trouble as they have lost access to the mainland for any medical aid in the emergency. The entire road network remains under a sheet of water in Konaseema, through which the branches of the Godavari flow to join the Bay of Bengal.  In the Konaseema’s 15 mandas, as many as 300 boats are engaged in the relief operation, each manned by a driver and his assistant. “As many as 15 COVID patients have been evacuated from five island villages in the Konaseema area after the boat drivers agreed to it. Some of them have been brought to the mainland while the remaining have been admitted to the COVID Care Centre,” Additional District Medical and Health Officer (Amalapuram) T.K. Srinivas told The Hindu. He said the boatmen were the only hope to attend to the COVOD patients under home quarantine in the habitations that were cut off from the mainland.  By Sunday, six patients were evacuated from Pedapatnam Lanka, five from Pasarlapudi Lanka, two from Appanapalli, and one each from Appanna Ramuni Lanka and Sakhinetipalli Lanka.  The boats will be available till the area returns to normal. More than 17.74 lakh cusecs of flood water is being released into the Konaseema area from the Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage at Dowleswaram. A few hundreds of COVID patients are in home quarantine across the Konaseema area, and many of them will be evacuated based on their medical need. Meanwhile, the district authorities have imposed a ban on the movement of boats at night to avoid any untoward incidents.
23 August 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,Andhra Pradesh||Temple priests hit hard as income dries up amid coronavirus pandemic||Archakas (temple priests) have been facing severe financial problems. The lockdown and the restrictions on devotees due to the COVID-19 pandemic, robbed them of even the sundry income they get from devotees due to cancellation of ‘abhishekams’ and special ‘pujas.’ Temples were closed to devotees for nearly three months after the lockdown in March. During the period, only priests were allowed to perform the daily rituals. The archakas of small temples found it very difficult to even support their families during the lockdown. There was not much improvement in their financial conditions even after the temples reopened for devotees on June 8. ‘Abhishekam’ and other rituals remain cancelled and only ‘darshan’ is allowed, that too in a limited way, due to COVID-19 protocols.  The cancellation of special pujas during the auspicious Sravana masam and postponement of weddings added to their woes. There are an estimated 50,000 temples in Visakhapatnam district. Over 95% are small temples with less revenue and do not come under the purview of the Endowments Act. Most of the archakas are paid meagre salaries in the range of ₹2,000 to ₹3,000 per month even in temples under the control of the Endowments Department. Only 30% of the income of the temple is given as establishment expenses for meeting the salaries of staff. While the clerical and administrative staff at the temples are paid more than 10 times that of the archakas. “A Supreme Court order says that the archakas are the most important persons in a temple after the deity and that their salaries should be paid first. The Pay Revision Commission scale is being implemented for attenders, junior assistants and other employees, but not for archakas. We have represented the issue to the authorities and Ministers several times in the past, but justice was not done to us so far,” says Muralikrishna, joint secretary of the Uttarandhra Archaka Sangham. To add insult to the injury, the Endowments Department puts up boards at the temples under its control asking devotees to put their offerings only into the hundis, thereby depriving priests of the offerings given to them by devotees. “A circular was issued in August, 2019, by the government, directing that the archakas should be paid between ₹10,000 (minimum) and ₹35,000 a month, based on the population, apart from extension of other benefits. But the same has not been implemented so far,” adds Mr. Muralikrishna.
23 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,Andhra Pradesh||Low pressure weakens; fresh one likely on August 24||The well-marked low pressure over northwest Madhya Pradesh and neighbourhood lies as a low pressure over central parts of East Rajasthan and neighbourhood now lies as a low pressure area over central parts of East Rajasthan and neighbourhood. The associated cyclonic circulation extends up to 7.6 km above mean sea level, tilting southwestwards with height. It is likely to move westwards across Rajasthan during the next two days, according to the IMD. A fresh low pressure area is likely to develop over north Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood around August 24. Heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in north coastal AP and Yanam on August 26. The southwest monsoon has been normal over coastal AP and Yanam and weak over Rayalaseema. The chief amounts of rain (in cm), received during the last 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Sunday, are: Coastal AP and Yanam: Avanigada (Krishna) 3, Kavali (Nellore) 3, Masulipatnam Cdr (Krishna) 3 and Eluru (West Godavari) 3. Rayalaseema: Chinnamandem (Kadapa) 4, Sambepalle (Kadapa) 3 and Pullampeta (Kadapa) 3.
23 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,Andhra Pradesh||Youth from Hyderabad drowns in waterfalls||A 22-year-old youth from Hyderabad reportedly drowned at Thatiguda waterfalls in Ananthagiri mandal in Visakhapatnam Agency area on Sunday. The deceased was identified as K. Rana Prasad, a resident of Yousufguda, Hyderabad, and a third-year mechanical engineering student. According to Circle Inspector of Araku police station Pydaiah, four friends from Yousufguda were on a tour to Araku. On Sunday, they visited Thatiguda waterfalls. While others went for swimming, Rana Prasad climbed a rock and he accidentally slipped and fell into the water. He became unconscious after suffering injury on his head. He believed to have swallowed water and died. His friends could not help him, the police said. “During normal times, local youth warn outsiders not to go inside waters or to climb rocks. Due to COVID-19 situation, there was no one nearby to alert them,” said Mr. Pydaiah.  The body was shifted to the S.Kota hospital. Parents of the youth were informed and they are scheduled to reach on Monday morning. A case was registered. This is second drowning death in Ananthagiri mandal in a week. On August 16, a youth from Akkayyapalem in Visakhapatnam city drowned at Sariya waterfalls. Locals from the Agency said that despite the COVID-19 pandemic and increase in the cases in the district, many youths are visiting tourist spots, especially waterfalls, in the Agency. Most of the unrecognised waterfalls are unmanned and dangerous, they say.
23 August 2020||Hyderabad,Andhra Pradesh||Coronavirus | Andhra Pradesh case tally crosses 3.5 lakh mark||Telangana’s COVID-19 cases crossed one lakh on Friday with 2,474 new cases recorded on August 21. The total stood at 1,01,865. The first case in the State was detected on March 2, the first 10,000 cases in 115 days, and 90,000 more cases in 58 days. The latest 10,000 cases leading up to the one lakh mark were recorded in seven days from August 15. A total of 1,58,738 tests were performed in this duration. There are two prime reasons for the rapid increase in cases from third week of June. The first is relaxation of lockdown from beginning of June which led to increased movement of people, and subsequent increase in transmission of the virus. However, A far lower testing rate in Telangana till mid-June, drew a lot of criticism. There was an increase in testing from June 15 in government laboratories, and permission was given to private laboratories too. After the tests were increased, more cases are being detected. Till June 15, less than 250 cases were being recorded per day. By the end of the month, around 1,000 cases were logged on a daily basis. While it took 115 days to record the first 10,000 cases, it took less than 10 days to detect each of the next nine sets of 10,000 cases till one lakh. Of those, There were 22,908 active cases, 80,586 recovered, and 755 died.  The State ranks ninth in terms of total cases across the country. Senior officials from the State Health department earlier said that the cases in GHMC will come down by the end of August while cases will continue to increase in other districts only to decrease by end of September. The 2,474 cases detected on August 21 were the highest in a day. One of the reasons could be further spike in the number of tests. While around 23,000 samples were tested in a day till August 20, it shot up to 43,095 on August 21. On August 22, 40,666 tests were conducted, and 2,384 cases detected. Of new cases, 472 were from Greater Hyderabad, 148 from Nizamabad, 137 from Nalgonda, 131 from Rangareddy, 120 from Karimnagar, 110 from Suryapet, 105 each in Khammam and Jagtial. This clearly indicates that the cases are continuing to surge in districts other than in urban localities.  Kerala reported 1,908 new cases on Sunday, its cumulative case burden going up to 58,262.  With 37,649 persons recovering, active cases or patients under treatment in hospitals stood at 20,330. The death toll rose to 223, with the Health department confirming five more fatalities. Two deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram and one each from Kozhikode, Kollam and Alapuzha. Locally acquired infections constituted 1,768 new cases out of 1,908 reported on Sunday. This included 50 health care worker. In 160 cases, no epidemiological link could be found. On Sunday, Thiruvananthapuram reported 397 cases, of which 384 cases, including those of 17 health care workers, were locally acquired infections. Alapuzha reported 241 cases, Ernakulam 200, Malappuram 186, Kannur 143, Kollam 133, Kozhikode 119, Thrissur 116, Kottayam 106, Pathanamthitta 104, Kasaragod 85, Palakkad 39, Idukki 29 and Wayanad 10 cases. The State tested 36,353 samples in 24 hours. The number of persons currently quarantined in the State is 1,82,525, of whom, 16,529 are isolated in hospitals. The areas designated as hot spots in the State has gone up to 622. COVID-19 touched the 3.5 lakh-mark for positive cases in Andhra Pradesh, with 7,895 cases and 93 deaths added on Sunday. On Saturday, 10,276 cases and 97 deaths were reported.  The Health Department said the tally touched 3,53,111 and the toll was 3,282, putting the death rate at 0.93%.  The number of recoveries continues to rise. In the 24-hour period, 7,449 patients were discharged, taking the total number of recoveries to 2,60,87. With this, the recovery rate further increased to 73.66%. At present, There were 89,742 active patients in the State.  Tests per million were 60,637, a total of 32,38,038 samples were tested in all, including 46,712 in the last day. The positivity rate was 10.91%. Nellore reported 16 new deaths, West Godavari (13), Chittoor (11), Kurnool (10), Prakasam (9), Kadapa (8), Srikakulam (6), Visakhapatnam (5), East Godavari (4), Anantapur, Guntur and Krishna (3 each) and Vizianagaram (2).  East Godavari reported 1,256 new cases, the highest, Nellore (985), Chittoor (934), Prakasam (923), Kurnool (685), West Godavari (671) and Guntur (507), Anantapur (466), Visakhapatnam (451), Kadapa (448), Srikakulam (227), Vizianagaram (200) and Krishna (142). The tally of East Godavari is inching closer to the 50,000-mark, while the figure of Guntur has crossed the 30,000-mark. West Godavari, Chittoor and Visakhapatnam tallies are closer to the 30,000-mark. The tallies of other districts are as follows: East Godavari (49,245), Kurnool (38,835), Anantapur (34,793), Guntur (30,392), West Godavari (29,860), Chittoor (29,830), Visakhapatnam (29,804), Nellore (22,361), Kadapa (20,523), Srikakulam (18,449), Prakasam (16,581), Vizianagaram (15,668), and Krishna (13,875). In Karnataka, 5,938 new cases were detected on Sunday, taking the total to 2.77 lakh. The Health and Family Welfare department said 4,996 patients were discharged. With this, the numbers of discharges is 1.89 lakh. The recovery rate in the State is now 68.23%. Also, 68 new fatalities were reported, taking the total number of COVID-19-related deaths to 4,683. There were 16 deaths of COVID-19 positive patients from non COVID-19 causes. Of 83,551 active cases, 787 were in ICUs. On Sunday, 40,848 tests were done in the State. In Bengaluru Urban, 2,126 new positive cases and five deaths were reported. The number of discharges in Bengaluru Urban is twice the number of active cases in the city. While the number of discharges as of Sunday stands at 71,329, the number of active cases stands at 34,877. The recovery rate in the State capital stands at 66.12 % Mysuru, which had not reported any positive cases for two days due to a strike by doctors, on Sunday reported 92 new cases. However, no discharges were recorded in the department’s media bulletin.  The Tamil Nadu Health Department recorded 5,975 fresh cases of COVID -19 on Sunday, and put active patients in Tamil Nadu at 53,541. Till date, 3,79,385 persons had tested positive in the State.  At the same time 6,047 persons were discharged from various facilities following treatment taking the overall tally of those discharged as on date to 3,19,327.  The northern districts continued to register higher case numbers. Chennai led with 1,298 more persons testing positive. In the city 1,040 were discharged on Sunday taking the total number of those under treatment as on date to 13,223. Total cases in the city till date were 1,25,389. While in Chengalpattu 352 fresh positive cases were identified, in Cuddalore 380 persons tested positive. In Tiruvallur 354 tested positive and in Kancheepuram it was 222, health officials said. Among the western districts, Coimbatore with 392 new cases had the highest. In Salem, 261 persons tested positive.  The State government recorded 97 deaths. Private hospitals accounted for 21 deaths and government facilities the rest. Ten people whose deaths were recorded on Sunday had no co-morbidities, the daily bulletin of the Department of Public Health stated. All the 10 deceased were admitted as patients in government medical college hospitals.  The number of those aged over 60 years infected by the virus rose to 48,497 on Sunday.  Four of those whose deaths were recorded as due to the virus on Sunday were over 90 years old. Among them was a 91-year-old man who had no co-morbid conditions. He was admitted in a private hospital on August 16 and had tested positive on Friday. He died on Saturday due to acute respiratory disorder caused by COVID-19 pneumonia.  A 95-year-old man from Karur admitted on August 11 to the government medical college hospital there after testing positive died on August 18 due to bronchial asthma, which exacerbated his condition.  A 92-year-old man from Chennai with hypertension who had been admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital here on August 18 after testing positive a day before died on August 20.  A 92-year-old man also from the city who had been admitted to Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on August 20 after testing positive two days earlier, died on August 21. He had coronary artery disease ad was hypertensive.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Thiruvananthapuram and Vijayawada bureaus)
23 August 2020||Tirumala,Andhra Pradesh||No spl. entry online tickets during Brahmotsavams-I||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has resolved not to issue ₹300 special entry online darshan tickets to devotees from September 18 to 27 in view of the Brahmotsavams.  Even though the town is all set to witness two Brahmotsavams this year, the first from September 19 to 27 and the second from October 16 to 24, the TTD is yet to arrive at a decision on the scale of the conduct of the festival amid COVID-19 scare.  A final call is expected to be taken at a meeting of its board of trustees scheduled on the 28th of this month wherein the modalities to be adopted for the second Brahmotsavams also is likely to be finalised.  Similarly, no special entry darshan tickets will be issued for September 15 in view of Koil Alwar Thirumanjanam, the periodical sanitary ritual organised ahead of every main event at the hill temple.   However, the online quota of special entry darshan tickets for the entire month of September barring the festival dates will be released from 11.00 am on August 24 (Monday).
23 August 2020||Vijayawada ,Andhra Pradesh||Ramakrishna Raju urges Centre to protect Thotlakonda heritage site||Narasapuram MP K. Raghu Ramakrishna Raju has written a letter to Union Minister of Culture Prahlad Singh Patel requesting the constitution of a high-level committee for the protection of Buddhist heritage site Thotlakonda in Visakhapatnam. He alleged that the proposed allotment of a land in survey number 314 (old) of Kapuluppada village near the ancient site for the construction of a VIP guest house posed a threat to the existence of the monument.  He said the entire land in the given survey number forms part of the ancient site and is indicated in the archaeological evidences of the Buddhist era dating back to the third century BC.   The MP observed that such constructions were a violation of Article 49 of the Constitution, under which the States had the obligation to protect every monument or place or object of artistic and historic importance declared by or under a law made by Parliament to be of national importance. Another fact was that Andhra Pradesh enacted in 1960 the AP Ancient and Historical Monuments, Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, under which the site had been notified through GO Number 627 dated May 2, 1978.  Further, the matter had come up in the High Court in writ petition number 173/2016 and the court directed that the State government should not allow any construction in the said survey number. There were also norms laid down by the Supreme Court, he said.
23 August 2020||DOWLESWARAM (EAST GODAVARI): ,Andhra Pradesh||As Godavari water inflow reduces, third warning withdrawn in Andhra Pradesh||The third warning was withdrawn at 11 a.m. on Sunday in Andhra Pradesh as the water inflow started falling in the Godavari at the Sir Arthur Cotton (SAC) Barrage at Dowleswaram in East Godavari district.  Also read: First warning in force, Godavari water level recorded at 47.80 feet at Bhadrachalam “The flood water level is 17.70 feet over the crest gates of Sir Arthur Cotton Barrage at Dowleswaram at 11 a.m. on Sunday. Therefore, third flood warning is withdrawn. All the flood officers are requested to be alert round the clock until withdrawal of further warnings,” said River Conservator K. Surya Prakasa Rao. The Superintendent Engineer (Irrigation Circle, Dowleswaram) is the designated River Conservator. However, the discharge of the flood water at the SAC is 19 lakh cusecs, and 10,400 cusecs of the flood water is being released into the canals, which bring the irrigation water to the Godavari delta irrigation system.  Also read: Krishna and Godavari Rivers in spate, low-lying areas inundated According to East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy, at least 180 habitations had been affected by the flood since Saturday night in the East Godavari district. The flood water entered at least 29,494 houses, forcing the people out of the houses.  By Saturday night, various crops in above 10,000 hectares have been damaged and the horticulture crops in above 7,900 hectares have been damaged as they remain under the sheet of flood water.  Also read: Godavari flood: Threat to Polavaram village as Necklace Bund becomes weak Above 57,000 among the 1,13,519 people affected by the flood have been shifted to the relief camps while rest of them remain in their habitations, waiting for the flood water to recede or to be sent to the relief camps by Sunday night.
23 August 2020||VELERUPADU (WEST GODAVARI DT.): ,Andhra Pradesh||First warning in force, Godavari water level recorded at 47.80 feet at Bhadrachalam||Water level in the Godavari was recorded at 47.80 feet at Bhadrachalam at 9 a.m. on Sunday, and the first warning is in force. Many habitations downstream and several villages continued to be flooded. Also read: Krishna and Godavari Rivers in spate, low-lying areas inundated The Godavari is flowing at 29.500 metres at Coffer dam and 14.900 metres at Polavaram. The Sabari, which is in spate, is flowing at 15.30 metres at Thallagudem. Officials evacuated thousands of people from the flood-ravaged areas in Kukunur, Velerupadu and Polavaram mandals. Also read: Godavari flood: Threat to Polavaram village as Necklace Bund becomes weak Many Koya and Kondareddy tribal families were taking shelter on hilly areas since a week. Communication has been cut off to Kothuru, Repaka Gommu, Gutala, Rudramakota, Mahadevapuram, Tella Dibbala and other tribal hamlets, the Integrated Tribal Development Agency officials said. Also read: As Godavari water inflow reduces, third warning withdrawn in Andhra Pradesh About 4,000 families were shifted to rehabilitation centres in the Agency area in West Godavari district, said Polavaram Sub-Collector R.V. Suryanarayana.
23 August 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),Andhra Pradesh||Godavari flood: Threat to Polavaram village as Necklace Bund becomes weak||Tension gripped Polavaram and Patha Polavaram villages as the Necklace Bund, constructed to protect the low-lying villages, became weak due to heavy flooding along Godavari River.  As the water level continued at a dangerous level in the past week, the bund was damaged and looked likely to be breached at any moment, the villagers said. Godavari water level was recorded at 58.70 feet at Bhadrachalam by 6 a.m. on Sunday, and second flood warning is in force. Water is flowing at five feet height and is touching the Necklace bund. If the bund is breached, Polavaram and Patha Polavaram will wash away, officials said. As a precautionary measure, the villagers were shifted to safer places. On knowing about the situation, Polavaram MLA Tellam Balaraju, Collector Revu Mutyala Raju, Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik, K.R. Puram ITDA Project Officer (PO) R.V. Suryanarayana, Irrigation Superintending Engineer (SE) Nagireddy and other officials reached the Polavaram village. They monitored the bund-strengthening works which continued till the early hours of Sunday. Irrigation officials strengthened the bund by packing it with sand bags and boulders. “About 1,000 families are there in Polavaram and Patha Polavaram villages, and about 5,000 population, mostly tribals, are staying in the river-bund villages,” said Mr. Suryanarayana.  Speaking to The Hindu, Mr. Narayan Naik, who camped at Polavaram village, said that residents staying in Polavaram, Patha Polavaram and Yedlagudem villages were evacuated as the Necklace bund situation is not good.
23 August 2020||POLAVARAM,Andhra Pradesh||Flood threat to Polavaram village as Necklace Bund becomes weak||Tension gripped in Polavaram and Patha Polavaram villages as the Necklace Bund, constructed to protect the low-lying villages, became weak due to heavy flood in Godavari River.  As the flood was continuing for the last week days at danger level, the bund was damaged near Sri Bhakta Anjaneya Swamy temple and may develop breach at any moment, the villagers said. At Bhadrachalam flood level was recorded at 51.20 feet at 9 p.m. on Saturday, and second warning is in force. Flood is flowing at five feet height touching the Necklace bund, and if the bund develops breach Polavaram and Patha Polavaram will wash away, the officials said. On knowing the situation, Polavaram MLA Tellam Balaraju, Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik, K.R. Puram ITDA Project Officer (PO) R.V. Suryanarayana, Irrigation Superintending Engineer (SE) Nagireddy and other officials rushed to Polavaram village and were monitoring the flood situation.  “About 1000 families are there in Polavaram and Patha Polavaram villages, and about 5,000 population, mostly tribals, are staying in the river-bund villages,” said Mr. Suryanarayana.  Speaking to The Hindu, Mr. Narayan Naik, who camped at Polavaram village said that instructions have been given to evacuate all the families staying on the river bank as the Necklace bund position is not good.
23 August 2020||Hassan,Karnataka||Old Amrit Mahal cows to be given to pvt. goshalas||The State government has decided to bring down the number of cattle at Amrit Mahal Kaval breeding centres in the State by handing over the aged ones to private cow-shelters (goshalas). Limiting the head of cattle at each centre to 200, the animals are being handed over to private agencies that willing to take care of them. It is for the first time in the history of the centre that such a decision has been taken. As many as 36 head of cattle belonging to Basur centre has been handed over to a goshala run by a private organisation near Kadur. Similarly, many organisations have come forward to take care of the cattle. Amrit Mahal, a native breed of cattle, has enjoyed royal patronage since the times of the Vijayanagar Empire. Later, Mysore kings took special care of them. Tipu Sultan gave the name “Amrit Mahal” and brought in a system to take care of them. The Amrit Mahal Cattle Breeding Centre was set up at Ajjampura in Chikkamagaluru district in 1929 under the British rule. It has sub-centres in Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Tumakuru, Mandya, Davangere, and Chitradurga districts.  Often, these centres have attracted criticism from the public for laxity in taking care of cattle. “For the first time, the government has decided handover cattle to private agencies. As per the order from the government, we are giving cattle to those who have sufficient facilities to take care of them,” said Ramesh Kumar, Deputy Director of the centre at Ajjampura.  The animals aged above 12 with fewer breed characters would be given to the private agencies. The private firms have to give in writing that they would take care of them till their death and keep the centres and never give them to slaughterhouses. “We are giving them free of cost. There are 79 registered goshalas in the State. They get ₹17.5 per animal per day to take care of them,” said Ramesh Kumar. He said the objective of this move was to maintain the purity of the breed, by removing weak and aged cattle from the breeding centres. Of the total 2,500 cattle in Amrit Mahal Kaval centres, around 600 would be sent to private agencies, while the rest would be retained for breeding. The centre has 68,267 acres of grazing land, spread over six districts, for the breed.
23 August 2020||belagavi,Karnataka||As rainfall subsides, water level in rivers reduces||Water level in the Krishna and other rivers subsided owing to reduced rainfall and lesser release of water from the reservoirs in Maharashtra on Sunday. Irrigation officers reduced the outflow from Almatti dam to two lakh cusecs from 2.5 lakh cusecs. This is the first time in two weeks the levels are being reduced.  Water level in the Lal Bahadur Shastri dam on the Krishna in Almatti is now just one metre less than the gross level of 519 metres. The dam has 105.12 tmcft of water against the capacity of 123 tmcft. The inflow into the dam remains over 2.6 lakh cusecs.  Water release from Maharashtra, recorded at the Rajapur dam, was 1.42 lakh cusecs. This includes the discharge of 28,000 cusecs from the Koyna dam. Officers estimate that the total release from Maharashtra has been over 15 lakh cusecs, or around 130 tmcft of water. This is far less than the over 600 tmcft of water released from Maharashra last year.  In order to avoid the threat of floods, officials kept the outflow higher than tshe inflow in most reservoirs in the district.  Release from the Naviluteertha dam on the Malaprabha was pegged at 11,464 cusecs against the inflow of 8,339 cusecs. This is half of the release on Thursday. The dam now has 34.34 tmcft of water against 37.73 tmcft. Outflow from the Raja Lakhamagouda dam on the Ghataprabha in Hidkal was 20,800 cusecs against the inflow of 20,055 cusecs.  The district has suffered from excess rainfall this year. Officials say that the the district received the whole year’s quota of rainfall in the first eight months.  Initial estimates indicate that crops in over 43,300 hectares have been damaged in Belagavi district.  As per the initial estimates in Bagalkot, crops in over 12,000 hectares have been affected.  A joint survey by agriculture, horticulture, and revenue officials will be conducted this week , to arrive a the exact extent of crop damage. The Dharwad district administration has counted 250 damaged houses.  The Belagavi district administration has set up 11 flood relief centres in Belagavi district where evacuated families are being given food and shelter. Nayak Student Federation, a Gokak-based NGO, has set up 10 relief centres. The Bagalkot district administration has set up 20 relief centres.  Till now, three persons have died of flooding or house collapse across north Karnataka. Traffic has resumed over nine of the 16 bridges that had submerged in floodwaters in Belagavi district.
23 August 2020||KALABURAGI,Karnataka||Kalaburagi teacher chosen for MHRD’s national award||A science teacher from the Government High School at Bandarwad village in Afzalpur taluk of Kalaburagi district has brought laurels to the district by bagging the national-level Best Teacher Award for this year. Surekha Jagannath Dengi has been selected for the prestigious award constituted by the Ministry of Human Resources Development (MHRD).  Ms. Surekha, speaking to The Hindu on Sunday, said that a team of State Selection Committee and Organisation Selection Committee along with jury members shortlisted the teachers and held a videoconference on August 13. “The 10-minute interaction with the jury included a presentation of our contributions towards teaching methods besides publications, research papers, and teaching skills,” she added. Ms. Surekha was conferred the taluk-level best teacher award in 2016 and district-level best teacher award in 2017.
23 August 2020||Belagavi ,Karnataka||Sero survey in Belagavi from tomorrow||The State government will launch a Sero survey in Belagavi on Tuesday. A team of Health Department officers and zilla panchayat personnel is putting in place a plan of action to conduct the survey. Similar surveys will be launched in other districts too. This will be a random sample survey to assess the presence of antigens and antibodies present in a target population. This is expected to provide data to assess if there is community transmission and if the trend towards herd immunity has begun. A letter from Giridhar Babu, a member of the State-level COVID-19 technical advisory committee, has asked the district administration to conduct the survey. Samples would be pooled from among the general population and vulnerable sections such as corona warriors, including Accredited Social Health Activists and anganwadi workers, doctors, nurses and other field staff. If the sero prevalence is low, then the peak in the number of cases is yet to come. But if the levels are more than 30 %, then, it indicates that the cases will reduce in the future, said a Health Department officer. Yash Hospital will offer home care for COVID-19 patients who are in home isolation. The hospital will provide a COVID kit, including oxygen cylinders, pulse oximeters and digital thermometers. A para medical staff will visit such houses and provide advice and care to patients. Doctors will monitor patients on video calls. “The city is witnessing a community spread. There is a shortage of beds in hospitals. Hence, this service has been launched,” according to hospital director S.K. Patil who can be reached on Ph: 9844120615. BHS Lakeview Group of Hospitals and Hotel Rohan Residency have jointly set up a COVID Care Centre at Nehru Nagar in the city. It will admit non-symptomatic and mildly symptomatic COVID-19 positive patients. Keertiraya Mane, MD and CEO of the hospital, said that there would be 40 beds in the centre. Medical and para medical staff have been deputed to the centre.  Girish Sonwalkar, a doctor, said that Samruddhi Seva Samithi’s Veeresh Kivadasannavar had extended support in the setting up of the centre which can be contacted on Ph: 9762631579.
23 August 2020||HUBBALLI,Karnataka||KVG Bank ties up with SBI||Karnataka Vikas Grameena Bank (KVGB), headquartered in Dharwad, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. for selling general insurance products through its branches. At a function in Dharwad recently, General Manager of KVG Bank B.C. Ravichandra and Head of Compliance Legal of SBI General Insurance Co. Ltd. Mahendra Tripathi signed the MoU in the presence of KVG Bank chairman P. Gopi Krishna. Following the pact, KVG Bank will now market SBI general insurance products in its 632 branches. After signing of the pact, Mr. Gopi Krishna said that considering the huge potential in the general insurance sector, the bank had signed the MoU. “With this, customers of KVG Bank will get access to a bouquet of products which can cover their health, home, motor, property through a range of solutions that the company offers,” he said. Mentioning that apart from doing regular business, the bank was committed to rural development, Mr. Gopi Krishna asked SBI General Insurance officials to offer customised policies for KVG Bank customers. Cluster Sales Manager of SBI General Insurance Salim Mujawar said that KVG Bank provided enormous scope for catering to the diverse insurance requirements of its business as well as individual customers. General Manager of the bank Chandrashekar Moro, Chief Manager S.A.S. Manur and others were present.
23 August 2020||MANGALURU,Karnataka||49 kg of cannabis hidden in bamboologs on a lorry seized, two arrested||A team of sleuths from the Udupi District Crime Investigation Bureau on Saturday arrested two persons on the charge of illegally transporting about 49 kg of cannabis on a lorry in Udupi district. The cannabis was hidden in bamboo logs being transported in the vehicle. The police gave the names of the accused as Kurutapandy (40) of Tirunelveli district of Tamil Nadu and Vanu Haldar (30) from New Cooch Behar district of West Bengal. According to a press note, the team, led by Police Inspector Manjappa D.R., stopped the lorry near the Brahmavar Krishi Vignana Kendra in Herur village at around noon. The lorry registered in Uttar Pradesh was heading from Udupi to Brahmavar. The sleuths checked and found several packets of cannabis in six big bamboo logs. The police recovered 49.150 kg of cannabis from the lorry. They seized two mobile phones and the lorry.  The police said that investigation so far has shown that the load was coming from West Bengal and it was bound for Kerala. Udupi was among the points mid-way that the accused had planned to deliver cannabis. A case has been registered with the Cyber Crime Economics Offences and Narcotic Police Station for offences under Sections 8 (C) and 20 (B)(ii)(C) of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act 1985. A search is on for the other accused involved in the crime.
23 August 2020||Belagavi,Karnataka||District civil hospital, three private hospitals deny treatment in in Belagavi||The wife of a farmer, who had consumed poison as he was unable to pay back loans, ran from pillar to post in an attempt to get him admitted for treatment as they were denied admission in the district civil hospital and three private hospitals in Belagavi on Sunday. Duradundeppa Hugar, a farmer and small businesses man from Nidasosi village near Hukkeri had consumed poison as he was unable to repay the loan of ₹2 lakh. His wife Akkamma brought him to Belgavi for treatment. Doctors in the district civil hospital denied them admission since the beds were full of COVID-19 patients. However, they administered some first aid and an intra venous fluid bottle. But the family was asked to leave after. Akkamma took her husband to three private hospitals who also refused to admit the patient. She went around with the IV bottle in her hand, with the patient in tow. At a prestigious private hospital, the casualty doctor told her to deposit a huge sum of money before admission. But she could not afford it. She waited for some time for the doctors to reconsider. When she realised that she could not get admission for lesser fees, she decided to go back to her village. Police officers who traced them later, said that the patient was admitted to a private hospital in Sankeshwar town and he was out of danger. The picture of the woman standing by her husband while he was resting on a park bench outside a private hospital was widely shared on social media.
24 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,Kerala||Kerala Assembly to take up UDF’s no-confidence motion today||The Opposition’s motion of no confidence against the government in the Assembly on Monday might sharply test the unity of the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF). It will also put to trial Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s adeptness in politically countering the charges raised by the Opposition.  The UDF had introduced the motion to highlight the ‘flaws’ of the government ahead of the local body polls in November. However, the move appeared to have made a public spectacle of the fissures in the UDF.  The opposing factions in the Kerala Congress (M) stuck their respective whips on the doors of their legislators at the MLA hostel here, creating some political drama on the eve of the debate.  Earlier, Jose K. Mani said Roshy Augustine and N. Jayaraj, the two KC (M) legislators aligned with his faction, would abstain from voting on the no-trust motion. The dissension in the KC(M) threatened to diminish the numbers of the UDF on the floor of the House on a crucial day.  KC(M) chairperson P.J. Joseph said legislators who defy the party whip would face disciplinary action and lose their seats in the Assembly. The numbers in the Assembly are in favour of the LDF. The LDF has 90 MLAs and UDF, 44. CPI(M) Independent from Koduvally Karat Rasaq and IUML MLA from Azhikode K.M. Shaji have no vote due to pending court cases challenging their election.  The outcome of the no-confidence motion might be a foregone conclusion. However, the UDF hopes to use it to target the government generally and the office of the Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan (CMO), specifically. V.D. Satheeshan, who would table the motion, told The Hindu that he would present a ‘chargesheet’ against the government to highlight its "ill-doings".  The UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case, Life Mission-UAE Red Crescent deal, ‘receipt’ of foreign aid by Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel, Adani group’s takeover of the Thiruvananthapuram airport, Sprinklr ‘scam’ and ‘failed’ pandemic prevention strategy are likely to dominate the debate.  The LDF's counter is expected to hinge on the government’s stated achievements and the ‘soft Hindutva’ line toed by the Congress as ‘manifested’ in its welcoming of the laying of the foundation stone for Ram Temple in Ayodhya. The one-day session held under the lengthening shadow of the COVID-19 pandemic is likely to be rich in political theatre.
23 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,Kerala||Kerala Assembly to witness no-trust motion after 15 years||The no-confidence motion coming up in the Assembly on Monday is after a gap of 15 years and the first against the Left Democratic Front headed by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The notice by Congress leader V.D. Satheesan for leave to make the motion expressing “want of confidence in the Council of Ministers” headed by Mr. Vijayan is the 16th in the history of the Assembly. Though it is the 19th notice, it will be the 16th time a no-trust motion is being taken up. Of those discussed, just one was passed. Two notices did not get the Speaker’s approval, as these were not supported by a minimum of 20 legislators. The last no-trust motion moved in the House was in 2005 in the 11th Assembly by CPI(M)’s Kodiyeri Balakrishnan against the United Democratic Front (UDF) government headed by Oommen Chandy alleging major corruption charges against his Cabinet colleagues. The motion that got accepted was in September 1964, when PSP’s P.K. Kunju moved a motion against the government headed by Chief Minister R. Shankar. Shankar, who was the head of the Congress Legislature Party, was sworn in as Chief Minister after Pattom Thanu Pillai was appointed as Punjab Governor.  Following the defeat in the floor of the House, the government headed by Shankar resigned. The State came under President’s rule and the Assembly was dissolved by the President. The discussion on the no-confidence motion on Monday will also be the shortest in the history of Assembly. Usually discussions last two to three days. The longest so far is about 21 hours spread over three days. As the 20th session of the 14th Assembly has been convened only for a day with the main business of Kerala Finance Bill, the discussion on the no-trust motion has been limited to five hours.
23 August 2020||ALAPPUZHA ,Kerala||Spike in cases in Alappuzha||The single-day spike in COVID-19 cases crossed 200-mark again in the district with 241 people testing positive on Sunday.  While 223 patients contracted the disease through local transmission, 14 who came from other States and four from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of the 223 contact cases, 47 were reported from Thumboli, 40 from Punnapra South, 26 from Punnapra North, 20 from Ambalappuzha and 18 from Purakkad. Rest of the locally transmitted cases were from Kareelakulangara (11), Chettikkad (8), Pattanakkad (7), Kanjikuzhy (6), Alappuzha (6), Pathiyoor (5), Mararikulam North (4), Cherthala South (3), Ezhupunna (3), Aroor (3), Chethi (2), Edathua (2) and one case each from Nooranad, Chennithala, Mulakuzha, Chengannur, Veliyanad, Kadakarappally, Cheppad, Puthuppally, Pallippad and Cherthala. Meanwhile, three councillors of the Alappuzha municipality were diagnosed with the disease, forcing the authorities to close the municipal office for seven days. Alappuzha municipal chairman Illikkal Kunjumon said that all councillors and officials of the civic body would undergo COVID-19 tests in the coming days. A total of 53 people who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 tested negative in the district. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 2,014.  Ward 32 (partial) in Alappuzha municipality, ward 2 (partial) in Edathua, wards 7 and 9 in Punnapra North, wards 5 and 6 (partial) in Chunakkara grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.
23 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,Kerala||Aranmula to see low-key Onam celebrations this year||For the first time in the centuries-old history of the Aranmula Thiruvonathoni reception, the banks of the Pampa river will miss the rhyme and rhythm of snake-boats and the crowd ushering in those mighty oarsmen.  In a major break in tradition, only one snake-boat (palliyodam) carrying representatives of each of the 52 Palliyoda committees will accompany the famed Thiruvonathoni to the Parthasarathy temple in Aramula this Onam. Last year, as many as six palliyodams were part of the regatta in its 10-hour journey.  According to the Palliyoda Seva Sangham, the lone Palliyodam will carry six members from its locality, besides those representing the remaining 51 committees. The Sangham will soon come up with a procedure to select the representatives for each event. The move is in line with a decision by the authorities to organise the famed rituals of Thiruvonathoni reception, Uthrattathi boat race, and the Vallasdya in accordance with the COVID-19 protocol. As per the new plan, each of the three ceremonies will be attended by representatives from each zone.  The decision was taken during a videoconference of the Palliyoda Seva Sangham representatives with District Collector P.B. Noohu and Veena George, MLA, last week. The thiruvonathoni is scheduled to leave the Kattoor Mahavishnu temple at 6 p.m. on August 30 with only 20 people led by Mangat Bhattathiri and reach the Aranmula temple at 6 a.m. the next day. As many as 24 people will be allowed to board the Palliyodam that will accompany the Thiruvonathoni. The Uthrattathi boat race will be staged on September 4 with a palliyodam having 24 persons on board. The Ashtami Rohini Vallasadya will be held on September 10. The number of persons attending the event will be limited to 32, including 24 persons on board the palliyodam and eight others for conducting the ritual.Meanwhile, none of the events will be open to the public.
23 August 2020||August 23 2020 22:20 IST,Kerala||Wounded Attappady elephant still critical||The condition of an elephant that suffered a grievous wound in its mouth at Attappady last week continues to be critical on Sunday. The elephant was found with an injury apparently caused by an explosion about a week ago at Veettikkundu Chavadiyur area of Attappady in Agali range of Mannarkkad forest division in Kerala. A team of veterinary doctors and forest officials led by Forest Veterinary Officer Dr. Arun Zacharia and Agali Forest Range Officer K.T. Udayan attended to the tuskless male elephant after tranquilising it on Saturday. The team administered antibiotics and analgesics to the wounded animal.  Dr. Zacharia said the wound was deep, and the internal injury was extensive. He added that the doctors would observe the animal for another day before the next step. Dr. Zacharia and Mr. Udayan expressed concern that the elephant might choke while drinking or eating in such a condition. They said it was too early to comment about the healing of the wounds inside its pharyngeal region. There was cautious optimism when the elephant drank some water. However, it rejected much of the food given by the veterinarians and appeared weak due to lack of intake.  It was suspected that the elephant suffered the injury while it chewed on an explosive. Forest officials suspect the injury took place while the animal was in Tamil Nadu forest area. The full-grown elephant was known to have caused a lot of destruction in the Sholayur area over the last couple of years. However, it had not killed any human being. The animal was nicknamed ‘Bulldozer’ because it had reportedly destroyed around two dozen houses since 2018.
24 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram ,Kerala||Coronavirus | Kerala reports 1,908 new cases||Kerala reported 1,908 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. The cumulative case burden of the State has risen to 58,262. With 37,649 persons having recovered from their disease, the number of active cases or the number of patients currently undergoing treatment in hospitals now is 20,330. The cumulative death toll rose to 223 with the Health Department confirming five more deaths as due to COVID-19. Two of these deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram and one each from Kozhikode, Kollam and Alappuzha. Locally-acquired infections constituted 1,768 cases out of the 1,908 new cases reported on Sunday. This includes cases reported amongst 50 health-care workers. In 160 cases, no epidemiological linkages could be established. Thiruvananthapuram district reported 397 cases, of which 384 cases, including that of 17 health-care workers, were locally-acquired infections. Alappuzha reported 241 cases, Ernakulam 200, Malappuram 186, Kannur 143, Kollam 133, Kozhikode 119, Thrissur 116, Kottayam 106, Pathanamthitta 104, Kasaragod 85, Palakkad 39, Idukki 29 and Wayanad 10 cases. The State has tested 36,353 samples in the last 24 hours using various diagnostic modalities. The number of persons currently quarantined is 1,82,525, of whom, 16,529 are isolated in hospitals. The areas designated as hotspots has gone up to 622.
23 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,Kerala||Kerala gives investors a guide on post-COVID options||The Industries Department has come out with a comprehensive investor guide to enable entrepreneurs to explore opportunities in multiple sectors. The guide aims at triggering a post-pandemic economic resurgence by positioning the State as a safe and sustainable investment destination. The compendium titled ‘Invest Kerala Primer’ was released by Minister for Industries E.P. Jayarajan at the Secretariat by handing over a copy to K. Elangovan, Principal Secretary, Industries.  Besides providing information about potential areas that beckon investments, the guide lists how easily entrepreneurs can make decisions, thanks to a slew of legislative and policy initiatives that have reformed the investment regime in the State. It provides details of the simpler and friendlier investment climate that ensure hassle-free clearances and how and where to approach for assistance. The guide has information on sector-wise parks that offer affordable spaces and creative ambience to enterprises and start-ups in a fully-digitised and data-dependent high-tech global context. A section entitled ‘How to Invest?’ has details of models for the entrepreneurs to choose like public private participation, special purpose vehicles, joint ventures, holding companies, and equity participation. The guide offers information on how to seek the help of nodal agencies for basic requirements like land lease and for getting approvals. It has highlights of major projects that hold investment opportunities in the State. V.R. Prem Kumar, Director of Industries and Commerce; KSIDC Executive Director N.S.K. Umesh; KINFRA Managing Director Santhosh Koshy Thomas; and K-BIP CEO Suraj S. were present.
23 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram ,Kerala||Experts question efficacy of sentinel surveillance study||Public health experts have called into question why sentinel surveillance study, which should ideally provide early warning signals and trends about the probable course of COVID-19, has failed to give the State any advantage so far in combating the pandemic.  Three rounds of surveillance study from April-July, which tested exactly 1,18,554 (till July 31), and epidemiological samples later, the data garnered from this exercise is very much at variance with the actual picture of COVID-19 now unfolding in the State, with all districts reporting an average of 200 cases daily.  Sentinel surveillance studies are being done in specific chosen populations who are assessed to be at high risk of contracting COVID-19 in the community. Between April and July, the test positivity (proportion of people who test positive amongst all tested) recorded by the sentinel survey ranged from 0.10 to 0.59. In June when the case graph of the State had really been climbing, only 38 out of the 17,079 samples from the high risk groups had tested positive. In July, just 205 out of the 35,038 samples tested positive. “The huge variance in the data emerging out of the sentinel surveillance and the actual situation in the community begs the question whether this surveillance study is serving any purpose. The State’s current testing strategy focuses on testing all influenza like illness (ILI) cases in the community. It is a bit far-fetched that after testing 11,616 ILI samples in June-July, the sentinel survey picked up just 11 COVID-19 cases,” a public health expert said. He also questioned why the official report of sentinel surveillance Round 3 has omitted the results of the samples tested from one of the groups (Group 6, epidemiological samples collected from community/hospital). The sentinel surveillance should ideally have been an epidemiological exercise planned and executed at the district-level rather than a centralised plan, he said. The official report concludes that “it is very evident that cases and positivity are more in clusters, whereas in the general population, the positivity still remains low.” “Even when the credibility of the entire survey process is under fire, no questions are being raised about possible flaws in study design, implementation or data interpretation because it suits the political narrative that community transmission is not widespread in the State,” a senior epidemiologist said on condition of anonymity.
23 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,Kerala||Mani ignores UDF threat, sticks to stance||Unperturbed by the pressure mounted by the United Democratic Front, the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani has asked all party legislators, including the three in the rival group, to abide by its whip on abstaining from the Rajya Sabha election as well the no-confidence motion against the LDF government.  Mr. Mani reiterated here on Sunday that the move was in line with an earlier decision by the party steering committee to adopt an independent political stance. Dismissing the warning signals by the UDF against rejecting its whip, he pointed out that Schedule 10 of the Constitution of India had entrusted the authority to issue whips to individuals appointed by political parties and not coalitions. “A party that has already been expelled from a coalition being expelled again is unheard of in Kerala politics... Those who ousted the KC(M) have never bothered to explain their action. When it is said that action will be taken in case of violating the general decision of the UDF, the question arises as to whether our expulsion earlier was not a general decision of the coalition,” said Mr. Mani, in an apparent response to UDF convener Benny Behanan. Earlier in the day, the Mani faction had pasted copies of its whip to abstain from the presentation of the no-confidence motion in front of the rooms of the three Joseph faction MLAs, including their leader P.J. Joseph, at the MLA hostel in Thiruvananthpuram. Besides sticking the notice on the doors, they had also served the whip through e-mail and speed post. The three-line whip, issued by Roshy Augustine, MLA, directed the KC(M) legislators to stay away from the presentation and discussion of a no-confidence motion against the government by V.D. Satheesan, MLA, under rule 63 of the Kerala Legislative Assembly. The Joseph faction, on its part, too had issued a whip to all five KC(M) legislators to vote for the UDF candidate in the election and for the no-confidence motion. The hardening of stance by the Mani faction is likely to trigger a legal fight between the rival KC(M) factions seeking disqualification of MLAs who violate the whip. Further, it is also set to exacerbate the political divide between the UDF and the Mani faction ahead of the upcoming local body elections.
23 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,Kerala||Airport: govt. scrambles to defend itself||The State government on Sunday appeared to scramble to defend itself against the allegation that it had deliberately lost the bid to operate the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport to Adani Enterprises Limited (AEL).  Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan, who seemed to have found himself in a tight spot, said a high power committee headed by the Chief Secretary had chosen Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, a legal firm, to represent the Kerala State Industries Development Corporation (KSIDC) in the bidding.  However, the government had not known whether the firm had family members of the Adani group on its board. The government would probe whether any conflict of interest had paved the way for the State losing the bid to operate, manage and develop the priced public asset for the next 50 years.  The United Democratic Front (UDF), which had initially backed the government's proposal to oppose the takeover, has rejected the bipartisan initiative of the Left Democratic Front (LDF).  Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the United Democratic Front (UDF) would protest the AEL's takeover of the airport independently. It would have no truck with the "deceitful" government. The government had handed over the airport to AEL on a platter. It had conspired with AEL to ensure the KSIDC lost the bid.  Mr. Chennithala said "inside information" had helped AEL win the bid. The government had stacked the decks in AEL's favour. It also favoured the company by appointing an IAS officer "close" to the Adani group as head of the KSIDC. “The LDF is running with the hares and hunting with the hounds,” he said. BJP State president K. Surendran said the government was secretly pleased that AEL had gained control of the airport. It had shed a few crocodile tears for the lost asset to hoodwink the public. The LDF has lost its credibility, he said.
23 August 2020||IDUKKI ,Kerala||Pandemic puts focus on safety measures||Necessity brings change and it took a COVID-19 pandemic to change people’s views about safety measures and etiquette in daily life.  Social distancing and safety precautions led self-employed people from barbers to autorickshaw drivers to service industry staff to adapt to the new norms while working. At the hair cutting saloon, a disposable paper apron has replaced the barber’s cloth.  “It was a decision taken earlier and was not implemented as the cost of paper gown was ₹10. When it is charged on the customer, there was a chance that he would move to another place, where the cloth gown is used,” said Sathyan who runs a hair-cutting saloon at Mattukatta, a rural junction.  “Now there is a common protocol and the paper gown and gloves were easily adopted both in metros and rural villages,” he added. Inside autorickshaws, a transparent plastic cover now differentiates the area between the driver and the passengers. It ensures safety for both the driver and the passengers.  “While moving, it is a common sight in the villages that the passengers often talk with the driver, causing accidents,” said a police official. The transparent sheet does not prevent the view of both the driver and the passenger, he added. In the motor vehicle rules, it needed some kind of enforcement for the general public to obey the rules. It was what happened when the seat-belt and helmets were made mandatory while driving. “Now, it is common that the rules are adhered to especially in the case of seat belts. One driving without seat belts is now considered an ill-mannered person,” he added. “Spitting in public is considered a bad thing in a civilised society. However, we often witness it and after the mask was made mandatory this habit of people also changed,” he added. “In the service sector certain measures adopted as part of COVID- 19 protocol for safety and personal comfort are here to stay,” said the manager of a hotel group .  “Wishing the guest with folded hands instead of a handshake is common now,” he added.
24 August 2020||KOCHI,Kerala||Legal firm denies advising Adani group on airport||Cyril Amarchand Mangaldas, the legal firm that advised the State government in its bid for Thiruvananthapuram airport, has come out with a clarification that it had not advised the Adani group in the bidding process for the airport. Responding to The Hindu, one of the partners of the group said there was no question of conflict of interest involved in it offering legal advise to the State government in the airport bid. The clarification came in the wake of the raging controversy that there was a conflict of interest in the group offering legal service to the State government as the daughter of one of the partners of the firm was married to Karan Adani, the son of businessman Gautham Adani. The firm won the bid for legal advice for the Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation (KSIDC) through one of its partners in Delhi and professional advise was also rendered to it. The firm never acted for the Adani group in the airport bid, he said. “There are 130 partners for the firm and each one can accept the brief of the clients unless there is no direct conflict of interest in it. While staffing persons for advising clients, care will be taken to put persons with no personal interests and conflict or interest in it,’’ he said. “Until the opening of the bid, no one knows who all are in the fray and what will be their quote. The Adani group is just another client and so is the KSIDC. We don't share the professional secrets of one client to another. The Adani group has its own panel of external and in-house lawyers. No company will generally approach a lawyer before winning the bid and Adani group has not approached us for the Thiruvananthapuram airport bid,” he said. The firm offered legal review of the bid document of the KSIDC regarding the airport and was not involved in the financial aspects of the KSIDC bid. As a law-abiding firm for over 100 years, the group followed the highest standards of governance and ethics, he said. The State government, which was planning to raise the banner of protest against the privatisation by mobilising public support and convening an all party meeting to discuss the issue, had found itself in a spot as the news about the reported conflict of interest came out.
23 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram ,Kerala||Opposition seeks CBI probe into Life Mission deal||The political controversy surrounding the Life Mission-UAE Red Crescent deal to provide housing for the poor continued to simmer on Sunday with Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala daring the government to release the details of the contract.  Mr. Chennithala demanded a CBI inquiry into the receipt of ₹20 crore as aid from the UAE Red Crescent for the construction of 140 houses for landless and homeless families under the Life Mission scheme in Thrissur.  He hinged the demand on the ‘disclosure’ made by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s media adviser John Brittas last week that a private builder had paid ₹4.5 crore as kickback to get the contract. Mr. Brittas had alleged the builder had given the bribe to an accused in the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case.  The government’s ambitious project to provide housing to needy families had come under a cloud after Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the gold smuggling case, had stated in court recently that the ₹1 crore found by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in her bank locker was her percentage for channelling the foreign aid to the private builder contracted to execute the project.  Last week, the ED, possibly prompted by Swapna’s statement, had written to Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta seeking ‘some details and clarifications’ regarding the deal.  The State government has maintained that the international charity had channelled the aid to Life Mission via the UAE consulate here. The consulate had subcontracted the work to a builder of its choice. The government had no say in the award of the contract. The government had also sought the sanction of the Centre for the deal.  BJP State president K. Surendran alleged on Saturday that gold smugglers and corrupt bureaucrats, who had a free rein in the office of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, had used Life Mission, among other government schemes, as a front to earn kickbacks. He said the CMO had not sought the sanction of the Centre ahead of receiving foreign aid. Mr. Surendran was on a one-day sit-in fast at the party headquarters here seeking the resignation of Mr Vijayan on the charge of harbouring anti-nationals.
23 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,Kerala||First Bell ad revenue for CMDRF||The General Education Department’s ‘First Bell’ digital classes that are telecast on KITE Victers channel have completed 1,500 episodes.  The classes were launched on June 1 against the backdrop of COVID-19 and schools not reopening.  At present, as much as 442-terabyte data is being accessed each month from 141 countries on the web and mobile platforms of KITE Victers channel alone. Its YouTube channel (www.youtube.com/itsvicters) has over 17.6 lakh subscribers and over 15 crore viewers a month.  “Only limited and restricted advertisements are permitted on our YouTube channel. It has been decided to donate the first month advertisement revenue of ₹15 lakh from YouTube to the Chief Minister’s Distress Relief Fund (CMDRF),” K. Anvar Sadath, Chief Executive Officer, KITE (Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education), said.  As part of the programme, general classes on yoga, motivation, and career are already being telecast on Victers. Classes on sports education will start this week, followed by classes on mental health in the first week of September. Only the classes based on the first volume textbooks for students will be aired till September.  Regular classes will not be held from August 28 to September 2 as part of First Bell owing to Onam holidays, and the detailed schedule of programmes for this period will be published separately.
23 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,Kerala||Unions for EICL to start clay extraction||Trade unions of the English Indian Clays Ltd (EICL) in the district, which halted operations on August 10, have sought urgent State government intervention to allow the company to resume extraction of China clay so that it can restart operations.  The CITU, INTUC and BMS unions of EICL have submitted a joint petition in this regard to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan, and Labour Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan.  The livelihood of 1,500 families had been imperilled with the EICL management suspending operations at its Veli and Thonnackal units on August 10 citing heavy losses and shortage of China clay, District Clay Workers’ Union (CITU), English Indian Clay Mazdoor Sangh (BMS), and English Indian Clays Workers’ Congress (INTUC) said in the petition.  The State government should initiate urgent steps to issue a licence to EICL for mining clay from a five-acre mine at Thonnackal, the unions said. The Thapar Group company had been facing difficulties in procuring raw material for the past two years. Moreover, the company had closed down the facilities on the eve of the scheduled date for the payment of bonus to the employees, they alleged. Earlier, the High Court had ordered the EICL to stop mining operations at Veyloor village in Thiruvananthapuram district. In their petition to the government, the trade unions pointed out that, subsequently, the company was accorded environment clearance to mine clay in the five acres at Thonnackal for one year from October 2019. However, the Director, Mining and Geology, was yet to issue the mining licence, they said.  In 2019, the employees had launched an indefinite strike after the management suspended operations on November 30 that year citing losses and raw material shortage. At the time, the unions had alleged that the company was trying to avoid signing a long-term agreement on pay revision. The labour dispute was finally settled and the company reopened after the agreement was signed. The EICL management has cited similar reasons for the latest shutdown. The unions have also sought government intervention to ensure prompt payment of bonus to the EICL employees.
23 August 2020||KOLLAM,Kerala||Uthara murder case | Mother, sister of victim’s husband arrested||Police arrested two more people — the mother and sister of the victim’s husband and main accused — in connection with Uthra murder case. Reportedly, they have been booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code for conspiracy, domestic violence and destruction of evidence.  Uthra’s body was found on May 7 at her home in Anchal and her father had raised domestic violence and dowry harassment complaints after the death. The 25-year-old had died due to snakebite and her family had approached the District Police Chief (Kollam Rural), alleging that her husband and his family had planned the crime. At the time of her death, Uthra was recuperating from a similar incident of a snakebite on March 2 at her husband's home in Adoor. During the interrogation, Sooraj confessed to having brought both the snakes in a bottle and throwing them on Uthra while she was asleep.  She was first bitten by a viper and then a cobra, both procured by Sooraj from a handler who later turned approver. Autopsy of the snake had confirmed that the same snake had killed Uthra. The investigative team found discrepancies in the statements given by Sooraj's family and gold ornaments belonging to Uthra were later recovered from a plantation near Sooraj's home. They were found buried in the ground.  Sooraj's father Surendran was arrested for abetment to crime and destroying evidence as he helped hide the gold. Kollam Crime Branch (Rural Police) had filed a chargesheet running into 1000 pages in the sensational murder case.
23 August 2020||KOCHI:,Kerala||Malayalam film industry welcomes move for resuming production||Malayalam film industry welcomed the Centre’s decision to resume film and television production work across the country amidst concerns about the extent of outdoor shooting possible amidst the worsening COVID-19 crisis. The Kerala Film Producers’ Association (KFPA) said that the move would gradually pave way for the resumption of normalcy in the industry, which has been hit badly owing to the crisis induced by the pandemic. The release of nearly 60 movies was pending after the industry came to a screeching halt following the nationwide lockdown imposed on March 25. Read the full standard operating procedures “The State government had already permitted indoor shooting with a maximum crew of 50. With the Union government allowing outdoor shooting, the shooting of films could resume by adhering to the standard operating procedure prepared by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting,” said KFPA president M. Renjith. However, Mr. Renjith pointed out that outdoor shooting of films that require several persons may be difficult to resume considering reports that the number of positive cases may go up by September. “We need at least 60 to 70 persons on the location to manage the process of shooting a movie. If a person among this gets infected, it may force many others to go on quarantine, resulting in the disruption of the schedule,” he said. B. Rakesh, treasurer of KFPA, said that films made in medium budget would be able to resume work going by the current pandemic scenario. Jayaraj, filmmaker and chairman of the Malayalam Cine Technicians’ Association (MACTA), said that the decision to open up media production would help hundreds of workers in the industry, who were reeling under severe financial crisis. “We had submitted a video before the Union Finance Minister earlier requesting immediate re-opening of film production. The shooting of movies can resume by implementing the standard operating procedure prescribed by the Centre,” he said. A. K. Balan, Minister for Cinema, said that he would hold talks with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to decide on whether certain relaxations could be given for outdoor shooting. “Many films may require more than 50 persons for outdoor shooting. The demand for re-opening work in the film and television industry remains genuine in view of the crisis following the pandemic,” he said. M. C. Bobby, general secretary of Film Exhibitors’ United Organisation of Kerala, said that they hope the Centre and State governments would permit the opening of cinemas by either October or November. “We are under the belief that the pandemic situation may ease by November. But it’s a reality that we have lost almost a major chunk of the business season after the shutdown that began in March. The organisation will soon submit a relief package before the State government to tide over the major losses incurred by theatre owners,” he said.
23 August 2020||August 23 2020 10:26 IST,Kerala||COVID-19: 87 new cases and 125 recoveries in Alappuzha||The district logged 87 COVID-19 cases and 125 recoveries on Saturday.  Of the fresh cases, 83 patients contracted the disease through local transmission. Four persons who came from other States also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2.  The 83 contact cases include 19 from Karuvatta, 12 from Chettikkad, 10 from Ezhupunna and eight from Ambalappuzha.  The district so far recorded 4,242 COVID-19 cases. Of this, 2,405 people have made a full recovery, while 11 succumbed to the disease.  The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 1,826. Ward 13 in Devikulangara and wards 4 (Chencheril area) and 21 (Kalappurackkal Colony area) in Aroor grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.  Meanwhile, the Police launched a probe after miscreants pelted stones at the house of COVID-19 patients at Vayalar near Cherthala on Friday night.  According to officials, four members of a family in ward 5 of the grama panchayat were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 earlier in the day. "They were waiting for an ambulance to shift them to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, for treatment when bike-borne people pelted stones at the house," said an official. No one was injured in the incident but some window panes got shattered. All four who tested positive for the disease were later shifted to the hospital.  Cherthala police said that they had launched a search operation to nab the culprits. "We have launched a detailed probe based on a complaint filed by one of the family members. CCTV footage from the nearby area has been collected and it is being examined," said a police official.
23 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,Kerala||COVID-19 situation continues to be critical in Thiruvananthapuram; death toll rises to 58||Nine more deaths were attributed to COVID-19 in Thiruvananthapuram as the district’s caseload leaped by 464 on Saturday. Local transmission also remained high by accounting for almost all of the fresh cases. Taking the official death toll to 58, the fatalities include natives of Vetturoad (60-year old) and Arattukuzhi (65) who died on August 13; natives of Karode (50), Kanchiyoor (62), Beemapally (76) and Mannadi (76) who died on August 17; a 59-year old Vallakkadavu-native woman who died on August 19; and a 67-year old woman who hailed from Anchuthengu and a 69-year old Balaramapuram native who died on August 20. Keeping up the trend of pandemic spread in the capital district, nearly 99% of the cases have been attributed to local transmission. These included 459 cases, including those of nine health workers. Among these, the sources of infection were unknown in 40 cases. With 290 recoveries also being reported, the current number of people being treated in the district for the infection is 5163. As many as 39 prisoners in the Poojappura Central Prison were among the recovered cases. They were among 41 COVID-19-infected inmates who were subjected to antigen tests on the day. Meanwhile, the Attingal Municipality imposed curbs for the commercial outlets to prevent the worsening of the pandemic situation in the region. Restricting operational timings of shops, the local body has instructed traders to conclude business by 7 p.m. instead of 9 p.m. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural Police initiated disciplinary action against three assistant sub-inspectors attached to the Mangalapuram police station after they were accused to have seized fish caught by local residents from the Kadinamkulam lake and consumed them. They were transferred to the Armed Reserve Camp in Pulinkudi, near Vizhinjam, following department-level probes that were conducted into the alleged incident. The incident occurred around two weeks ago when they had been tasked with preventing gathering close to the lake as part of enforcing the COVID-19 guidelines. While they managed to chase off several people who were engaged in fishing in the area, they purportedly confiscated the fish catch and took them home after splitting them among themselves. Investigations conducted by the Attingal DySP and the Thiruvananthapuram Rural Special Branch found credible evidence to back the allegations, claims that the officers had sold the fish to others were yet to be ascertained.
23 August 2020||KOCHI:,Kerala||Kerala gold smuggling case: NIA reiterates need for investigations abroad||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has reiterated the need to carry out further investigations abroad to ascertain the roles of high profile individuals and Consulate officials in connection with its probe into the smuggling of gold into the country via air cargo shipments addressed to the Consulate of the United Arab Emirates in Thiruvananthapuram. The agency revealed this in its petition before the NIA court here seeking a direction to remand in judicial custody Mohammed Anwar, Hamzath Abdussalam, Samju Thazhe Manedath and Hamjad Ali, all accused in the case.     The NIA pointed out that further interrogation was required to unearth all conspirators in the crime. The accused used various social media platforms to communicate with the co-accused and suspects for committing the offence. The seized digital devices of the accused had been sent to the C-DAC, Thiruvananthapuram, for cyber forensic analysis. The accused had conspired to damage the monetary stability of India by smuggling large quantity of gold from abroad, it said. The agency reiterated that the accused could have used the proceeds for financing terror through various means. Their deliberate acts of using the diplomatic baggage of the UAE as a cover for smuggling may have severe repercussions to the friendly relations with the UAE and it was prejudicial to the monetary and economic security of India as well, it said.
23 August 2020||MALAPPURAM/PALAKKAD:,Kerala||COVID-19: Malappuram sees biggest spike in cases, total lockdown today||Malappuram district saw the biggest spike ever in COVID-19 infection on Saturday when it tested 395 positive cases. The surge in the number of COVID-19 cases continued for over a week in Malappuram. District Medical Officer K. Sakeena said that 377 of them got the infection through local contacts. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan, himself in quarantine after he tested positive for the virus, called upon the people to maintain stricter vigil in the light of a steady increase in COVID-19 cases. A total lockdown will be imposed in the district on Sunday as part of tightening the measures against the disease. However, there will be exemption for marriage, funeral, medical emergency, medical institutions, and petrol pumps. Mr. Gopalakrishnan said that not more than 20 persons could attend marriages and funerals. The source of infection of 13 cases, including 11 health workers, could not be traced. When five of the new cases came from other States, 13 came from abroad. Dr. Sakeena said that 240 infected persons recovered in Malappuram on Saturday. When the district registered 6,929 infections since March, 4,081 recovered from the disease and 30 died. As many as 2,818 persons were currently under treatment in different hospitals in Malappuram. The health authorities placed 1,883 more people in quarantine in Malappuram on Saturday. Nearly 42,000 people were currently quarantined for their contacts with the infected persons. Palakkad district too saw a spike in COVID-19 cases when it tested 184 people positive for the virus on Saturday. They included 146 infections through local transmission, 17 cases that came from other States and seven that came from abroad. The source of infection in 14 cases could not be traced. District Medical Officer K.P. Reetha said that there were 89 recoveries in the district on Saturday. The number infected persons currently under treatment in Palakkad rose to 855. Dr. Reetha said that nearly 13,000 people were currently quarantined in the district.
23 August 2020||KOCHI ,Kerala||Two arrested for cheating a family of ₹2.25 crore||The District Crime Branch, Ernakulam Rural, on Saturday arrested two persons on charge of cheating a family of around ₹2.25 crore on false promise to bring back a person facing travel ban and stranded in Qatar. The arrested were identified as Muhammed Aslam Maulavi, 50, of Pezhakkapilly, and Muhammed Bijli, 54, of Kanjirappally. According to police, an industrialist from Perumbavur who has been doing business in Qatar since 2008 ran into trouble in 2016 after a cheque worth lakhs bounced. This was followed by a travel ban. The family desperate to see his return was then approached by the accused claiming that they could bring him back by levering their influence in high places in the Middle East country if the right price was paid. They convinced the family that they had brought back many, including celebrities, facing similar predicaments abroad in the past. For the next three years, police said, the family kept on paying and the amount in due course touched a high of ₹2.25 crore. However, the return of the family member didn’t materialise and he was eventually arrested in the cheque case and now remains jailed there. The family realising their folly petitioned the Chief Minister and law enforcement agencies following which the accused started trying to secure anticipatory bail. However, their efforts failed following which the Crime Branch arrested them from Muvattupuzha on Saturday morning. They were charged with IPC Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing payment of property). They were produced before the court and remanded. They were now kept in the COVID-19 detention centre of the police at Karukutty.
23 August 2020||KOCHI ,Kerala||Farmers’ Association calls for urgent action after pineapple farmer’s suicide||The All Kerala Pineapple Farmers’ Association has called for urgent action after a pineapple farmer committed suicide on Friday to escape mounting debts.  The Central and State governments must intervene before things go out of hand, the Association appealed on Saturday. It said that the pineapple sector, badly bruised by the COVID-19 pandemic, had a loan burden of about ₹450 crore. The farmers’ demand is that the government help write off the debts of farmers with good track records, restructure debt repayment, help out with CSR funds and come out with a declaration on the minimum support price of ₹25 per kilogram of pineapple. Anil K. K., 45, of Ayavana village, near Vazhakulam, about 40 kms from Kochi, was in engaged in leasing out land and cultivating pineapple for about three decades. But the spread of COVID-19 brought a lockdown in business and his liabilities, like thousands of other farmers like him, mounted rapidly.  It was said that he had a liability of about ₹50 lakh. He killed himself on Friday, bringing a pall of gloom over the entire pineapple farming sector. Speaking on the crisis, James George, President of the Association said that the Vazhakulam region, known for its GI-tagged pineapple, could see more deaths unless both the Central and state governments stepped in to help. Around 5.4 lakh tonnes of the fruit is produced yearly in Kerala from nearly 18,000 hectares. There are around 5,000 farmers and the average turnover is ₹1,250 crore annually. (Suicide prevention helpline – DISHA: 1056, 0471-2552056)
23 August 2020||KOCHI ,Kerala||Former GCDA chairman arrested and let off||Nearly four years after valuables worth over ₹1.50 lakh were reported missing from the official residence of the chairman of the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA), Kadavathra police on Saturday arrested former GCDA Chairman N. Venugopal and three others officials of the development agency in that connection. The accused surrendered before Kadavanthra police on the direction of a court and were released on bail shortly thereafter.  The case was registered in January 2017 after GCDA lodged a complaint regarding loss of valuables, including furniture and air conditioners, shortly after C.N. Mohanan took over from Mr. Venugopal as the new chairman following the change of guard at the State. The incident came to light when Mr. Mohanan visited the official residence shortly after assuming charge. As per an initial estimate at the time of registering the case, valuables, including three air conditioners, three cots, a settee, television stand and even kitchen utensils, worth ₹1.51 lakh were missing. Though some of it were recovered a few months later from a fish farm being developed by GCDA at Mundamveli at that time, majority of them remain untraceable. The employees, including a retired one, were arraigned in as accused as they were considered to be the custodians of the missing properties.
23 August 2020||Kochi,Kerala||Chellam coronavirus cases on the rise again||After a brief decline over the past few weeks, the COVID-19 positive cases from Chellanam have risen to the double digits again with 16 people from the area testing positive for the disease on Saturday. In Chellanam, an average of about 100 RT-PCR and antigen tests were being conducted daily at two camps, said a health official in the area.  While the situation had largely been controlled over the past few weeks, a wedding function held recently has caused a spike in cases from wards 14 and 15 of the panchayat, the official said.  The first-line treatment centre (FLTC) in the area had stopped functioning after water entered the section for staff at the centre during a period of flooding earlier this month, said Mercy Josy, Chellanam panchayat president.  “If there is a major episode of sea incursion again, we would not be able to shift patients from the FLTC quickly. But if there is a further increase in cases, we would have to get the FLTC running again. The most number of cases are from wards 14, 15 and 18. A worker on a boat that went out fishing has also tested positive recently,” she said. Thrikkakara has recorded a similar spike in cases with 17 people testing positive from the area. They were among the 114 people in the district who tested positive on Saturday. Of the total, 111 people have acquired the infection through local contact, while three people arrived from outside the State. From West Kochi, a total of 19 people have tested positive in Palluruthy, Mattancherry and Fort Kochi. Three health workers have tested positive – an ASHA worker from Mattancherry, a health worker at the Karuvelipady Taluk Hospital and another health worker at a private hospital in Aluva. A total of 98 people recovered and tested negative, and 1828 patients are being treated for the disease in the district. About 3415 samples were sent for testing, both from government facilities and private laboratories and hospitals.
23 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,Kerala||Coronavirus | Kerala reports 2,172 new cases and 1,292 recoveries||Kerala reported 2,172 new cases of COVID 19 and 1,292 recoveries  on Saturday.The cumulative case burden of the State ever since the outbreak began has now reached 56,354 cases. With 36,539 persons having recovered from their disease, the number of active cases or patients currently undergoing treatment in hospitals across the State is 19,538.COVID 19-related mortality has been on the rise in the State in proportion to the increase in cases. On Saturday, 15 more deaths which occurred between Aug 10 and 20 were confirmed as COVID-19 deaths by the State Health department, taking the State’s cumulative death toll to 218. Of these, nine deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, two each from Thrissur and Ernakulam and one each from Malappuram and Kannur.Of the 2,172 new cases reported, 2,018  cases, including that of 54 healthcare workers, were locally acquired infections. The authorities have not been able to trace the source of infection in at least 153 cases. The capital district of Thiruvananthapuram, which has been consistently reporting between 400 -500 cases every day since the past one month or more, reported 464 cases on Saturday, of which 459 cases, including that of nine healthcare workers were locally acquired infections. The case graph has been on a steady climb in Malappuram too, where 395 cases were reported on Saturday. In all districts, local transmission of COVID 19 is rampant, with over 80 % of the cases being acquired locally. Kozhikode has 232 new cases, Palakkad 184, Thrissur 179, Kasaragod 119, Ernakulam 114, Kottayam 104, Pathanamthitta 93, Alapuzha 87, Kollam 77, Kannur 62, Idukki 37 and Wayanad 25 .The State has currently quarantined over 1.8 lakh persons, of whom, 16,511 persons with mild symptoms are isolated in hospitals. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours, utilising various diagnostic modalities  are 37,027. The number of hot spots in the State at present has gone up to  616 on Saturday.
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,Tamil Nadu||Honour for T.N. teachers||Innovative teaching, effective use of technology and holistic development of students are the guiding principles of the two teachers from Tamil Nadu who have been selected by the Department of School Education and Literacy, Ministry of Education, to receive the National Award to Teachers for 2020. For S. Dhilip, an English teacher from the Government Higher Secondary School, Sathyamangalam, Villupuram district, his teaching career has been one filled with effectively integrating innovative technology with classroom learning. “As a language teacher, it is important that I ascertain the learning levels and needs of each student in my class. For this, my teaching should not be limited to simply reading out what is given in the textbooks, but rather come up with innovative teaching methodologies that will ensure better communication skills,” said Mr. Dhilip, who has been in the profession for over 20 years now. Emphasising the view that teaching a language should not be limited to writing exams or simply reading the material given, Mr. Dhilip said that he had brought in technology to make learning more fun for his students. “To help develop their reading skills, I came up with a digital banner with 44 phonetic sounds. ‘Gamified grammar’, another module developed by me, focused on teaching grammar through games,” he said. For gamified grammar, the students are taken to the playground and are taught a grammar rule by playing a game there. In addition, they also learn through virtual tools. A learning module that Mr. Dhilip developed was also adopted by other schools in his district.     Holistic development is the key to shaping up students, said R.C. Saraswathi, headmistress, Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Ashok Nagar, who has also been selected for the national award. A teacher for over 33 years, Ms. Saraswathi took over as the headmistress of the school in 2014. “My predecessors had worked a lot for the quality of education. Children are very knowledgeable and it is our responsibility to make learning interesting for them,” said Ms. Saraswathi, who is also a chemistry teacher. “We have an Atal Tinkering Lab and a Maths Lab on the school campus and ICT tools are used in classrooms to make learning interesting. I firmly believe that teachers need to innovate and engage with students and not limit themselves to textbooks,” she said. Students are encouraged to sign up for several co-curricular activities, including music. They also sign up for the National Cadet Corps, Guides, the Red Ribbon club and several other volunteering initiatives, she said. “When children pass out of our school, we want them to be moulded into socially responsible citizens. This is possible thanks to the efforts of our team of teachers, parents, parent-teacher association and support from the School Education Department,” she said. Mr. Dhilip and Ms. Saraswathi are among the 47 teachers who have been selected from across the country for the national awards. They will receive a citation and a cash award. The date for the awards distribution will be announced soon by the Centre.
23 August 2020||CHENNAI,Tamil Nadu||Tamil Nadu reports 5,975 fresh infections, 97 fatalities||Tamil Nadu recorded 5,975 fresh cases of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the total number of active patients in the State to 53,541. The State’s tally climbed to 3,79,385.  At the same time, 6,047 persons were discharged from various facilities following treatment, taking the total number of discharged persons to 3,19,327. The northern districts continued to register a higher number of cases. Chennai continued to lead, with 1,298 more persons testing positive.  A total of 1,040 persons were discharged in the city on Sunday, taking the total number of those under treatment to 13,223. The city’s tally touched 1,25,389. While Chengalpattu recorded 352 fresh cases, Cuddalore saw 380. In Tiruvallur, 354 more persons tested positive, whereas in Kancheepuram 222 cases were identified, health officials said. Among the western districts, Coimbatore saw 392 cases. In Salem, 261 persons tested positive.  The State recorded 97 deaths due to the infection. Of this, private hospitals accounted for 21 deaths and government ones 76.  Among the deceased, 10 had no co-morbidities, the daily bulletin of the Department of Public Health stated. All the 10 were admitted as patients in government medical college hospitals.  The number of infected persons aged over 60 rose to 48,497 on Sunday.   Four persons among those who died were aged over 90.  Among them was a 91-year-old man who had no co-morbidities. He was admitted to a private hospital on August 16 and tested positive for the infection on Friday. He died on Saturday due to acute respiratory disorder caused by COVID-19 pneumonia.  A 95-year-old man from Karur, who was admitted on August 11 to the government medical college hospital there, after testing positive for COVID-19, died on August 18 due to bronchial asthma, which exacerbated his condition.  A 92-year-old man from Chennai, who was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on August 18 after testing positive for the infection a day before, died on August 20. He had a history of severe hypertension.  A 92-year-old man from the city, who was admitted to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on August 20, after testing positive for COVID-19 two days earlier, died on August 21. He had coronary artery disease and was hypertensive.
24 August 2020||CHENNAI ,Tamil Nadu||Political parties slam AYUSH Secretary’s behaviour, seek action against him||Political parties have demanded action against AYUSH Ministry Secretary Vaidya Rajesh Kotecha for asking non-Hindi speaking delegates to leave a virtual training programme, with DMK president M.K. Stalin terming his action as arising out of “linguistic arrogance”.  In a statement, Mr. Stalin accused the Central government of attempting to impose Hindi. “The Centre’s first agenda seems to be Hindi imposition. It is working to destroy all languages of all the States and is bent on destroying Tamil, instead of giving the classical language its due respect,” he said.  Referring to the incident at the airport where DMK MP and his sister Kanimozhi was questioned about her being an Indian citizen since she did not speak Hindi, he said if the government had taken action against the officer at that time itself, the AYUSH issue would not have happened.  He asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take strict action against Mr. Kotecha and ensure such incidents are not repeated in future. “The Chief Minister should also pressurise the Prime Minister to ensure that such training is imparted only in English, which is the link language of the country,” he said.  Ms. Kanimozhi and Congress MP S. Jothimani wrote to Shripad Naik, Minister of State, Ministry of AYUSH, seeking action against the official. “I would like to remind you about the promise made by the then PM Jawaharlal Nehru on August 7, 1959, on the floor of the Lok Sabha that as long as the non-Hindi speaking States require English as an associate language, it will continue for an indefinite period,” Ms. Kanimozhi said. Pointing out that Hindi and English were official languages of the Union and there were 22 languages listed as official lanaguages in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution, she demanded an inquiry into the incident and action against officials “who have acted in a manner discriminating our fellow citizens on the basis of language”.  Ms. Jothimani, in her letter terming Mr. Kotecha’s actions as “callous attitude towards handling the pandemic”, said his action was disappointing, and demanded action against him. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri said the action of the Secretary went against the provisions of the Constitution and recalled Mr. Nehru’s statement on the language policy on the floor of the Parliament. He demanded that the PM immediately order that all such training programmes would be held in Hindi and English. MDMK general secretary Vaiko, Dravidar Kazhagam president K. Veeramani and PMK founder S. Ramadoss also condemned the AYUSH Secretary’s action and demanded action against him.
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,Tamil Nadu||Former DGP L.N. Venkatesan passes away||Former DGP L.N. Venkatesan passed away at his house in Kottivakkam on Sunday. He was 82. His wife Rani Venkatesan was a former Congress MLA. Beela Rajesh, Secretary, Commercial Taxes and Registration, Tamil Nadu, is his daughter.  Mr. Venkatesan joined service in 1962 and retired in 1996 in the rank of a DGP. “During his prime years in service, he worked for the CBI. He was also Inspector General (IG), Crime,” said Rajesh Das, ADGP, Prohibition Enforcement Wing, Tamil Nadu police, and Mr. Venkatesan’s son-in-law. Mylapore MLA R. Nataraj, who is also a former DGP, recalled working under him. “He was the DIG, Chengalpattu range, and I was the Kancheepuram SP. He had a very large jurisdiction to cover. He was a sharp person and had good command over the English language. He was good at writing reports,” Mr. Nataraj said. Mr. Venkatesan is survived by his wife, two daughters and a son.
23 August 2020||CHENNAI,Tamil Nadu||Fire at Koyambedu omnibus terminus; three buses gutted||Panic gripped Koyambedu omnibus terminus as fire broke out from one of the stationary buses on Sunday and spread to other buses. Three buses were completely gutted but no one was injured.  Over 50 buses owned by private operators have been parked in the terminus since the beginning of lockdown. Around Sunday noon, a thick smoke billowed from one of the buses. The fire leapt quickly and spread to four more buses. On information, the personnel of Fire and Rescue Services rushed to the spot. They were pressed into service from fire stations in Koyambedu, Ashok Nagar, J.J.Nagar, Egmore and Ambattur. P.Chidambaram, fire officer of Kilpauk station said, “Around 25 personnel from five stations got to work. Two water lorries, two water tenders and a foam equipment were deployed. Fighting for nearly one hour, we brought the fire under control.”  The fire torched the inside of three buses. Two more buses were damaged externally. Koyambedu police have booked a case and are investigating.
23 August 2020||MADURAI,Tamil Nadu||Webinars on small scale businesses to be conducted||The extension centre of the MSME sector, Madurai, plans to organise a series of webinars from August 25 to August 29 on running a business. The discussions from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. will include steps to set up small scale industry, according to the press statement.  Participants will learn about how to start a business. Details on how to write a business plan will also be shared. They will also learn about the support available for starting business from the government and financial institutions as well. The programme is aimed at catering to the needs of aspiring entrepreneurs such as skilled workers, homemakers, educated unemployed youth and students. Those who complete the programmes will receive e-certificates issued by the Government of India.  For registration, participants can log on to www.ppdcagra.dcmsme.gov.in according to the press statement.
23 August 2020||August 23 2020 17:06 IST,Tamil Nadu||Sand smugglers targeting Gundar riverbed near Tiruchuli||Large-scale sand smuggling has been reportedly taking place in Gundar riverbed and adjacent patta lands, especially in Udayanampatti panchayat near here in Virudhunagar district, in the last few days. “Though a team of police visits our village, the smugglers manage to take away huge heaps of sand kept ready on the riverbed,” said a 70-year-old landlord, T Gurusamy. A youth alleged that after scooping out sand for several feet deep on the riverbed, the smugglers were now targeting the farm lands along the Gundar river. They were using heavy machinery and trucks. “This has been going on for the last one week. We have complained to the Village Administrative Officer,” he said. However, the Udayanampatti VAO, Kesavan, said no written complaint had come from the patta holders about the sand smuggling. He said the heaps of sand found on riverbed were not within his jurisdiction. Mr. Gurusamy said the farm land along the riverbed were rendered uncultivable for the last few years due to lack of adequate rain. “Now, there are only thorny bushes on the land. But, if the level of land goes down due to deep mining of sand, agriculture cannot be taken for ever,” he said. Mr. Gurusamy, who now lives in Sivakasi, said that neither he nor other farm owners were able to stop the mining as the crime took place at night. Udayanampatti panchayat president M. Jayamurugan said that smuggling was taking place at nights on many stretches of the Gundar river. “With respect to my village, I am told the landlords themselves have allowed sand mining for money,” he said. A revenue officer said that despite patrolling done by their staff, the smugglers were good at quickly switching their places. “We are not able to stop the crime,” he said. Even a zonal deputy tahsildar, Sivanandi, who chased a sand-laden lorry near Tamilpadi, was attacked by the smugglers. His motorbike was damaged by them, he added. Tiruchuli tahsildar S. Ravichandran said a meeting of officials from revenue, police and mining department had been called for on Monday to discuss the issue. “We have been instructed to deal strictly with the sand smugglers. Hereafter, the revenue officials are not going to stop with just imposing fine. Under the new guidelines, the Revenue Divisional Officer will order filing of first information report by the police and the owner of vehicle involved in sand smuggling needs to get the seized vehicle from the court of law,” he said.
24 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,Tamil Nadu||A community in Ooty saves a school||When Mr. R. Karthik, Block Education Officer (Coonoor), enrolled his eldest daughter in the Nanjanad Panchayat Union Primary School near Udhagamandalam, it represented a huge turnaround in fortunes for the school. From having a student strength of just 16 children just a few years ago, the initiatives taken by the local villagers to modernize the school has led to a steady increase in student numbers. As of 2019, 142 students were getting their education at the school, with their strength expected to increase once again this year. Mr. Karthik, speaking to The Hindu, said that he, along with other residents of Nanjanad, who had studied at the school, had been saddened by the drop in student strength at the institution. “Many of us feared that the school might be closed down and decided to save it,” he said. A door-to-door campaign to enrol eligible students was launched, and parents were asked about what measures to be taken so that they could send their children to the school. As most of them wanted their children to study in schools where the medium of instruction was English, the group decided to employ teachers who could speak, write and teach the lessons in English. “We now have seven teachers who are paid for by the parents of the children,” said Mr. Karthik. An educational trust has been formed by the parents to cover the expenses of hiring the teachers, and to pay for transporting the kids to and from school and for also purchasing additional produce for the children’s noon meals. The cost of these additional facilities comes to around ₹1 lakh each month, and so the parents of each child enrolled at the school pay the school₹1,000 a month, said local residents. “The government is doing the most it can to make affordable education possible. However, getting local communities involved in keeping the schools thriving and relevant will ensure that our village schools will keep functioning and there won’t be a need to send our children to private schools,” said Mr. Karthik.
23 August 2020||CHENNAI,Tamil Nadu||Man arrested for kidnapping child||The Tirutanni police have arrested a man who kidnapped his relative’s three-year-old son and demanded a ransom of ₹ 1 crore from the boy’s parents, on Saturday.  According to police, Mubarak is a resident of R. K. Pettai in Tiruvallur district. He lives with his wife Safiya and their three children. On Saturday afternoon, his youngest son Azharuddin was playing outside his house. A little while later, he was found to be missing. His parents searched for him everywhere, but could not find him.  After some time, someone called Mubarak over the phone and demanded a ransom of ₹ 1 crore to release the child. Frightened, he informed the police and vehicle checks were conducted across the district to rescue the child and nab the offender. Police said that the kidnapper, probably frightened, left the child by the side of a road in R. K. Pettai and fled the spot. Some passers-by spotted the child and informed the police. The child was handed over to the parents and the police nabbed the kidnapper by tracking his mobile phone. He was identified as Sulaiman, a relative of Mubarak’s. He has been arrested. Further investigations are on. (Childline operates a helpline --1098-- for children in distress across the country)
23 August 2020||CHENNAI,Tamil Nadu||Waste powers lights in a village in Tiruvallur district||A bio-gas plant installed in Varadarajapuram near Nazarathpet with the help of the Tiruvallur district administration, is helping the village power its street lights. Apart from cow dung from the village, waste from hotels in the Poonamallee Municipality is fed into the plant to generate electricity for the street lights in the hamlet. The manure that is gathered at the end of the process is distributed to the farmers in the district, free of cost. There are 920 houses in the village and one-third of them depend on cattle for their livelihood. “For many years, the residents would flush the cow dung from their premises, and it accumulated in the pond in the village. This caused a lot of health concerns in the locality,” said V. Kalaiarasu, panchayat president, Varadarajapuram. To mitigate the problem, the Tiruvallur district administration embarked upon a ‘Waste to Wealth’ programme in the village. Tiruvallur District Collector Mageswari Ravikumar took the help of Carbon Loops Private Limited to install the bio-gas plant at a cost of ₹60 lakh. “The cow dung and other food waste is dumped into the plant. Now we are relieved,” said Mr. Kalaiarasu. Kern Agrawal, director, Carbon Loops Private Limited, who formed the company along with his wife Ranjini. P in 2017, said that the equipment can handle two metric tonnes of waste at a time, and the process of converting waste to bio-gas takes 21 days. “We are planning to illuminate 20 street lights from the electricity generated from the plant. Apart from the village, the food waste from 14 hotels in Poonamallee is also brought here. This helps the hotels in waste management,” he said. Ms. Ravikumar said that the hotels find this a useful way to manage their waste. “The by-product of the process is high-quality organic fertilizer which will be given to farmers in the district to help enrich their soil and improve the quality of the produce,” she said. Given the benefits of the project and the cooperation of the community, similar projects are planned in Bandikavanoor and Pattatraiperumbadur panchayats in Tiruvallur district.
23 August 2020||CHENNAI,Tamil Nadu||Next Tamil Nadu Assembly session: Speaker visits Kalaivanar Arangam to consider venue||Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly Speaker, P. Dhanapal, on Saturday visited the Kalaivanar Arangam on Wallajah Road, as the venue is being considered as an option for the next Assembly session. The Hindu, had on Friday, reported that the multi-purpose hall on the third floor of the Kalaivanar Arangam was being actively considered for holding the Assembly session due next month, since it would provide scope to ensure physical distancing norms for legislators. Speaking to reporters after his visit, Mr. Dhanapal said Kalaivanar Arangam was being considered as an option for the Assembly session. “No decision has been taken yet,” he told reporters. When asked whether any other places were being considered, Mr. Dhanapal said the decision would be made public later. Assembly Secretary K. Srinivasan accompanied the Speaker.
23 August 2020||Tiruvannamalai,Tamil Nadu||American woman in Tiruvannamalai assaulted, overpowers perpetrator, hands him over to police||The police have arrested a 38-year-old man, posing like a mendicant, who attempted to rape a 30-year-old American woman in Tiruvannamalai on Sunday morning. Since the woman knew martial arts, she overpowered him and handed him over to the police.  According to police, the woman came to Tiruvannamalai in March and was planning to return after visiting Ramana Ashram. However, she was stranded here due to the lockdown. She extended her visa, and took a house on rent at the Girivalam Path recently.  On Sunday morning, when she was outside, a mendicant walked towards her with a weapon. He pushed her inside her house and attempted to rape her. "However, the man did not know that she was trained in martial arts. She overpowered him easily and raised an alarm. Hearing her shout, village residents rushed to help her. They nabbed the man and informed the police,” said a police officer. The police took him to the station and during inquiry, he revealed his name was Manikandan. He was 34 and was from Rasipuram near Namakkal. “For the past 17 years, he has been visiting pilgrimage centres across the country. He went to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Himachal Pradesh and six months ago, he came to Tiruvannamalai. He was sleeping on the pavement,” said the officer. Further investigations are on. The police are checking if he has any cases against him. “There are a lot of mendicants staying along the Girivalam Path. Initially, many of them were provided with identity cards. We are planning to collect their biometric details to keep track. There may be a few who have found refuge here after committing a crime elsewhere. Some may have grown their hair and beards in order to avoid getting detected. We have to identify them,” the officer said.
24 August 2020||CHENNAI,Tamil Nadu||Over 60,000 new jobs created in June in Tamil Nadu’s formal sector||As many as 61,225 new jobs were created in Tamil Nadu’s formal sector in June 2020, which has been the best month in the first quarter of 2020-21 (April-June period). However, the numbers for May have been revised now to a negative 9,675, from the previously-disclosed positive figure of 17,207 jobs, which had raised eyebrows among experts. Job creation is measured in the number of new net enrolments made with the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO).     The numbers for April 2020 have been revised to negative -25137 from negative -14098, mentioned in the July data release. “The EPFO data indicates that the economy is improving but at a slow pace from what it was in April, thereby triggering improvement in hiring. However, June numbers would still be low in comparison to pre-COVID-19 levels,” Ms. Rituparna Chakraborty, co-founder, TeamLease Services, a staffing firm, said. She also pointed out that it is very hard to infer why there is a huge revision in May numbers. “The easiest conclusion could be that there is an error in computation. However, that is mere speculation.” “The August 20 report clearly points to the increased job market growth in June, as compared with April and May. However, there is a huge revision of data for April and May between the report furnished in July and now,” K.E. Raghunathan, convener of the Consortium of Indian Associations said. He pointed out that an upward revision is understandable, as a few establishments would have filed their PF returns late due to COVID-19, but a downward and that too negative revision calls for more understanding of the methodology, he said. A footnote by EPFO said the data is provisional as updation of employees records is a continuous process and gets updated in subsequent months and estimates may include temporary employees whose contributions may not be continuous for the entire year. Aditya Narayan Mishra, CEO of CIEL HR Services, a staffing firm, pointed out that the revision only indicates the volatile nature of the operating environment and the job market. “Layoffs might have happened in May and are getting reflected now,” he said. Saundarya Rajesh, founder-president of diversity and inclusion consulting firm, Avtar Group, said that there are three categories of jobs – self-employed, employees on payroll of organisations and those in consulting roles in organisations. The EPFO data captures only the trends with regards to employees on payroll, while self-employed and those on consulting roles don’t have to comply with statutory requirements like provident fund and gratuity, she pointed out. Ms. Rajesh said the job category of those on payroll and consulting roles saw a combined dip of 35% in the March-June period, but things have recovered in July and the drop has come down to 18%. She noted that the IT/ITES industry, banking and financial services industry as well as manufacturing industries saw a setback in April and May, but have recovered in June and July, but the hospitality industry including hotels, restaurants and catering have taken a big hit and are yet to recover.
24 August 2020||CHENNAI ,Tamil Nadu||Actor Suriya’s Soorarai Pottru to release on Amazon Prime||‘Soorarai Pottru’ starring actor Suriya, will have a direct release on OTT platform, Amazon Prime, on October 30. This makes it one of the first big Tamil films to see a direct OTT release this year, given the uncertainty about when theatres will open again. From the proceeds of the sale of the film, Suriya said that ₹5 crore would be given to the needy, film industry workers and frontline workers leading the battle against COVID-19. Produced by the actor’s production house 2D entertainment and Guneet Monga, ‘Soorarai Pottru’ is said to be based on the life of G.R. Gopinath, the founder of Air Deccan and has been directed by Sudha Kongara. “My production house, 2D Entertainment has so far produced and released eight films and another 10 films are under production. It is the producer’s duty to ensure that a film created by investing the creativity and hard work of artistes and technicians, reaches the audience in the right time. Only then will the film, and the people who put their souls into it, get the due recognition they deserved,” said the actor, in a statement, announcing the decision to release the film on an OTT platform. Acknowledging several years of hard work put in by director Sudha Kongara, Suriya said that the film would be a milestone in his career and that he knew several people were eagerly waiting to see it in the theatres. “But the current situation does not permit the same. If this long wait continues, the anticipation on the film may get drastically diluted. This will not only affect me but also the people associated with my ongoing productions and their families who would have to go through unnecessary hardship,” he said and emphasised his responsibility as a producer and said that this exceeded that of his as an actor. Stating that he hoped for his fellow industry associates and fans to accept this conscious decision taken by him as a producer, Suriya said that the movie would definitely be one close to everyone’s hearts. “Time will come very soon when people can enjoy watching movies in theatres. I assure and truly believe that I can work extra hard and release one or two movies in the theatres by the time they open.” With theatres having remained shut since March, a few Tamil films have released on OTT platforms. The most notable among them have been the Jyotika-starrer ‘Ponmagal Vandhal’ and ‘Penguin’, starring Keerthy Suresh.
23 August 2020||CUDDALORE,Tamil Nadu||NLCIL wins Swachhta Hi Seva award||Public Sector Undertaking (PSU) NLC India Ltd (NLCIL) has bagged the ‘Swachhta Hi Seva’ (cleanliness is service) 2019 award, for transforming Neyveli township into a plastic-free, clean and green campus. According to Rakesh Kumar, Chairman-cum-Managing Director of NLCIL, the award was conferred to three units of the PSU - Township administration office (First rank), Thermal Power Station -I (second rank) and Mines Sub-stores (third rank). NLCIL implemented the Swachhta Hi Seva programme in two phases -- the first phase from September 11 to November 2, 2019 and the second phase from October 3 to 27, 2019. As part of the programme, all the thermal units, mines and service units including the corporate office, township administration, vigilance office, general hospital, material management complex and learning and development centre participated actively for the national award. “An awareness drive on the adverse impact of single-use plastics on the environment, and animal and aquatic life was carried out among the population in an effective manner,” Mr. Kumar said. Pictorial displays were put up and street plays were staged at public places on health, hygiene, the environment and ecology. School students were sensitised on the importance of cleanliness and environment protection and social media platforms were also leveraged to create awareness on the good upkeep of the surroundings, Mr. Kumar said. NLCIL has been complying with the programmes of the Union government and the results are showing in the form of awards received, he added.
23 August 2020||HYDERABAD,Telangana||Gazetted job for Dr Naresh’s wife||Telangana Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has given his assent to give a gazetted job to wife of Dr Naresh Kumar, said State Health Minister Eatala Rajender on Sunday. A decision was taken to announce ex-gratia.  The 35-year-old government doctor who contracted COVID-19 died on August 7. He was Deputy District Medical and Health Officer in Bhadradri Kothagudem and headed Manuguru based quarantine centre. He succumbed to the infectious disease after battling it for over a week at hospitals in Hyderabad. Doctors and staff recalled selfless service offered by Dr. Naresh.  Nearly two weeks ago, Telangana Public Health Doctors Association and other association members have submitted a representation to the Health Minister to extend help to Dr. Naresh’s wife G. Pavani and other family members. The medical fraternity has been demanding ex-gratia. Mr Rajender said that the State government will provide financial help along with ex-gratia from Central government.
23 August 2020||Hyderabad ,Telangana||Telangana Congress backs the Gandhi family||After a letter from senior Congress leaders to the party president Sonia Gandhi preferring a ‘continuous and visible leadership’ stirred a hornet’s nest, the Telangana Congress leaders fully backed the Gandhi family questioning the leakage of the letter to the media.  TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said he was surprised by the senior leaders leaking the letter despite knowing the existence of several platforms open for discussion of their grievances. He said party cadre understands that the Gandhi family holds the party together and without them at the helm of affairs party will not stay together in several States. Arguing that Mr. Rahul Gandhi should immediately take over, he said there was no alternative now, more so, at a time when the country needs the party to fight the divisive forces.  Expressing his anguish at the seniors, CLP leader BhattiVikramarka reminded that it is Rahul Gandhi who is leading the tirade against the Modi government when all these seniors laid low despite enjoying high positions when the party was in power. Mr. Vikramarka reminded that it was under the leadership of Sonia Gandhi that the party rode to power in 2004 and 2009 elections. In fact, the leaders now calling for sweeping changes were part of those governments and enjoyed big positions in the government. “Their behaviour is irresponsible,” he said and favoured Mr. Rahul Gandhi to lead the party. Former PCC president Ponnala Lakshmaiah too argued in favour of the Gandhi family and said it was unfortunate that the party seniors chose to leak the letter to the media when there was every opportunity for them to discuss the issues internally. Their good intentions on strengthening the party are negated by the media leak, he said adding that the party should be headed by a member of the Gandhi family.  Marri Shashidhar Reddy, former minister and senior leader tweeted saying leaking the letter leads to suspicion behind their motive when the Congress Working Committee (CWC) meeting was scheduled. “How can this be justified or defended,” asked. AICC spokesperson, Sravan Dasoju also took to twitter saying Rahul Gandhi was the Gen Y leader with conviction for social justice, compassion towards the poor, courageous to fight the facist forces and commitment to protect the spirit of democracy.  Former MP and TPCC working president, Ponnam Prabhakar said it was not proper to confuse the cadre and the people in such a crisis time with such leaked letters when top leaders had access to the Gandhi family and also party forums for raising any issue. “In the present circumstances only Rahul Gandhi can lead the party and he had the qualities and the charisma to keep the flock together, and also address the issues raised by the party leaders,” he said.
23 August 2020||HYDERABAD,Telangana||Sizeable flood continues into reservoirs despite let-up in rain||In spite of some let-up in rains, heavy flood continues to reach all major reservoirs in the Krishna Basin in Telangana and Andhra Pradesh with the help of flood being discharged from Almatti-Narayanpur and Tungabhadra dams in Karnataka. Sizeable inflows are expected to continue further into many of the major dams across Krishna and its tributaries in Karnataka and Maharashtra following good rainfall recorded in the catchment areas. According to a Central Water Commission bulletin, 8.6 cm rain was recorded in Agumbe, 6.8 cm in Mahabaleshwar and 5.3 cm in Koyna during the 24-hour period up to 8.30 a.m. on Sunday and it would help continuation of inflows in Almatti and Tungabhadra dams. As of Sunday evening, Almatti was getting a flood of about 2.04 lakh cusecs and releasing 1 lakh cusecs. Narayanpur in the downstream was getting 1 lakh cusecs and discharging about 77,000 cusecs flood. Further downstream, Jurala was getting 2.53 lakh cusecs and discharging about 2.28 lakh cusecs flood. Similarly, Tungabhadra was getting over 45,000 cusecs flood and releasing about 35,000 cusecs into the river. Meanwhile, Srisailam was getting about 3.19 lakh cusecs flood as of 9 p.m. on Sunday and discharging 2.2 lakh cusecs from the eight spillway gates lifted for 10 feet height each and another 30,600 cusecs flood was being let into river after power generation in the right bank hydel station of Andhra Pradesh. Similarly, Nagarjunasagar was getting inflows of about 2.49 lakh cusecs and discharging about 2.1 lakh cusecs from the 10 spillway gates lifted for 15 feet height each. Another 28,500 cusecs was also being let into the river after power generation. Further downstream, Pulichintala project was getting about 2.94 lakh cusecs flood and discharging about 2.29 lakh cusecs of it towards Prakasam Barrage. As of Sunday morning, over 72 tmcft of water has been discharged into the sea from Prakasam Barrage and over 1,520 tmcft from Dowlaiswaram Barrage across Godavari this year. In the Godavari Basin, Sriramsagar was getting over 23,000 cusecs of inflows with its storage across 77 tmcft on Sunday evening against its capacity of 90.3 tmcft. Similarly, Singur was getting over 1,100 cusecs of inflows with 2.81 tmc ft of storage and Nizamsagar getting 2,000 cusecs with storage reaching 1.7 tmc ft. With reduced inflows, the authorities are building up level in Mid Manair. Lower Manair and Kaddam dams and Yellampally Barrage. As on Sunday morning, the total flood received in Jurala this season was 380 tmcft and it was 430 tmcft in Srisailam, 199 tmcft in Nagarjunasagar, 61 tmcft in Pulichintala and 113.31 tmcft at Prakasam Barrage.
23 August 2020||Hyderabad ,Telangana||Revanth, ShabbirAli visit deceased family members||Terming the CID inquiry into the fire incident at Srisailam Left Bank power generation unit as an eyewash, TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy demanded that criminal cases be booked against the Power Minister Jagadish Reddy and Managing Director of TS Transco and TS Genco D. Prabhakar Rao for their alleged negligence.  The Congress MP alleged that the incident occurred due to utter negligence of the State government as technicians had already warned the government about the glitches and Mr. Jagadish Reddy and Mr. Prabhakar Rao failed to review on the warnings ultimately leading to the incident. Criminal cases should be filed against them, he demanded. He also announced that he would raise the issue in Parliament seeking a CBI inquiry.  Mr. Revanth Reddy along with former minister Shabbir Ali spoke to the reporters after visiting the family members of deputy engineer Bathini Srinivas Goud and Uzma Fatima, who lost their lives in the incident. They consoled the family members and said they would put pressure on the government to get them all the benefits at the earliest.  He also questioned why Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had not visited the incident site or the hospital to meet the injured employees. This attitude would demoralise all the employees in the State and wanted the CM to assure the families that they would be taken care of by the government.  The Congress leaders also visited the residence of Uzma Fatima and consoled her father Mohammed Zubair and other family members. Mr. Shabbir Ali said despite being in danger Uzma Fatima tried to extinguish the fire to save public property worth hundreds of crores and saved four lives. He said all the employees had the opportunity to escape from the scene but they stayed back to douse the fire which was evident from the videos that have gone viral.  Mr. Shabbir Ali demanded the government to pay compensation of ₹ 1 crore each irrespective of the ranks. Their families should be given a plot of at least 500 sq yards each besides giving suitable government job to one member of their families. He said Uzma passed her engineering with distinction and got the job in the Energy Department under the 4% BC-E quota introduced by the previous Congress regime.
23 August 2020||KHAMMAM,Telangana||Sudden spike in Khammam district||The district witnessed a sudden spurt in the number of COVID-19 cases with as many as 913 cases reported from across the district in the past three days.  On Friday, it recorded the highest single day spike of 385 cases, followed by as many as 296 cases on Saturday and 232 cases on Sunday, sources said. Meanwhile, in a statement, Collector R.V. Karnan said full-fledged COVID-19 diagnostic and treatment services were being offered to needy across the district. The district, so far, received as many as 12,207 rapid antigen testing kits and around 8,746 persons have undergone the tests.  Of those, 2,152 persons tested positive for COVID-19.  This apart, COVID diagnostic tests are being conducted at the TrueNat testing centre in the district headquarters hospital and a RT-PCR based testing centre at Mamata General and Super-specialty hospital. As many as 67 COVID patients are presently undergoing treatment at the 400-bed special isolation ward in the district headquarters hospital. The entire requisite infrastructure is available at the hospital and 15 new medical officers were appointed on a temporary basis in the hospital for COVID healthcare services recently.
23 August 2020||NALGONDA,Telangana||Nalgonda hospital sealed for ‘overcharging corona patient’||District Collector Prashant J. Patil on Saturday instructed medical officers to seal a private hospital allegedly “for overcharging a COVID-19 patient”.  Following a complaint by an aggrieved family, medical officials inspected Navya Multi-specialty Hospital at Bottuguda in the town and found that the management was billing patients even without conducting the COVID-19 tests.  Reportedly, the complaint received was about a patient who was charged ₹6 lakh, at the rate ₹50,000 per day, for COVID-19 treatment. District Medical and Health Officer A. Kondal Rao, who inspected the facility along with his deputies and officials from the police department, said the hospital was admitting patients with symptoms of cold and fever, and were charging high rates after labelling them coronavirus patients.  “The hospital is also not approved to provide COVID-19 treatment to patients,” another official part of the inspection said.  Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath said five persons of the hospital management were booked for cheating and extortion, and all of them were remanded.  Medical officials said that the department will intensify raids and randomly inspect private hospitals in the district to check medical malpractice.
23 August 2020||HYDERABAD,Telangana||Telangana’s COVID cases number breaches 1 lakh mark||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana crossed 1 lakh on Friday. With 2,474 new cases on August 21, the total stood at 1,01,865. The first case in the State was detected on March 2. While the first 10,000 cases were recorded in 115 days (March 2-June 24), 90,000 more cases were recorded in 58 days. The last set of 10,000 cases leading to one lakh mark were recorded in seven days (August 15-21). A total of 1,58,738 tests were performed in this duration. There are two prime reasons for the rapid increase in cases from third week of June. The first is relaxation of lockdown from beginning of June which led to increased movement of people, and subsequent increase in transmission of the virus. However, low number of tests were conducted till mid-June, drawing all-round criticism. The second reason is increase in testing from June 15 in government laboratories, and permission to private labs to conduct tests. After the tests were increased, more cases are being detected. Till June 15, less than 250 cases were being recorded per day. By the end of the month, around 1,000 cases were logged on a daily basis. While it took 115 days to record the first 10,000 cases, it took less than 10 days to detect each of the next nine sets of 10,000 cases till one lakh. Of those, 22,908 are active while 80,586 have recovered, and 755 have died.  The State ranks ninth in terms of total cases across the country. Senior officials from the State Health department earlier said that the cases in GHMC will come down by the end of August while cases will continue to increase in other districts only to decrease by end of September. The 2,474 cases detected on August 21 are highest in a day till date. One of the reasons could be further spike in the number of tests. While around 23,000 samples were tested in a day till August 20, it shot to 43,095 on August 21. And on the following day (August 22), 40,666 tests were conducted, leading to the detection of 2,384 cases. Of those new cases, 472 are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 148 from Nizamabad, 137 from Nalgonda, 131 from Rangareddy, 120 from Karimnagar, 110 from Suryapet, 105 each in Khammam and Jagtial. This clearly indicates that the cases are continuing to surge in districts other than in urban localities.
23 August 2020||HYDERABAD,Telangana||Internal panel told to submit report in 15 days||Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TS-Genco) has constituted a five-member committee to inquire into the causes and circumstances that led to the major fire accident in the Srisailam Left Bank Hydro Electric Station on the night of August 20. The committee has been asked to submit its report within 15 days. According to a circular issued by TS-Genco on Sunday, the committee will be headed by Chairman and Managing Director of the Southern Power Distribution Company of Telangana Ltd (TSSPDCL) G. Raghuma Reddy. Joint Managing Director of TS-Transco C. Srinivasa Rao, Director (Transmission) of TS-Transco T. Jagath Reddy and Director (Projects) of TS-Genco M. Sachidanandam will be its members. Chief Engineer (Generation) of TS-Genco P. Ratnakar Rao will be the convenor of the committee. The committee has been asked to make specific recommendations and measures to be taken to prevent or avert such accidents in future along with its detailed report on the accident. Meanwhile, Member-Secretary of the Southern Region Power Committee (SRPC) A. Balan expressed condolence on the loss of lives of engineers and others at Srisailam Left Bank power house in the accident occurred on August 20. “While watching the accident news, we were moved by the exemplary courage shown by the engineers and staff trying to extinguish the fire,” Mr. Balan said wishing speedy recovery of those injured in the mishap.
23 August 2020||HYDERABAD,Telangana||CID teams gathering info from different sources||For the second consecutive day on Sunday, special teams of Telangana Crime Investigation Department (CID) examined the site of explosion in Srisailam hydel power project.  Reasons behind the massive explosion, which left nine staff members of the project dead and injured several others three days ago, are yet to be ascertained. CID Additional DG Govind Singh and DIG B. Sumathi already visited the place, following the government ordering an investigation into the incident.  Initial reports indicated that a short circuit in the panel boards of the power house could have triggered the explosion. However, this had to be corroborated and ascertained scientifically. The main task before the sleuths of CID now is to establish the source of fire, what ignited it and whether any human error or any other factor was behind the incident.  Led by the two top officials, task-specific special teams were constituted. An action plan was prepared to probe different aspects of the ‘fire accident’. Camping near the site, the CID sleuths began gathering information from the eye-witnesses.  One team collected information on how the electrical circuits, panel boards and switch systems at the blast site are operated. “Different factors result in electric short circuit. It could be due to quality of cables, not replacing old cables, inadequate trip systems,” a police officer supervising investigation from Hyderabad and unwilling to be named said.  What were the safety systems available at the site and was there any element of failure of those systems at the hydel station were other angles the CID sleuths were examining. “Diagnosing electrical sources of ignition is a challenge in fire investigations. There could be one or more possible sources of ignition. This needs to be ascertained,” said the officer.  Investigators are trying to speak with the injured persons as the latter would give first hand account of the incident. Already, they had spoken with some of the staff members working at the plant.  In the inquiries conducted in the past 48 hours and examination of the explosion site, no material raising suspicions of foul play were stumbled upon.
23 August 2020||SURYAPET,Telangana||Last video of AEs in Srisailam powerhouse surfaces||Two days after the fire accident in the State-run hydel station in Srisailam on Friday, which saw nine persons, including five engineers, perish, a brief video of the situation recorded by one of them surfaced on Sunday.  The video of not more than 30 seconds, was reportedly the last recorded conversation between two assistant engineers Dharavath Sundar Naik and Mohan Kumar, who were stuck in the underground station.  Dominated by blaring emergency alarms, the shaky video faintly shows Mr. Naik in a white vest, who was also recording the scenes on his cellphone.  The panic talk between the two engineers ends abruptly, with Mr. Naik telling the other to “Give up hope”.  Sundar Naik: If we remain here, we will be finished  Mohan Kumar: What do we do then? Let’s think for a moment and then leave.  SN: If we keep thinking, this will accelerate too.  MK: No brother, shouldn’t we have some hope?  SN: Difficult, we are finished. Mohan, give up hope.  The video surfaced on Sunday when Prameela, widow of Mr. Naik, switched on the phone and searched for content relating to the accident, if any.  Later speaking to a few television channels over phone, she also said that her husband had called her at 11.45 p.m. that day.  “He told me to take care of myself and the babies. He told that there was no time, that he might be killed in the fire and smoke that was engulfing the whole place. It was only a 30-second call, and my return calls were not answered,” Ms. Prameela said.
23 August 2020||HYDERABAD,Telangana||Heat inside Srisailam underground power house delays damage estimation||High heat in the Srisailam Left Bank underground hydel station of the Telangana State Power Generation Corporation (TS-Genco), even two days after the fire is put off completely, has been hampering even the primary assessment of the extent of damage. A team of Directors of the power utility camping at Eegalapenta in Nagarkurnool district, the nearest location to the power station, have made a vain bid to go beyond certain extent in the underground generation station. The Genco team has come to a primary conclusion that the first two units of the 6x150 megawatt hydel station, which are located towards the entrance side of the tunnel, are in good condition. When contacted, Chairman and Managing Director of TS-Genco D. Prabhakar Rao told The Hindu that efforts would be made to resume power generation over the next couple of weeks in the first two units since they are found to be in good condition. “We may come to some understanding about the extent of damage only after going further inside the power plant. We can also assess the primary cause for the accident only after visiting the plant completely. We will make one more attempt to go further inside on Monday,” the CMD said. Mr. Rao, who reached the Left Bank hydel station around 3 a.m. on Friday along with Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy, camped there till Saturday night overseeing the rescue and fire fighting operations. “Everyone was in panic when we reached there. Smoke that engulfed the tunnel and lack of oxygen killed the seven brave engineers and two employees of a private company although we wished to see them alive till their bodies were brought out by CISF and NDRF teams,” he explained. Stating that they were yet to arrive at a conclusion as what led to the mishap in the state-of-the art hydel generation plant the Genco CMD said all the six units, which were engaged in power generation at the time of the accident did not trip and they had to be isolated from outside by disconnecting the power supply. “Fire and smoke on one side and darkness due to disconnected power supply on the other side made exit from the escape tunnel difficult for the people stuck inside. Four of them had tried their best to reach the escape tunnel but inhalation of smoke made them unconscious two minutes before they could reach the point of exit,” the CMD stated. Meanwhile, the Genco has constituted a four-member senior engineers committee to ascertain the cause of the accident and the circumstance on the night of August 20. The government has also directed the Genco CMD to submit a detailed report along with recommendation on the measures to be taken to prevent such incidents in future.
23 August 2020||HYDERABAD:,Telangana||COVID-19: ‘Rich & developed Telangana’ needs to ramp up testing, says Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy||Telangana State’s position was seventh from the bottom in terms of testing for COVID-19 and there was an abject need to increase the testing in the twin cities and also in the districts, said Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Sunday.  “We have given total freedom to the States to take whatever measures are necessary to contain the spread of the coronavirus. This includes increasing the containment zones, localised lockdowns and other measures as well as testing strategies. I request the government to ramp up testing. A ‘rich and developed’ State like Telangana should take the lead,” he said. Also read: Coronavirus | Telangana continues to witness spike in cases The Minister was addressing the media after launching the Rotary Blood Plasma Bank at Ameerpet and also stated that he was in regular touch with Health Minister E. Rajendra and other officials on the COVID-19 management.  “The Minister also assured us that testing will be increased. We had done a record 10.25 lakh testing throughout the country yesterday. We had already supplied 14 lakh N95 masks, 2.45 lakh PPE kits, 1,400 ventilators, 2.2 lakh TR-PCR kits, 26,000 VTM kits and permitted 17 Government and 32 private labs to test here,” he explained.  Also read: Coronavirus | In a spike, 2,083 test COVID-19 positive in Telangana Mr. Reddy also mentioned Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s remark that if five States, including Telangana, increased the testing numbers, the virus spread could be controlled.  “There is no finality about the vaccine or when it is coming, so we have no other option but to protect ourselves and save our neighbours by wearing masks, social distancing and personal hygiene,” he said, and hailed the initiative to launch the plasma bank. Several lives could be saved through plasma donation but it was necessary to bring about greater awareness and motivate people to donate. “Anyone who has tested negative and without any side effects, can donate after 28 days,” he said. In this context, he had a word of praise for Cyberabad Police Commissioner Sajjanar for initiating an online portal for plasma donation.  Also read: First recipient of plasma therapy in Telangana recovers after multiple setbacks Privacy and safety aspects had been preventing prospective donors from coming forward for the plasma donation whereas patient attendants had no clue about the availability and costs, said Rotary Challa Blood Bank chairman Sharath Chowdhary,  The new plasma facility will ensure that a technician will be sent to the donor’s home for checking for antibodies count and only if a doctor certifies the fitness will the plasma be taken.  “It will not take more than 45 minutes. We will be charging ₹10,500 a unit for those who can pay and it will be free for the poor,” he said. Rotary Club of Hyderabad Deccan V.V.S. N. Raju and others were present. Later, Mr. Reddy visited the isolation facility at the ESIC Medical College & Hospital in Sanatnagar where he was informed by Dean M. Srinivas and Registrar T. Madhuri that a 200-bed ICU facility with inbuilt ‘negative pressure’ would become functional in two weeks. A liquid oxygen plan too was getting ready for ensuring adequate oxygen was available for the needy patients.  The medical college had kept its out-patient wing operating continuously from the lockdown days and more than 7,000 patients had been treated both in the COVID-19 and for other ailments. It had tested 21,000 samples and was keen to enhance the testing capacity to 6000-8000 and sought the Minister’s support to procure a high end machine for the purpose. Plasma therapy too was being undertaken and up to 15 patients had been given the same from about 25 donors, they added.
23 August 2020||Hyderabad,Telangana||Revanth Reddy, Congress leaders arrested on their way to Srisailam||Telangana Congress working president and MP, A. Revanth Reddy was arrested by the police on his way to Srisailam to meet the family members of those who perished in the fire accident in the Left Bank underground Hydel Power generation unit. Mr. Reddy, along with former MP Mallu Ravi and numerous followers, were stopped near Velturu gate in Uppunuthala, and the police refused permission to them to head to the fire accident site stating that the CID enquiry was on. Mr. Reddy told the police that he would not enter the fire accident site already closed by the police for investigation but would like to console the families of those affected. Police did not relent even as Mr. Reddy argued with them as to how they can prevent an elected MP from meeting the people. After a heated argument, he was arrested along with Mr. Mallu Ravi even as the Congress workers raised slogans against the government. They were shifted to Uppunuthala police station. Mr. Reddy released a video blaming the government for the incident in which nine employees lost their lives while a few others were injured. He alleged that technicians had already warned the government about some issues that could lead to accidents at the power unit. However, no review was done so far by the Power Minister Jagadish Reddy and the Chairman and Managing Director of TS Transo and TS Genco D. Prabhakar Rao. The Congress MP said criminal cases should be filed against them for negligence leading to the death of so many engineers and employees. “I want to raise the issue in Parliament seeking a CBI enquiry,” he said. He also refused to leave the police station saying that he would return to Hyderabad only after visiting the affected families. After the arrest Congress activists across the combined Mahabubnagar district staged dharnas protesting against the ‘illegal’ arrests. Nagarkurnool District Congress president, Vamshi Krishna was put under house arrest by the police fearing that he would join Mr. Reddy. Protests were held at all mandal headquarters against the arrests. TPCC president, N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, former CLP leader K. Jana Reddy, AICC Secretary Ch. Vamshichand Reddy and former minister Shabbir Ali condemned the arrests and asked the police to let the Congress leaders visit Srisailam. They accused the government of creating a ‘police raj’ in the State and said that it had become a habit for the State to arrest opposition leaders for no reason. A delegation of the Congress leaders led by AICC secretary A. Sampath Kumar and Youth Congress president,Anil Kumar Yadav went to the DGP M. Mahender Reddy’s residence to submit a memorandum against the arrests. However, they were not allowed in by the police as they had no prior appointment to meet the DGP. They were later arrested and shifted to Goshamahal police station.
23 August 2020||NALGONDA:,Telangana||Nalgonda private hospital sealed for “overcharging COVID-19 patients”||District Collector Prashant J. Patil on Saturday instructed medical officers to seal a private hospital allegedly “for overcharging a COVID-19 patient.”  Following a complaint by an aggrieved family, medical officials inspected Navya Hospital in the town and found that the management was billing patients even without conducting tests.  Reportedly, one patient was charged ₹6 lakh, at ₹50, 000 per day, for COVID-19 treatment which included only supply of oxygen.  District Medical & Health Officer A. Kondal Rao, who inspected the facility along with his deputies and officials from the police department, said the hospital was admitting patients with symptoms of cold and fever, and were charging high rates after labelling them coronavirus patients.  “The hospital is also not approved to provide COVID-19 treatment to patients,” another official part of the inspection said.  Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath said the hospital managers were booked for violations under appropriate sections, and were remanded.  Medical officials said the department will intensify raids and randomly inspect private hospitals in the district to check medical malpractice.
23 August 2020||SANGAREDDY,Telangana||Fire breaks out at solvents waste godown in Telangana, fire fighters roped in||In a major incident, fire broke out at a solvent waste stock point at Bonthapally in Gummadidala mandal on Saturday evening.  Huge clouds of smoke formed and fire engulfed the stock in the premises.  At least five fire engines were roped in to control the fire.  An official stated that any fire accident in a solvent factory could turn it into ashes. PTI adds:  No casualty was reported in the incident. As per the available information, it is suspected that the fire started in godown of the unit and the drums containing solvents started exploding one after another and the fire spread rapidly, Fire department officials said. Seven fire tenders, including two from the Dundigal Airforce Academy, were pressed into service to extinguish the flames, a Fire Department official told PTI, adding the blaze has been brought under control. “The intensity of the fire has been reduced... there is no human loss or injury to anyone. No one was there in the unit at the time of the incident,” the official said. The shed collapsed after the drums exploded, the official added. On August 21, a major fire broke out in the Srisailam hydroelectric power plant located on the Telangana side of the border with Andhra Pradesh leaving nine people dead, most of them engineers, and three seriously injured.
23 August 2020||Kolkata,||Amid pandemic, parties step up membership drive in West Bengal||The Trinamool Congress on Sunday said thousands of youth joined the party as part of its drive to bring in more young people into its fold. While the COVID-19 outbreak has hit economic activities in West Bengal, the State is simultaneously witnessing a surge in membership drive launched by the ruling party and the opposition parties. “The Trinamool Congress is committed to nurturing next-generation leaders and believes this will provide a platform to new faces, who registered through Youth in Politics [YIP], a first-of-its-kind, pan-India platform for youth between 18 and 35 years of age who want to join active electoral politics ,” a party statement said. Also Read | West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee says the legacy of the country is unity in diversity The membership drive launched in 14 districts was facilitated by I-PAC and party leaders Mahua Moitra and Laxmi Ratan Shukla. Trinamool Congress youth wing president Abhishek Banerjee on August 12 said that “about six lakh Jubo Joddhas [Youth Warriors] have selflessly dedicated their time to provide assistance and reach out to distressed during this dual crises of COVID and Amphan.” The Trinamool under the leadership of Mr. Banerjee is trying to rope in new faces before the 2021 Assembly poll. Meanwhile, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership too launched a membership drive. The initiative “Amar Poribar, BJP Poribar [My Family, BJP Family],” was launched by State party president Dilip Ghosh. The State leadership also launched toll-free mobile numbers for new members. The BJP leadership, including party president J.P. Nadda, through a number of virtual rallies, has repeatedly targeted the ruling Trinamool in West Bengal.  Also Read | BJP worker killed in West Bengal While there is a cap on large political gatherings, political activities have not come to a halt during the COVID-19 outbreak in West Bengal. With elections scheduled for next year, these membership drives are only preparations before the final electoral contest scheduled next year.
23 August 2020||Bhopal,||Five of family found dead in M.P.||The Tikamgarh district police on Sunday morning found bodies of five members of a family, including that of a four-year-old boy, hanging at their house  “The cause of the deaths is still unclear, we are investigating the matter,” said Prashant Khare, district Superintendent of Police.  Neighbours had informed the police after the family did not open the main door as a milkman arrived at the house in the morning. Police later broke into the house in Khargapur and found the bodies hanging. No note was found, they said. The deceased have been identified as Dharamdas Soni, 62, a retired government employee, his wife Poona, 55, their son Manohar, 27, daughter-in-law Sonam, 25, and grandson Sanidhya, four. The bodies have been taken to a hospital for post-mortem.  Those in distress may dial helpline 7389366696.
23 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR ,||Now, an app for farmers’ grievances||Odisha is working on a mobile-based application to enable farmers to upload picture of grievances such as water availability in canals and their redressal in a fixed timeframe.  The application being developed through Odisha Computer Application Centre (OCAC) will use command area of projects as geo-fencing region to forward the grievance to the authority concerned .  Under 5T (Teamwork, Technology, Transparency, Time leading to Transformation) governance system, action will be initiated for redressal within a timeframe.  The State Water Resource Department will provide spatial information on sector- wise command area as a web service, which the grievance management application will consume. As per sources, the application is likely to be ready by September this year and inaugurated in the fourth week of the same month.  Top engineers of the Water Resource Department have been asked to make information available regarding irrigation projects to the agriculture departments before the start of cropping season looking at water availability.
23 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Oppn. flays Punjab govt. over curbs||After the Punjab government announced a weekend lockdown in towns and cities of the State, the Opposition parties have hit out at ruling Congress, raising questions about rationality behind the move and accused the government of failing to provide efficient health services to curb COVID-19 spread. While the principal opposition — the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) — termed the decision of lockdown irrational and beyond anybody’s comprehension, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) asked the Congress government to improve health services instead of indulging in coercive shut downs, which the party said were having a devastating effect on small shopkeepers, traders and skilled workers. Senior Akali Dal leader and former Minister Daljeet Singh Cheema said the Congress government was taking unilateral decisions to hide its failures and prevent large-scale protests against its ‘misrule’, and asked the Amarinder Singh regime to strike a balance between lives and livelihood. “The government should improve ambulance services and hospital infrastructure, increase bed strength and recruit more doctors and nurses. It is not doing this at all and instead is forcing lockdowns without any scientific basis. The lockdowns will only result in more crowding in markets when they reopen leading to a further spike in COVID-19 cases. They are simultaneously leading to hardships for shopkeepers and tradesmen,” said Mr. Cheema. Earlier this week, the Punjab government ordered extension of the weekend lockdown with daily night curfew from 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. in all the 167 cities and towns in the State from August 21 in a bid to deal with COVID-19 situation. AAP MLA and leader of the Opposition Harpal Cheema said imposition of lockdown by the government in the name of containing the spread of COVID-19 was completely irrational and beyond anybody’s comprehension.  Mr. Cheema said the lockdown could be scientifically beneficial only if it was implemented for at least 14 days.
23 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||Four held for printing pirated NCERT books||More than 48 hours after the Uttar Pradesh Special Task Force and the Meerut police raided godowns and printing press units in Meerut and Amroha for printing pirated versions of the National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT) books worth crores, the alleged mastermind Sachin Gupta and his uncle and co-accused Sanjeev Gupta were still absconding.  On Saturday evening, the Bharatiya Janata Party suspended Sanjeev Gupta, the vice-president of its Meerut unit, for damaging the image of the party. Meanwhile, the police have arrested four persons, including the supervisor of the godown in Meerut.  On Saturday, the STF recovered around 9 lakh pirated books with NCERT logo from a godown which allegedly belonged to the Guptas in the Partapur area of Meerut, an official release said.  “Four members of the racket have been arrested and 8,90,439 pirated books were recovered from the godown situated on the road between Achhrod and Kashi in Partapura area of Meerut,” the release said.  The STF has also recovered nine computers, bill books, letter pads and visiting cards from what Brajesh Kumar Singh, Deputy Superintendent of Police, STF, described as a “big set up”.  The team also raided a printing facility in the Gajraula town of Amroha which also belonged to the Guptas.  “The counting of pirated books in the Gajaraula unit is still on,” Mr. Singh said, adding NCERT officials have been informed about the raids.
23 August 2020||Jaipur,||J. P. Nadda accuses Congress govt. in Rajasthan of inaction||BJP national president J. P. Nadda on Sunday accused the Congress government in Rajasthan of inaction, betraying people and failing to provide relief to them during the coronavirus-triggered lockdown.  Addressing the party’s Rajasthan unit leader and workers through a videoconference, he said the rising crime graph was a symbol of crumbling administration. “The Ashok Gehlot government has proved inactive during the lockdown. Instead of providing relief, the government has betrayed people,” Nadda said.  He also said, “Rising crime graph in the State is a symbol that the administration is crumbling and the government did nothing except nepotism.” The BJP chief claimed that there has been an increase in the crime rate in the State as atrocities against women have increased by 122% compared to last year and crimes against dalits and tribals grown by 92% and 101% respectively. “I am putting these figures in front of you because this is a reflection of the inhumanity of the Gehlot government, the nepotism, the collapse of the government structure,” he alleged.  In an apparent reference to the recent political crisis in the State in which Congress MLAs were holed up in hotels, Mr. Nadda said that while the people of the State were struggling with coronavirus, Congress leaders were watching movies in hotel rooms and making Italian dishes. “The Chief Minister and his deputy did not meet for the last 18 months. Now, there has been an agreement (between Ashok Gehlot and Sachin Pilot)... don’t know on what grounds it has been done and how long it will last. Mr. Gehlot tried levelling allegations against the BJP. They failed to manage their house and were fighting among themselves, but blamed the BJP,” he added.  He asked the State unit of the BJP to apprise the public about the work done by the Centre. “The State unit should be concerned with motivating workers. The commitment level should be high and this will happen only when we give them political content,” he said.  He asked the State BJP chief to form WhatsApp groups of party representatives at all 52,000 electoral booths.  In these WhatsApp groups, schemes launched by the central government and local issues should be discussed, he said.  BJP State president Satish Poonia claimed that farmer organisations’ are agitated as the ₹833 subsidy, which was given to them during the tenure of the previous government, has been stopped.
23 August 2020||Palghar,||Mild quake recorded in Maharashtra’s Palghar||A 2.8 magnitude earthquake was recorded in Palghar district of Maharashtra on Sunday, an official said.  No casualty or damage to property was reported due to it, he said. “The 2.8 magnitude tremor was recorded at 11.39 a.m. “Its epicentre was village Aaina near Dahanu tehsil,” chief of the Palghar district disaster management cell Vivekanand Kadam said.  Certain parts of Palghar district had experienced a lot of seismic activity in 2018 and 2019.
23 August 2020||New Delhi ,||Bihar Assembly elections on time, say EC sources||The Assembly elections in Bihar, due later this year, would be held on time, highly placed sources in the Election Commission of India (ECI) said on Sunday amid demands by some political parties for postponing the polls in view of the COVID-19 pandemic.  The term of the 243-member Bihar Legislative Assembly comes to an end on November 29. Also read: Bihar Assembly elections | BJP, JD(U), LJP to fight polls together, says Nadda  Indications are that the polls could be held sometime in October-November.  “Bihar elections are definitely happening on time,” a senior official of the poll panel said on Sunday. Also read: Bihar Assembly election: Amid speculations, Cong. denies contacting LJP  The State’s principal Opposition party, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), has questioned the need for holding the elections amid the pandemic. The Lok Janshakti Party, a constituent of the ruling NDA, has urged the poll panel to postpone the polls in view of the pandemic.  Some other parties like the NCP and the National People’s Party too have demanded postponing the elections. Also read: Bihar Assembly elections | All is well in Mahagathbandhan, says RJD leader Manoj Jha  Political parties had recently responded to a letter from the EC seeking suggestions on how to conduct campaigning during the pandemic for the upcoming Bihar elections and certain other by-elections.  Last week, the Commission had come out with a set of broad guidelines to hold elections and by-elections amid the pandemic.  Voters will be provided with gloves to press electronic voting machine (EVM) buttons and COVID-19 patients in quarantine will be allowed to vote at the last hour of the polling day, according to the guidelines issued by the ECI. Also read: In poll-bound Bihar, parties vie for more seats, explore new formations  A separate set of guidelines would be issued for voters who are residing in areas notified as COVID-19 “containment zone“.  The commission has recommended mandatory sanitisation of polling stations, preferably a day before polling.  Thermal scanners would be placed at the entry point of every polling station. Polling or paramedical staff will conduct thermal screening of voters at the entry point of a polling station, it said.  In case an election cannot be held before the term of the assembly ends, the EC seeks a certificate from the Law Ministry to postpone the elections, detailing the reasons.  The State then comes under the central rule in the absence of an elected legislature.
23 August 2020||Bhopal:,||Coronavirus | Madhya Pradesh Health Minister Prabhuram Choudhary tests positive||Madhya Pradesh Public Health and Family Welfare Minister Prabhuram Choudhary on Sunday afternoon declared he had tested positive for COVID-19, the seventh Minister besides Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan to have contracted the illness so far.  Giving out the test result on Twitter, Dr. Choudhary appealed to those who came in contact with him to get tested. “Those in close contact should quarantine themselves. With your prayers and blessings I will return soon amidst you to do public service,” he wrote in Hindi.  Days ago, Higher Education Minister Mohan Yadav had tested positive for the illness after taking part in a crowded religious ceremony in Ujjain while accompanying Rajya Sabha MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, who had earlier recovered from the illness. On Saturday, the day the State registered its steepest single-day surge in cases at 1,226, Mr. Scindia launched a three-day BJP membership drive amid thousands of supporters in the Gwalior-Chambal region. Public gatherings, including political events by both the Congress and the BJP, which had been banned by Mr. Chouhan in view of several MLAs and Ministers testing positive picked up after August 14.  Earlier, Cooperatives Minister Arvind Singh Bhadoria, Minister of State for Panchayat and Rural Development Ramkhelawan Patel, Water Resources Minister Tulsi Ram Silawat, Medical Education Minister Vishvas Sarang and Public Works Department Minister Gopal Bhargava had contracted the illness. BJP State president V.D. Sharma had also tested positive.
23 August 2020||GUWAHATI ,||Assam group gifts sanitary pads to Health Minister||A group of women’s rights advocates has gifted a box of sanitary pads each to Assam Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) for “drawing the State government’s attention to the plight of women living in flood relief shelters”. Almost 57 lakh people had been affected during the floods from May 22 to mid-August during which 113 people drowned while 26 others died in landslides caused by heavy rainfall. The government had set up 626 relief camps to house 1.57 lakh people, more than half of them women. Also read: Assam flood displaced get a taste of UN’s conflict refugee camps “We delivered the gift boxes, each containing 300 pads and hygiene kits, to the Minister’s and the ASDMA office toward including menstrual hygiene products in the list of essential relief materials provided by the government at the flood shelters,” said activist Mayuri Bhattacharjee of the Dignity in Floods campaign. Her group began the campaign through Change.org in February 2019 but the State government said pads could not be distributed during the floods that year for a “technical” reason — they were not in the official list of relief material. ASDMA’s Chief Executive Officer M.S. Manivannan confirmed receiving the gift box. “I have spoken to the organisation for taking the issue forward,” he said.
23 August 2020||New Delhi ,||Bihar Assembly elections | BJP, JD(U), LJP to fight polls together, says Nadda||Amid reports of growing dissent between ruling National Democratic Alliance partners the Janata Dal (U) and the Lok Janshakti Party in Bihar, the BJP president J.P. Nadda on Sunday asserted his party would contest the coming Bihar Assembly poll together with the JD(U) and the LJP.  “We will fight together and emerge victorious as well,” asserted the BJP president while addressing the concluding session of the party’s two-day State executive committee virtual meeting.  Also read: Bihar Assembly election: Amid speculations, Cong. denies contacting LJP “Jab-jab BJP-JD(U)-LJP ek saath Bihar mein chunav ladi hai, vijayi hue hain (whenever BJP-JD(U)-LJP have fought elections together in Bihar it has emerged victorious),” said Mr. Nadda.  He further said that “BJP workers will have to add value not only to the BJP but also to our alliance partners”.  “The Bihar BJP workers have to reach every section of society to convey the messages of PM Modi, Bharat and the works done by Nitish Kumar ji.”  The BJP president’s assertion through the virtual meeting comes at a time when the JD(U) and the LJP are engaged in a bitter war of words.  Also read: Bihar Assembly elections | All is well in Mahagathbandhan, says RJD leader Manoj Jha  LJP president Chirag Paswan, of late, has been regularly attacking Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and his government on several issues, triggering speculation that “all is not well with the NDA”.  In his over half-an-hour address to Bihar BJP leaders and party workers, Mr. Nadda also praised the State government’s efforts to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic and the floods.  He listed several welfare schemes and measures launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi government for the people of the country and Bihar as well during the pandemic.  Also read: In poll-bound Bihar, parties vie for more seats, explore new formations “The Bihar package announced by PM Modi was implemented in letter and in spirit,” he said. He also mentioned the Patna Metro, the infrastructure development in Bihar and the good work done by All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna, during the COVID-19 crisis.  “There are immense challenges during this pandemic time but we could reach out to people for their welfare and it has become an example for everyone.” He also listed increased COVID-19 testing facilities, production of PPE kits in India, growing recovery rate of affected people in the country and Bihar, door-to- door screening in Bihar, PM’s Garib Kalyan Package, Jan–Dhan yojna, Atmanirbhar Bharat, welfare schemes for street vendors, farmers, migrant labourers, National Education Policy and Digital Health Mission (health card) and asked BJP workers to take this to all people in Bihar.  “You’re the ambassadors of change,” Mr. Nadda told party workers while adding “People of Bihar have high hopes only from the BJP and the NDA”.  He also slammed the Opposition saying, “it has become a spent force”. “The Opposition in Bihar has neither ideology, vision nor any spirit to serve people and it can’t rise above petty politics.”  Assembly elections in the State are due in October-November later this year.  Mr. Nadda also told party workers and leaders that “in this pandemic period only door-to-door campaign will be the most effective way to campaign for the upcoming poll”.  Meanwhile, the BJP has scheduled a party programme from August 25 to October 2 to reach out to the people.
23 August 2020||GUWAHATI:,||Assam BJP trashes ‘theory’ on ex-CJI Ranjan Gogoi as its CM candidate||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has dismissed as a “mere theory” that former Chief Justice of India (CJI) Ranjan Gogoi would be its chief ministerial candidate for the 2021 Assam election. Veteran Congress leader and former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi said on Saturday said that the ex-CJI was on a list of names the BJP was considering for projecting as the next Chief Minister. President Ram Nath Kovind had nominated Mr. Ranjan Gogoi to the Rajya Sabha on March 16, four months after he retired as the CJI. He was sworn in as an Upper House member on March 19. “I have come to know from reliable sources that Ranjan Gogoi’s name is doing the rounds. I am not surprised because the former CJI gradually entered politics by accepting the Rajya Sabha offer after the BJP was happy with his judgment in the Ayodhya Ram Mandir case,” the former Chief Minister said. State BJP spokesperson Dewan Dhrubajyoti Moral said he had no words for reacting to “anything that is like building castles in the air”. Senior BJP leaders, however, said the party had no reason to look beyond current Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal who had a “clean image” and was “acceptable to all tribal and non-tribal indigenous groups”. “Such speculations [on ex-CJI] will continue till the Assembly election,” a senior BJP leader said, declining to be quoted. The Congress has been facing opposition from within to the move for a pre-poll alliance with the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) led by perfume baron Badruddin Ajmal.  “We don’t think tying up with the AIUDF will help our party, especially in eastern Assam,” said Rupjyoti Kurmi, Congress MLA representing the Mariani Assembly constituency. Congress leaders in eastern Assam, where the BJP weaned away the former’s “vote bank” comprising Adivasis associated with tea plantations and indigenous groups, feel an alliance with the AIUDF will send the wrong signal. Mr. Ajmal had floated the AIUDF after the Supreme Court scrapped the Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunals) Act in 2005. The AIUDF’s steady rise as a political force, particularly in constituencies where migrant Muslims dominate, was at the expense of the Congress.
23 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Battling blowout, OIL incurs loss of ₹248.61 crore||Exploration major Oil India Limited (OIL), battling a blowout and fire at one of its natural gas wells in eastern Assam’s Baghjan for 88 days now, has incurred a loss of ₹248.61 crore during the first quarter of the 2020-21 fiscal. The balance-sheet was declared on August 22, a day after the public sector undertaking held its 514th board meeting. OIL’s turnover from the sale of crude oil, natural gas and other petroleum products during the first quarter of the current fiscal was ₹1,743.92 crore. The turnover during the same period in 2019-20 was ₹3,373.36 crore. Also read: Baghjan blowout: panel faults OIL on safety “We posted a loss of ₹248.61 crore while our profit during the first quarter of the last fiscal was ₹624.80 crore,” a spokesperson said from OIL’s headquarters at Duliajan in eastern Assam’s Dibrugarh district. The loss was attributed to substantially lower crude oil price realisation, global spread of COVID-19 and collapse in understanding between the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and Russia on continued production cuts. “Average crude oil price realisation was lower at US$ 30.43 per barrel of oil in the first quarter of the current fiscal compared to US$ 52.18 per barrel during the last quarter of the 2019-21 fiscal,” the spokesperson said. Natural gas price realisation from April-June during the current fiscal also reduced to US$ 2.39 per metric million British thermal unit from US$ 3.23 per metric million British thermal unit during the previous quarter of January-March. OIL’s crude oil production during the first quarter of the current fiscal was 0.752 million metric tonne, which was marginally lower than 0.758 million metric tonne during the previous quarter. But natural gas production increased to 682 million metric standard cubic metres from 645 million metric standard cubic metres during the corresponding periods. The blowout at Well Number 5 in Baghjan happened on May 27, almost midway during the first quarter of the current fiscal. The well burst into flames on June 9.    The well was capped on August 17 after two failed attempts, but efforts to ‘kill’ the well by injecting a viscous cement mud at high pressure failed. OIL is now contemplating drilling beside the blowout-hit well to kill it from beneath the surface. OIL officials said protests and blockades by affected locals in and around the Baghjan area since May 27 have led to the loss of production of more than 32,000 metric tonnes of crude oil and 74.43 million metric standard cubic metres of natural gas.
23 August 2020||LUCKNOW:,||Opposition targets Yogi Adityanath for remark against MP||Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav has requested Parliament to take decisive action against Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath for his oblique remarks allegedly referring to Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Singh as a ‘namoona’. The word in Hindi roughly translates into ‘specimen’ or ‘sample’ but when used colloquially may have a derogatory connotation. While speaking in the Uttar Pradesh Assembly on Saturday, Mr. Adityanath without taking names said, “A ‘namoona’ from Delhi comes to Uttar Pradesh and says that there is no strategy in place against COVID-19 in UP.” He added: “Those who ruined Delhi, those who mistreated citizens of U.P. and Bihar and forcibly chased them out of Delhi, they come here wearing a cloak of shamelessness on their face and talk boisterously.” Mr. Adityanath’s reference was to Mr. Singh who has of late visited Uttar Pradesh and targeted the State government on various issues, including the alleged favouring of Thakurs and victimisation of Brahmins.  Reacting to Mr. Adityanath’s remarks, Mr. Yadav said the use of an offensive word by the Chief Minister against a Rajya Sabha MP while speaking on the floor of the Assembly amounted to “gross contempt of Parliament”. “Parliament should take cognisance and immediately take decisive action. Well, those who lower the dignity of Parliament, how can they value the Constitution,” Mr. Yadav asked in a tweet.  Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party president and former Cabinet Minister Om Prakash Rajbhar also condemned Mr. Adityanath for his remark. He said the CM used the derogatory word as he did not like anyone speaking about the right to equality of the State’s Backward class, Dalit, minorities and neglected sections of society. Mr. Singh countered Mr. Adityanath by saying that he was free to dub the common people as “namoona” and abuse them but would have to explain why Brahmins were facing atrocities under his rule.  “You only work for Thakurs, carry on. But where will the remaining 94% [of the population] go,” asked Mr. Singh on Twitter. Mr. Singh also claimed that Team 11, the high-level group of officials part of Mr. Adityanath’s COVID-19 strategy, had failed, adding that two Cabinet Ministers in U..P had succumbed to the virus. “Why have you left people to die? If COVID-19 can be checked in Delhi, then why don't you do something,” he further asked.
23 August 2020||IMPHAL:,||Manipur villagers plant paddy along road as protest||The people at Haoreibi in Manipur’s Thoubal district transplanted paddy plants along the busy Tanki road on Saturday as protest against the bad condition of the road.  One villager said that some truckloads of earth had been dumped by the side, making the road more slippery, dangerous and inconvenient for the villagers. Since nothing had been done on the dumped earth, the people were growing paddy to draw the attention of the government, the villagers said. They pointed out that in the name of repairing the road some loose earth was dumped and no follow-up action had been taken during these days of heavy downpours. The villagers alleged that the road along a river bank had not been repaired for more than eight years and there was high risk since the weak road along the river may breach any time. They also alleged that the government had not paid any compensation for the private land encroached upon during the road repairing works. After the recent resignation of Congress MLA Abdul Nasir, the people of the Lilong constituency, which is about 20 km away from capital Imphal, have no representative to whom they could approach for this basic need. Mr. Nasir is one of the six MLAs who had resigned from the membership of the State Assembly. Though five of them, including Okram Henry, a nephew of CLP leader Okram Ibobi, had joined the ruling BJP, Mr. Nasir says that he would hold meetings with his voters before taking the next step.
23 August 2020||GUWAHATI:,||Anti-CAA activist Akhil Gogoi to be CM face for proposed Assam party||Jailed anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) activist Akhil Gogoi will be the chief ministerial candidate of a new regional political party, his peasant rights group Krishak Mukti Sangram Samiti (KMSS) has said. The announcement followed an initiative by the Opposition Congress to form a “grand alliance” with the All India United Democratic Front and other “like-minded” parties to take on the Bharatiya Janata Party and its allies in the 2021 Assembly poll. Also read: Petition submitted to President for Akhil Gogoi’s release “We have decided to form a political party and contest the next State election with Akhil Gogoi as our CM face,” KMSS president Bhasco De Saikia told journalists on Saturday evening. He added the name of the party would be decided after Mr. Gogoi is released from prison. Mr. Gogoi has been in prison since December 2019 after the National Investigation Agency booked him on charges of sedition and under provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for allegedly link with the outlawed Communist Party of India (Maoist). He was also accused of inciting violence during the anti-CAA protests that led to the death of at least six people in Assam. The KMSS hopes Mr. Gogoi would be released within two months. Also read: Campaign for release of anti-CAA activist Akhil Gogoi Mr. Saikia said their party would be inclusive in outlook and leaving out no community despite swearing by regionalism. He, however, ruled out any pre- or post-poll understanding with any “national or communal party”. The KMSS and the All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) have been spearheading the anti-CAA movement in Assam as two separate blocs. While the former claims more than 70 social and community-based organisations are with it, the latter has been citing some 30 such groups. The KMSS beat the AASU in announcing its political plan. The latter had on August 19 joined hands with the Asom Jatiyatabadi Yuba Chatra Parishad to form an advisory panel for taking the anti-CAA movement forward. The two groups stopped short of announcing a new political front but said they were exploring the idea with the objective of safeguarding the constitutional, administrative and political rights of the indigenous peoples of Assam. For the KMSS, a political party would be the second such venture. It had formed the Gana Mukti Sangram, Asom in March 2015 for “changing the capitalist system of India”. Mr. Gogoi had in 2017 announced that his party would contest the 2021 Assembly election. KMSS leaders said the new political party would be unlike the earlier one.
23 August 2020||IMPHAL,||COVID-19: Women vigilantes, youth help enforce lockdown in Manipur||Ever since the COVID-19 began spreading, women vigilantes and local youth in the border State of Manipur have been doing their bit to impose lockdown restrictions to fight the pandemic. Officials said that the limited number of police and paramilitary personnel could not strictly enforce indefinite curfew and total lockdown. This is confirmed by the huge number of motorbikes and cars that ply on all roads violating with impunity the curfew and lockdown restrictions. Tribal villagers along the international border with Myanmar have erected wooden fencings to prevent foreigners from entering their villages. The State government had also closed the international gates I and II, and the centres of the legalised border trade, Moreh in Manipur and Namphalong in Myanmar, also wore a deserted look.  In the backdrop of the daily increase in the number of infections, the youth have erected fences at the entrance of their villages and nearby localities. No villager is allowed to leave or enter the villages. “This is a serious attempt to check the rapid spread of the disease,” said Akoijam Roshan, an activist in Thoubal district. Exemptions are made for emergencies and essential services such as medical, water supply, fire services and the media. Besides, the youth are spraying chemicals to stop the spread of the infection. Whenever a person is tested positive, the house is cordoned off and even the national highways that pass through villages are closed. Officials say that it is against the law to block the national highways. So far, no obstacles along the highways have been removed. The local youth clubs and women vigilantes have also driven out drug offenders and convicted murderers from the villages.  Appreciating the positive role of the local youth, police say that the number of the infections in Manipur would have been much higher without their assistance. The youth are visiting houses for carrying out thermal screening of the people. So far, 22 persons had died in the State due to COVID-19 infection. The number of infected persons stood at 5,132, out of which, 1,655 are active cases and 3,455 persons had recovered.
23 August 2020||IMPHAL:,||Pregnant tribal woman carried 5 km to hospital in Manipur||A pregnant tribal woman of the Huichi village in Noney district was taken to the primary health centre at Haochong on Friday on a litter made of bamboo and discarded gunny bags for 5 km. S. Bavium gave birth to the baby in the hospital there. Incidentally, she is the third pregnant woman to be taken like this from the Noney district this month. S. Bavium could not be taken in an ambulance or any other vehicle simply because there is no motorable road leading to this village. As there have been torrential rains recently, landslides have occurred at many places in this hill district. The village youths who carried the litter all the way to the hospital slipped and fell down at several places. Another expectant tribal woman Kanpalilu Kamei was brought by her husband to Imphal for delivery on August 5. However, the husband had to spend the whole night taking her to five hospitals. But all of them — three government hospitals and two private hospitals — had allegedly refused to admit her. She died at the gate of a yet another private hospital at Langol in Imphal. Another woman, however, gave birth to a healthy baby. The government has not taken up any actions against the hospital so far. However, an order was issued directing all hospitals not to refuse treatment to any patients.  Manipur Chief Minster N. Biren says that his government is doing everything possible for a balanced development of the valley and the hills. However, several tribal villages have no road connectivity with other parts of the State.
23 August 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 cases in West Bengal touch 1.35 lakh, 3,232 new infections in a day||West Bengal on Saturday recorded 3,232 new cases of infection in the past 24 hours taking the number of infections to 1,35,596 . The deaths in the past 24 hours were 48 which took the number to 2,737. The discharge rate in the State reached 77.41% . The active cases in the State touched 27,900.  Of the 48 deaths in the State, Kolkata recorded 12 deaths and nine persons died in North 24 Parganas. The infections in North 24 Parganas in the past 24 hours was 547 and the infections in Kolkata were 516. In the past 24 hours 36, 318 and the total samples tested so far increased to 15.24 lakhs.  In another development the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory held a meeting in the day and decided that private hospitals will have to display rate charge at every health facility.  Justice Ashim Kumar Banerjee also added that no patient will be turned away from a private hospital.  The Commission directed that private hospitals will have to give 10 % discount on medicines and 20 % on gloves and PPE kits.  The Commission also directive that private hospitals should put a cap on tests and fees of doctors. The decision comes in the wake of allegations of private hospitals overcharging COVID-19 patients.
23 August 2020||New Delhi,||Arjuna award would motivate me to breach Olympic qualification mark, says Dutee||Her personal best is not yet enough to make the cut for the Tokyo Games but India’s top sprinter Dutee Chand says her selection for the Arjuna award has come at the right time as it would motivate her to breach the “difficult” Olympic qualification mark.  The 24-year-old Dutee, silver medallist in both 100m and 200m in the 2018 Asian Games, was on Friday selected for the honour along with 26 others.  She has a personal best of 11.22 seconds which she recorded last year.  Dutee featured in the Rio Olympics by breaching the qualifying standard of 11.32 seconds but this time the mark is 11.15 seconds. “The Award has come at the right time. Any recognition by the government for your performance and achievements always boosts the confidence of an athlete,” Dutee told PTI from Bhubaneswar. “This should give me more strength and confidence in my efforts to do well in the Olympics. I hope to qualify for my second Olympics in Tokyo next year and do my best there,” she added. “It will be tough (to breach 11.15 secs) but I am confident to breach it. This award will give me the boost in my efforts.”  Dutee, who is also the reigning World University Games 100m champion, said she does not mind missing out on receiving the award from President Ram Nath Kovind as the ceremony will be held online on August 29 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “An award or an honour from the government is always welcomed any time. Of course, it would be have been a great occasion to receive the award from the President in a (physical) ceremony. But it is all right, I am happy that I have been chosen for the award,” she said.  “My achievements through hard work have been recognised by the government, that is the more important thing.”  Dutee is keenly waiting to start the full-intensity training which she could not undertake currently due to coronavirus-forced restrictions. “I don’t have a physio, no masseur currently, they cannot be here due to pandemic. My coach (N Ramesh) can only tell through whatsapp video what I have to do. But that is not enough,” said Dutee who is currently training at the Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology. “I don’t think any athlete can do intensive training till the pandemic is there and unless the restrictions are removed. I really want to start the full-fledged training. I don’t know when will it happen.”
24 August 2020||SOUTHAMPTON,||England vs Pakistan | Anderson takes five as England force Pakistan to follow on||James Anderson claimed his fifth wicket as England enforced the follow-on against Pakistan on the third day of the third and final test at the Rose Bowl on Sunday, despite a battling century by visiting skipper Azhar Ali. Ali (141 not out) and Mohammad Rizwan (53) stitched together a 138-run partnership for the sixth wicket but Anderson helped to ensure the visitors were bowled out for 273 in their first innings to keep England firmly in the driver's seat in Southampton. Rizwan was dismissed after tea off a Chris Woakes delivery with Jos Buttler pulling off a diving catch to his left. His departure exposed Pakistan's tail as England ruthlessly pressed home their advantage despite Ali reaching his 17th test century. Stuart Broad claimed his first wicket of the test when he had Yasir Shah caught by Joe Root at second slip on 20 and struck again to dismiss Shaheen Shah Afridi for three, with Buttler taking another spectacular catch behind the stumps. Mohammad Abbas was next to depart after being run out on one following a comical mix-up with Ali, who was attempting to retain the strike. Anderson (five for 56), who had claimed his fourth wicket of the innings in the opening session, completed his 29th five-for in tests when he enticed Naseem Shah (0) to edge to Dom Sibley at third slip to wrap up the Pakistan innings. Play was stopped due to bad light before Pakistan could bat again, with the visitors trailing by 310 runs. Anderson, England's highest test wicket-taker, is now two wickets away from becoming the first pace bowler to claim 600 test dismissals. Only spin bowlers Anil Kumble (619), Shane Warne (708) and Muttiah Muralitharan (800) have more dismissals in the game's longest format. Zak Crawley (267) converted his maiden century into a double ton and shared a record-breaking 359-run partnership with Buttler (152) as England declared their first innings on 583-8 on Saturday. England, who hold a 1-0 lead, are edging towards their first test series win over Pakistan since 2010. The hosts won the opening match in Manchester by three wickets, and the rain-hit second game ended in a draw.
23 August 2020||Sydney,||Eng vs Aus | Australia ready to hit ground running||Justin Langer said his Australia squad is super-fit and ready to hit the ground running ahead of departing on Sunday for a white-ball tour of England, its first cricket since March. The 21-man squad gathered in Perth before taking a direct flight after which it will face several days of isolation in Derby due to coronavirus restrictions. Training will be permitted during their lockdown and they will play four inter-squad warm-up games to get match-ready after nearly six months of inaction. They will head to a bio-secure hub in Southampton for the first of three Twenty20s beginning on September 4.
23 August 2020||DUBAI,||IPL 2020 | De Villiers, Steyn and Morris join RCB teammates||It was “steaming” outside as the South African trio of AB de Villiers, Dale Steyn and Chris Morris joined their Royal Challengers Bangalore teammates here. “I am very excited, very happy to be here. Travelling was bit different to normal but we have made it here with my South African friends and we are very happy to be back in the RCB family. I am looking forward to my COVID-19 test,” de Villiers said. “It’s going to be interesting to play in the heat. We got here like 3 a.m. in the morning and it was steaming outside. Looking forward to what’s it going to be like in a few weeks,” said veteran speedster Steyn. Meanwhile, wearing masks and face shields, Delhi Capitals and Sunrisers Hyderabad’s Indian players and support staff arrived on Sunday. Both the franchises shared a number of their players’ departure and arrival photos. The players will be undergoing a mandatory six-day quarantine which is in line with the Standard Operating Procedure issued by the BCCI. RT-PCR tests will be performed on everyone on Day 1, 3 and 6 of the quarantine, after which all the players who return negative for all the three tests will be entering the tournament bio-bubble. Delhi Capitals chief executive officer Dhiraj Malhotra and assistant coach Mohammad Kaif shared their thoughts, having met their players after a long time. “We are all really excited that cricket is back, and that the team is together again. It is like meeting your own family, meeting your long lost friends. So it is just a really overwhelming phase for all of us,” Malhotra was quoted as saying in a press release. “We will be undergoing three more tests, and hopefully everyone’s reports will come out negative, and then we can get back on to the field to start practising,” said Kaif  The players will not be allowed to venture out of their hotel rooms during the isolation period.The players and support staff will be tested every fifth day of the tournament.
23 August 2020||Dubai,||Jacques Kallis, Zaheer Abbas, Lisa Sthalekar inducted into ICC Hall of Fame||Legendary South African all-rounder Jaques Kallis, Pakistan batting great Zaheer Abbas and Pune-born former Australian captain Lisa Sthalekar were on Sunday inducted into the International Cricket Council’s Hall of Fame in a virtual ceremony.  Among the finest all-rounders to play the game, Kallis represented South Africa in 166 Tests, 328 ODIs and 25 T20s between 1995 and 2014.  The 44-year-old is Proteas’ highest run-getter in Tests and ODIs with 13289 and 11579 runs respectively. He also picked up 292 and 273 wickets in Tests and ODIs as a fast bowler.  Remarkably, he is the only player to score at least 10,000 runs and take at least 250 wickets in both Test and ODI cricket.  The ICC conducted the ceremony virtually owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. It was attended by, among others, Kallis’ longtime teammate Shaun Pollock and Indian great Sunil Gavaskar.   “It is something that I never expected when I started playing. I certainly did not play the game for any accolades or anything like that, I only wanted to win the games for whoever I was playing for,” said Kallis in an ICC release.  “But it is nice to be recognised when one has succeeded in the sport, it is nice to be recognised by people for something that you have achieved in the game, something that I am really proud of.”   Kallis is the fourth South African player to be inducted into the Hall of Fame and Abbas the sixth from Pakistan.  Sthalekar is the 27th from Australia and the ninth woman player in the list, which includes five from her country.  In all, 93 players have been inducted so far under the system, which sees retired players become eligible five years after playing their last international match.  Former ICC Cricket Hall of Famers formed the majority of the adjudicating panel with representation from the media, ICC and Federation of International Cricketers’ Association (FICA).   Gavaskar, who himself was inducted into the elite club in 2009, spoke highly of Kallis.  “He is a colossus. The word fits him like a glove. No praise is too high for this colossus. Very well deserved to be in this ICC Hall of Fame,” said Gavaskar.  Gavaskar was also all praise for women’s cricket great Sthalekar.  “It is good to have another ‘Kar’ in the ICC Hall of Fame. Well done. You are an inspiration, not just in Australia also in India (as she was born there).  “You have interacted with many cricketers in India including the junior cricketers. You have shown with your feistiness that women can play at the highest level.”   Sthalekar represented Australia in eight Tests, 125 ODIs and 54 T20s.  “I am deeply humbled to receive this honour. Never in my wildest dreams did I believe that I would ever get to join such an illustrious group of players,” she said.   The third cricketer to be feted in the ceremony was Abbas, hailed as the ‘Asian Bradman’   “Absolutely delighted. No one deserves it more than him. Don’t know why it took so long but better late than ever. When you saw him bat, even when it was your team’s expense, you enjoyed his batting,” said Gavaskar   “His class made you enjoy. His hunger for big runs stood out. I am very happy to call him a friend,” he added. Zaheer Abbas played 78 Tests and 62 ODIs for Pakistan, accumulating 5062 and 2572 runs respectively. He averaged over 40 in both the formats.  The 73-year-old is the only player from Asia to have scored at least a 100 first-class hundreds and the first one to score three successive ODI hundreds.  “I feel privileged and truly humbled to be inducted into the ICC Cricket Hall of Fame of the class of 2020. I am excited to be in the midst of other illustrious cricketers,” Abbas said in the ICC statement.
23 August 2020||Kingston,||Looked like a maverick, destroyed whatever came in front of him: Holding lauds Dhoni||A maverick who destroyed every opposition and managed to look unflappable while he was at it - that’s how West Indies great Michael Holding remembers former India skipper Mahendra Singh Dhoni in international cricket, a stint which ended on August 15.  Dhoni, the only captain to have won all the ICC trophies, retired from international cricket more than a year after he last played for India - the lost World Cup semifinal against New Zealand --, announcing the decision on social media.   Holding, like others, only had effusive praise to offer for the 39-year-old. “When Dhoni first started to play ODIs for India that long flowing locks that we call it in the Caribbean, he looked like a maverick. He looked like someone who came out there just to destroy whatever comes in front of him and he pretty much did that,” Holding said on his youtube channel.  Dhoni sported many different hairstyles in his career but it was his long mane of the early days that became the talk of the town.  Hailing his big-hitting prowess, Holding said, “Throughout his career he hit 229 sixes (in ODIs). When you think of those numbers you must be think he must have played for 40 years to have hit so many sixes and fours. But that is the nature of the man. “As he grew some grey around his temple area then he had to tone it down a bit and he was lot more controlled with his batting. Anyone watching MS Dhoni in the middle would know he was always in control, unflappable, never ever he looked out of control,” he added.  The stumper-batsman, who led India to victory in the T20 World Cup (2007), the ODI World Cup (2011) and the Champions Trophy (2013), is widely considered one of the greatest captains in international cricket and earned respect for his foresight on the cricket field. “What a captain he was, how successful he was...When he was captaining, you never saw him get excited,” said Holding, a member of the famous pace quartet of the West Indies in the 1970s. “If things seemed to be slipping, he would call his players, have a chat calmly and then they would go back to wherever they were and things would automatically change, that was the kind of influence he had.”  In 98 Tests, Dhoni scored 4,876 runs with 256 catches and 38 stumpings, while amassing 10,773 runs with 321 catches and 123 stumpings in 350 ODIs.  In T20Is, he aggregated 1617 runs with 57 catches and 34 stumpings. He scored six centuries in Tests and 10 in ODIs.  Holding said it is “commendable” that Dhoni could score nearly 5000 Test runs and also do justice to his keeping job throughout his career.  “What a career this man had, a fantastic one. This man made almost 5,000 Test runs and remember, he’s not a pure batsman, he’s a wicket-keeper. Over such a long career, to be able keep wickets and do such a fantastic job is commendable,” said the 66-year-old. “To be bending down for so many years, keeping himself fit through all these years. He has close to 11,000 runs in ODIs...,” said Holding, one of the most respected voices in international cricket.
23 August 2020||New Delhi,||Crawley looks like a ‘class player’: Ganguly||BCCI President and former India captain Sourav Ganguly has heaped praise on England batsman Zak Crawley, who hit 267 against Pakistan in the third Test in Southampton, calling the youngster a class player.  Playing in only his eighth Test, the 22-year-old Crawley hit 267 in a record-setting partnership with fellow century-maker Jos Buttler (152) on Saturday, taking England closer to a Test series victory over Pakistan.   The 393-ball knock put him in 10th place in the all-time list of top scores by an English player.  “England have found a very good no 3 in Crawley,” Ganguly tweeted. “Looks a class player .. hope to see him in all formats regularly.”  Only playing the third and final Test because Ben Stokes has returned to his native New Zealand for family reasons, Crawley staked a claim to become a regular No. 3 batsman in the England team with his double-century.   His 359-run partnership with Buttler is a record for the fifth wicket for England in Tests and it is the joint-sixth highest ever.
23 August 2020||Sydney,||There is no big crowd to egg me, Steve Smith says on missing fans in England||The Australian cricket team departed Sunday for a tour to England like no other in the long history between the two nations.  The teams will meet in three one-day and three Twenty20 internationals in stadiums without fans, played under strict biosecurity protocols.   Between matches the Australians will be locked in a hermetic bubble to ward off the threat of the coronavirus.  They are the first Australian national sports team to leave the country since the global pandemic began.  Australia hasn’t played a match since March 13, when a scheduled one-day series against New Zealand was abandoned. As captain Steve Smith left Sydney on Sunday for Perth, from which the Australian team’s chartered flight was to leave for London, he said he is eager to play again, whatever the surrounding circumstances.  Smith was also sad that stadiums won’t be full of the England fans who have always jeered him in the past, more so since his suspension for ball tampering.  “I do like batting there,” Smith said at Sydney Airport.  “But unfortunately there’s no crowd there to egg me on and give me a bit more motivation. “Still, there is going to be plenty of eyes on the TV and it is going to be great to be back out there playing.”  England fans taunted Smith relentlessly when he made his test return there last year after his 12 months suspension over the ball tampering scandal in South Africa. He drew on those reactions to post 774 runs in that year’s Ashes series at an average of 110.  Smith said he isn’t concerned by Australia’s three months absence from international cricket and England’s advantage in having played recent test series against the West Indies and Pakistan.  Australia will take a 21-man squad and will play at least five inter-squad matches during its two weeks in quarantine. The team will be headquartered at Southampton where it will be surrounded by a tight biosecurity bubble.  Players will be able to play golf but will not be able to leave their hotel for drinks or meals. They will have to make their own beds to avoid interaction with hotel staff. Any biosecurity breach could jeopardize the series.  The first of three T20s will be played at The Rose Bowl in Southampton on Sept. 4 and the one-day series will be played at Old Trafford, Manchester, starting Sept. 10.
23 August 2020||New Delhi ,||Current Test team under Kohli is India’s best ever, says Sunil Gavaskar||Legendary batsman Sunil Gavaskar has described the current Indian Test side under Virat Kohli as the best ever, saying that the lethal bowling attack makes it more balanced than the teams of earlier eras.  Under Kohli, India reached the top of ICC Test rankings and the team is currently at number one spot in the World Test Championship standings. The highlight of the team’s success is the first Test series win in Australia in 2018-19 tour.  “I believe this team is the best ever Indian Test team in terms of balance, in terms of ability, in terms of skills, in terms of temperament. Can’t think of a better Indian Test team,” Gavaskar said.  Gavaskar said what stands out in the current team is the “varied bowling attack” which can win matches on any surface, irrespective of the conditions.  “This team has the attack to win on any surface. It doesn’t need any help in conditions...they can win on any surface. Batting-wise there were teams in 1980s that were pretty similar. But they didn’t have the bowlers that Virat has,” the former captain said.  Talking further about the world-class bowlers India currently has, Gavaskar said, “Definitely without a question, India has got such a varied bowling attack today and that is so essential. There is a saying that ‘if you don’t take 20 wickets you won’t win a match’  “We have got the bowling to take 20 Australian wickets on 1 run less than what India has scored,” said the 71-year-old Gavaskar, who scored 10122 runs from 125 Tests between 1971 and 1987.  While India have always had skilled batsmen and great spinners, it has been the development of a clutch of world-class fast bowlers like Jasprit Bumrah, Mohammed Shami, Ishant Sharma, Umesh Yadav and Bhuvneshwar Kumar that has made it the world’s top team in recent years.   On the current batting line-up, Gavaskar said the current Indian Test team can score more runs than the likes of Australia.  “You need to score runs also. We saw that in England in 2018. We saw that in South Africa in 2017 when we went there. We got 20 wickets every time but we didn’t score enough runs.  “But now I think we have also got the batting to be able to score more runs than Australians.”
24 August 2020||Coimbatore ,||District administration urged to repair causeway across River Noyyal||The need for constructing a causeway across River Noyyal on Singanallur-Vellalore Road has risen once again, this time after the River saw good flow.  Singanallur MLA and DMK Coimbatore urban east unit in-charge N. Karthik recently wrote to the District Collector to draw his attention to the causeway condition, which he said was so bad that it would not last long.  The causeway was at least 30 years old. The then Singanallur Municipality had constructed to provide people connectivity to Vellalore. But over the years, with the increase in population and vehicle movement, the causeway had become an important link to reach to the southern part of the district.   J. Daniel, a Vellalore resident and civic activist, said people from north of River Noyyal used Singanallur-Vellalore Road and drove on the causeway to reach not only Vellalore but Chettipalayam, Podanur and even Palakkad.  Likewise, people from the south of the River used it to reach the eastern periphery of the city and farther.  But of late, whenever the River saw good flow, the causeway was left with slush, just as it had happened last year. And, whenever the water flowed over the causeway it became difficult to drive from one end to another.  Mr. Daniel also said that even otherwise it was difficult to drive over the causeway because – one, it was too narrow to accommodate two lorries or a lorry and bus passing through at the same time; and, two, the causeway was full of potholes.  In the mornings, it was not uncommon to see vehicles lined one after another on both sides to cross to the other side.  Mr. Karthik said he had since 2016 raised the issue with the Corporation but got only assurances in return. The Highways Department too had not taken seriously the issue. And, therefore, he drew the Collector’s attention. If there were to be no action to either construct a new causeway or a bridge within a reasonable time, the DMK would stage a protest, he warned.  Sources in the administration, it would look into the issue.
24 August 2020||Erode ,||On total lockdown day, TN Minister takes holy dip at Bhavani Kooduthurai||Despite total lockdown on Sunday, Dairy Development Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji took a holy dip at Bhavani Kooduthurai here.  The Minister arrived at Kooduthurai at 8.30 a.m. and took a dip at the confluence of Rivers Cauvery, Bhavani and Agaya Gangai. Later, he left for Erode. The Bhavani temple remains closed to public since the COVID-19 lockdown announcement in March.  The Minister told mediapersons that for the consecration of his ancestral temple at Moolipatti village in Sivakasi on August 28, he had already collected holy water from Kanyakumari, Papanasam and Tiruchendur. “The ancient Bhavani temple has a long history and taking a holy dip and collecting water for the consecration is special,” the Minister said.  Temple authorities were unavailable for comments.
23 August 2020||COIMBATORE,||CMCH to start convalescent plasma therapy for COVID-19 patients||The Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) is all set to begin convalescent plasma therapy for COVID-19 patients with the opening of a plasma bank at the tertiary care facility on Sunday.  Minister for Municipal Administration and Rural Development S.P. Velumani and Minister for Health and Family Welfare C. Vijayabaskar inaugurated the plasma bank set up at a cost of ₹25 lakh. A photojournalist, a house surgeon of CMCH, and two army men were the first four persons to donate plasma at the facility on Sunday. The donors had recovered from COVID-19 recently. According to Dr. Vijayabaskar, antibodies in the plasma neutralise the virus, reduce the viral load in patients and their dependence on oxygen support. The CMCH medical team has identified patients who will receive the plasma transfusion in the coming days.  CMCH Dean P. Kalidas said that plasma bank uses Apheresis method to collect plasma from voluntary donors. This method involves collection of plasma alone from the donor while other blood components are re-introduced into the bloodstream of the donor. A. Mangayarkarasi, medical officer of the blood bank at CMCH, said that 400ml of plasma was collected from donors on Sunday though upto 500 ml can be collected. “Voluntary donors are screened for various diseases before collecting plasma. Their blood sample is also checked to assess the level of IgG antibodies against COVID-19. 200 ml of plasma will be transfused to the receiver on two consecutive days,” she said. Ten more donors have registered for donation, she added.  Persons aged between 18 and 65 who recovered from COVID-19 are eligible to donate plasma, 14 days after they test negative for the disease. People with hypertension, diabetes, heart and kidney diseases, cancer and those who have undergone organ transplantation are not eligible to donate plasma. An eligible donor can donate plasma twice in 28 days and the plasma stored at -40 degrees Celsius can be kept for a year. The two Ministers conducted a review meeting which was attended by Health Secretary J. Radhakrishnan, District Collector K. Rajamani, City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan, Deputy Inspector General of Coimbatore range K.S. Narenthiran Nair, Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath, Deputy Director of Health Services G. Ramesh Kumar, City Health Officer S. Raja and senior officials from various departments.  After the meeting, Dr. Vijayabaskar said that the Health Department conducted 6,312 fever camps in which 1,902 persons were diagnosed with COVID-19. Coimbatore district's recovery rate stood at 78 % as of Saturday.  He said that aggressive testing as done in Chennai will be conducted in Coimbatore. He added that efforts were being taken to introduce COVID-19 test results through SMS.
23 August 2020||Coimbatore,||Camera traps installed to monitor wild elephants||The Forest Department has installed camera traps in Coimbatore Forest Division to monitor wild elephants.  Officials with the Department said that cameras were installed within the limits of Coimbatore forest range of the division, which has been witnessing increased movement of wild elephants.  Sixty cameras that were given by the authorities of the Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) were installed at various locations in the forest range on August 20 and 21.  Officials with the Forest Department said that the monitoring exercise will be done for 30 days.  “Visuals from the cameras will be used to create a profiling of elephants in the range. The data generated can be used to study about individual elephants and herds. The data can also be used for management of human-elephant conflict,” said an official.  Installation of camera traps was initiated as part of various measures taken by the Department to monitor wild elephants, their displacement in forest and their health after Coimbatore Forest Division witnessed 18 elephant deaths so far this year.  The Department had recently introduced aerial surveillance of elephants in forests using drones. Field staff from ATR assisted the team in Coimbatore forest range in installing camera traps. The cameras were mainly used for tiger monitoring in ATR.
23 August 2020||coimbatore ,||Vinayaka Chaturthi: 28 cases registered for violating govt. order||The police registered 28 cases against people who celebrated Vinayaka Chaturthi with public gatherings in violation of Government instructions and the direction of the Madras High Court regarding the celebrations.  While Coimbatore city police registered 25 cases, Coimbatore district (rural) police registered three cases under various Sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Diseases Act against persons who formed public gatherings and attempted to take out processions  In city limits, cases were registered against members of Hindu Munnani, Hindu Makkal Katchi, Bharat Sena, Akila Bharata Hanuman Sena, Swami Vivekanandar Peravai and Vishva Hindu Parishad. In Coimbatore rural, members of Hindu Munnani were booked by the Sulur and the Periyanaickenpalayam police for unlawful assembly. At some places in the district, members of Hindu organisations installed idols by violating instructions by the Government. The police did not allow people to take out procession for the immersion of idols. They aided immersion of Ganesha idols by individuals.
23 August 2020||Coimbatore,||Teacher to bear education expenses of former student’s son||A senior teacher from Government Higher Secondary School, Velliangadu, has said that he will bear the higher education expenses of the son of a former student. R. Arulsiva, a Tamil teacher who has been teaching in the government school for nearly three decades, said on that his former student K. Nagarajan came to the school to admit his son N. Arulsiva to Class VI admission. Having been touched by the gesture of his former student naming his son after him, Mr. Arulsiva said he volunteered to bear the expenses of his school and higher education of the 11-year-old boy. “I will take [the boy] one step ahead of what I am,” the teacher told The Hindu. He was also taken by surprise as he had not seen Mr. Nagarajan for over 20 years since he passed out from the school. “I always liked the way he taught us. He was always considerate,” said Mr. Nagarajan when he asked why he named his son after his former teacher. He finished Class X in 1998 and recalled that the school registered a pass percentage of 96.8% in the Class X examinations the year he passed out. The boy studied till Class V in a government primary school at Adimadayanur near Velliangadu. A daily wage worker, Mr. Nagarajan said that his son will now study in his alma mater.
23 August 2020||Krishnagiri,||Copra procurement: Krishnagiri targets 1,450 tonnes this year||Copra procurement has commenced in the state with a targeted procurement of 40,000 tonnes this year. According to the administration,Tamil Nadu has 4,35,621 ha under coconut production and 47,064 lakh coconuts are being procured from farmers in a bid to provide them support price for ball copra and milling copra. In Krishnagiri, 1,450 tonnes is targeted for procurement this year. According to the administration, ₹103 per kg. is being provided as support price for ball copra and ₹99.60 per kg for milling copra. In the State, a targeted procurement of 500 tonnes of ball copra and 39,500 tonnes of milling copra is proposed to be procured from the farmers through the copra procurement centres Each year, when the price of copra falls, the government procures copra from farmers through procurement centres across the State. Procurement centre for copra procurement have been set up in Thanjavur, Pudukottai, Dindigal, Sivagangai, Krishnagiri, Ramanathapuram, Krishnagiri, Namakkal, Tirunelveli, Tuticorin, Tiruvanur, Nagapattinam, Vellore, Coimbatore, Madurai, Salem, Tiruppur, Erode, Theni, Dharmapuri, Virudunagar, and Kanniyakumari. Across the State 40 regulated copra procurement centre have commenced operations.  According to the administration, regulated procurement centres have been set up in Krishnagiri and Pochampalli. Farmers will be provided the support price within three days of procurement.
23 August 2020||Salem ,||Salem Central prison sets up nursery||The Salem Central Prison as part of its prisoners’ rehabilitation activities has set up a nursery under the Prison Bazaar. Except for a few varieties, majority of saplings were readied using seedlings from the farm run by the prison. The prison authorities have set up the nursery on the premises of Muniappan temple nearby the Central Prison. According to authorities, the aim of the programme was to create awareness among the public about planting saplings and also make them available for the public at lower rates. Jail Superintendent Tamilselvan said, “we have been planning to set up a nursery for long. It has been set up on the premises of Muniappan Temple as it could be easily accessed by the public.”  Mr. Tamilselvan said that varieties such a native Jamun, mangoes, crotons were readied by the Prison itself and saplings of different varieties of roses, coconut, pomegranate were sourced from other districts for sale. Mr. Tamilselvan said, “we are planning to source more seeds for setting up saplings and we are also working on setting up vermicompost pits so that manure could also be made available for the public for low rates.”
23 August 2020||Coimbatore,||Candidates selected for agri business incubation||As many as 14 beneficiaries have been selected for agri business orientation / incubation at Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU) here under the Central Government’s Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana – Remunerative Approaches for Agriculture and Allied Sectors Rejuvenation scheme.  According to S.D. Sivakumar, Director (Agri Business Development), the scheme has two components: Agripreneurship Orientation Programme (AOP) and Startup Agribusiness Incubation Programme (SAIP). It aims at strengthening infrastructure in agriculture and allied sectors to promote agripreneurship and agribusiness . The TNAU, which has a technology business incubator, was identified for the scheme last financial year.  The orientation programme is open to anyone who has an idea and wants to develop it into a prototype in the agriculture sector. The incubation programme is for companies that are in the seed funding stage. About 20 applicants were selected for each from across the State in 2019-20 and they underwent two month training separately. They also received ₹10,000 as monthly stipend during the training period. They prepared proposals and made presentations to a committee in March. As many as six were selected for the orientation programme and eight for the incubation programme. They will be incubated at the incubation facility at the TNAU for one year.  Those selected for AOP will get ₹ 2 lakh to ₹ 2.5 lakh each as grant in two tranches. Those selected for SAIP will get ₹10 lakh to ₹23 lakh each as grant amount in three tranches.  The selected ventures are in different areas, including agricultural inputs, food processing and value addition, banana fibre extraction, leaf propagation methods, information technology, organic farming and products, farm mechanisation and innovations and waste to wealth. The selected candidates had an interaction session with N. Kumar, Vice – Chancellor of TNAU, recently and the first instalment of the grant was released to them.  For the 2020-21, those short-listed for the AOP are undergoing online training and applications will be received for SAIP till the end of this month, he said.
23 August 2020||Coimbatore,||Admit students after getting NOC, State govt. tells deemed universities||The State government has directed deemed universities offering agriculture or allied courses to get its no-objection certificate and then admit students.  In an order issued around a fortnight ago, the government said the move was keeping in mind the interest of students who had enrolled in agriculture or allied courses and the validity of the degree of those who had obtained degree in those subjects from such institutes.  Other than the 28 private colleges that were affiliated to the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, there were eight deemed universities in the State that offered agriculture or allied courses – horticulture, agricultural engineering, forestry, food technology, biotechnology and sericulture.  Those deemed universities could apply to the Indian Council for Agricultural Research for accreditation only after the first batch of students had graduated. This meant that the institutes would apply in the fourth year.  And, considering that the accreditation process took eight to 12 months, the institutes could get accredited only in the fifth year. Thereafter, they would have to apply to the State government for no-objection certificate, as mentioned in Government Order 171 of 2018.  The order said, “By the time they [deemed universities] apply for No Objection Certificate to State government after five years of starting agriculture and allied courses, further student batches will be admitted and with this, considerable number of students would undergo the agriculture and allied degree programmes with uncertainty of outcome of accreditation proposal submitted to the Indian Council for Agricultural Research.”  Therefore, in the students’ interest, the government said all deemed to be universities intending to offer agriculture or allied programmes should first obtain no-objection certificate before offering the courses. And, then they would have to get accredited as well as per the Council norms.  Those deemed universities that offered the courses, should furnish proof of having obtained its approval for offering the courses. If they have not, they should do so within six months and admit students after complying with the University Grants Commission’s 2016 regulations.  The order also asked the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University registrar to follow up on its order with the eight deemed universities that offered agriculture or allied courses – SRM Institute of Science and Technology, Vellore Institute of Technology, Kalasalingam University, Karunya University, Prist University, Bharath University, Sri Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya Institute of Agri. and Rural Development, Amirtha Vishwa Vidyapeetham and Saveetha University.  The University registrar was not available for his comment.
24 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||‘Substandard material may have led to corridor collapse’||A two-member team of experts has expressed apprehension that use of substandard construction material could have led to the collapse of a portion of the elevated corridor on Sohna Road and suggested the need for a review of the design.  Two separate complaints have been filed in the matter by RTI activists, seeking registration of FIRs. Around 40-metre-long span between two piers of the 4.75-km-long under-construction elevated corridor on National Highway-248A had crashed late on Saturday evening.  The corridor is part of the six-laning and strengthening of 22-km-long stretch of the highway, starting from Rajiv Chowk. Experts Alok Bhowmik and Vinay Gupta visited the spot along with top National Highway Authority officials on Sunday. Mr. Bhowmik was of the view that may be the quality of concrete of crushed segment was not up-to-the-mark, while Mr. Gupta stressed the need for holistic review of the design.  They suggested there is a need for a third-party testing of the concrete. Since a portion of the collapsed span is still hanging from one of the piers, the experts suggested placing of sand bags under the hanging portion to arrest the impact if it falls further and develop proper methodology to take down the hanging portion. They also suggested third-party test of the source of materials.  The spot of collapse has been cordoned off. The preliminary report of the collapse stated that it was “gradual”. A group of RTI activists and whistle-blowers, Aadhikar, has written to the Central Vigilance Commission, the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Enforcement Directorate alleging that government officials, in collusion with the contractor, apparently ignored the CPWD works manual guidelines for “extraneous considerations” and sought registration of FIR under the Prevention of Corruption Act.  Another RTI activist, Mahender Kumar, wrote to the Station House Officer, Sadar, saying that the incident hinted at corruption and demanded registration of a case. Manjari Kapoor, a resident of Orchid Petals, said the construction site was not barricaded when the portion of corridor collapsed. Ms. Kapoor said her car was only a metre away from the spot and had a narrow escape. She was on her way to her sister’s place near Subhash Chowk when the portion of the corridor came crashing down.
24 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||DPCC demands Rahul Gandhi as AICC chief||In an emergency meeting of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee (DPCC) on Sunday, a resolution was passed demanding that Rahul Gandhi be appointed as the president of the All India Congress Committee. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said that the members of the DPCC felt that it was only Mr. Gandhi who could provide dynamic and youthful leadership to the party in these trying times. The DPCC, in its resolution, said: “Only a powerful and fearless leader like Mr. Rahul can expose the lies and falsehood of the BJP and the Modi government and make the people of India aware of the dangerous direction the country was going towards under the Modi government.” In a statement, the DPCC said that while it acknowledged freedom of speech, it felt that some senior leaders publicly saying that a change of leadership in the Congress was needed was improper as it not only gave ammunition to the opponents to criticise it, but also demoralised the party cadre. “The resolution noted that this was an issue that should have been raised in the internal forum of the party, instead of going public by leaking it to the media,” the DPCC said.
23 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||City sees highest single-day spike in cases for the month||The Capital recorded 1,450 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, the highest single day spike in August, taking the total number of cases here to 1,61,466, according to a heath bulletin issued by the Delhi government.  It added that 16 people died in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 4,300. During the same period, 1,250 people recovered, taking the total number of recoveries to 1,45,388. At present, the government said, there are 11,778 active cases in the Capital and 627 containment zones.  The last time the number of new cases was above Sunday’s figure was on July 18 with the count being 1,475. The number of active cases in the city has been increasing for the past six consecutive days and is the highest in over 25 days. The active cases, which were 27,007 on July 1, had fallen to 9,897 – below the 10,000 mark – on August 4, but since then it has remained above 10,000. Though Delhi has a capacity to conduct around 11,000 RT-PCR tests per day, only 6,261 such tests were done in the past 24 hours. During the same period 12,470 rapid antigen test were conducted.
23 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Registration camp for workers starts in Delhi today||The Delhi government on Sunday announced that it will conduct a campaign for the registration of construction labourers between August 24 and September 11 in all 70 Assembly constituencies as well as online.  Once registered, the government said, the construction workers will be able benefit from nearly 18 assistance schemes that the government is providing for them. Employment and Labour Minister Gopal Rai said that registration and physical verification will be done together during the 15-day camp. According to law, carpenters, construction site guards, people who work with concrete mixers, crane operators, electricians, mason, tiles stone fitters, welders, coolies and others can apply. Mr. Rai said that during the pandemic, the government provided financial assistance of ₹5,000 to all registered construction workers for two months.
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||High Court asks AIIMS to treat critical patient earlier turned away by institute||The Delhi High Court has ordered All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here to provide necessary treatment to a woman who was previously denied treatment by the institute as it had stopped conducting surgeries due to the ongoing pandemic. Justice Navin Chawla ordered the Medical Superintendent of AIIMS to get the woman medically examined and get the required treatment administered to her. Gulshan Farooqi, 37, who is suffering from large fibroid uterus and severe anaemia, in her petition, stated that she was earlier admitted in Newa Care & Gynae Centre at Kanpur. The hospital advised her to go to AIIMS, Delhi, for treatment as it involved complications and needed higher medical set-up. In her plea filed through advocate Ashok Aggarwal, Ms. Farooqi said she had come to Delhi on August 8 from Kanpur and had gone to AIIMS but was denied treatment despite repeated requests. “No reason whatsoever was given,” she said. Mr. Aggarwal said since she needed continuous medical care, she got herself admitted at Sita Ram Bhartiya Institute Science and Research (SRBISR), New Delhi, and is still there under EWS category. However, the SRBISR has advised her surgery at a higher tertiary care centre with in-house blood bank facility and intensive care unit. Mr. Aggarwal submitted that such a facility is available at AIIMS and if AIIMS refuses to provide treatment, Ms. Farooqi would most likely die. Mr. Aggarwal further submitted that Ms. Farooqi also approached the office of the Union Health Minister with a request to persuade AIIMS to provide her treatment. “However, she was told that though the request was sent from Union Health Minister’s office on August 8 to AIIMS, the institute said surgeries were not being conducted for time being,” the plea stated. “If a premier institution like AIIMS stops conducting surgeries upon critical patients, where will they go?” Ms. Farooqi said.
23 August 2020||New Delhi,||Have requested Centre to open metro in a phased manner: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that the Delhi government has requested the Centre to allow functioning of the Delhi Metro in a phased manner on a trial basis. He was interacting with traders to discuss measures to boost Delhi’s economy when a trader pointed out that customers were staying away due to lack of public transport. “We have raised the issue and have requested the Centre to consider Delhi somewhat separately from the whole country. The COVID-19 situation in Delhi is improving. If they do not want to open the metro in other States, they can do that. But the metro should be allowed in Delhi on a trial basis and in a phased manner. I hope that the Central government will soon take a decision on the same for the convenience of the people,” the Chief Minister said. Assuring the traders that the government was planning several measures to boost the economy, Mr. Kejriwal said that in the last five years, the people of Delhi have collectively overcome many challenges and they will also overcome the challenge of economic revival by working together in this hour of necessity.  The meeting was attended by more than 215 traders from a variety of sectors like manufacturing, electronics, garments, automobiles, etc. and from all regions of Delhi, who presented a host of suggestions to the Chief Minister. Replying to them, Mr. Kejriwal said that on one hand his government is trying to keep the people safe by fighting the pandemic, and on the other hand trying to ensure that people do not die of hunger and reviving the economy. He said he understood work and COVID management can go hand-in-hand and therefore Delhi did not impose any lockdown after it was lifted. “I want to assure you that we will overcome the challenge of reviving the economy in Delhi. The pollution has decreased by 25% in the last five years, we controlled dengue last year, and novel coronavirus this year, and we are working together to revive the economy,” Mr. Kejriwal said.  He added that measures like reducing the price of diesel, coming up with a start-up policy and starting a Rozgaar Bazaar were some of the measures already taken. The Chief Minister said one of the suggestions was to launch a portal of industries and shops based on the material they manufacture and sell, especially in industrial areas such as Wazirpur, Bawana, and Badli.  “Through this portal, Delhi’s wholesale market and industries can put their products in front of the whole world and they can receive orders from the whole world. We can call it Delhi Bazaar where the people can market their products,” he said. He added that Chandni Chowk has been redeveloped as a pilot project and that other markets and roads will soon be redeveloped in the same manner.
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘DU PhD students can now enter laboratories’||The Delhi University on Saturday said registered PhD students, who require access to laboratories, will be allowed to return to their places of work in a phased manner.  A DU notice said the students, whose presence in the research laboratory is essential, may join the labs after getting a certificate from their supervisors.  In this phased re-entry, only two to three of them will be allowed per laboratory at any given point in time. The students will also be required to take all necessary precautions such as social distancing, wearing masks, sanitisation while entering the academic areas, the notice states.
24 August 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi jeweller held for staging robbery to waive ₹61 lakh bank loan||A 40-year-old jeweller, along with his two accomplices, allegedly staged a robbery of 2.6 kg gold at his office in central Delhi’s Chandni Mahal. He wanted to get bank loan worth ₹61 lakh waived, the police said on Sunday. They added that the accused, who tried to mislead the investigators, do not have previous involvement in the crime.  Abhijeet Samanta, who has been dealing in jewellery making for the last four years, hatched the plan as he was not making much profit, mostly due to the lockdown. He along with his accomplices — Farhan (38), a property dealer, and Munna (28), who worked at a garage — staged the fake robbery. While Farhan arranged for a toy gun, Munna executed the robbery by venturing into the office wearing a burkha.  The matter came to fore when Samanta told the police about the “robbery”. He said at 8.30 p.m. on Saturday, he collected a payment of ₹50,000 from a jeweller and went to office when a burkha-clad woman entered the premises and held him at gunpoint. He alleged that the woman slapped him and also snatched ₹50, 000 and keys of lockers from him. He said she made him open the locker and then tied his hands, legs and mouth with the cloth. Next, she fled the spot with jewellery and cash. During the investigation, the CCTV footages of different cameras were analysed and it was noticed that the entry of the woman was friendly and behaviour of the complainant was also suspicious, said DCP (Central) Sanjay Bhatia. Finally, after a six-hour interrogation, Samanta broke down and confessed to the police about the conspiracy.  During interrogation, Samanta said in order to expand his business, he had availed a loan of ₹61 lakh from three different banks against the gold stock.  Since 2018, his business was not going well and he failed to achieve his targets and finally due to the lockdown, he was not in a position to deposit the EMI of his loans, the DCP said.  To waive the loans, he committed the crime along with his accomplices, the police added.
24 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||In Gurugram, rain means pain||The urban planning mess of Millennium City, with its swanky malls, high-rises and luxurious office spaces, is laid bare every time it rains here. The situation has worsened with the growing population and traffic over the years and the city has almost been brought to its knees thrice over the past five years by heavy rain. It was no different on August 19 when around 120 mm of rainfall within a span of a few hours left the city inundated with flooded underpasses, roads turning into rivers and water seeping into high-rises. Urban planners and the municipal officials, conceding the lacuna in the planning, now agree that water recharge systems and check dams alone could be a feasible solution. Speaking to The Hindu, Gurugram Municipal Commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh emphasised that water recharge systems and arresting the run-off from Aravalis with check dams were key to avoiding frequent waterlogging and flooding in the city.     “Even if a good drainage system is put in place, it is better to do rainwater harvesting. It not just prevents flooding, but recharges the groundwater which is so crucial for the city,” said Mr. Singh. He cited the example of Maruti Suzuki India Limited digging up around hundred rainwater harvesting pits along the boundary wall of its plant on Old Delhi Gurugram Road four years ago. It effectively addresses waterlogging in and outside the plant and recharges groundwater as well. Mr. Singh said check dams were constructed in the Aravalis and were inspected before the monsoon this year, but they failed to produce the desired results causing flooding on Golf Course Road. It would be reviewed. This year, the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) had an additional limiting factor of shortage of labour due to the lockdown, he added. “The contractors worked with almost 30% workforce,” said Mr. Singh. The new infrastructure developed over the past few years has also disrupted the drainage system and there was a need “to go back and sit with our designers and engineers to see that all that is there on the paper also exists on the ground,” said Mr. Singh. Since the 2016 gridlock, an underpass and a flyover have been constructed at Hero Honda Chowk, the internal drainage system in many parts of the city has been revamped and Badshahpur drain has been lined and widened almost all along its length. A small patch of the drain in Khandsa, though, is incomplete due to land dispute with the owner. However, a stretch of NH-48 near Narsinghpur village is a perennial waterlogging point and the authorities have failed to find a solution.     Unlike Noida, Gurugram is largely developed by private enterprises in bits and pieces and does not have an integrated drainage system — one of the important reasons for the frequent flooding. The civic infrastructure of the city is also not entirely maintained by the municipal corporation. Around ten private colonies have been taken over by the MCG over the past five years, but the rest, around 70, are still with developers and lack adequate drainage, sewage and electricity infrastructure. In many areas, including MCG and Haryana Sahari Vikas Pradhikaran sectors, the drainage system is not connected to the main drain and has no outlet. The natural water channels and ponds have not been preserved. Most of them have been encroached or thrown open to construction in the last two development plans of Gurugram, thus hampering the natural flow and dispersal of water. Endorsing the views of Mr. Singh, town planner Parveen Gulia said that creating rainwater harvesting structures was the most feasible solution. “Gurugram has no integrated drainage master plan. It is also not possible to create a linear drainage system now because of the huge land cost involved. Also, the natural nullahs and ponds have been encroached upon or lost to construction. The most practical solution, therefore, is to create rainwater harvesting wells. It will turn rainwater into a boon,” said Mr. Gulia.     The city has been mostly concretised and the run-off coefficient is thus high, around 60-80%. Mr. Gulia said the city had a natural depression from east to west and there was a need to revive bundhs. Former general-secretary of Sector 23A RWA Bhawani Shankar Tripathy said the MCG was a major culprit since the drainage system was not maintained and the waste management too was poor. “Contracts worth crores are awarded every year for desilting and maintenance of storm water drainage network, but there is lack of honest audit of the work being completed and as per requirement. Wastes of all kinds, be it municipal solid waste, construction and demolition waste or industrial waste, also continuously find their way into storm water drains,” said Mr. Tripathy.
23 August 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi records highest new COVID-19 cases in over a month||Delhi witnessed the highest number of daily new COVID-19 cases in more than a month on Saturday with 1,412 new cases being reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 1,60,016, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. The last time the number of new cases was above this was on July 18, when 1,475 new cases were reported.  Also, 14 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 4,284, according to Saturday's bulletin. Of the total cases, 1,44,138 people have recovered and there are 11,594 active cases.  The number of active cases in the city has been increasing for the past six consecutive days and it has gone up from 10,823 to 11,594 — the highest in over 25 days.  The active cases, which were 27,007 on July 1, had fallen to 9,897 — below the 10,000 mark in months — on August 4, but since then it has remained above that mark.  But the number of new cases has been less than 1,500 for the past 37 consecutive days, which is less compared to June. On June 23, daily new cases touched almost 4,000 – highest so far and since then it has been dropping. Though Delhi has a capacity to do around 11,000 RT PCR tests in a day, only 6,090 such tests were done in the past 24 hours.  Of the total 19,435 tests done in the past 24 hours, 68.6% of the tests were rapid antigen tests, which have shown a low positivity in the city compared to RT PCR tests. The positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive, has dropped from 12.2% to 7.2% compared to July 1.  The number of containment zones in the city was 591 as on Saturday.
23 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Apex Council Meet put off again||The second meeting of the Apex Council, which was scheduled to be held via video-conferencing on August 25, has been postponed again due to “unavoidable circumstances”. Union Minister of Jal Shakti Gajendra Singh Shekhawat and Chief Ministers of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh K. Chandrasekhar Rao and Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy, respectively, were supposed to discuss issues related to the Godavari and Krishna River Management Boards (GRMB & KRMB), including the recent developments related to AP’s plans to divert Krishna water with the Rayalaseema lift scheme and by enhancing the water drawal capacity of the Pothireddypadu regulator. The council was initially planned to meet on August 5 but it was postponed after the Telangana Chief Minister expressed inability to attend the meeting even virtually on the date because of prior engagements and requested the MoJS to hold it any time after August 20. Accordingly, the MoJS fixed the meeting for August 25. After its constitution, the first and only Apex Council meeting was held on September 21, 2016, without arriving at any consensus on the projects being taken up by the two States. It was chaired by the then Union Water Resources Minister Uma Bharati and Chief Ministers of AP and Telangana N. Chandrababu Naidu (then) and K. Chandrasekhar Rao, respectively. Constituted under the provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014, the Apex Council is mandated to supervise the functioning of GRMB and KRMB, approve the proposals for construction of new projects, if any, based on Godavari or Krishna river water, after getting the proposals appraised and recommended by the River Management Boards and by the Central Water Commission (CWC), resolve any disputes amicably arising out of the sharing of river water through negotiations and mutual agreement between the two States and reference of any disputes not covered under Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal under the Inter-State River Water Disputes Act, 1956. In a communication sent to the Chief Secretaries of the two States, the chairman of the CWC and the chairpersons of the two river boards, an official of the MoJS said the new date of the Apex Council meeting would be intimated soon.
23 August 2020||SIDDIPET,||An entire village responds with human face||Mudimaduguala Shankar, 48, was a native of Kashipet village in Manchiryal district. At about 1.30 a.m. on August 15, 2020, he had been steering a lorry from Husnabad to Siddipet. At Basvapur bridge, all of a sudden, the flood level increased and Shankar lost control on the lorry. Somehow, he came out of the lorry and hanged to a tree for several hours. In the morning, some villager observed him and alerted the district administration. On receipt of information, even Finance Minister T. Harish Rao directed the authorities to take all steps to save him. Rescue teams from Hyderabad and Warangal rushed there. In addition, a helicopter was pressed into service to save him. Meanwhile, the villagers made all efforts and tried to save him by throwing some rope. He held it for some time, but was washed away in the gushing flood water. The incident moved the entire village, with a population of about 3,000. They felt bad about a man being washed away despite their efforts to save him. They decided to help the family of Shankar, who died in their village because of floods, to the extent possible. Two youths — Md. Mujahid Pasha and T. Sudheer — from the village took the initiative and met the villagers and conveyed their decision. The entire village responded with a human face and contributed their mite. While some contributed as small as ₹200, some donated ₹3,000 and ₹5,000. The total amount donated was ₹1,10,000 and it was handed over to the family members of Shankar who reached Husnbad to collect the body after postmortem. “We saw the struggle by Shankar to survive. We were unable to save him despite efforts by us and the administration. We felt guilty over what happened. We decided to extend assistance to the family and villagers cooperated,” Mr. Mujahid Pasha told The Hindu.
23 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Info panel brought down waiting time for appeals’||It was 35 months ago that the Telangana State Information Commission was formed with the appointment of Chief Information Commissioner and an Information Commission. It is no mean task that the two-member team managed to bring down the pendency of RTI petitions from four years to 12 months. The Telangana State Information Commissionhas received a total 17,943 appeals since its inception in 2017. Of them, 10,220 appeals relate to revenue, municipal administration (Greater Hyderabad Municipal Cororation) and panchayati raj departments.  The Telangana State Information Commission was established on September 13, 2017 with Chief Information Commissioner and one Commissioner.  By disposing of nearly 14,000 appeals during the last three years, the commission has brought down the waiting period from four years to one year. With the appointment of new Information Commissioners, the pendency will come down further, according to Chief Information Commissioner S. Raja Sadaram, who will demit office on Monday. In an exclusive interview to The Hindu on Sunday, Mr. Raja Sadaram expressed satisfaction at his tenure and recalled his efforts along with another member Budha Murali to introduce innovative initiatives. So far, a total of 17,943 second appeals/complaints were filed in the Telangana Information Commission. As on the date of formation of Telangana Commission there were 6,825 appeals pending from Telangana. The commission has taken a special drive and disposed of 13,838 appeals and brought down the waiting period from more than three years to one year. According to the CIC, on an average 550 to 600 second appeals are filed every month in the Commission.  “The Commission comprising me and Budha Murali continued the virtual hearings during the COVID-19 pandemic also. Now with the appointment of five new Commissioners, the backlog will get cleared very soon,” Mr Raja Sadaram exuded confidence. Speaking about the initiatives, the CIC said a review of the work revealed that people were directly filing applications before the commission instead of approaching the public information officers of the departments concerned .  “There is need to create public awareness, especially in the rural areas about the provisions of the Act,” he noted. He said establishment of a facilitation desk in the commission was making the citizens understand how to make best use of the provisions of the Act to seek information. There is a general feeling that the applications are filed under RTI to seek frivolous and vexatious information. According to him, such applications do not exceed 2% and there are adequate provisions to deal with such cases including those which are repetitive and seeking voluminous information.  The commission has introduced the system of sending preliminary intimation soon after a second appeal is filed. This has proved to be quite useful as it makes the officials concerned aware of the fact of filing the second appeal and facilitating furnishing of sought information much before hearing. The Cause list and notices of hearing are uploaded on the website well in advance facilitating the appellants and the PIOs, the CIC pointed out.  The commission has made it a practice to upload the orders on the website the next day. The CIC observed that in a good number of cases, the Public Information Officers come up with the plea that the files are not available. “The plea of non-availability and not being able to trace out the record would amount to denial of information under the RTI Act,” he said noting that it also reflected poorly on the administrative system. “Maintenance of records should be given utmost importance with clear demarcation of responsibilities. Officials responsible for loss of Government records should be dealt with it appropriately. It is essential to enact a suitable legislation for this purpose,” he opined.  A broad analysis of the appeals filed reveals that the information sought is about the basic data relating to the schemes, beneficiaries, budget, expenditure etc., which is required to be in the public domain. “There will be no confidentiality in those cases and there is nothing to hide unless there is some irregularity involved,” he observed.  Records are the heart and soul of administration in government offices, Mr. Raja Sadaram said and felt that an effective system of creating, storing and managing the records would not only facilitate better sourcing of information under the RTI Act but also improve the efficiency of administrative machinery and reinforce the confidence of people.
23 August 2020||hyderabad ,||Santosh Babu’s widow honoured||Santoshi Babu, widow of Colonel Santosh Babu, who made the supreme sacrifice with 19 other soldiers while defending Indian borders against Chinese aggression, was honoured by Smriti Joshi, Chairperson of local Army Wives Welfare Association, for her contribution in the city on Saturday.The event was part of a week-long annual programme. where Army commemorates the contribution of families of serving and fallen soldiers.
23 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,||Commercial operations at BTPS unit-II likely soon||The recent spell of heavy rains severely hampered the construction activity at the 1080-MW (4X270 MW) Bhadradri Thermal Power Station (BTPS) near Manuguru, causing some delay in the original plans of the executing agency to make the unit II (1X270 MW) achieve Commercial Operation Date (COD) and synchronise the unit-III (1X270 MW) with the State grid by mid-August. The rain fury has virtually stalled the construction works at the TSGenco’s BTPS site for nearly 11 days because of heavy water-logging all along the construction site, sources said.  As normality appears to have returned in the rain-hit Manuguru mandal following the respite from rains, construction work at the site is expected to pick up in the next few days. The BTPS suffered major disruption in construction works owing to the labour shortage during the first and second phases of lockdown a few months ago.  Despite availability of just around 1,600 workers as against the original strength of 3,800 workforce during the prime lockdown period, the executing agency had managed to make the unit-I (1X270 MW) of the BTPS commercially operational on June 5 and synchronise the unit-II (1X270 MW) with the grid on July 3 this year. Engineers and officials of the TSGenco and the BHEL concerned earned appreciation from TSGenco chairman and managing sirector D Prabhakar Rao for accelerating the pace of works and achieving COD for the unit-I in spite of the constraints posed by the pandemic crisis in June.   BTPS chief engineer Balaraju said the construction activity at the BTPS site was back on track after experiencing disruption for nearly 11 days owing to rains. All-out efforts were on to achieve COD for unit-II in a couple of days, he said. Steam blowing operation would be taken up in the uunit-III before synchronising it with grid next month.
23 August 2020||KHAMMAM,||Martyr’s statue planned at Lakkaram||Plans are afoot to install the statue of Doddi Komaraiah, hero of the Telangana Peasants’ Armed Struggle of 1946, on the Lakkaram Tank Bund in the town soon.  Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar garlanded the portrait of Doddi Komaraiah at the Tank Bund here on Sunday, symbolically laying the foundation stone for the installation of the statue of the first martyr of the Telangana Peasants' Armed Struggle. On the occasion, the participants recalled the valour of Doddi Komaraiah, who laid down his life fighting the tyrannical feudal forces under the then Nizam's regime. They said the martyrdom of the valiant leader of Kadavendi village, now in present Jangaon district, inspired the historic Telangana Armed Struggle by the oppressed peasants and other toiling masses in 1946. This eventually led to the liberation of Telangana (Hyderabad State) from the clutches of the autocratic rule of the Nizam's regime on September 17 in 1948, they added.
23 August 2020||Hyderabad ,||UoH students allege scholar died to private hospital’s negligence||Surya Pratap Bharati (30), a research scholar from the University of Hyderabad, lost his life due to sheer negligence of a private hospital, alleged student groups. The university student union, who organised a condolence meeting on the campus on Sunday, alleged that on August 17 when Surya Pratap, a native of Mau district in Uttar Pradesh, was rushed to a hospital in Nallagandla after he suffered a brain stroke and was paralysed, doctors said that his condition was critical and they must perform an operation to save his life. “But they conducted COVID-19 tests twice and the result came out two days later on August 19,” student union general secretary Gopi Swamy said.  According to the doctors, Surya Pratap tested positive for the deadly infection, and further they refused to treat him. As a result he was shifted to another hospital at Gachibowli, where the research scholar tested negative for the infection, but doctors said that chances of his survival were very less, Mr. Swamy said. He succumbed on July 21.  “How come the same person can be tested positive and negative for coronavirus in less than 24 hours. Our friend died due to the medical negligence,” he alleged, adding that they lodged a complaint against the hospital at Chandanagar police station.  However, the police said that they are yet to register a case against the hospital.
23 August 2020||HYDERABAD ,||‘Rich and developed TS’ needs to ramp up testing: Kishan||Telangana State is at the seventh position from the bottom in terms of testing for COVID-19 and there is an abject need to increase testing in the twin cities as well as in the districts, said Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Sunday.  “We have given total freedom to states to take whatever measures are necessary to contain the spread. This includes increasing the containment zones, localised lockdowns and other measures as well as testing strategies. I request the government to ramp up testing. A rich and developed state like Telangana should take the lead,” he said. The Union Minister was addressing the media after launching the Rotary Blood Plasma Bank in Ameerpet and stated he was in regular touch with Health Minister Eatala Rajender on COVID-19 management. “Mr. Rajender also assured us that testing will be increased. We did a record 10.25 lakh testing throughout the country yesterday. We had already supplied 14 lakh N95 masks, 2.45 lakh PPE kits, 1,400 ventilators, 2.2 lakh TR-PCR kits, 26,000 VTM kits and permitted 17 government and 32 private labs to test here,” he said.  Mr. Reddy also reminded Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s remark that if five States including Telangana increased the testing numbers, the virus spread can be controlled. “There is no finality about the vaccine or when it is coming, so we have no other option but to protect ourselves and save our neighbours through masks, social distancing and personal hygiene,” he said, and hailed the initiative to launch the plasma bank. Several lives can be saved through plasma donation but it was necessary to bring about greater awareness and motivate people to donate. “Anyone who has tested negative and without any side effects, can donate after 28 days,” he said. In this context, he had a word of praise for Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C.Sajjanar for initiating an online portal for plasma donation.  Privacy and safety aspects have been preventing prospective donors from coming forward for the plasma donation whereas patient attendants had no clue about the availability and costs, said Rotary Challa Blood Bank chairman Sharath Chowdhary. The new plasma facility will ensure a technician is sent to the donor’s home to check the antibody count and only if a doctor certifies the fitness will the plasma be taken. “It will not take more than 45 minutes. We will charge ₹10,500 a unit from those who can afford it,” Mr. Chowdhary said. Rotary Club of Hyderabad Deccan V.V.S. N. Raju was also present. The Minister also inaugurated the Facial Recognition Attendance System – AIeNA (Artificial Intelligence enabled Attendance system) installed in the medical college through collaboration with DRDO, Ministry of Defence and Electronics Corporation of India Limited, Department of Atomic Energy, which is a non-touch, low cost, robust, foolproof, accurate system for marking attendance with real-time analytics and reports. The manual attendance paper registers are a source of infections. This technology is preventing the risk of infection in the institute.
24 August 2020||HYDERABAD ,||ESIC Hospital to open 200-bed ICU facility for coronavirus patients||ESIC Medical College & Hospital in Sanathnagar will be opening a 200-bed ICU facility with inbuilt ‘negative pressure’ exclusively for COVID-19 patients. It is likely to become functional in two weeks. A liquid oxygen plan is also getting ready to ensure adequate oxygen is available to needy patients. Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Sunday was informed by Registrar T. Madhuri that the medical college and hospital has been monitoring the patients through an indigenously developed remote control unit in association with ECIL. It has kept its out-patient wing functional since the lockdown and over 7,000 patients have been treated for COVID-19 as well as other ailments.  It has tested 21,000 samples and is keen to enhance the testing capacity to 6,000-8,000 per day and sought the Minister’s support to procure a high-end machine for the purpose. Plasma therapy is being undertaken and up to 15 patients have benefited from 25 donors, they added. The Minister also interacted with in-patients at the isolation ward and assured them proper treatment during their stay and felicitated the plasma donors. He appreciated the services being provided at the hospital on par with corporate hospitals and hailed the leadership of dean M. Srinivas.  No effort will be spared to provide best of facilities for the college and hospital which has bagged awards as the best ECI units for the last couple of years, the Minister said.
23 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||CPI(M) seeks transparency in statistics||The CPI (Marxist) State committee has demanded that the State government adopt transparency in declaring the actual number of patients who have tested positive for COVID-19 rather than misleading people with false information. CPI(M) State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram said there was a huge variation in the figures mentioned in the bulletin released by the government and the numbers announced by the district officials. According to the government’s figures, 43,095 tests were conducted on August 21 and 2,474 persons had tested positive. The numbers announced at the district level, however, pointed out that 4,325 persons were tested positive that day. The variation in the numbers could been seen from the fact that 545 persons tested positive in GHMC limits as mentioned by the officials, but the government bulletin claimed the number to be 447. Likewise, 92 positive cases were reported in Siddipet going by the bulletin, but the actual figure was 283. Similar was the case with several other districts including Jagtial, Bhadradri-Kothagudem and Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri. “The variation in the numbers proves the charge that the government is deliberately hiding the figures to show fewer COVID-19 cases in the State,” he said. He lamented that the government was unwilling to take lessons from global experience which showed that early detection of cases by conducting as many tests as possible would help in effectively controlling the spread of the virus.
23 August 2020||Khandala (Adilabad),||COVID scare keeps Adilabad’s Khandala off limits for tourists||The spectacular Khandala Valley and its breathtaking waterfalls in Adilabad district are out of bounds for tourists for the last one month, thanks to the unrelenting spread of COVID-19.  On requests by local tribals living in the village above, the district police set up a checkpoint near Ankoli village, eight kilometres from the town, to send back any tourist.  “Except locals, no one is allowed into these villages. They sought permission from our senior officers for not allowing outsiders to prevent the spread of coronavirus,” said a police constable deployed at the check post, even as he registers the entry and exit details of the villages.  The police are noting down the personal details, including name, village name, vehicle number, date and time, of their entry and exit from the checkpoint.  During weekdays, two constables are posted at the checkpoint, while on Saturdays and Sundays, the number is doubled as the inflow of nature-lovers from Adilabad town and neighbouring mandals multiply.  Hailed as the Kashmir of Telangana, erstwhile Adilabad district is a home for several unexplored gems, which are waiting to be promoted as eco-tourism destination and Khandala is one of them.  Located about 25 km from Adilabad town, the Khandala-Lohara valley has four waterfalls, two each near Molalgutta and Lohara tribal villages, apart from picturesque landscapes and high points from where one can experience the view of the magnificent valley. First two waterfalls, locally known as Khopengidi, near Molalgutta, a tribal hamlet with eight houses and a population of less than 40 people, can be accessed through a rough and rugged terrain traversing through farm fields. While two other waterfalls, Keskudkappi and Jaitukappi, can be accessed through the hilly slopes. The steep scenic ghat road, popular as Khandala ghat, starts at Pippaldhari village.  “Yes, this place can be turned into a tourism destination but now due to the outbreak of coronavirus, we are not allowing people, as the deadly virus can infect us,” the Kolam patel of Molalgutta Tekam Bapu Rao told The Hindu. While sitting on a charpoy (woven cot), Mr. Rao was worried if any villager gets infected, they won’t have enough money for treatment at a costly private hospital. “Once it is in, it will spread like wildfire. We cannot put our lives to risk just because someone comes here for revelry near the waterfalls,” Mr. Rao said.
23 August 2020||Hyderabad,||New road near Musi to better connectivity||A 60-feet wide road connecting Langar Houz with Hyderguda skirting the northern bank of Musi river is set to improve the connectivity between the two densely populated areas.  “The earthen work on the road is nearly complete. The road should be ready within another three months if there is no disruption,” says Satya Reddy, executing the work at the site for the civic body. The road is a big departure from the planned four-lane skyway to connect Narsingi in the west to Nagole in the east. The 25.65 km skyway was expected to create an east-west corridor. While a skyway would have had a smaller footprint, the transformation lent by the wide road is equally stunning. What used to be the open sloping space of a meandering river is now a wall of rocks, mud and debris. Satellite imagery shows how the river’s course has changed due to the road over the last nine years.  The 2016 Feasibility Report for environmental clearance held a dire warning for Hyderabad: “Since the project is skyway, there will be permanent change in land use pattern along the Musi.” But with the road, forming an embankment, the permanent change in land use will impact the city built on the banks of a river which has historical record of 14 devastating floods. The last being the 1908 flood that killed an estimated 15,000 people and left lakhs of people homeless.  “The skyway stretching from Narsingi to Uppal would have disrupted the river flow with columns. This road will create a boundary on one side of the river and prevent further encroachments,” says C. Ramachandriah, an urban planner with the Centre for Economics and Social Studies.  “We are in a desperate situation where encroachments have become rampant. If the road is going to prevent that, I see no problem with the road as it will improve connectivity,” said Mr. Ramachandriah. The new road has spurred construction activity on the river bank with even a water body being filled up and turned into a storage space for construction material.
23 August 2020||Hyderabad,||Khairatabad Ganesha attracts large number of devotees||Khairatabad Ganesha continues to attract thousands of devotees each day despite the fact that there is a growing danger of fast spreading COVID-19.  Whether it is 60 feet or nine feet, the size of the idol doesn’t matter for the devotees who are surging to have a glimpse of the iconic elephant god. Hyderabad police deployed at the mega pandal have had a tough time as thousands of devotees started thronging the venue without any regard for maintaining physical distance and other COVID-19 protocol. At least 3,000 devotees had darshan of the lord on Sunday.  Earlier in the day, a clash erupted between Bajrang Dal supporters and the police, who were busy dispersing the devotees. However, Khairatabad Ganesh Utsav Committee maintains that they decided not to allow people for the idol darshan, but cannot turn away those who have come from a long distance. “We have appealed to the public to take due precaution during the pandemic situation protection, as Ganesha darshan and pooja is also available online,” Utsav Committee convenor, Sandeep Raj told The Hindu.  “People have a choice. They can have online darshan or they can come in person and have blessings. Keeping the norms of COVID-19 we are providing sanitizers, ensuring physical distance and have installed thermal guns to check the body temperature,” he said.
23 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Revenue melas to be held in municipalities till Sept. 15||The State government has decided to conduct Revenue Melas in all municipalities two days a week to settle issues relating to property tax. The Municipal Administration department said the revenue melas would be conducted on every Monday and Wednesday till September 15 and people could utilise the opportunity to redress their grievance related to property tax payment. People can represent issues like receiving tax over and above the assessed amount, double assessment, availing 90 per cent waiver on interest under the one-time settlement scheme, mistakes in the entries like name and change of name of owners after transaction, among others during the revenue melas. Senior officials would be available in the municipal offices across the State between 10.30 am and 1.30 pm during the two days to redress the grievances raised by the people. Interested people should carry necessary documents like assessment copy, mutation/registration documents and others to the revenue melas.
23 August 2020||HYDERABAD ,||Indian Railways to introduce ‘freight e-market place’||The Indian Railways will be introducing a ‘Freight e-market place’ — a one-stop logistic solution providing the first mile to last mile connectivity for bringing out more efficiencies in freight movement, and by December 21, a new freight operation information system is going to be unveiled. Railway Board Chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav disclosed on Thursday that a business development partnership portal is also on the anvil to facilitate dialogue with the stakeholders across the country.  Participating in a virtual conference, Mr. Yadav observed that the freight movement so far this year has been encouraging despite the lockdown and prevailing pandemic restrictions with loading in the past 18 days being 7% (3.6 million tonnes) more than previous year in almost all major heads. The cumulative loading from April-August in foodgrains, fertilizer and other goods has been showing a perceptible rise, he said, and pointed out that the various zones and divisions have been asked to pull no stops to garner more freight from non-traditional goods, apart from coal, iron ore etc., to make up for the loss in passenger traffic revenue. “The current doubling of speed of freight trains to 46 kmph will be maintained even after the eventual running of the passenger trains once the pandemic is stabilised by having a separate timetable. We will maintain individual timelines for passenger trains, freight trains and for maintenance works,” said Mr. Yadav. The plan of the railways is to provide rakes or freight coaches/trains on demand and for this purpose, an integrated plan of action has been put into place to double the current freight movement by improving infrastructure capacities of extra lines, modern wagons, quick turnaround times by developing 405 terminal goods sheds etc., within the next four years. The chairman informed that about 10 port connectivity projects, 51 coal connectivity projects, doubling of 11,500 km and multi-tracking of 2,500 km are slated to be completed by March 2024. Much before that in June 2022, the east and west corridor of Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC) between Mumbai-Delhi-Kolkata will become operational allowing more freight trains to be introduced at enhanced speeds and capacities even while also freeing the passenger network to introduce more trains, he added.
24 August 2020||KOCHI,||Coronavirus | Surge in cases continues; 200 more test positive in Ernakulam||Two-hundred persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam district on Sunday. Of them, 14 had come from abroad or other States. The remaining cases are accounted for by local spread. A communication from the district administration said a total of 171 persons were cured of the infection. Of them, 145 are from the district, four from other districts, and 22 from other States. A total of 1,112 people came under observation in the district, and 692 people completed their observation period on Sunday. At present, there are 16,132 people under observation. Of them, 13,787 are in their own homes and 197 in COVID-19 care centres.  As many as 117 persons were admitted to hospitals or first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) in the district on Sunday. At the same time, 161 people were discharged from hospitals or FLTCs. The total number of people under treatment in the district stands at 1,865, even as 1,616 samples were sent for testing on Sunday. The district received 1,592 test results on the day, while the results of 928 samples are yet to be received. The number of samples collected from government facilities and private hospitals and laboratories totalled 1,823, the communication from the district administration said.
24 August 2020||KOCHI,||Coronavirus | West Kochi residents peeved at prolonged containment zone status||Resentment is brewing among residents of West Kochi, as the region continues to be a containment zone, with the ensuing curbs on movement of people, and shops selling essential commodities being directed to down shutters by noon every day.  The worst affected is Fort Kochi, the State’s heritage tourism hub, where even the famed walkway that overlooks the beach and Chinese nets has been out of bounds for visitors for over a month. The Fort Cochin Tourism and Heritage Preservation Council, an NGO, had recently written to Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran, alleging that certain officials engaged in COVID-19 healthcare had been misleading national and international news media from June onwards, by depicting Fort Kochi as a region having numerous COVID-19 cases.  “Fort Kochi is known the world over as a heritage zone. Misleading information provided by a section of healthcare officials is causing irreparable loss and damage to the tourist locale’s image. The whole of West Kochi has a total of 28 wards of the Kochi Corporation. Until recently, there was not a single COVID-19 positive case in Ward 1, which has a bulk of heritage tourist locales. There were just a couple of cases in wards 2 and 27, better known as Earaveli and Mullavallapu, in the vicinity. We were surprised when it was reported in newspapers and other media that the entire Fort Kochi is dangerously infected and hence declared a containment zone. The names of wards in West Kochi where residents tested positive were not mentioned. Moreover, the entire area was made into an overstretched containment zone,” said K.P. Simpson, president of the council.  This resulted in almost all streets starting from Thopumpady to different parts of Fort Kochi being blocked with barricades. This will further cripple the economy of the entire West Kochi. Declaring micro containment zones is an effective alternative, Mr. Simpson suggested.  Antony Kureethara, former councillor who represented Ward 1 in Fort Kochi, said the proliferation of containment zones had resulted in even the few shops that open being forced to down shutters by 1 p.m. “There is inordinate delay in relaxing containment zone curbs even after 14 days. This delay often results in quarrel between the public and the police, with a few lakh people in the region not able to travel between almost all the 28 wards,” he said.  Santosh Tom, who owns a heritage homestay in Fort Kochi, said the Kerala Homestay and Tourism Society (HATS) had written to the Kerala Tourism, denouncing the frequent references to the tourism locale as a containment zone where curfew is in place. “This will drive away tourists who are keen to visit Fort Kochi, often mentioned as a must-visit locale, once the pandemic wanes away. Much damage has already been done, as films portray nearby heritage locale Mattancherry as a haven for Kochi’s underworld,” he said.  In the meantime, the district administration has said the police and health personnel are engaged in analysing the situation in containment zones, so that the affected areas can be declared as micro containment zones.
23 August 2020||KOCHI,||Chellanam residents reiterate call for shore protection measures||Residents of Chellanam coastal village reiterated their call for urgent measures to protect the coastal segment between St. John Pattam, Fort Kochi and South Chellanam as hundreds of people observed the 300th day of protest action by Chellanam Janakiya Vedhi here on August 22. The day’s highlight was residents of the village standing in the coastal waters with placard demanding protection of the coast. “We want the government to immediately begin coastal protection and beach nourishment works”, said general convenor of the Janakeeya Vedhi, Joseph Arakkal, after the protest was observed. He said that beach nourishment, using dredged material from the port area, coupled with other measures like offshore breakwaters, could be used to reduce sea erosion. Sea incursions in early December saw about 20 metres, he claimed, stressing the urgency of the situation.  On August 21, Kerala Region Latin Catholic Council (KRLCC) met through a webinar to discuss the urgent threat to life and property in the coastal areas from Fort Kochi to Chellanam. A set of suggestions will be submitted to the Sstate government, said Shaji George, vice-president of KRLCC and T.A. Dalphin from Chellanam. The webinar was organised under the aegis of the Roman Catholic dioceses of Alappuzha and Kochi. A “people’s guidelines” for protection of the coastal areas and its residents was the focus of the webinar, which was inaugurated by bishop Joseph Kariyil of Kochi diocese. Bishop James Anaparambil made the inroductory speech. The demand from residents of the coastal segment comes as the district administration has invited competitive bids to rebuild the seawall along some of the most vulnerable stretches in Chellanam like Bazaar and Velankanni.
23 August 2020||KOCHI,||Online art exhibition to protest against draft EIA 2020 notification||'Green Dreams', an online exhibition of landscape paintings by a group of artists, opened online on Sunday morning as a part of a protest against the draft of Environmental Impact Assessment 2020 notification. The exhibition, in which 140 artists from across India have come together, is being curated by T. A. Sathyapal, former chairman of Kerala Lalitakala Akademy. The exhibition was inaugurated by Kalyan Kumar Chakravarty and can be visited at https://whiterosemovement.in/ The exhibition of landscape paintings is the third in a series being organised by the White Rose Movement, which has campaigned against war and violence, said Mr. Sathyapal. He voiced the concerns of the community of artists about the draft notification, which if made into a law would have far reaching consequences for India. The artists fear that once the draft became the law of the land it could only help degrade the environment considerably, he said. Around 280 pieces of artwork are on display at the exhibition. The works include landscape paintings and photographs. The voice of the artists from across the nation is a clarion call and it must awaken the whole of India, said the organisers. Dr. Chakravarthy was cited in a communication here as calling on the country to “awake, arise, rest not until we save our nation, our mother land.” The draft EIA 2020 notification had raised alarm among a wide spectrum of people ranging from environmental activists to the community of fishers in Kerala. The last date for submitting suggestions on the draft ended on August 11.
23 August 2020||August 23 2020 01:02 IST,||The Hindu Explains | How will a centralised electronic medical records tool help to monitor trends about COVID-19?||The story so far: The COVID-19 pandemic has been the start of a great spurt in innovation in the health-care industry. The rush has not only been to find safe and efficacious cures and vaccines but also to tweak every aspect of medical care in order to serve issues arising from the pandemic and beyond. Last week, researchers, as part of an international consortium, reportedly created an agile analytic tool for rapid disease insights, working with medical records of patients with COVID-19 in five countries. They put together a centralised electronic medical records (EMR) tool that would help them gather, monitor, analyse clinical trends in COVID-19 across multiple countries. While EMRs were supposed to make things easier in terms of access across platforms, they did not turn out to be such a big boon after all, because the data was locked in on local platforms. Researchers realised “the paucity of relevant clinical information to drive response at the clinical and population levels”. Also read | Digital Health Mission a voluntary, central repository of records: Health Ministry Further, the researchers argued in a paper International electronic health record-derived COVID-19 clinical course profiles: the 4CE consortium in Nature Digital Medicine : “Even in an information technology-dominated era, fundamental measurements to guide public health decision-making remain unclear... data that should be widely available in electronic health records (EHRs) have not yet been effectively shared across clinical sites, with public health agencies, or with policy makers.” In order to resolve this basic conundrum, researchers who were part of the Consortium for Clinical Characterization of COVID-19 by EHR (4CE) rapidly set up an ad hoc network to harmonise data, produce analytics and better visualisations to “begin to answer some of the clinical and epidemiological questions around COVID-19”. The team fashioned its tool on open source and a free i2b2 (Informatics for Integrating Biology and the Bedside) toolkit, to use data generated from EHRs, in a move to get them to ‘talk’ to each other. The final product was a model, the team claims, that demonstrates the possibility of centralising data held in various EHR and uses it fairly quickly to determine disease trajectories. Also read | COVID-19 enhances reliance on telemedicine Over a span of three weeks, 96 hospitals — the United States (45), France (42), Italy (5), Germany (3), and Singapore (1) — contributed data to the consortium. This was represented by 23 data collaboratives across these five countries. A total of 27,584 patients with COVID-19 diagnosis were included in the data set, with data covering January 1, 2020 through April 11, 2020. Researchers collected a whopping 187,802 laboratory values to harmonise them across sites. Among other things, the team tracked the total number of COVID-19 patients, intensive care unit admissions and discharges, daily death toll, demographic details of patients and laboratory tests to assess various health parameters. In the Nature paper, the team argued that the initial report sought to establish that EMR data for COVID-19 patients was accessible, learn about the clinical trajectories, facilitate evaluation and communication of the various tests and therapies, and contribute data, and learnings to a global network, and the public. Also read | Gaps in our knowledge of coronavirus origin need fulfilment: Study The team claimed the “sources of the data and the mechanism established for sharing them are sound, reproducible, and scalable”. A paper, Portrait of a virus, in the Science Daily dated August 19, 2020 quotes Isaac Kohane, senior author on the research and chair of the Department of Biomedical Informatics in the Blavatnik Institute at Harvard Medical School: “The new platform we have created shows that we can, in fact, overcome some of these challenges and rapidly collect critical data that can help us confront the disease at the bedside and beyond... Our efforts establish a framework to monitor the trajectory of COVID-19 across different categories of patients and help us understand response to different clinical interventions.” The new ‘network designed to be a highly scalable system, is now being implemented at 23 sites’. While the wisdom of quickly aggregating data for drawing conclusions that will guide treatment cannot be ignored, it is also necessary to exercise some caution while dealing with machine learning. The researchers themselves acknowledged that the ‘early data are incomplete and are subject to many biases and limitations, which constrain the conclusions we can currently draw’. Also read | Microsoft launches text analytics to organise a deluge of healthcare data The Science Daily article quotes from an accompanying editorial on the issue: “The new platform underscores the value of such agile analytics in the rapid generation of knowledge, particularly during a pandemic that places extra urgency on answering key questions, but such tools must also be approached with caution and be subject to scientific rigour.”
23 August 2020||New Delhi,||Former hockey players demand Bharat Ratna for Major Dhyan Chand||Former and current hockey players came together to demand Bharat Ratna, the country’s highest civilian award, for the legendary Major Dhyan Chand, a week ahead of his 115th birth anniversary.  With National Sports Day approaching, greats such as Gurbux Singh, Harbinder Singh, Ashok Kumar and current player Yuvraj Walmiki took part in a virtual discussion on Saturday to celebrate the life and career of the iconic player. National Sports Day is celebrated on August 29, on the birth anniversary of Dhyan Chand.  The discussion was part of a digital campaign which was launched by former India cricket captain Sourav Ganguly, actors Babushaan Mohanty and Rachel White last year to demand ‘Bharat Ratna’ for Major Dhyan Chand. “For us Dhyan Chand was God. We were lucky to travel with him to East Africa and Europe for a month-long tour. It is difficult to find such a nice man and a great player. He was the most complete player ever born,” said Gurbux Singh, an Arjuna awardee.  The 85-year-old also shared his experience of being a part of the 1964 Tokyo Olympics. “We had lost gold in 1960, so we wanted to get it back. After winning the gold for India, I had tears in my eyes while seeing the tri-colour go up slowly with the national anthem being played in the background. It really made me feel proud of doing something for India,” he said.  Talking about Dhyan Chand, Harbinder Singh said, “I have a lot of regards for ‘Dada’ I had a best timing of 10.8 in 100m, so I had advantage of speed. He told me that I should keep the ball in front of me as it will help in pick up but I should have control. I practised on it and took it as ‘guru mantra’.”  Arjuna awardee and Dhayn Chand’s son, Ashok Kumar also shared some unknown facts about his father. “He used to stop me and my elder brother from playing hockey. The reason for which we later realised was that he worried about the lack of financial incentives in the sport,” Ashok said.  He also narrated anecdotes from the final match of Berlin Olympics 1936 that India won. “It was raining heavily for which the final match got postponed to August 15, 1936. In the first half, India had scored only one goal, which was quite easy for the opponent to defeat,” Ashok said. “Before the second half of the match, Major Dhyan Chand and Legendary Player Roop Singh removed their shoes and played barefoot for 35 minutes to get the control of the ground both of them scored seven goals.”  “By the time the match ended in Berlin, the stadium was empty as India defeated Germany with a score of 8-1 in front of Hitler.”  Talking about the influence of Dhyan Chand, Valmiki, who played in German League for eight years, said: “Hockey in India is equal to Major Dhyan Chand. Even after 100 years it will be the same, it is the greatest pride for me. When I played in Germany, every person used to tell me that I come from the land of Major Dhyan Chand.”  The Tokyo Olympics have been postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic and Harbinder said it will affect India’s momentum. “Had the Olympic not been postponed due to COVID-19 pandemic, India would certainly be medal contenders. Now however, the momentum has gone. Am doubtful about how India will fare next year,” he said.
23 August 2020||Washington,||Jack Sherman, early guitarist for Red Hot Chili Peppers, dies at 64||Jack Sherman, a rock guitarist who played on the first album by the Red Hot Chili Peppers and co-wrote several of the Grammy-winning group's early songs, has died at age 64, the group announced Saturday. The group listed no cause of death.    He was a unique dude and we thank him for all times good, bad and in between. Peace on the boogie platform.   In 1984, Sherman replaced guitarist Hillel Slovak for the group's first album, "The Red Hot Chili Peppers," and he collaborated on the second, "Freaky Styley" in 1985, according to the Deadline website. Slovak later returned to the popular group, replacing Sherman. The Chili Peppers went on to sell more than 80 million albums. In 2012, when the group led by Anthony Kiedis was inducted to the prestigious Rock & Roll Hall of Fame, Sherman was excluded, despite his early involvement with the group. The decision, he said, was "really painful," adding, "I'm being dishonored, and it sucks." Sherman went on to play on albums by Bob Dylan and funk star George Clinton, according to the Guitarworld website.
23 August 2020||Bhopal,||Balaghat women curb felling of trees||For years, there had been indiscriminate felling of trees in the Birsa area of Balaghat district in Madhya Pradesh rendering acres of fertile land barren. As things came to a head two years ago, local women came together, wielding lathis, to shoo away those felling trees and impose a fine on them.  “We had to take ownership of the forest near us, take its responsibility. This was the only way to protect it,” said Kavita Sahu, 28, on the phone, from Kaniya village. Foresters tasked with curbing the felling patrolled in vain. A challenge had to be mounted from within the community. And women took the lead.  Nearly 250 acres of land is now seeing a revived foliage with foresters planting saplings and women taking initiative to protect them. In addition, the 34 women members of the Van Devi Suraksha Samiti from four villages are preventing deforestation by imposing a ₹500 fine on those found with an axe.  Since women are tasked with venturing into forests to cut trees, fetch fuel wood, only women can stop them, believes Ms. Sahu, president of the group.  “Sustainable use of forests by picking fruits and medical plants judiciously, allowing enough time for their replenishment must be the way,” said Kamla Bai, 52, a member. Three times a day, the women in groups of four-five patrol the forest having harra, bahera and teak varieties, keeping foresters informed of any illegal activity.  Leadership roles adopted by women have united them, made them more aware of environmentalism.
24 August 2020||Kozhikode,||Within two days, COVID-19 caseload up by 351 in Kozhikode||A total of 351 COVID-19 cases were reported in Kozhikode district on Saturday and Sunday. There are 1,462 active cases in the district at present. The number of cases reported on Sunday was 119, of which 93 were through local transmission of the infection, said a release. Eight persons had returned from abroad and six from other States. The source of infection of 12 others is not known. The number of local transmission cases within Kozhikode Corporation limits is 41 and in Naduvannur is nine. There are 13 healthcare workers among the infected persons. Meanwhile, the highest single-day spike in cases was recorded on Saturday when 232 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, 189 people got the infection through local transmission. The source of infection of 24 others was not known. The other infected persons had returned from other States or from abroad. There were seven health workers among the infected. One death was reported at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Saturday. The deceased was a 65-year-old from Tirurangadi in Malappuram. Ward 66 in Vellayil area has been declared a critical containment zone. As many as 186 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Sunday. It was the lowest number in the district in the last 10 days. An 85-year-old man from Thootha died of COVID-19.  District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan called upon people to exercise caution and behave responsibly to contain the spread of the disease. As many as 178 of the 186 people got the infection through local contacts. The source of infection in 21 cases, including seven health workers, could not be traced. While five persons came from other States, three came from abroad. There were 100 recoveries in Malappuram on Sunday. As many as 2,046 are currently under treatment in the district, and 42,406 have been quarantined. In Kannur, 143 more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. As many as 111 people contracted the disease through contact. Seven of the infected are health workers. With this, the number of COVID-19 cases reported so far in the district has reached 2,718. Of the infected, 1,841 have recovered. As many as 85 people were reported to be infected in Kasaragod on Sunday.  Of them, 83 contracted the virus through contact, while one came from abroad and one from another State. Fifty-one people tested negative for the virus and was discharged from hospitals.  As many as 116 cases of COVID-19 were reported in Thrissur on Sunday. Seventy persons have recovered, and the number of active cases stands at 955 in the district.  In all, 41 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in various hospitals in other districts. Of the people tested positive on Sunday, 110 have been infected through contact. The source of infection in 18 cases is not known. A total of 9,225 people are under observation.  In Palakkad, 39 people tested positive and 250 infected persons recovered on Sunday. It was the biggest number of recoveries on a single day in the district. While 17 of the new patients got the infection through local transmission, eight came from other States and two came from abroad. The source of infection in 12 cases could not be identified. The district reported 10 COVID-19 cases and 39 recoveries on Sunday. The fresh cases include three persons who contracted the disease through local transmission. One person who returned from abroad and six from other States have also tested positive. There are 256 active cases in the district. As many as 3,666 persons are under observation. (With inputs from Malappuram, Kannur, Kasaragod, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad bureaus)
23 August 2020||Kozhikode,||Local bodies in Kozhikode to step up reverse quarantine measures||Recognising the importance of reverse quarantine in fighting COVID-19, local bodies in Kozhikode district have started identifying vulnerable groups, including ailing senior citizens and those suffering from serious ailments, within their limits for providing better care. The data on such persons will be updated on the COVID-19 Jagratha portal for effective monitoring and field-level support. Rapid response teams (RRTs) functioning within the limits of various panchayats, municipalities and the Kozhikode Corporation will play the lead role in regularly updating the health records. Based on their recommendations, the local bodies will be permitted to purchase emergency testing devices such as pulse oximeters.  Apart from ward-level monitoring, such persons will be offered telemedicine support with the help of a panel of doctors from the National Health Mission. A district-level control room is functional now at the Collectorate to connect the needy instantly with the telemedicine team. According to the heads of some grama panchayats in Kozhikode, arrangements will be made to ensure a healthy diet for all such persons included in the reverse quarantine list. They said several charity organisations and youth forums were ready to contribute for the purpose.  For the flawless implementation of reverse quarantine, shops and commercial establishments will continue to restrict the entry of senior citizens and children. Instead, they will be assured door delivery service at convenient times. Many hospitals in the city now have video consultation applications to avoid the hospital visit of persons in reverse quarantine.
23 August 2020||Ramanathapuram,||Dugong washed ashore||The carcass of a female adult dugong (sea cow) was found on the Pudumadam sea shore in Mandapam range on Sunday afternoon.  Forest Ranger G. Venkatesh said the carcass was found by the Marine Police and foresters on patrol. “The dugong weighed between 500 and 600 kg. It was bleeding from its mouth and had scratches, likely from bashing against rocks,” he said. The postmortem was conducted and the mammal was buried on the beach.
24 August 2020||MADURAI ,||COVID-19 positivity rate comes down||After seeing a high COVID-19 positivity rate of 7.41 in July, the district’s positivity rate has dropped to 2.92 since August 1.  As per data obtained from the district administration, 73,544 test samples were taken between August 1 and 20, with at least 3,000 samples taken every day. As many as 2,151 tested positive and the lowest number of cases recorded was 40, on August 4, and the highest was 174, on August 2.  Deputy Director of Public Health Priya Raj said though there was no set target on number of tests to be taken in a day, a high number of samples were taken consistently so as to be better prepared. “With only about 100 persons testing positive each day, one could argue that it is enough to test only around 1,000 samples. However, we need to ensure that we exercise caution and be on alert,” she said.  “We continue testing those having influenza like illness (ILI) symptoms, travel history and contacts of positive patients. We have also intensified sample testing at toll plazas on the entries to the district. It is better to pick out the positive case in advance to contain the spread,” she said.  Collector T. G. Vinay had earlier told The Hindu that they intend to keep the positivity rate at its current status to reduce the burden of tracing contacts.
24 August 2020||Madurai,||Lowest for Virudhunagar in two months||A total of 96 people tested positive for COVID-19 here on Saturday and 105 on Sunday. The tally of cases rose to 13,433.  On Sunday, 102 of the 105 cases were indigenous and three were imported according to the State Health bulletin. All of the 96 cases on Saturday were indigenous.  With 220 persons being discharged from the district's COVID-19 treatment facilities over the weekend, the total number of discharged rose to 12,123. The total number of active cases on Sunday was 975. hree persons succumbed to the virus on Sunday and one person on Saturday, taking the death toll to 335.  The death toll in Virudhunagar district went up to 170 after five more deaths – two on Saturday and three on Sunday were reported.  While two septuagenarians – a man and a woman – died on Saturday, two men, aged 51 and 40, and a woman aged 51, succumbed to the pandemic on Sunday.  Meanwhile, Virudhunagar district on Sunday recorded the lowest number of positive cases – 10 – in the last two months. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district has increased to 11,895.  However, with 106 patients getting discharged on Sunday (11,220 discharged till date), the number of active patients has come down to 505.  Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan, said that the number of tests was around 3,400 each day. He added that the number of containment zone has been brought down to 47.  On Saturday, the district had reported 39 new cases and 50 patients got discharged.  Theni saw 314 new cases and the tally stood at 11,445. The hospitals have discharged 488 patients in the last two days. Dindigul recorded 305 cases in the last two days with which the tally moved to 5,737. The number of patients discharged from the hospitals stood at 172 and number of discharged moved to 4,621. Ramanathapuram recorded 78 cases with which the total number of cases stood at 4,385. There were 121 discharges from the hospitals. Sivaganga reported 104 new cases in the last two days and the total number of cases stood at 3,734. There were 101 cases discharges, according to the state medical bulletin. Tirunelveli saw 289 cases, with which the tally moved to 8,487. There were 297 discharges from the hospitals. In Thoothukudi, 213 fresh cases were recorded and the total number of cases moved to 10,635. There were 259 discharges. Kanniykumari district had 290 cases which took the tally to 8,538. There were 338 discharges from the hospitals. Tenkasi saw 278 cases and the total tally moved to 4,751. The hospitals discharged 338 patients after successful treatment. * As there was no publication on Sunday (Aug 23), data for two days have been clubbed.
23 August 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,||Stern action against derogatory posts: SP||Strict action would be taken against those posting derogatory posts on social media, said Superintendent of Police Jayakumar here on Sunday. Speaking to the media after checking whether total lockdown norms were followed in the town, he said since provocative social media posts would have serious ramifications, people should not share or post messages that would disturb tranquillity in the society. He said three teams had been formed to look into narcotics smuggling cases. Recently the police had registered 28 cases, arrested 34 people and seized 27 kg of ganja and 25 kg of charas. On the incident of a sickle being placed on the body of history-sheeter Duraikannu, he said the police would investigate the matter and take action. He said 7,981 cases had been booked so far in Thoothukudi district against violators during the COVID-19 pandemic period. As many as 9,436 people were arrested, 3,529 vehicles seized and 3,459 returned to the owners. For effective control, driving licence, Registration Certificate and insurance documents were checked in 200 places in the district, including 26 points in the town. Those who were moving about on total lockdown on Sunday were questioned and only if they give a valied reason would they were allowed to proceed. If their reply was not convincing, they would be sent back, he said.  The Corporation authorities screened about 400 persons for COVID-19 on Sunday.
23 August 2020||August 23 2020 20:10 IST,||Tailoring unit inaugurated||A tailoring unit, which aims to provide livelihood opportunities for women and transgender women who have suffered economic losses due to the COVID-19 pandemic, was inaugurated in Shenoy Nagar here recently.  The unit will be run by women and transgender women of Sri Lakshmi Pengal Munnetra Sangam. Priya Babu, a trangender activist, and Regional Programmes Manager, Swasti Health Catalyst, facilitated the setting up of the unit. Madurai City Ladies Circle 60 sponsored five tailoring machines and SELCO India, a rural energy service provider, donated solar panels for the unit.  Ms. Babu, who is also the head of Transgender Resource Centre in Madurai, said the pandemic had left many women and transwomen from underprivileged families in deep financial crisis. “With the help of some sponsors, the TRC supplied essential commodities to those who reached out to us during the lockdown. But it was felt that they needed a regular source of income. So the unit was started,” she said. Initially eight persons would be employed - five as tailors and three others for other work - at the unit. “On a positive note, the unit has received orders to stitch 13,000 face masks and 100 cloth bags. Many others have promised to give orders to the unit,” she added.
23 August 2020||Madurai,||Madurai Police seize banned tobacco products worth ₹11.54 lakh||Madurai City police seized banned tobacco products worth ₹11.54 lakh. The police said that a team of police from S.S. Colony found some persons loading things packed in plastic bags into autorickshaws on Bharathiyar Street, on Friday. When the police enquired, the accused gave contradictory statements, following which the police interrogated them and found that the accused were trying to sell banned tobacco products, including gutka. The police seized 56 bags of tobacco products illegally stocked there. The police said that the accused had bought the tobacco products from Bengaluru and were selling the products at a premium to traders from Madurai, Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram, Dindigul and Sivaganga. The police identified the accused as B. Karthik Deepak (31) of Bharatiyar Nagar, A. Ashok Muthiah (31) of Kodimangalam, K. Ghouse Basha (47), of Ansari Nagar, K. Kannan (40) of Chittalatchi Nagar, M. Tamilselvam (35) of Arapaaayam, A Senthil (34) of Pykkara and K. Karthik Pandi (24) of P.P. Chavadi. The police also seized the two vehicles. The goods were handed over to the officials of the Food Safety Department for further action.
23 August 2020||MANGALURU,||Hospital begins extracting plasma for therapy||The K.S. Hegde Hospital here has begun extracting plasma in its blood bank for convalescent plasma therapy for COVID-19 patients. Though the therapy was being carried out in the hospital for the last four months, it had to send donors to Bengaluru for extraction of plasma and bring it back to the hospital for transfusion.  “We harvested plasma from three donors in our blood bank and transfused it into three critical patients on Saturday,” Vikram Shetty, professor of Orthopaedics, K.S. Hegde Medical College Hospital and a member of the team which set up the facilities for harvesting and transfusion of plasma, told The Hindu. “Five donors are waiting to donate plasma,” he said and added that of the 90 COVID-19 patients in the hospital, 14 are being treated in the ICU. Superintendent of the hospital Shiva Kumar Hiremath said in a release that it installed Apheresis equipment and other testing facilities recently. The Drug Controller General of India has issued licence to the hospital for plasmapheresis.  The hospital now has all facilities for offering convalescent plasma therapy for treating critical COVID-19 patients, the release said. The release added that COVID-19 patients who have recovered and are aged over 18 and weighing more than 55 kg can donate plasma after 28 days of their treatment.
23 August 2020||MANGALURU,||Dead patient’s relatives in shock after different body is sent to crematorium||The relatives of a 60-year-old COVID-19 patient who died in Udupi district were in shock when the authorities concerned sent the body of another deceased to the crematorium on Sunday.  Enraged over the faux pas, they staged a snap protest at the crematorium in Kundapur. The 60-year-old man from Nerambally near Koteshwara had been admitted to a hospital in Kundapur following back pain. After he was found positive for COVID-19 on July 30, he was shifted to the district COVID-19 hospital in Udupi where he died on Sunday.  After informing the family members about the death, Health Department personnel brought the body to the crematorium as suggested by the family members. Five family members, who wore PPE, were allowed to see the body. Then, the family members were shocked to see the body of a 25-year-old man.  A team of officials, including Assistant Commissioner, Kundapur sub-division, Raju K. and Taluk Health Officer Nagabhushan Udupa, visited the crematorium soon after the video clip of the incident went viral on the social media. Later, the body of the 60-year-old man was brought to the crematorium and the last rites were performed. Admitting that there was a faux pas committed by those handling bodies, Udupi District Nodal Officer for COVID-19 Prashanth Bhat blamed it on the extreme stress the personnel were in due to the long working hours for the last couple of days.  In a statement, Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said that the incident happened due to a “mistake by a driver”. Instead of taking the body of the youth to Karkala, he brought it to Kundapur. The district team in-charge of overseeing the last rites of COVID-19 patients should take care that such incidents did not happen again, he said.
23 August 2020||New Delhi,||Don’t read too much into green shoots, it’s a mechanical rebound: Subbarao||Calling ‘green shoots’ of economic revival as a mechanical rebound, former Reserve Bank Governor D. Subbarao says India’s short and medium term growth prospects continue to remain grim and the government should not read too much into the economic activity coming back from the depressed base of lockdown.  Indian economy was in a troubled state when the pandemic hit the world. Before the COVID-19 crisis hit India, the real GDP growth had moderated from 7% in 2017-18 to 6.1% in 2018-19 and to 4.2% in 2019-20. “I don’t believe we should read too much into the green shoots that you refer to. What we’ve been seeing is just a mechanical rebound from the depressed base of the lockdown; it will be misleading to see it as a signal of a durable recovery,” Mr. Subbarao told PTI in an interview.  He said the “short-term as well as medium-term prospects (for Indian economy) continue to be grim“. “The pandemic is still spiralling, the number of daily cases is rising and it is spreading to newer regions,” he added.  On India’s medium-term growth prospect, the former RBI governor said that the economy was in a troubled state when the COVID-19 crisis hit India. “When the crisis is behind us — and I hope that is soon enough — these problems are going to be much bigger. Fiscal deficit is going to be much higher, the debt burden much larger and the financial sector in a worse shape,” he said.  The World Bank last week projected India’s fiscal deficit to rise to 6.6% of GDP in 2020-21 (April 2020 to March 2021) and remain elevated at 5.5% in the following year. This compares to the 3.5% target set by the government. “Our medium-term prospects will depend on how effectively we resolve these challenges,” Mr. Subbarao said.  With India’s economic growth in pre-COVID 2019-20 fiscal slipping to the lowest in a decade, global and domestic agencies have indicated a sharp contraction in the GDP in the current fiscal. The estimated contraction ranges from 3.2% to 9.5%. This will be the first contraction in four decades.  Asked whether he sees any positive at all in this grim scenario, he noted that the rural economy has recovered better than the urban economy helped by several factors and the expanded MNREGA provided a lifeline when most needed. Mr. Subbarao said that another big although less acknowledged positive is that the economy today has some basic safety-nets in place.  Citing an example, Mr. Subbarao said that 40 million urban labour went back to their villages post COVID-19 induced lockdown and despite that there have been no reported cases of mass starvation or hunger. “Throw your mind back 20 years or even 15 years, and it’s easy to imagine how easily this could have turned into a story of hunger, destitution and death. That story did not play out is a testimonial not just to this government but to successive governments over the last several decades,” he emphasised.  On criticism that the government is not spending enough to help the nation tide over the economic crisis, the former RBI governor said he does believe that it is critical for the government to borrow and spend more. “Indeed, government spending is the only growth driver we have in the short term; all other growth drivers — private consumption, investment and net exports - are all depressed. “Besides, if the government does not spend more now to arrest the decline, many problems such as bad loans will only get even more intractable and take a much heavier toll on the economy,” he argued. Mr. Subbarao, however, added that government borrowing cannot be open ended, it should set itself a limit. “That will force the government to be efficient, transparent and accountable,” he noted.  Asked where he thinks additional spending should go, Mr. Subbarao opined that given the very limited fiscal space, more than ever, the government should aim to get the maximum bang for the buck. “Spending can go either to spur consumption or production,” he said, adding that he believes production should take precedence over consumption.  Noting that the RBI has already given guidelines for loan restructuring by banks, Mr. Subbarao said, “The government can chip in by taking some of the loan burden of MSMEs and of MUDRA loans.”  The government also needs to spend a significant amount to recapitalize banks, and through that, provide support for recapitalization of NBFCs, he added.  When asked about the criticism that the RBI has not been bold enough on unconventional monetary policies, he said the LTROs that the RBI has instituted to support specific sectors like NBFCs, MSMEs, HFCs etc. are certainly unconventional policies. “True, the RBI has not gone into as much uncharted territory as advanced economy central banks but there was no need to. A central bank cannot be expected to do something just because it is fashionable; it should make its policy as demanded by the macroeconomic circumstances,” he said.  Besides, Mr. Subbarao noted that in comparison with advanced economies, we must remember that the markets are less forgiving of unconventional policies by emerging market central banks as compared to rich country central banks.  Asked whether having a universal basic income (UBI) would have made the problem simpler during COVID-19 pandemic, he said UBI is a neat idea, yet it is not clear that UBI is an unambiguously good idea. “What is the guarantee that politicians will not convert UBI to a UBI plus? Giving subsidies is after all so politically intoxicating. “So, we might end up in a worse situation than we are in now,” Mr. Subbarao said.  Nevertheless, the balance of advantage may lie in adopting UBI provided, the government can institute some checks and balances for minimising the downsides, he added.
23 August 2020||New Delhi,||Govt frames norms for enforcement of ‘rules of origin’ for imports under FTAs||The government has come out with norms for the enforcement of ‘rules of origin’ provisions for allowing preferential rate of customs duties on products imported under free trade agreements (FTAs). The new norms have been framed with a view to checking inbound shipments of low quality products and dumping of goods by a third country routed through an FTA partner country. The Department of Revenue has notified the ‘Customs (Administration of Rules of Origin under Trade Agreements) Rules, 2020’ which would “come into force on September 21, 2020”. These rules “shall apply to import of goods into India where the importer makes a claim of preferential rate of duty in terms of a trade agreement,” it said. The “rules of origin” provision prescribes for the minimal processing that should happen in the FTA country so that the final manufactured product may be called originating goods in that country. Under this provision, a country that has inked an FTA with India cannot dump goods from some third country in the Indian market by just putting a label on it. It has to undertake a prescribed value addition in that product to export to India. Rules of origin norms help contain dumping of goods. India has inked FTAs with several countries, including Japan, South Korea, Singapore, and ASEAN members. Under such agreements, two trading partners significantly reduce or eliminate import/customs duties on the maximum number of goods traded between them. According to the notification, to claim preferential rate of duty under a trade agreement, the importer or his agent, at the time of filing bill of entry, has to make a declaration in the bill that the imported products qualify as originating goods for preferential rate of duty under that agreement; and produce certificate of origin. The claim of preferential rate of duty may be denied by the proper officer without verification if the certificate of origin is incomplete or has any alteration not authenticated by the issuing authority or the certificate is produced after its validity period has expired, it said. The importer, it said, also has to possess all relevant information related to country of origin criteria, including the regional value content and submit the same to the proper officer on request. It also said that an officer may, during the course of customs clearance or thereafter, request for verification of certificate of origin from verification authority where there is a doubt regarding genuineness or authenticity of the certificate for reasons such as mismatch of signatures or seal when compared with specimens of seals and signatures received from the exporting country. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in her Union Budget speech had stated that the government would review ‘rules of origin’ requirements, particularly for certain sensitive items, “so as to ensure that FTAs are aligned to the conscious direction of our policy”. She had also said that it has been observed that imports under FTAs are on the rise and undue claims of FTA benefits have posed threat to the domestic industry and such imports require stringent checks.
23 August 2020||New Delhi,||Automobile demand picking up, but cautious finance cos making market bit slow: Toyota Kirloskar||Automobile demand is picking up but the over-sensitivity and jitteriness of financial companies such as banks and NBFCs are dampening the real conversion of orders to deliveries, according to a senior official of Toyota Kirloskar Motor (TKM).  With the kicking off of festive season, the company has witnessed up to 30% higher flow of orders in August compared to July, although in the last four months it has ensured that 25% of wholesale is reduced every month in order to avoid inventory pile-up at its dealers. “The number of orders that are flowing in are far higher as compared to July. I would say at least 20-30% higher. One of the issues we are facing is that the financial companies, including the banks and the NBFCs are little jittery about any kind of non-compliance,” TKM Senior Vice President, Sales & Service Naveen Soni told PTI.  He further said, “As far as order intake is concerned we are very happy. Everyday we only see good intake in terms of fresh orders but order to delivery time, while we are providing the vehicle accurately based on our supply system, is taking a bit longer because of the issues with financial companies.”  Elaborating the issue, Soni said customers who had a loan default of a very small amount ten years ago are now finding it tougher to get loans. Moreover, consumers whose CIBIL score — which is a consumer’s credit score — at a particular level would have made them eligible for 80% of loan are now getting only 60% at present. “The risk appetite of the finance companies seem to be very sensitive at this stage...They are becoming overly cautious and sensitive, which is making the market a bit slow. The only reason why there is a dampener is the over-sensitivity of the finance companies towards suspect customers,” Mr. Soni said.  Stating that auto companies are not asking financial institutions to give out loans irresponsibly, he said there needs to be a consistency in the ‘yardstick’ of measuring consumers who qualify to avail of car loans.  At the same time, Mr. Soni said due to the COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdown, time taken to do field investigations before approving and sanctioning of loans has also increased.  On the demand side, he said with festivities such as Ganesh Chathurthi and Onam falling in August, the pick up has been definitely better and running at a higher pace than July. The demand has been progressively increasing each month since May after the total washout in April.  In terms of production, he said, “In the last four months, every month despite sales increasing we have made sure that 25% of wholesale is reduced so that stock is reduced at the dealer end. Every month we have been reducing stock month-on-month so that the dealer can manage customer needs at a lower inventory carrying cost.”
23 August 2020||New Delhi,||412 infra projects show cost overruns of ₹4.11 lakh crore: report||As many as 412 infrastructure projects, each worth ₹150 crore or more, have been hit by cost overruns of over ₹4.11 lakh crore owing to delays and other reasons, according to a report.  The Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation monitors infrastructure projects worth ₹150 crore and above.  Of the 1,683 such projects, 412 reported cost overruns and 471 time escalation. “Total original cost of implementation of the 1,683 projects was ₹20,65,336.20 crore and their anticipated completion cost is likely to be ₹24,77,167.67 crore, which reflects overall cost overruns of ₹4,11,831.47 crore (19.94% of original cost),” the Ministry’s latest report for June 2020 said.  The expenditure incurred on these projects till June 2020 is ₹11,21,435.29 crore, which is 45.27% of the anticipated cost.  However, it said that the number of delayed projects decreases to 418 if delay is calculated on the basis of latest schedule of completion.  Further, it said that for 979 projects neither the year of commissioning nor the tentative gestation period has been reported.  Out of 471 delayed projects, 127 have overall delay in the range of one to 12 months, 112 have delay of 13 to 24 months, 127 reflect delay in the range of 25 to 60 months and 105 projects show delay of 61 months and above.  The average time overrun in these 471 delayed projects is 43.34 months.  The brief reasons for time overruns as reported by various project implementing agencies are delay in land acquisition, delay in obtaining forest/environment clearances and lack of infrastructure support and linkages.  Besides, there are other reasons like delay in tie-up of project financing, delay in finalisation of detailed engineering, change in scope, delay in tendering, ordering and equipment supply, law and order problems, geological surprises, pre-commissioning teething troubles and contractual issues, among others, the report said.  It also observed that project agencies are not reporting revised cost estimates and commissioning schedules for many projects, indicating that time or cost overrun figures are under-reported.
23 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Real estate, construction, industrial product sectors to see more revenue impact, finds survey||The real estate, construction & industrial product segments are expected to see more revenue impact and business disruption on account of coronavirus spread, indicates the findings of a recent survey. Protiviti India’s Business Resilience Barometer survey said that 57% of respondents from real estate and construction sector, and 42% of respondents from industrial product sector envisage a negative revenue impact exceeding 25%. “In terms of company size by revenue, 38% of respondents from companies over ₹1,000 crore revenue foresee a negative revenue impact of over 25%,” it said. “Industrial products, real estate and constructions industries feel the most impact with 55% and 50% of their respondents anticipating disruption of 6 months or more,” the survey said. It added that 40% of the healthcare and life sciences industry respondents, and 33% of technology, media and communications industry respondents either foresee no disruption or anticipate disruptions between 1 to 3 months. As far as profitability and cost is concerned, 43% respondents from real estate and construction sector, 38% respondents from industrial product sector, and 36% respondents from healthcare and life sciences sector envisage a negative profitability impact of over 25%. Reduction in support function and infrastructure and rental costs emerged as one of the key areas of cost reduction, with 80% respondents foreseeing definite reduction with human capital cost coming close with 79% respondents considering reduction, it said. As many as 80% of all respondents see automation as either a moderate or a significant enabler for cost reduction. Nearly 55% of the respondents foresee job losses in their respective industries after the lockdown ends, and 28% of respondents from real estate and construction industry anticipate lay-offs of more than 10%. The findings of the survey reveals strong revival initiatives amidst fall in revenue of up to 25% and business disruptions of up to 12 months for non-financial services organisations. “The past quarter has seen the ultimate test of resiliency for any organisation in India, as they recalibrate their business strategies in response to the COVID-19 induced crisis,” it said. Commenting on the survey, Nirmalya Gupta, managing director, Protiviti Member Firm for India said, “I think we will see increased investments in disruptive technologies, automation and digitisation and more agile and flexible operations in days to come.” “Organisations will increasingly adopt to newer ways of accelerating their businesses and will look to build robust control frameworks around them. The entire corporate world have to up-skill and adapt themselves to these newer ways of working,” he said.
