23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. relaxes visa restrictions||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Thursday further relaxed visa restrictions enabling foreigners to come to India for various purposes, such as business, conference, employment, education, research and medical reasons. Except electronic tourist visa on arrival, which includes a short-term medical visa, all visa restrictions have been lifted. The MHA, however, clarified that fresh applications will be required for medical visa. “The government has now decided to make a graded relaxation in visa and travel restrictions for more categories of foreign nationals and Indian nationals who wish to enter or leave India. Therefore, it has been decided to permit all Overseas Citizens of India and Persons of Indian Origin card holders and all other foreign nationals intending to visit India for any purpose, except on a tourist visa to enter by air or water routes through authorised airports and seaport immigration checkposts,” the MHA said in a statement. “This includes flights operated under Vande Bharat Mission, air transport bubble arrangements or by any non-scheduled commercial flights as allowed by the Ministry of Civil Aviation.” The MHA said, “Under this graded relaxation, the government has decided to restore with immediate effect all existing visas (except electronic visa, tourist visa and medical visa).” It added, “If the validity of such visas has expired, fresh visas of appropriate categories can be obtained from Indian missions and posts concerned.”
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State pandemic graph’s sliding trend may prove deceptive||For the first time since the pandemic curve started its upward growth in Kerala in September first week, the COVID-19 case graph in Kerala is on the decline. Current disease trends show the effective reproductive number (R) to be less than 1, meaning that the cases will continue to decline. (R is the average number of secondary cases per infectious case in a population made up of both susceptible and non-susceptible hosts). However, it might be way too early to assume that the worst is over. “Going by the nature of the disease and the pattern of the curve seen internationally, every time there is a dip, another crest is just beyond the corner. This pattern of a dip-plateau-crest will continue in repeat cycles till the case numbers really go down,” a public health professional says. He does not expect life to normalise before March next. After dip After a dip during September first week (the dip was in the post-Onam period when testing had also gone down), Kerala’s case graph has been growing continuously. The first dip following that surge is being witnessed now.  Epidemiologists point out that in many districts, the weekly case growth, when compared to the State’s weekly moving average in the current week, has been in the negative. Also, the State’s active case pool has not been growing, as the number of new cases added on daily is being stabilised by as many or more number of recoveries. In districts The graph has been definitely on the way down in Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam at least for the past 10 days, while Pathanamthitta, Ernakulam, Kozhikode, Kannur, and Kasaragod have also been reporting negative growth. However, Malappuram and Palakkad reported over 10% growth last week than in the previous week. World over, cities have borne the brunt of the COVID-19 crisis, with the transmission focussed in urban areas first and then slowly moving to rural areas. The pattern has been similar in Kerala too, all five districts with maximum cases have city corporations. The cases are more in the Malappuram-Palakkad belt now. Soon, the “visible” disease transmission hub will shift to Malappuram, while transmission at a lower intensity will continue throughout the rural areas in all districts, it is projected. Call for vigil “The current disease dynamics, however, will sustain only if we maintain our general vigil,” a senior epidemiologist says. The curve will naturally come down once a chunk of the susceptible population is affected but now that almost all cases are locally acquired infections, it will not take much for a local cluster to form and the disease curve to rise again. The State will have to maintain high vigil as the upcoming Sabarimala pilgrimage and local body elections are definitely two events which will in all likelihood change the trajectory of the epidemic curve, experts warn.  After a dip during September first week (the dip was in the post-Onam period when testing had also gone down), Kerala’s case graph has been growing continuously.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP manifesto promises free vaccine for Bihar||The BJP on Thursday released its manifesto for the Bihar Assembly poll, with the first promise being free distribution of a COVID-19 vaccine once it is approved. Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, releasing the manifesto in Patna, said, “As soon as a COVID-19 vaccine is available for production on a mass scale, every person in Bihar will get free vaccination.” She did not take questions, such as whether the free vaccine could be an electoral promise for one State and not for the rest of the country reeling under the pandemic. The announcement led to a storm of criticism on social media by Opposition leaders who felt promising free vaccines during a pandemic was morally questionable. Senior BJP leader Bhupendra Yadav clarified on this on Twitter by responding to Congress leader Shashi Tharoor’s comments on the matter. BJP IT cell chief Amit Malviya said, “Like all programmes, the Centre will provide vaccines to the States at a nominal rate. It is for State governments to decide if they want to give it free or otherwise. Health being a State subject, Bihar BJP has decided to give it free.”
23 October 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s active cases dip to 1.50 lakh||Recoveries outpaced cases by a wide margin yet again as Maharashtra reported 7,539 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday as opposed to 16,177 recoveries. The State’s total case tally reached 16,25,197 while its number of active cases dipped further to 1,50,011. With 198 more deaths, the fatality count has reached 42,831. The cumulative recoveries have risen to 14,15,679 with the recovery rate climbing further to 88.1%. “Of a total 84,02,559 laboratory samples tested thus far, 16,25,197 (19.34%) have returned positive with around 75,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the case fatality rate currently stood at 2.64%. Pune district reported more than 1,500 cases to take its total tally to 3,27,670 while 14 deaths saw its toll climb to 6,595. However, as per the Pune district administration, the recovery rate has exceeded 92% with the number of active cases going below 17,000 to stand at just over 16,785. Mumbai reported a high surge of 1,463 cases to take its total tally to 2,47,332 of whom just 17,505 are active cases though. As many as 49 fatalities saw the city’s toll rise to 9,961. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported 476 new cases, taking the district’s total tally to 98,575 of whom 6,290 are active. As many as 20 deaths saw the toll reach 2,695. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported 10 deaths to take its toll to 1,384. As many as 294 fresh cases saw the total tally touch 45,597 of whom 5,919 are active. Sangli reported 174 cases and nine deaths as the district’s total tally rose to 45,293 of whom 2,975 are active. Its death toll has gone up to 1,478. In its lowest surge in months, Kolhapur recorded just 74 new cases as its total tally reached 46,639 of whom 1,272 are active. With six deaths, the toll climbed to 1,581.
23 October 2020||MADURAI,||Promotion is administrative prerogative, says High Court||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has dismissed the plea of a now retired government official who had sought a direction to be promoted to the post of District Revenue Officer with consequential benefits.  Plea filed in 2015 The court was hearing the petition filed in 2015 by D. Ravindran. The grievance of the petitioner was that he was entitled to be included in the panel of Assistant Commissioners fit for promotion to the post of District Revenue Officer. His name was not included in the list on account of two sets of charges against him. The petitioner said that subsequently the charges were dropped and, therefore, he should have been included in the list. He was entitled to be promoted retrospectively, he said. Justice S.M. Subramaniam observed that any punishment, including censure imposed on a member of service after the crucial date for consideration of promotion but before actual promotion or appointment, should be held against the member of service and he should not be given promotion or appointment. The punishment of censure should have the effect for the period of one year. Therefore, within one year from the date of imposition of the punishment of censure, the officer was not entitled for promotion to the higher post, the judge said. Promotion was an administrative prerogative, and per se could not be claimed as a matter of right, the judge said.
23 October 2020||Kolkata,||75 exotic birds seized along Bangladesh border||As many as 75 exotic birds were seized along the international border while being smuggled to Bangladesh over the past two days. While the BSF on Tuesday seized 54 birds near its outpost at Tentulberia in the North 24 Parganas district, it seized 21 cuckatoos from Jhowdanga in the same district on Wednesday night. Officials of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau said the birds were alive and had been transported to the Alipore Zoological Gardens in Kolkata. The birds seized on Tuesday were from six rare varieties of lorikeets found in Australia and South East Asia. They were 11 chattering lorikeets, 13 red and blue lorikeets, eight black-capped lorikeets, eight black lorikeets, six brown lorikeets, and eight violet-necked lorikeets. The BSF said the birds were crammed in two iron cages. Lorikeets are medium-sized brightly coloured parrots that live in large flocks. According to experts, the birds are smuggled for being kept as pets. While illegal wildlife trade has emerged as a form of organised trans-national crime, there have also been seizures of highly threatened species like a lion cub and three white-headed langurs near Kolkata.
23 October 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal records new high in cases at 4,157||West Bengal on Thursday recorded its highest single-day spike of 4,157 new COVID-19 cases. As many as 64 patients succumbed to the virus in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 6,308. The active cases in the State increased to 36,064 and the discharge rate marginally declined to 87.44%. The percentage of positive cases out of the samples tested so far has climbed to 8.10%. Of the 64 deaths, Kolkata reported 16, taking its toll to 2,054. North 24 Parganas recorded 18 deaths, pushing its toll to 1,434. Kolkata added 874 new COVID-19 cases while North 24 Parganas recorded 864 new cases. On Mahasasthi, the sixth day of Durga Puja festival, the usual crowd was missing from the pandals. The Calcutta High Court earlier this week had declared all Durga Puja pandals as no entry zones. There are about 37,000 community pandals.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||After cyberattack, Dr. Reddy’s shuts units||India’s leading pharmaceutical company Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories said it has isolated all data centre services and temporarily shut some production facilities to take preventive action in the wake of a cyberattack in the early hours of Thursday. Preventive action In an intimation to the stock exchange, the company said, “In the wake of a detected cyberattack, we have isolated all data centre services to take required preventive actions.” While a statement from the drugmaker said it had isolated all data centre services, sources said as a precautionary measure some production facilities had also been temporarily shut. Major impact Chief Information Officer Mukesh Rathi said, “We are anticipating all services to be up within 24 hours and we do not foresee any major impact on our operations due to this incident.”
23 October 2020||Washington,||U.S. to nix business visas for H-1B speciality jobs||The U.S. State Department has proposed not to issue temporary business visas for H-1B speciality occupations, which allowed several companies to send tech professionals for a short stay to complete jobs on site. The move could affect hundreds of Indians. The proposal, if finalised, will eliminate any misconception that the “B-1 in lieu of H policy” provides an alternative avenue for foreign professionals to enter the United States to perform skilled labour that allows and even encourages them and their employers to circumvent the restrictions and requirements relating to the H non-immigrant classification established by the Congress to protect the U.S. workers, the State Department said. The move, made public on Wednesday, less than two weeks ahead of the presidential election, is likely to impact several Indian companies which send their technology professionals on B-1 visas for a short stay to complete jobs on site. The State Department estimates the proposal will affect not more than 6,000 to 8,000 foreign workers per year.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Will COVID care depend on elections, asks Rahul||Opposition leaders across the political spectrum on Thursday took on the BJP for its promise to provide free COVID-19 vaccine to the people of Bihar, and accused the party of trying to ‘politicise’ a public health issue that affects every State. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi took a dig at the Modi government, saying people should now look at the State election schedules to find out when they will get the vaccine. “GOI just announced India’s COVID access strategy. Kindly refer to the State-wise election schedule to know when will you get it, along with a hoard of false promises,” Mr. Gandhi said in a tweet. The main Opposition in Bihar, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), accused the BJP of selling “the fear of death and disease” . “The vaccine belongs to India and not the BJP. The politicisation of the vaccine proves that they have no other option except to sell the fear of disease and death. Biharis have self respect and they won’t sell the future of their children for a few rupees.” the RJD’s official handle tweeted.
23 October 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,||All in State will get free COVID-19 vaccine: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Thursday that the COVID-19 vaccine would be administered to all people in Tamil Nadu at government expense. “People are apprehensive of contracting the novel coronavirus. When a vaccine is available, it will be administered to all free of cost,” he told reporters here after chairing a meeting to review the measures taken to control COVID-19 in the district. Mr. Palaniswami, however, said the spread of the novel coronavirus was on the decline in the State, owing to intense measures taken by the government. Compared to the neighbouring Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, the spread of the infection had been brought down in Tamil Nadu. “The coordinated efforts have yielded good results at a time when even developed countries are finding it difficult to control the spread of the virus,” Mr. Palaniswami said. The number of positive cases had come down, while the number of those who recovered from the infection had increased. These measures had also helped to bring down the mortality rate, he said.
23 October 2020||Tirunelveli,||KKNPP assistant manager goes missing||Koodankulam police are on the lookout for an assistant manager with Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project. The police said that S. Chakraborty, 35, of Kolkata, disappeared from Anu Vijay Township, the residential colony of KKNPP employees at Chettikulam, after reporting for duty on October 9. Room locked As Mr. Chakraborty did not report for duty for a few days, his colleagues went to his room at the township and found it locked. Since their attempts to identify his location did not yield any result, Manager of KKNPP Amirthavalli filed a complaint with Koodankulam police. The police have registered a case and are on the lookout for him.
23 October 2020||Mumbai,||KKM’s plays led to violence at Bhima-Koregaon: NIA||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) said that activists of the Kabir Kala Manch (KKM) were making objectionable statements about history which were detrimental to the social harmony, and they were playing street plays, singing objectionable songs which led to stone pelting, violence, arson and death in Bhima-Koregaon. The Central agency filed its second supplementary chargesheet in the Bhima-Koregaon violence that occurred during a programme at Shaniwar Pada, Pune, on December 31, 2017, under the banner of ‘Elgar Parishad’. Some performers enacted short plays, danced and sang. According to the NIA, the Communist Party of India (Maoist) had an organisational role in the programme “to implicate strong Maoist thoughts in the depressed classes to turn them towards unconstitutional violent activities”.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||CPCB flags unsafe disposal of livestock carcasses||About 30% of India’s dead cattle and 40% of goats weren’t flayed and nearly nine million bovine hides were “lost annually due to non-recovery”, according to a note by the Central Pollution Control Board proposing guidelines on proper disposal of deceased livestock. The draft guidelines require carcasses of livestock to be disposed of in incinerators and municipal authorities must ensure that such facilities are set up and made available. However, the Board has not specified any deadline for the implementation of the guidelines. Carcasses, especially those that result from the animal slaughter, are an ‘environmental hazard’ and are partly to blame for ‘bird-hit’ hazards at airports, according to an introductory note in the draft.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Thunderstorms leave Chennai roads waterlogged||The sudden thunderstorms that lashed the city and its suburbs on Thursday evening resulted in several roads being submerged in water, leading to traffic snarls. But water receded once the rain stopped, with officials of the Greater Chennai Corporation and the Highways Department taking steps to remove blocks in the stormwater drains. Officials of the Meteorological Department said the weather stations at Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam received 6 cm and 4 cm of rain respectively. However, it was more intense thunder showers than cloudburst as the rainfall recorded was spread over nearly three hours. Nearly 10 cm of rainfall needs to be recorded in an hour for a cloudburst. The intense shower that lasted more than an hour caused flooding of arterial roads, including Poonamallee High Road, G.P. Road, Besant Road at Triplicane, Pantheon Road, E.V.K. Sampath Salai at Vepery, Anna Nagar 2nd Avenue, and parts of Anna Salai, leading to motorists and pedestrians facing severe hardships. T. Ramachandran, who resides in Triplicane, said, “Traffic was moving slowly from Tambaram due to rainwater flooding the arterial roads. Several roads witnessed bumper-to bumper traffic because of rainwater stagnation.” S. Arun, a resident of Anna Nagar, complained about sheets of rainwater stagnating on Anna Nagar 2nd Avenue, causing hardships to motorists. A senior official of the Corporation said, “More than 42 mm of rainfall was reported in the corporation limits, with 30.2 mm reported in the Teynampet zone alone in one hour. For such heavy rain, water would stagnate for long. Work to drain out water from Anna Salai and Poonamallee High Road was initiated by the Highways Department...” The civic official said that in other areas, including G.P. Road, Besant Road, Pantheon Road and Anna Nagar 2nd Avenue, rainwater drained half-an-hour after the rain stopped, with officials deputed to vulnerable roads. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said a combination of factors comprising an east-west shear zone and the depression over the north-west and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal influenced the heavy spell of rain within a few hours. Such thunderstorm activity, with lightning, will continue till Monday in isolated places as it is the transition period to the northeast monsoon. Light to moderate rainfall will occur in some districts, including Salem, Dharmapuri, Ranipet and Kancheepuram, on Friday.
23 October 2020||Kolkata,||Centre vigilant on women’s safety: PM||The Union government was working relentlessly to empower women and was vigilant on the issue of their safety, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. Inaugurating a Durga Puja function organised by the West Bengal unit of the BJP, over video conferencing, the Prime Minister said that laws against rape had been strengthened and a provision for death penalty against the guilty had also been introduced. “A campaign for empowering women in the country is going on at a fast pace... whether it is opening bank accounts for 22 crore women through Jan Dhan Yojana, giving loans to crores of women through the Mudra scheme, Beti Bachao and Beti Padhao and the law against triple talaq,” Mr. Modi said. The Prime Minister also added that women had an important role to play in making the country self-reliant.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Rs. 2 lakh fine if caught doing wheelie a second time||The Bengaluru city police is getting tough on bikers performing wheelies and tampering with their silencers. First-time offenders will now have to submit an undertaking before the jurisdictional Deputy Commissioners of Police, along with a bond under Section 107 of the CrPC (Code of Criminal Procedure). If they are caught again for the same offence, it will enable the police to slap a fine of Rs. 50,000 against those using defective silencers, and Rs. 2 lakh against those performing wheelstands and other stunts. Bengaluru City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said the traffic police had submitted a report before the special traffic court and obtained permission to take action as per the new rule. Defective silencers and bike stunts cause sound pollution and endanger people’s safety, he said. Undertaking On Thursday, the first day of the drive, the Basavanagudi traffic police booked three motorcycle riders for defective silencers. They were asked to give an undertaking with a bond to the DCP (South) and let off with a regular fine. The Electronics City traffic police booked 16 bikers for performing wheelies and got an undertaking from them. “The drive will be extended to other parts of the city from Friday,” Mr. Pant added. Legal action against mechanics The traffic police are now empowered to take action against mechanics and garage owners found tampering with the bikes and silencers. Sowmya Latha, DCP, Traffic (West division) said, “In the past we had launched a drive and warned garage owners not to modify the bikes, However, this time they will also be booked along with bike owners caught breaking the law,” she added.
23 October 2020||MANGALURU,||‘Issue notice in sexual harassment case’||Mangalore University has been told to issue a show-cause notice to the official concerned who is responsible for the delay in placing before its Syndicate the internal complaints committee (ICC) report on an allegation of a sexual harassment against a professor of the university reported two years ago, Shyamala Kunder, member of National Commission for Women, said here on Thursday. Ms. Kunder told reporters that during the meeting at Mangalore University on Thursday, Vice-Chancellor P.S. Yadapadithaya told her that the university had sought legal opinion on the issue and hence, show-cause notice had not been issued immediately. “I asked him (the Vice-Chancellor) to issue a show-cause notice today and get an explanation within a week,” Ms. Kunder said. The issue relates to the alleged sexual harassment made by a student against a professor two years ago. A 10-member internal complaints committee had reportedly submitted its report to the then Registrar (administration) who no longer holds the post now. After the student took the issue to the Karnataka State Commission for Women and the latter issued notice to the university, the ICC report was placed before the Syndicate in its meeting on October 9, 2020. Ms. Kunder said that the university should take affirmative action over the alleged delay in placing the ICC report before the Syndicate. “Six years ago, the university, in a sexual harassment case, took action to dismiss a teacher. This action was affirmed by a court. The university should take tough action in this sensitive issue also and send out a message that such instances are not tolerated,” she said. Earlier, the ABVP submitted a memorandum to Ms. Kunder in the city seeking action against the professor facing allegations of sexual harassment and the then official who was responsible for the delay in placing the ICC report before the Syndicate. In a meeting held at the office of the Deputy Commissioner, Integrated Child Development Scheme Programme Officer Shyamala C.K. said that an order has been passed to pay compensation to the 13-year-old daughter of a 32-year-old woman who died after an acid attack in September. Arrangements are being made for getting education for the girl, she said.
23 October 2020||KALABURAGI,||Flood-hit area becomes a shooting spot for this officer||An unusual incident has come to light from the flood-hit Kalaburagi district where a Police Sub-Inspector Mallannagouda Yalagod attached to Nelogi Police Station in Jewargi taluk had posted his photos and videos of a fake rescue operation conducted by him, with the help of villagers. When the entire district is reeling under floods, the police officer on duty has orchestrated a series of rescue operations to demonstrate his heroic conduct with the help of villagers. Mr. Yalagod can be seen posing in a photo standing in floodwaters with two goats in his hand. The officer has made a series of such videos displaying filmy style behaviour. Earlier, Mr. Yalagod had come under the scanner of senior officers in the department when he celebrated his birthday on a grand scale during the lockdown in which his followers bathed him in milk. The then Superintendent of Police Iada Martin Marbaniang had transferred him to the Superintendent of Police office from Nelogi Police Station. Kalaburagi Superintendent of Police Simi Miriam George has now ordered an inquiry against the Sub-Inspector. Action would be taken after the inquiry report, she added.
23 October 2020||Mumbai,||Another complaint filed against Kangana||Another criminal complaint was filed in the Andheri Magistrate Court on Thursday against actor Kangana Ranaut for sedition, causing disharmony among religions, and mocking the judiciary after the Bandra Magistrate Court ordered filing of an FIR against her. The petitioner, advocate Ali Kaashif Khan Deshmukh, urged the court to take cognisance of her tweets, which he said promoted enmity between groups. It said Ms. Ranaut had no respect for the varied communities of India, law of the land, and authorised government bodies. She had made fun of the judiciary, which amounted to criminal contempt. He wanted an FIR to be registered against her under Sections 121, 124A, 153A, 153B, 295A, 298, and 505 of the Indian Penal Code. The matter will be heard on November 10.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Remnants of a tragedy||
23 October 2020||Chennai,||Constable held for peddling ganja||A 23-year-old Armed Resere Police constable and three others were arrested on Wednesday by Fort Police and 1.1 kg ganja was seized from them. Police sources said S Arun Prasanth, 23, of Purasawalkam, had joined the police department in 2017 as a Grade II constable. He was addicted to liquor and ganja and had been struggling to settle his debts. His ganja-smoking friends auto driver Ramesh and Prem Kumar suggested to him to resort to smuggling ganja in bulk from Andhra Pradesh and distribute it in the city for a bigger margin. On their advice, Arun Prasanth allegedly paid Rs. 15,000 to Ramesh to buy ganja in Andhra Pradesh. After bringing the contraband here, he then packed the ganja in small sachets to distribute to peddlers. The duo convinced Arun Prasanth that his uniform would protect him as police would not suspect him, said police sources.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Chaotic||
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Daily testing to be increased to 70,000: CM||The government intends to hike the daily COVID-19 testing to 70,000. The private sector should also come forward and do more testing, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Thursday. The rates have been revised so that more people would come forward to test, he said. He dismissed as untrue and misleading the allegations that negligence had led to the death of COVID-19 patients at Ernakulam Government Medical College Hospital at Kalamassery. He added that the government would take serious action against the doctors in the State Health Service who had come in open support of the allegations.
23 October 2020||KAKINADA,||State to import 5,000 quintals of onions||The State government is importing 5,000 quintals of onion through the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (NAFED) with a view to supplying it at Rs. 40 per kg at the at rythu bazaars from Friday, Agriculture Minister K. Kannababu has said. “Nearly 1,000 quintals of onion will be made available across the State by Friday for sale at the rythu bazaars in all the towns and cities. In the next phase, it will be made available in the rural areas. Onion will be sold for Rs. 40 per kg at the rythu bazaars,” Mr. Kannababu said here on Thursday. On the measures taken to meet the demand for onion, Mr. Kannababu said, “The government is gearing itself up to ensure availability of at least one kg for each family.” The Minister further said that crop in more than 2,600 hectares had been damaged due to rains.
23 October 2020||Kolkata,||Met office predicts heavy rain in South Bengal on Friday||The Met office predicted heavy to very heavy rain in the southern districts of West Bengal on Friday, as the low-pressure area, formed over the west-central Bay of Bengal in the last two days, turned into a depression. A bulletin said the system is likely to cross an area between Sagar Island and Khepupara in Bangladesh by October 23 afternoon.PTI
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||CPCB flags unsafe disposal of carcasses||About 30% of India’s dead cattle and 40% of goats weren’t flayed and nearly nine million bovine hides were “lost annually due to non-recovery”, according to a note by the Central Pollution Control Board proposing guidelines on proper disposal of deceased livestock.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: suspended councillor denied bail||A city court on Thursday denied bail to suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain in three different FIRs related to the north-east Delhi riots, noting that he used “muscle power and political clout to act as a kingpin” in planning and instigating communal violence. The court also rejected Hussain’s contention that he be treated at parity with other co-accused who have been released on bail.
23 October 2020||bengaluru,||LED streetlight project finally takes off||The ambitious plan of replacing the city’s nearly five lakh streetlights with energy-efficient LED lights is finally beginning to take off.
23 October 2020||Mumbai,||‘Want to avoid political interference in probes’||A day after the Maharashtra government withdrew its ‘general consent’ to the CBI to probe cases in the State, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday said the decision was taken to prevent possible political interference in the Mumbai Police’s ongoing investigation into the alleged role of three television channels in the TRP scam.
23 October 2020||Belagavi,||Six COVID-19 deaths in North Karnataka||North Karnataka districts recorded six COVID-19-related deaths across the region on Thursday. This is among the lowest in the recent months. And, there were a total of 1,055 patients discharged from hospitals and COVID Care Centres. Now, there are a total of 5,115 active cases in the region. The highest number of patients discharged were in Bagalkot (258), followed by Belagavi with 201 and Dharwad 158.
23 October 2020||KALABURAGI,||GESCOM yet to restore power supply||Though Gulbarga Electricity Supply Company (GESCOM), a State-owned undertaking entrusted with the responsibility of supplying electricity in the six districts of Kalyana Karnataka region, has successfully corrected power disruptions caused by heavy floods, three villages are yet to get power supply. Speaking to The Hindu on Thursday, GESCOM Chief Engineer Laxman Chauhan said that Mandarwada, Kobal and Raddewadagi villages in Jewargi taluk that were completely flooded for days on end are yet to get electricity supply restored.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: suspended councillor denied bail||A Delhi court on Thursday denied bail to suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain in three different FIRs related to the north-east Delhi riots, noting that he used “muscle power and political clout to act as a kingpin in planning”.
23 October 2020||MYSURU,||Elephants take part in first rehearsal||The first rehearsal for the scaled-down Jamboo Savari on the day of Vijayadashami was conducted on the palace premises on Thursday. Dasara elephants led by Abhimanyu and a limited number of participants were present.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19: Highest single-day recovery||The State on Thursday reported 5,778 new COVID-19 cases taking the total number to 7,88,551. With 74 new deaths, the toll rose to 10,770. As many as 13,550 persons were discharged on Thursday taking the total number of recoveries to 6,84,835.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Siddaramaiah and Kateel trade ‘wild’ charges||BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel and Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah have been trading charges, accusing each other of hitting a new low in public discourse.
23 October 2020||Chennai,||With 3,077 new cases, tally surpasses 7 lakh||Tamil Nadu’s tally breached the seven lakh-mark on Thursday, as 3,077 more persons tested positive for COVID-19. The State added one lakh cases in the last 21 days. As many as 4,314 persons, including 1,077 in Chennai, were discharged on Thursday. Another 45 persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 10,825. Chennai accounted for 833 fresh cases.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Working on three potential platforms’||CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) Director Rakesh Mishra on Thursday disclosed that the institute has been working on three varied platforms in association with other CSIR labs of Institute of Medical Technology (IMTECH), Chandigarh and Indian Institute of Chemical Biology (IICB), Kolkata on potential vaccines to deal with COVID-19 virus. “These platforms are slightly different from the vaccines currently under testing. They are based on ‘pseudo virus’ and ‘pre-processed proteins’. We are now testing them on mice, if they are responsive, we will give the technology to Aurobindo Pharma for making vaccines,” he told the media during launch of ‘CoronaAID’ food supplement. At the same time, he cautioned that an ‘effective’ vaccine could be many months or years away. “It may or may not come. We should be prepared to fight this pandemic without a vaccine. Even if we are lucky to get a vaccine out by the end of the year or later, it could take many months to vaccinate the 1.30 billion people across the country because of the logistics required in maintaining cold storage chains and likely requirement of more than one dose,” he explained. Yet, any vaccine’s efficacy could only be determined over a course of time of several months or a couple of years because no one can predict how effective it could be to people of different age groups. “It is only after six months or a year we can claim how the vaccine has functioned. But then never before in history so much effort and money have gone into combating a single virus and so we have to keep the fingers crossed,” said Dr. Mishra. Since it has been now established that 20% to 30% the country’s population have antibodies there is a possibility of ‘herd immunity’ happening in next six months or one year when the infection rate may come down but this cannot be “rushed”, he asserted. In the meantime, “we cannot afford to crowd hospitals even though capacities have been enhanced since March-April. The focus should continue to be on testing and isolation,” said Dr. Mishra. The CCMB Director reiterated the ‘Social Vaccine’ doctrine. “We have to learn to live without a magic medicine or vaccine for a while by wearing a face mask, maintaining social distancing and practising hand hygiene - wash hands every time especially when you want to put something in the mouth,” he maintained.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana pegs rain damage at Rs. 9,420 crore||The State government has informed the five-member inter-ministerial Central team, deputed to Telangana to assess the damaged caused by rains and floods, that the loss suffered by different sectors was over Rs. 9,420 crore with the agriculture sector bearing the maximum brunt. Chief Secretary to the Government Somesh Kumar explained to the Central team, led by Joint Secretary in Home Ministry Praveen Vashista, on Thursday that the State government had taken all measures to minimise loss of life and property in the recent rains and floods. He also explained the extent of damage with the help of a photo exhibition on the damage caused. Mr. Somesh Kumar stated that damage to public infrastructure was enormous and the State government had already made a preliminary assessment of the damage. While the loss to crops was estimated at Rs. 8,633 crore, the loss to road network was around Rs. 222 crore. Besides, loss in the GHMC area was estimated to be around Rs. 567 crore. On its part the State government had released Rs. 550 crore for immediate flood relief and food packets were supplied to over 2 lakh people. Besides, each family in the affected/inundated areas was given one kg of bleaching powder and over 3 lakh chlorine tables were also distributed among the affected people. Electricity supply All the 15 electrical sub-stations which were inundated were brought back into service within 48 hours, Mr. Somesh Kumar explained to the visiting team. The visiting team also interacted with the senior officials of Irrigation, Municipal Administration, Roads and Buildings, Energy, Agriculture and Panchayat Raj Departments, GHMC and Hyderabad Metro Water Board. The officials gave an overview of the loss incurred by the departments individually. Officials explained to the Central team that there was excess rainfall during the last 10 days and it had resulted in flooding. Although rains across the State were excessive, the damage other than crop and roads was most in and around Hyderabad. Breaches to three major tanks coupled with flooding in Musi river resulted in inundation of several low lying areas in the City, they told the members of the visiting team. The Central team comprised Mr. Praveen Vashista, R.B. Kaul from Finance Ministry, K. Manoharan from Agriculture Ministry, S.K. Kushwaha from Ministry of Road Transport and Highways and M. Raghuram of Ministry of Water Resources.
23 October 2020||Bhopal,||Crucial M.P. bypolls turn Scindia-Nath battle||Amid portraits of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, BJP president J.P. Nadda and Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on the hoardings at the party’s Bhopal office, the absence of a popular face, whose 19 supporters are in the fray in the byelections to 28 Assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh, is glaring. “Members of the party, even if a ‘Maharaj’, have to stick to its discipline and convention,” explained a worker, referring to Rajya Sabha member Jyotiraditya Scinda who does not figure on the hoardings. Mr. Scindia, who led the Congress to victory in the Assembly elections in 2018, is now a BJP member but his stature as a new entrant has meant that he is eclipsed by the party’s older leaders. The byelections will decide the fate of the seven-month-old Shivraj Singh Chouhan government. Twenty-five seats fell vacant after the defection of 22 Congress MLAs — 19 of whom backed Mr. Scindia — and three others later. Three other seats have fallen vacant after the deaths of legislators. However, the polls are more a prestige battle between Mr. Scindia, who left the Congress and is eyeing a ministerial berth at the Centre, and former Congress Chief Minister Kamal Nath. The BJP has given ticket to all the defectors. The Congress, which won 27 of the 28 seats in 2018, needs to win all to pull up its tally of 88 MLAs and wrest power again. However, after the political drama of the defections and change of government, it can no longer rely on the support of the four Independent, two Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the lone Samajwadi legislators, which had helped it cross the 115 simple majority mark previously. The BSP MLAs seemingly backed the BJP during the political turmoil, while Independents are eager to secure ministerial berths, irrespective of the party in government. The BJP needs to extend its tally of 107 by at least nine seats in the 230-member Assembly to retain power. Area of dominance With 16 seats up for grabs in the Gwalior-Chambal region, the Scindia stronghold, the BJP is drawing strength from the former Congress leader’s cadre. Both the parties are intent on winning the Dalit vote as nine seats are reserved for Scheduled Castes candidates. But the BSP’s considerable popularity among Jatavs in pockets adjacent to Uttar Pradesh such as Chambal and Vindhya Pradesh is likely to throw up a triangular contest in a few seats. In 2018, the party secured the second spot in Gohad, Dabra and Pohri. Two of its contestants this time are former Congressmen. The Congress vote share jumped by nearly four points to 40.85% in the 2018 election, marginally behind the 40.91% of the BJP, which has ruled the State for 15 years. On the 34 seats of Chambal, the Congress had won 26 with Mr. Scindia’s support and the BJP just seven. The Congress is asking voters to reject ‘traitors’ and ‘sold out’ leaders to win in Bhind and Morena districts.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kerala reports most cases, says Ministry||India reported 55,839 new coronavirus (COVID-19) cases, with 78% recorded from 10 States and Union Territories (UTs). Kerala reported the most number of cases, followed by Maharashtra (which continues to register the most number of fatalities) and Karnataka, according to data given on Thursday by the Union Health Ministry for Wednesday. Both Kerala and Maharashtra were reporting a very high number of new cases, with more than 8,000 cases each, followed by Karnataka, with more than 5,000 cases, a Ministry release said. Active cases at 10% India also reported 702 case fatalities, as per the data. Of this, nearly 82% was concentrated in 10 States/Union Territoris and more than 25% of the new fatalities were from Maharashtra (180), the Ministry said. The active cases have been sustained below 10% of the total cases for the last three days, and presently, they comprised 9.29% of the total positive cases of the country standing at 7,15,812, the release stated. “The positivity rate has also been maintained to less than 5% over the past three days, indicating that the spread of infection is being effectively contained through focussed strategies and actions of the Centre and the States/UTs. Today, the daily positivity Rate is reported to be 3.8%,’’ said the release. India also reported a total recovered cases close to 69 lakh (68,74,518). As per the data, 79,415 patients have recovered and discharged, with 81% of the new recovered cases concentrated in 10 States/UTs. Maharashtra contributed more than 23,000 to the single day recovery. Not the last: WHO WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, in a release issued on Thursday, said that with the ongoing pandemic, it had never been clearer that health was a political and economic choice. “In the past 20 years, countries have invested heavily in preparing for terrorist attacks, but relatively little in preparing for the attack of a virus – which, as the COVID-19 pandemic has proven, can be far more deadly, disruptive and costly,’’ he said. This would not be the last pandemic, he noted. “But when the next one comes, the world must be ready. Part of every country’s commitment to build back better must therefore be to public health, as an investment in a healthier and safer future,” he said.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||‘The fight is between RJD and BJP’||Senior RJD leader and party spokesperson Manoj K. Jha speaks on the prospects of the party, Tejashwi Yadav’s rallies and the burden of the 15-year Lalu-Rabri regime that the party carries:  The opinion polls have suggested that the RJD-Congress-Left combine lags behind the NDA in the Assembly election in Bihar. Your comments. I would just say they should check their opinion polls of 2015 also. I know their compulsions and I know the pressures under which they work. I know the mandate given to them by their top bosses — opinion polls are often opinionated polls. Tejashwi Yadav’s rallies have become a talking point, drawing a huge crowd. Don’t you fear that such huge participation could be seen as Yadav assertion and could have a counter consolidation? Across Bihar, Tejashwiji is drawing an interactive crowd. These are not just limited to Muslims and Yadavs. Look at the areas where the rallies were held — Aurangabad, Goh, Taimur, Magadh, Aliganj… it is a mixed crowd. I have not seen such an enthusiastic and interactive crowd in recent times. Bihar CM and JD(U) leader Nitish Kumar in almost every rally of his is invoking the “jungle raj” during the 15-year Lalu-Rabri rule. Is that why the RJD has removed Laluji’s and Rabriji’s pictures from its posters? I give you a task — compare NCRB data 1990 to 2005 and subsequently 2005-2020. The data for the two periods whether it is kidnapping or dacoity is not different. Story lies in the data, not only what one says. I have seen an unprecedented degeneration in the language employed by Mr. Nitish Kumar, our honourable Chief Minister. He addresses Tejashwi “karta hai, bolta hai”. This is not the language of Bihar. People in Bihar may differ with each other fundamentally, but they will never employ such derogatory language.  If there were 15 years of Jungle Raj under Lalu and Rabriji then in 2015, why did you [Nitish Kumar] have an alliance with the RJD? This election, by all accounts, looks like a close contest. Do you at this stage regret letting go of Upendra Kushwaha’s Rashtriya Lok Samata Dal, Jitan Ram Manjhi’s Hindustan Awam Morcha and Mukesh Sahni’s Vikassheel Insaan Party? No, no way. It is the other way round. They chose their own trajectory, I wish them well. I would say, very frankly, the fight is between the RJD alliance and the BJP and on certain seats with the LJP. There is virtually no fight with the JD(U). So you are saying it’s going to be a cakewalk for you? No, election is an election. It cannot be described by words like ‘cakewalk’. What are your political observations about the LJP’s solo fight in this election? Who will stand to benefit? I tell you, the BJP is actually part of four alliances with different parameters — direct, indirect and invisible. The BJP is in direct alliance with the JD(U), indirectly with the LJP and invisibly with Asaduddin Owaisi. This has never happened.   The BJP is in direct alliance with the JD(U), indirectly with the LJP and invisibly with Asaddudin Owaisi
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||CPI-IW base year revised to 2016||The Labour and Employment Ministry on Thursday revised the base year of the Consumer Price Index for Industrial Workers (CPI-IW) from 2001 to 2016 to reflect the changing consumption pattern, giving more weightage to spending on health, education, recreation and other miscellaneous expenses, while reducing the weight of food and beverages. Apart from measuring inflation in retail prices, the CPI-IW is used to regulate the dearness allowance (DA) of government staff and industrial workers, as well as to revise minimum wages in scheduled employments, a Ministry statement said. Labour Bureau Director-General D.P.S. Negi said the new series would not have an impact on the DA given to government employees for now. The linking factor of the new series to the old series was 2.88, something which employer federations had raised in consultations. At the launch of the new series, Labour and Employment Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar said the Bureau was expected to bring out the new series of the CPI for agriculture workers, which currently has the base year of 1986-87, by August next. Labour and Employment Secretary Apurva Chandra said that in the future, the Bureau would work towards revising the index every five years. The reduction in weight to spending on food and beverages indicated an increase in disposable income. Mr. Gangwar said the new series, representing the latest consumption pattern, would be in the interest of workers. The number of centres, markets and the sample size for working class family income and expenditure survey were all increased. The Minister also released the first index, with 2016 as the base year. The index for September, calculated for 88 centres as opposed to the previous 78 centres, was 118. The sample size was increased from 41,040 families to 48,384, and the number of selected markets for collecting retail price data from 289 to 317. The weight to food and beverage was reduced from 46.2% to 39%, while spending on housing increased from 15.2% to 17%. The index for October will be released on November 27.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana scribe’s minor son kidnapped, killed||The kidnap for ransom of a nine-year-old boy, son of a journalist in Mahbubabad town, 220 km from here, ended in tragedy as the police found him murdered on Thursday. The parents had arranged Rs. 45 lakh to be paid to the abductor for the safe return of the boy Deekshit Reddy. The Mahbubabad district police, which launched 10 special teams to crack the abduction mystery reported four days ago, received a rude jolt as the boy’s burnt body was found just 5 km from his home. A person known to the boy’s parents emerged the abductor and killer in the sensational case. Presenting the accused Manda Sagar before the media at Mahbubabad, district SP Koti Reddy said greed to make fast buck drove him to kidnap and kill the boy. The boy’s father Ranjith Reddy is a reporter for Telugu TV channel T News. “Sagar, who is in his early 20s alone carried out the kidnap and killing. Possible complicity of others is still being probed,” the SP told The Hindu over phone. Deekshit was playing near his house on Thursday around 6 p.m. when Sagar came there on his bike. “The unsuspecting boy, who knew Sagar, sat on the bike when he offered him a ride,” the SP said. Two hours later, the boy’s parents received a call on their mobile phone from a private number demanding Rs. 45 lakh ransom to set him free. Worried parents rushed to police who swung into action forming dedicated teams with specific tasks to trace boy. Normally, police would have tracked the abductors by tracing the phone calls. In this case, they hit a cul-de-sac as the incoming calls which got displayed on parents’ mobile phone turned out to be ‘private number’. Realising that abductor was using a mobile app of VoIP technology to make calls, investigators sent emails to 10 companies providing VoIP call services. Investigation in this angle provided some clues. Actually, even before police chalked out a plan to rescue the boy, Sagar murdered the boy. “Though the boy knew Sagar, he started asking the latter to take him back home. Unable to control the kid and worried of being identified, Sagar, gave him a sleeping pill,” the SP said. When the boy fell unconscious, the accused throttled him to death. Later, Sagar poured petrol on the body and set it ablaze, he said. Even after killing the boy, he started making ransom calls. Police officers from special wings like Hyderabad Task Force, Cyberabad Special Operations Team and Intelligence along with technical experts started working on different leads to trace the boy. Meanwhile, police received an input locally pointing the needle of suspicion towards Sagar who admitted to the killing when picked up and interrogated. He led the police to the boy’s decomposed body which was found on a hillock in nearby Thallapoosalapally forest area.  Presenting the accused Manda Sagar before the media at Mahbubabad, district SP Koti Reddy said greed to make fast buck drove him to kidnap and kill the boy. The boy’s father Ranjith Reddy is a reporter for Telugu TV channel T News. “Sagar, who is in his early 20s alone carried out the kidnap and killing. Possible complicity of others is still being probed,” the SP told The Hindu over phone. Deekshit was playing near his house on Thursday around 6 p.m. when Sagar came there on his bike. “The unsuspecting boy, who knew Sagar, sat on the bike when he offered him a ride,” the SP said. Two hours later, the boy’s parents received a call on their mobile phone from a private number demanding Rs. 45 lakh ransom to set him free. Worried parents rushed to police who swung into action forming dedicated teams with specific tasks to trace boy. Normally, police would have tracked the abductors by tracing the phone calls. In this case, they hit a cul-de-sac as the incoming calls which got displayed on parents’ mobile phone turned out to be ‘private number’. Realising that abductor was using a mobile app of VoIP technology to make calls, investigators sent emails to 10 companies providing VoIP call services. Investigation in this angle provided some clues. Actually, even before police chalked out a plan to rescue the boy, Sagar murdered the boy. “Though the boy knew Sagar, he started asking the latter to take him back home. Unable to control the kid and worried of being identified, Sagar, gave him a sleeping pill,” the SP said. When the boy fell unconscious, the accused throttled him to death. Later, Sagar poured petrol on the body and set it ablaze, he said. Even after killing the boy, he started making ransom calls. Police officers from special wings like Hyderabad Task Force, Cyberabad Special Operations Team and Intelligence along with technical experts started working on different leads to trace the boy. Meanwhile, police received an input locally pointing the needle of suspicion towards Sagar who admitted to the killing when picked up and interrogated. He led the police to the boy’s decomposed body which was found on a hillock in nearby Thallapoosalapally forest area.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Tri-Service synergy visible amid recent events’||Tri-Service synergy and coordination has “peaked” with the establishment of the Department of Military Affairs (DMA) as was visibly demonstrated in the joint response of the three Services to recent events, Navy Chief Admiral Karambir Singh said on Thursday. The Navy had been on high operational alert and was keeping a close watch on movements in the Indian Ocean since the stand-off began with China in May along the disputed boundary in Eastern Ladakh. “Giving an overview of the prevailing security situation, he stated that the Navy would continue maintaining a high tempo of operations in coming months,” the Navy quoted Adm. Singh as saying while reviewing the operational preparedness and combat-readiness of the Navy’s principal combatants. Visits Karwar base Adm. Singh visited the Karwar naval base and embarked on the Carrier Battle Group, comprising INS Vikramaditya, destroyers, frigates, corvettes, fleet support ships and integral swing-role fighters and helicopters. Operational readiness He was given an operational readiness briefing. He also witnessed weapon firings, air-to-air combat operations, anti-submarine drills and fleet manoeuvres. The Navy maintained a high tempo of operations and combat-readiness despite the COVID-19 pandemic by adhering to stringent protocols on warships, submarines and aircraft squadrons and bases, the statementsaid.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||It is the middlemen who are opposing farm laws: Nadda||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Thursday defended the farm laws cleared by Parliament in the monsoon session and said the opposition to them was led by middlemen, and not farmers. He was addressing a group of farmers from Delhi and nearby villages at the BJP headquarters here. Mr. Nadda also took a swipe at West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for not implementing the Centre’s scheme to deposit Rs. 6,000 into every farmer’s account under the ‘Kisan Samman Nidhi Yojana. “She has been creating hurdles to farmers’ development, but this will not go on for long,” he said. The BJP would be coming to power in West Bengal after next year’s Assembly polls and it would implement the scheme. Lauding the Modi government for its pro-farmers measures, he said the Congress had only spoken of waiving farmers’ loan and that did not amount to more than Rs. 54,000-Rs. 55,000 crore in the 10 years of UPA rule. “But the BJP-led NDA government has so far deposited over Rs. 92,000 crore directly into the bank accounts of over 10 crore farmers,” Mr. Nadda said. By enacting the three farm reform laws, the government had unshackled farmers who could now sell their produce anywhere. The three laws are the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020 and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||CPCB flags unsafe disposal of carcasses||About 30% of India’s dead cattle and 40% of goats weren’t flayed and nearly nine million bovine hides were “lost annually due to non-recovery,” according to a note by the Central Pollution Control Board proposing guidelines on proper disposal of deceased livestock. The draft guidelines require carcasses of livestock to be disposed of in incinerators and municipal authorities must ensure that such facilities are set up and made available. However, the Board has not specified any deadline for the implementation of the guidelines. Environmental hazard Carcasses, especially those that result from the animal slaughter, are an ‘environmental hazard’ and are partly to blame for ‘bird-hit’ hazards at airports, according to an introductory note in the draft. There were nearly 25 million head of cattle including buffalo that died of natural causes. “However there wasn’t any organised system of disposal and it had become a major environmental hazard,” the note said. While the hide was mostly removed for leather, the carcasses were frequently left to “putrefy in the open” and attracted “vultures and dogs polluting the environment and creating environmental hazards. This open dumping attracted birds which can cause air accidents,” the note said. Flaying of cattle could yield more commercial opportunities, for instance, ‘meat-meal, bone-meat and technical fat’. The process, however, would require setting up more ‘carcass utilisation plants’ where the parts of the animal could be used to make tallow, nutritional supplements and fertiliser. The other methods of disposal were incineration and ‘deep burial’. The guidelines, which are open for public comment until mid-November, said these latter techniques, which are now the dominant method of disposal, must be put to use only in case utilisation plants couldn’t be set up. State PCBs should ensure that carcasses were being disposed of properly, the Board said.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Self-styled godmen in Srisailam hooked to online matka||The temple town of Srisailam in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh is abuzz with online matka gambling as self-styled godmen were found to be heavily involved in this banned activity to make a quick buck. This came to light when Atmakur police of Kurnool district interrogated 21 ‘tricksters’, including a woman, who were arrested for trying to sell ‘naga sorakaya' (snake bottle gourd) to gullible people for a minimum of Rs. 10 lakh and a maximum of Rs. 30 lakh each. Of 21 accused, four are from Kurnool and Anantapur, while the rest 17 are the native of Mahabubnagar, Nalgonda, Wanaparthy, Nagarkurnool and Jogulamba Gadwal districts in Telangana. Matka is a chance game where a punter gets a return of Rs. 90 for every Re one bet. Online gambling is banned in both the Telugu States. When the mobile phone of prime accused Gopidesi Venkata Subba Rao was examined, the investigators found a number of online matka apps, and further going through his WhatsApp messages they stumbled upon frequent chats between some sadhus and others in the temple town, said Atmakur Deputy Commissioner of Police J Venkata Rao. He said Venkata Subba Rao was also a self-styled godman, who lives in Vishweshwaraiah Annapurna Devi Ashramam, run by one Aravinda Reddy, a history-sheeter with Atmakur police station. “They send messages to fellow gamblers in a code language and the bet money is transferred online to the punters’ bank accounts,” Mr. Rao said. The offers given by the organisers are very lucrative. A message from the WhatsApp chat of a 'swamiji' read: Matka play live with a highest full rate. Same day withdrawal. Bumper offer in a deposit of Rs. 2,000 and more five % extra point. Rs. 10,000 and more 10 % extra, Rs. 20,000 and more 15 % extra and more Rs. 50,000 and more 20 % extra. Minimum deposit is Rs. 200 and minimum withdrawal is Rs. 1,000. “With the arrest of this gang, we came to know that online gambling is rampant and quite popular among sadhus here. Measures will be taken to curb the illicit activity,” the officer said. Initially, the godmen invest in the game with the money they get through alms and after getting good returns, holed themselves up for a couple of days in neighbouring villages or some parts of Telangana, as smoking and drinking alcohol is banned in the temple town.
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||States cautiously watch flatter case curve||Kerala’s fresh COVID-19 cases on Thursday stood at a lower 7,482. The test positivity rate on Thursday was 13.3%. Also on Thursday, 23 deaths which occurred between Oct 7-21 were added to the State’s official COVID-19 list. Andhra Pradesh added 3,620 infections on Thursday. The State saw 16 deaths, one of the lowest daily death figures in months. As many as 76,726 samples were tested in the past day with a test positivity rate of 4.72%. In Telangana, Greater Hyderabad and its surroundings – Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri districts – reported a majority of cases, nearly one-third of the 1,456 fresh cases on Wednesday. The Health department said on Thursday that five more deaths were reported. Another 38,565 samples were tested on Wednesday. There were 254 cases from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area. Karnataka on Thursday reported 5,778 new cases and 74 deaths. The positivity rate for the day reduced to 5.38%, and Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.28%. Bengaluru Urban reported 2,807 cases and 36 deaths. Active cases in Bengaluru reduced to 58,431. Over the day, 1,07,354 tests were conducted, including 20,853 rapid antigen tests. Tamil Nadu’s overall tally of COVID-19 cases breached the seven lakh-mark on Thursday as another 3,077 persons tested positive for the infection on Thursday. The State has added one lakh cases in the last 21 days. It was on October 1 that the overall case tally surpassed six lakh. With the fresh cases, the State now accounts for a total of 7,00,193 cases. As many as 4,314 persons, including 1,077 in Chennai, were discharged. This took the total number of persons discharged so far to 6,55,170. Another 45 persons succumbed to the infection in the State, taking the toll to 10,825.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)
23 October 2020||Kolkata,||Centre vigilant on women’s safety: PM||The Union government was working relentlessly to empower women and was vigilant on the issue of their safety, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Thursday. Inaugurating a Durga Puja function organised by the West Bengal unit of the BJP, over video conferencing, the Prime Minister said that laws against rape had been strengthened and a provision for death penalty against the guilty had also been introduced. “A campaign for empowering women in the country is going on at a fast pace... whether it is opening bank accounts for 22 crore women through Jan Dhan Yojana, giving loans to crores of women through the Mudra scheme, Beti Bachao and Beti Padhao and the law against triple talaq,” Mr. Modi said. The Prime Minister also added that women had an important role to play in making the country self-reliant. Mr. Modi said that devotees had shown exemplary restraint while celebrating Durga Puja during the COVID-19 pandemic. “The number of people might be less but the grandeur and devotion are the same. The happiness and joy are still boundless. This is the real Bengal,” he said, urging people to wear masks and maintain physical distancing. He said that Durga Puja was a festival that reflected the unity and strength of India. The Prime Minister, who began and ended his speech in Bengali, spoke about the contribution of the State in different fields such as art, culture, science and spirituality. The State unit of the party had made arrangements to telecast the speech all across the State by installing projectors and screens. Development schemes Mr. Modi said that work was on for the rapid development of West Bengal and improving the lives of people in the State. “We are continuously working for the rapid development of West Bengal. Under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, houses have been constructed for around 30 lakh poor people. Over 90 lakh free gas connections given under Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana. Under the Prime Minister Jan Dhan scheme, accounts of four crore people have been opened,” he said.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||2+2 talks will focus on regional issues||India and the U.S. will discuss “salient regional” issues when U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and U.S. Defence Secretary Mark Esper travel to India next week for the “2+2 Ministerial dialogue”, the government said on Thursday, in an indication that ties with China will be on the agenda for talks on October 27. “The Third India-U.S. 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue will entail a comprehensive discussion on cross-cutting bilateral issues of mutual interest. In addition, both sides will also exchange views on salient regional and global issues,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava during a weekly briefing with journalists. On Wednesday, Mr. Pompeo had said talks during his visit will include “discussions on how free nations can work together to thwart threats posed by the Chinese Communist Party”. However, the MEA did not respond to a specific question about whether border tensions, and the ongoing talks with China would feature during the 2+2 meeting, nor would Mr. Srivastava comment on which agreements, including the geo-spatial agreement BECA would be signed, adding that he would rather not “prejudge the outcomes” of the visit. “India and U.S. have a comprehensive global strategic partnership which includes political, security and defence, economic, commercial, technology and people-to-people contacts. We have regular dialogue for various levels to discuss ongoing bilateral cooperation and to exchange views on developments in the region,” the MEA statement said. The MEA denied that the timing of the visit of senior U.S. officials exactly one week before U.S. elections on November 3, was unusual, and said it followed the pattern of “2+2” meetings in previous years. “As regards the timing of the meeting, you know that diplomatic calendars have their logic, and you will notice that the earlier two meetings have been held towards the end of the year,” Mr. Srivastava said in response to a question from The Hindu . In a separate response on progress in border negotiations with China, the MEA said, “India and China continue to have discussions through both diplomatic and military channels to peacefully resolve the issues along the LAC in India China Border areas.. []The immediate task is to ensure a comprehensive disengagement of troops in all the friction areas.”
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Pak. made 3,800 ceasefire violations’||Pakistan has carried out 3,800 unprovoked ceasefire violations so far in 2020, said an official of the Ministry of External Affairs. The official spokesperson of the Ministry, Anurag Srivastava, said in the weekly virtual press briefing on Thursday India had regularly taken up these violations with Pakistan through diplomatic channels. “Pakistan forces have continued to engage in unprovoked ceasefire violations, often from civilian areas, to support infiltration of terrorists across the LoC. This is a clear violation of the 2003 Ceasefire Understanding between the two sides. This year, till date, Pakistani forces have carried out more than 3,800 unprovoked ceasefire violations. There have also been attempts to drop arms and ammunition close to the LoC in the garb of civilian activities,” Mr. Srivastava said. He also accused Pakistan of using drones and quadcopters for smuggling of arms and narcotic substances across the International Border (IB). “Such violations are regularly highlighted to Pakistan through diplomatic channels and at the regular DGMO level talks,” Mr. Srivastava said. The accusations are timed with the ongoing FATF Plenary meeting (October 21-23) which is looking at Pakistan’s compliance with the 27-point FATF Action Plan. The official also said that Pakistan had not fulfilled several of the action items. “Pakistan continues to provide safe havens to terrorist entities and individuals and has almost not yet taken any action against entities and individuals including those proscribed by the UNSC such as Masood Azhar, Dawood Ibrahim, Zaki-ur-Rahman Lakhvi.”
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Testimony of sexual assault victim enough for conviction’||The sole and trustworthy evidence of a woman, who is a victim of a sexual offence, is enough to find her assailant guilty, the Supreme Court has held. “A woman, who is the victim of sexual assault, is not an accomplice to the crime but is a victim of another person’s lust and, therefore, her evidence need not be tested with the same amount of suspicion as that of an accomplice,” a three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan observed. The court was confirming the punishment awarded to a man found guilty under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act of sexually assaulting a 13-year-old child in Tamil Nadu. The Madras High Court had upheld the trial verdict of guilt. The verdict was based on the evidence of the victim though her mother had turned hostile. Justice M.R. Shah drew attention to the long train of judicial precedents from the apex court which have all held that “evidence of the victim of sexual assault is enough for conviction” in a sexual offence case unless there are serious contradictions. Cases of violence against women should be treated with “utmost sensitivity”. Minor contradictions in her testimony should not derail an otherwise water-tight case.  “To hold an accused guilty for commission of an offence of rape, the solitary evidence of the prosecutrix is sufficient, provided the same inspires confidence and appears to be absolutely trustworthy, unblemished and should be of sterling quality,” the judgment said .
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||LDF inducts Jose K. Mani faction of KC(M)||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) on Thursday inducted the Jose. K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) into the ruling coalition. Mr. Mani’s inclusion comes barely four months after the United Democratic Front (UDF) announced that the faction had lost the right to continue in the front. Bickering over the chairpersonship of the Kottayam district panchayat with the KC(M) group headed by P.J. Joseph had paved the way for Mr. Mani’s acrimonious exit from the UDF and subsequent entry into the LDF. The Communist Party of India (CPI) and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) were initially unsympathetic to the proposal. The CPI(M) smoothened out the process by persuading them to shed their frostiness towards Mr. Mani. It also managed to overcome the CPI suggestion to test Mr. Mani’s electoral sway in Central Travancore in the upcoming local body elections before admitting him into the coalition. The Election Commission of India’s decision to award the ‘two leaf’ symbol to Mr. Mani also hastened his admittance. Oppn. flays it The Congress maintained that the arrangement was patently incongruous. The CPI(M) and the KC(M) had differed on every political issue for the last 39 years. Both parties did not see eye to eye at the grassroots. KC(M) workers would reject the pact Mr. Mani has struck with the CPI(M), Congress sources said. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) said political expediency and not principle had prompted the LDF to embrace Mr. Mani. LDF convener A. Vijayaraghavan denied that Mr. Mani’s inclusion was political trading ahead of the elections. The KC(M) had joined the LDF unconditionally to advance the secular and pro-farmer policies of the front. The admittance of the KC(M) was a watershed in the history of coalition politics in Kerala. It signalled that the traditional base of the KC(M) had abandoned the Congress-led UDF for the LDF. They despised the UDF for playing second fiddle to the BJP, and their ire will reflect in elections, he said. LDF claim Mr. Mani’s entry has improved the fighting chances of the LDF in the citadels of the UDF. The expansion of the front would ensure a second consecutive term for the LDF government, he said. Mr. Vijayaraghavan also dispelled scepticism that the KC(M) and the Left parties would make uneasy bedfellows given their decades-old political antagonism.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||CCMB incubated Clone Deals launches ‘CoronAID’||‘CoronAid’, a nutraceutical anti-viral immunity booster oral suspension to boost immunity against COVID-19 has been unveiled by the city-based startup ‘Clone Deals’ on Friday. The firm incubated at Atal Incubation Centre (AIC) of the CSIR-Centre for Cellular & Molecular Biology (CCMB) has made the ‘food supplement’ with a combination of powder from a rare mushroom ‘cordyceps militaris’ that grows in Himalayas only two months a year and is known for its immune boosting and anti-oxidant properties. It has been mixed with curcumin, an active ingredient in turmeric, in collaboration with another firm - Ambrosia Food Company to make the product, which has obtained approval from the Food Safety & Standards Authority of India (FSSAI), said Prakash Ayodhya Pandem, Paul Venkatesh and M. Ateek Patel of ‘Clone Deals’. CCMB Director Rakesh Mishra and AIC-CCMB chief executive officer N. Madhursuhana Rao launched the product said to be safe for all ages as it can be taken as a food supplement any time. Clone Deals has taken assistance of CCMB scientists to establish the potency of ‘cordycepin’ component — found in the mushroom — to establish potency in “stopping the growth of COVID-19 causing coronavirus in a cell culture system”. The founders claimed the studies showed ‘cordycepin’ inhibits multiplication of coronavirus and that Clone Deals has the expertise in large-scale production of the mushroom in a controlled atmosphere for the medicinal use. “We have also sought government permission for conducting human clinical trials to establish the safety of the formulation to be used as potential medicine in the form of ‘cordyceps capsules’ with All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Nagpur, Bhopal and Mahatma Gandhi Mission Institute of Health Sciences, (MGM) Navi Mumbai,” they said. Results of clinical trials are expected to be available from December when the product is expected to be available in most places of the country. “We hope ‘CoronaAID’ would be a New Year gift to the world and add considerable protection against the virus,” said Mr. Prakash, Mr. Venkatesh and Mr. Patel. Dr. Mishra congratulated them and expressed pleasure in supporting the startup focused on developing indigenous natural products and adding value by establishing its scientific basis. Dr. Rao pointed out AIC-CCMB has been providing necessary infrastructure facilities and scientific support to startups like Clone Deals for validation of their technology and market readiness. Hyderabad-based NuZen Herbals is the exclusive marketing and distribution partner.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Scribe’s son kidnapped for ransom, killed||Presenting the accused Manda Sagar before the media at Mahbubabad, district SP Koti Reddy said greed to make fast buck drove him to kidnap and kill the boy. The boy’s father Ranjith Reddy is a reporter for Telugu TV channel T News. “Sagar, who is in his early 20s alone carried out the kidnap and killing. Possible complicity of others is still being probed,” the SP told The Hindu over phone. “The unsuspecting boy, who knew Sagar, sat on the bike when he offered him a ride,” the SP said. Two hours later, the boy’s parents received a call on their mobile phone from a private number demanding Rs. 45 lakh ransom to set him free. Worried parents rushed to police who swung into action. The police suspected that abductor was using a mobile app of VoIP technology to make calls. Investigation in this angle provided some clues. Actually, even before police chalked out a plan to rescue the boy, Sagar murdered the boy. “Though the boy knew Sagar, he started asking the latter to take him back home. Unable to control the kid and worried of being identified, Sagar, gave him a sleeping pill,” the SP said. Even after killing the boy, he started making ransom calls. Sagar admitted to the killing when interrogated.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,||Mosque loses its minarets||One of the oldest mosques in Hyderabad lost its shorter minarets during the recent rain spell. “I heard a loud sound and then we lost electricity. We rushed out to see a heap of rubble. Luckily nobody was injured,” says Renuka, a resident of Shaikpet where the disused mosque exists surrounded by houses, shops and a buffalo shed. The rubble has been cleaned and dumped at the rear of the mosque where it can be identified by the large round stones that gave shape to the minaret. “Most of the mosques in the area do not have inscriptions, and so I date them using my seriation of stylistic changes and dates are approximate. The large mosque at Shaikpet serai dates by inscription to AD 1633, but there are other mosques in the area that are both before and after it,” says Robert Simpkins, Professor of Anthropology in Porterville College, who has studied the mosques and serais (wayside inns) in Hyderabad dating to that period. “This is news to us. We had persuaded the Department of Archaelogy and Museums to allow us to clean the mosque four months back as there was vegetal growth. But immediately after we cleaned it they locked it up,” says a Telangana Waqf official. While the mosque is a waqf property its upkeep and maintenance is the responsibility of the Telangana Department of Archaeology and Museums. The mosque has remnants of blue ceramic tiles on one of the intact minarets. Finished with limestone mortar, the mosque is a representative of Qutb Shahi era architecture with florid use of stucco and liberal use of vegetal and geometric patterns. The long spell of rain in Hyderabad has caused immense amount of destruction to the city’s heritage including the Golconda Fort. Some of the destruction is becoming apparent only now as Wednesday was the first day without a spell of rain.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Dr. Reddy’s shuts units due to cyberattack||Besides involving one of the biggest names in the Indian corporate sector, the cyber attack comes days after the pharma giant received the Drugs Controller General of India’s approval to conduct Phase 2/3 human clinical trial for Sputnik V vaccine, developed by Russia, in the country. This followed Russia’s sovereign wealth fund RDIF, which is piloting the COVID-19 vaccine candidate, announcing last month a collaboration with Dr. Reddy’s for clinical trials and distribution of the vaccine in India. On Saturday, the drugmaker and Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) had announced receipt of the DCGI approval for an adaptive phase 2/3 human clinical trial for Sputnik V vaccine. It was a multi-centre and randomised controlled study, for Sputnik V which would include safety and immunogenicity study. As per the plan, the RDIF intends to supply 100 million doses of the vaccine to Dr. Reddy’s. Subject to completion of successful trials and registration of the vaccine by regulatory authorities in India, deliveries could potentially begin in late 2020, the RDIF had said in September. Sputnik V vaccine has been developed by Russia’s Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||BJP manifesto promises free vaccine for Bihar||BJP information technology cell chief Amit Malviya said, “Like all programmes, the Centre will provide vaccines to the States at a nominal rate. It is for State governments to decide if they want to give it free or otherwise. Health being a State subject, Bihar BJP has decided to give it free.” The manifesto also promised 19 lakh jobs in the next five years, including the appointment of three lakh teachers within the next year in schools and higher education institutions and one lakh jobs in the health sector. Jobs have become a major issue in the election, with Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Yadav promising that his first act, on being elected to power, would be to create 10 lakh jobs. A promise to construct 30 lakh pucca houses for the poor was also made. Special emphasis would be given to the information technology sector, as well as the establishment of 13 food processing parks, the manifesto said. Under the New Education Policy, engineering and other technical education will be made available in Hindi in the State. A minimum support price regime will be put in place for pulses too. “Bihar is one State where all citizens are politically sensitive and well-informed. They know and understand the promises a party makes. If anyone raises questions on our manifesto, we can answer them with confidence as we fulfil what we promised,” Ms. Sitharaman said. GDP had seen a sharp rise in Bihar under the NDA rule, after years of “jungle raj” under RJD rule, she added. Ms. Sitharaman did not take any questions at the press meet.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Government relaxes visa restrictions||“Foreign nationals intending to visit India for medical treatment can apply for a Medical Visa including for their medical attendants,” the MHA said. All such travellers should, however, strictly adhere to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on quarantine and other health/COVID-19 matters, the statement said. The travel restriction, prohibiting international travel to and from 107 immigration check-posts was issued on March 23, a day before the first phase of the 21-day-countrywide COVID-19 lockdown. The visa restrictions have been gradually relaxed, and on August 18, the MHA allowed foreign journalists and their dependants to enter India. On August 7, it allowed foreign nationals from the U.S., the U.K., Germany and France to travel to India on “business, medical and employment” visas under the air bubble scheme.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Will COVID care depend on elections, asks Rahul||The main Opposition in Bihar, the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), accused the BJP of selling “the fear of death and disease” . Using a video clip of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s comment at the BJP’s Bihar manifesto release event, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said, “You vote for me and I will give vaccine.... what appalling cynicism! Will the Election Commission rap her & her shameless Govt on the knuckles?” As the issue snowballed into a major controversy, senior BJP leader Bhupender Yadav stepped in and accused Mr. Tharoor of twisting Ms. Sitharaman’s statement. “Your attempt to twist Smt Nirmala Sitharaman’s statement reeks of desperation. All parties issue manifestos. Vaccines will be made available to all Indians at nominal costs. States can make it free. In #Bihar, we will,” Mr. Yadav said. ‘Free in India’ The Congress’s official Twitter handle pointed out that every major vaccination programme has been free in India, and asked if the BJP government intends to reverse the policy. National Conference leader Omar Abdullah called the BJP’s statement a case of “blatant populism that shamefully expoits COVID fears.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nag anti-tank missile completes final user trial||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Thursday carried out the final user trial of the third generation anti-tank guided missile (ATGM), Nag, at the Pokhran firing range. “The missile was integrated with the actual warhead and a tank target was kept at a designated range. This was launched from NAG Missile Carrier, NAMICA. The missile hit the target accurately defeating the armour,” the DRDO said in a statement. The test was carried out at 6.45 a.m. “With this final user trial, NAG will enter into production phase,” DRDO stated. Nag had been developed to engage highly fortified enemy tanks in day and night conditions. The missile has “fire and forget” and “top attack” capabilities with passive homing guidance to defeat all Main Battle Tanks (MBT) equipped with composite and reactive armour, the DRDO said.
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||No nod to prosecute KSCDC officials||The State government has refused to give sanction to prosecute Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation (KSCDC) officials, notably its former chairman and Congress leader R. Chandrasekharan, in a case registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in connection with the alleged corruption in the tendering and purchase of raw cashew during the period of the previous United Democratic Front (UDF) government. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday denied the allegation that Mr. Chandrasekharan’s alleged proximity to him had saved the veteran Congress trade unionist from prosecution by the CBI. The government’s decision was based on the merit of the legal opinion received by it. The administration found the CBI’s finding flawed and without legal basis. The KSCDC had merely followed a time-tested procurement practice that was the norm internationally. International impact  The High Court had ordered an inquiry into the alleged scam in 2015 given its international ramifications. The CBI had reportedly found that procedural violations, opacity in tender modalities, and possible attempts to fix bids had cost the public exchequer Rs. 600 crore and accorded a corresponding benefit to cashew suppliers and their middlemen. The CBI had reportedly found that the KSCDC had purchased raw cashew at higher than prevailing international market rates.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Rs. 2 lakh fine if caught doing wheelie a second time||The Electronics City traffic police booked 16 bikers for performing wheelies and got an undertaking from them.  The traffic police are now empowered to take action against mechanics and garage owners found tampering with the bikes and silencers. Sowmya Latha, DCP, Traffic (West division) said, “In the past we had launched a drive and warned garage owners not to modify the bikes, However, this time they will also be booked along with bike owners caught breaking the law,” she added.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,||HC suggests law imposing death penalty for gang rape||The High Court of Karnataka has suggested that a law be framed at the national level prescribing death penalty for the gang rape of women. The court made the observation while upholding the life imprisonment imposed by the trial court on seven convicted persons, who had gang-raped a 21-year-old law student near Jnana Bharathi campus in the city on October 13, 2012. “She [the victim] had boldly lodged a complaint at 1.30 a.m. in order to ‘protect Dharma’. Her ‘tolerance’ and ‘courage’ to proceed against the accused in accordance with the law ... and for fighting the legal battle against the accused to get justice in an unfortunate incident in her life has to be appreciated,” the court observed. “Between Nirbhaya’s case and the present case, the only difference is that in the case of Nirbhaya, the victim died after the brutal attack on her, but in the present case, the victim has discontinued her law course and returned to her native country — Nepal — with all curse,” a Division Bench, comprising Justice B. Veerappa and Justice K. Natarajan, observed and added that gang rape was more dangerous than murder. The Bench upheld the fast-track court’s September 6, 2013 verdict of convicting Ramu, Shivanna, Maddura, Eleyaiah alias Eleya, Eeraiah alias Eera, Raja, all from Metaridoddi village in Ramanagaram district, and Dodda Eeraiah alias Doddeera of Hebbala village of Hunsur in Mysuru district. They had raped her one after the other after dragging her out of the car in which she was chatting with her friend around 9.30 p.m. in Jnana Bharathi police station limits. “It is surprising to note that when victims of rape in modern India are admonished by society, the Vedic society was much more supportive of survivors of rape,” the Bench, said quoting from the Vedas and Manusmriti.  Awareness To ensure that society respects women’s dignity at all levels, the Bench felt that a child should be taught to respect women in society and gender equality should be made a part of the school curriculum along with personality-building and skill-enhancing exercises apart from watching children on their behavioural pattern to sensitise them. The Bench also said the government, educational institutions, the media, and employers must take steps to create awareness to respect women.
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Chennithala denies he flayed Rahul||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Thursday denied a report that he had doubted the competency of Rahul Gandhi, MP, to comment on grass-roots issues in Kerala. He said a media outlet had distorted his remark that local Congress leaders knew the COVID-19 situation in the State was dire and not rosy as claimed by the government.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka shifts scheme to India Post||The State Cabinet on Thursday decided to implement a redesigned Bhagyalakshmi scheme under the Sukanya Samriddhi Account scheme of India Post, instead of the Life Insurance Corporation (LIC) of India. The scheme is aimed at providing financial assistance to a maximum of two girls in a below poverty line (BPL) family by issuing an insurance bond whose maturity value will be given to the girl at the age of 18. The scheme was launched during 2006-07 for improving the sex ratio by providing incentives to BPL families with girl children. Under the scheme, the girl will get Rs. 1 lakh upon attaining the age of 18. A Cabinet meeting, presided over by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, decided to transfer the scheme from LIC to India Post from 2020-21 owing to low rate of interest in the former. Owing to the reduced rate of interest, the LIC had asked the State government to deposit the difference in the amount and this led to the scheme being shifted to India Post. According to sources, under LIC conditions the State government had to deposit an additional Rs. 2,000 crore in the name of beneficiaries. The LIC argued that the premium amount being paid by the government is less, sources said. The government pays a premium of Rs. 19,350 for the first child and Rs. 18,350 for the second. India Post provides an interest rate of 7.6% on deposits under the scheme. The public is allowed to invest a minimum of Rs. 250 and a maximum of Rs. 1.5 lakh per year. The Siddaramaiah government neglected the scheme by reducing the allocation in the State budgets, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has alleged. Sources said that the Cabinet also discussed the Rajyotsava awards, which will be given out in a simple ceremony this year. Among other decisions, the Cabinet withdrew a 2018 government order for a French company to establish an unit generating electricity from solid waste at Chikkanagamangala in Bengaluru limits. To curb illegal depositors’ schemes, operated by chit funds and private firms, the Cabinet also approved the Karnataka Banning of Unregulated Depositors’ Scheme Rules, 2020. It also approved the Karnataka State Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 2020; the Karnataka State Civil Services (Amendment) Rules, 2020, for recruitment of stenographers typists, and the Karnataka State Civil Services (Amendment) (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 2020, according to official sources. The Cabinet also approved the revised estimate of Rs. 26.92 crore for implementing early warning dissemination system in three coastal districts under the National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project.  The scheme is aimed at providing financial assistance to a maximum of two girls in a BPL family by issuing an insurance bond whose maturity value will be given to them at the age of 18
23 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Fraud charge: Kummanam, 8 others booked||BJP leader and former Mizoram Governor Kummanam Rajasekharan has landed in a controversy after the Aranmula police booked a case against him and eight others for allegedly defrauding a person of several lakhs of rupees. Praveen V. Pillai, former private secretary of Mr. Rajasekharan, is the prime accused and Mr. Rajasekharan is the fourth accused in the case registered for cheating and criminal breach of trust on a complaint lodged by Aranmula native C.R. Harikrishnan. The other accused are Vijayan, Xavier, N. Hari Kumar, Krishnaveni, Dalia, Saniya and Raniya. Promise of partnership As per the case, the accused allegedly collected Rs. 36 lakh from the complainant on the pretext of making him a partner in a factory unit to be opened in Palakkad. Despite repeated requests, the accused allegedly refused to hand to him over the share certificate. After several rounds of mediation, the accused returned a part of his investment but refused to give back the remaining amount. Mr. Harikrishnan lodged a complaint with the Pathanamanthitta District Police Chief and he referred the case to the police station concerned. According to the complainant, he met the first accused in the presence of Mr. Rajasekharan, who encouraged him to invest in the proposed business venture. Cases have been registered under Indian Penal Code Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating) and 34 (criminal act in furtherance of common intentions). Denies charge Mr. Rajasekharan said the case was politically motivated and he came to know about it only through the media. “I am no way connected to any financial transactions and it is unfortunate that the police are attempting to frame me in this case at somebody’s behest,” he said.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Action against Kashmir Times is vindictive’||The Editors Guild of India on Thursday said the sealing of the Srinagar offices of Kashmir Times was “reprehensible” and had disturbing implications for the media in Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. On Monday, the J&K Union Territory administration had sealed the newspaper’s Srinagar offices. In a statement, the Guild said that newspapers and magazines in J&K were “already ravaged by conflict” and loss of advertising due to communication shutdowns and the lockdown in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Guild termed the action vindictive and called on the government to restore status quo. The Press Club of India also issued a statement seeking the restoration of status quo. “We demand that the authorities end their show of small-mindedness immediately, and restore the earlier status of the Srinagar office of Kashmir Times ”, the statement said.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||11.58 lakh Railway staff to get bonus||The Railways on Thursday said about 11.58 lakh of its non-gazetted employees would be paid productivity-linked bonus equivalent to 78 days’ wages for 2019-20. The Union Cabinet, at its meeting on Wednesday accepted a Railway Ministry’ proposal to this effect. The wage calculation ceiling prescribed for bonus payment is Rs. 7,000 a month. The maximum amount payable per head is Rs. 17,951 for 78 days.
23 October 2020||Jaipur,||Court stays proceedings against Shourie||The Rajasthan High Court on Thursday stayed the proceedings in a trial court against former Union Minister Arun Shourie and four others in a case registered over the disinvestment of an India Tourism Development Corporation-owned hotel in Udaipur in 2002. The special CBI court in Jodhpur had last month ordered reopening of the CBI investigation into the matter. While passing the interim direction, Justice Vijay Bishnoi at the High Court’s principal seat in Jodhpur summoned the records of the case from the special court and asked it not to proceed against the five petitioners till further orders.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. warns Twitter over map misrepresentation||India has warned Twitter over its location setting that showed Leh in China, saying any disrespect of the country’s sovereignty and integrity is totally unacceptable.Ajay Sawhney, Secretary in the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, asked Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey to respect the sensitivities, sources said.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Govt. examining Sprinklr inquiry report||The government is examining a report submitted by a two-member committee constituted to look into the controversial agreement with the U.S.-based data analytics firm Sprinklr. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Thursday that the government was in receipt of the report of the committee headed by M. Madhavan Nambiar, former Civil Aviation Secretary. Cyber expert Gulshan Roy is the other member of the committee. The government is yet to make the report public although it was submitted on Wednesday. When contacted, Mr. Nambiar said he would comment on the report only after the government made it public. Probe areas The committee was asked to examine whether the privacy of personal and sensitive data of individuals have been adequately protected, whether adequate procedures have been followed while finalising the arrangements with Sprinklr and whether deviations, if any, are fair, justified and reasonable, considering the extraordinary and critical situation the State was facing at the relevant period. The committee was set up in May after the High Court refused to stay the transfer of the data to Sprinklr. There were allegations that the personal data of 1.8 lakh Keralites were recorded and handed over to Sprinklr soon after the spurt of COVID-19 in the State.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||National Museum’s miniature paintings on Google Arts & Culture app||Hundreds of miniature paintings from the National Museum’s collections can now be seen through the Google Arts & Culture app after Union Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel launched the “Life in Miniature” project on Thursday. Mr. Patel virtually launched the project, a collaboration between the National Museum, Delhi, and Google Arts & Culture, a Ministry statement said. “The project uses technologies such as machine learning, augmented reality and digitisation with high-definition robotic cameras, to showcase these special works of art in a magical new way,” the statement said. The app allows users to magnify the paintings to see the details.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||CBI books four Railway officials in corruption case||The CBI has booked four Railway officials and two top functionaries of a private company for allegedly causing a loss of crores to the exchequer by tampering with bills raised against execution of work contracts. The accused are the then deputy chief engineer S.P. Deshmukh, assistant executive engineer (constru-ction) Pradip Kumar Sharma, assistant finance adviser Tapeswar Rabha and one Bimal Dey.
23 October 2020||Mumbai,||Prof. Saibaba calls off hunger strike after DIG Prisons accepts his demand||Professor G.N. Saibaba called off his hunger strike after the DIG (Prisons) visited him in Nagpur Central Jail and accepted his demands. On October 16, 90% physically disabled and wheelchair-bound Saibaba announced he will be going on hunger strike from October 21 as he has not been provided with clothes, medicines and books for a month. On Thursday, he called his wife Vasantha Kumari and said the DIG (Prisons) had visited him on October 20 and accepted all his demands. Prof. Saibaba told her that the DIG had instructed the prison officers to resolve all the demands immediately and handover all the confiscated and withheld letters written to him by his wife, family members and advocates. The Committee for the Defense and Release of Dr. Saibaba released a press statement quoting the DIG Prisons as saying, “The jail authorities shall not stop the medicines given by his family members and advocates and the medicines will be given to him immediately. The complaint letter documenting his harassment and lack of basic rights in the prison since the last few months addressed to the DIG (Prisons) Pune shall be delivered immediately. Previously the jail authorities were not sending this letter and illegally holding it. All the paper clippings sent to him by his family members through post shall be given to him immediately and such paper cuttings shall not be confiscated in future. He shall be provided with books sent by the family members.” However, DIG Ramesh Kamble told The Hindu , “I visited Saibaba in his cell. He did not have any complaints nor did he mention anything about going on hunger strike. There has been some misunderstanding.” Ms. Kumari told The Hindu , “Saibaba informed me about the visit by the DIG Prisons on October 20 because of which Sai did not go on hunger strike but none of the demands have been met yet and we wait in hope.”
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Siddaramaiah and Kateel trade ‘wild’ charges||As byelection campaign hots up, BJP State president Nalin Kumar Kateel and Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah have been trading charges, accusing each other of hitting a new low in public discourse. Speaking at a party event in the bypoll-bound R.R. Nagar constituency on Wednesday, Mr. Kateel said after the byelections “huliya” (tiger), as Mr. Siddaramaiah is sometimes referred to, would be forced to go to the forest and “bande” (boulder), as KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar is called by his supporters, would explode. Taking exception to this, Mr. Siddaramaiah in a series of tweets likened Mr. Kateel to a “cave-dwelling wild man” and said that “in the interest of their party and the State, the BJP should send him back to the caves”. He further alleged that Mr. Kateel was working against Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and wanted to ensure that he steps down. “Nalin is the face of anti-Yediyurappa squad within BJP Karnataka. This squad is working tirelessly to lose in by-elections and eventually blame on B.S. Yediyurappa for the loss,” he tweeted. Referring to the episode where BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal had said that Mr. Yediyurappa’s term would be short lived, Mr. Siddaramaiah said, and added that Mr. Kateel does not even have the powers to take action against BJP leaders who criticised the Chief Minister. The BJP hit back against Mr. Siddaramaiah, accusing him of “lowering the level of public discourse”. B.L. Santhosh, national general secretary (organisation), took the lead and tweeted, “This man was CM of a progressive State, brought the State to knees by his divisive politics. Stung by defeat, worried by setbacks, unable to stop the rise of competitors in his party, he takes the discourse to a new low.” In a series of tweets, BJP Karnataka posed a series of questions to Mr. Siddaramaiah, asking if he had not worked for the defeat of his party’s former president and Minister G. Parameshwara, among others, “Siddaramaiah avare , the language you have used is itself a testimony of who is a ‘kadu manushya’ (wild man),” BJP Karnataka tweeted.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. hospitals continue ramping up COVID-19 infrastructure||Since the start of the pandemic, government hospitals in the city have been steadily improving their infrastructure to manage COVID-19 patients. Post-lockdown, with the city and its people returning to normalcy, work to increase the bed strength, oxygen capacity and ensure continuum of care for patients by setting up post-COVID clinics is going on in many of these hospitals. The city has so far recorded a total of 1,93,299 cases — 1,78,623 persons discharged, 11,107 active cases and 3,569 deaths. As fresh infections seem to be on the decline, hospitals continue to ramp up COVID-19 related infrastructure facilities, such as beds with oxygen support, liquid oxygen tanks and post-COVID clinics, in tune with the changing needs of the pandemic. The Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) has so far admitted nearly 25,713 patients. From 10 beds, the hospital, in a phased manner, has increased its bed strength to 1,662. “This will be increased to 2,000 in the coming weeks. We are adding 120 beds on each floor of tower-3. We will be covering three more floors to convert the tower into an exclusive COVID-19 block. This way, we will wind up smaller wards for COVID-19 patients in other blocks such as tower-2 and speciality block. The number of oxygen points were also increased to 1,000,” E. Theranirajan, RGGGH dean, said. The inflow of patients had been fluctuating with the daily average being less than 150. Presently, there were 710 patients, including the ones with COVID-19 and those with suspected symptoms, he added. Of the total 2,261 beds at the Government Stanley Medical College (SMC) Hospital, 1,200 beds are for COVID-19 patients. Out of this, 1,000 are oxygen supported beds, including 280 ventilator beds, according to dean P. Balaji. Three blocks were remodelled for COVID-19 patients. Of this, a two-storey block with 400 beds was exclusively earmarked. It offered outpatient services, in-patient wards and a zero-delay ward. A separate dialysis ward with 10 beds was put in place. Like other hospitals, the SMC has started a follow-up clinic with pulmonologists, cardiologists and psychiatrists managing it. One of the first exclusive COVID-19 hospitals was the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate. Started in March with 500 beds, the capacity was augmented with 250 more beds — all with oxygen support. Testing capacity “We have increased the testing capacity of our RT-PCR laboratory with an automated RNA extractor. From 100 to 200 samples a day, we are now testing 800 to 1,000 samples a day. We have added 104 ventilators and 150 multipara monitors,” said R. Jayanthi, the hospital’s dean. The number of in-patients had reduced to below 500 for the first time in months, she added. The Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital that started off with four beds has a total of 550 beds now. “We are planning to add 110 more beds of which 100 will be for the ICU and 10 in the modular mobile ICU. This will take the total beds to 660 in the future,” dean P. Vasanthamani said. In August, a record of 1,900 patients were admitted to the hospital, 10 affiliated COVID-19 Care Centres and two screening centres. “Nearly two weeks ago, the number of patients admitted decreased to around 700 to 800. In the last two days, it has come down to 500,” she added. The National Institute of Ageing (Government Corona Hospital) in Guindy, is maintaining 750 beds. K. Narayanasamy, its director, said they had a 15-bed zero delay ward with oxygen ports and ventilators available for all beds. “We are going to increase the oxygen tank capacity from 6 KL to 10 KL,” he said.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||7 bonded labourers rescued from Tiruttani||Seven bonded labourers, including three children, were rescued by Revenue officials and police personnel from a woodcutting unit in Kodivalli village near Kanagamachathiram in Tiruttani on Thursday. Ten others who were working in the unit were also rescued during the operation. It was alleged that the owner had also sexually abused some of the women workers and had made all of them work during the COVID-19 lockdown. According to Tiruttani Revenue officials, staff of the International Justice Mission received information about bonded labourers present in a woodcutting unit run by Ramesh of Arakkonam in Kodivalli village. This was conveyed to M. Sathya, Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO), Tiruttani, and she, along with a team of policemen, raided the unit.  ‘Taken an advance’ “There were a total of 17 labourers, including six children. When we inquired, they said that only seven from Ramapuram village in Tiruttani were bonded labourers as they had taken an advance of Rs. 20,000 from the owner. This included three child labourers. The other 10 claimed that they were rescued by the Ranipet RDO in 2014 and given release certificates. Now, they have been working for a daily wage,” said Ms. Sathya.  The seven bonded labourers reportedly told officials that they had left the unit some time ago due to the torture meted out to them, but the owner came to their village and brought them back. “Many children wanted to study, but Ramesh verbally abused them and even passed casteist remarks. They claim that they were forcibly taken back to the unit,” said Ms. Sathya. Some of the women workers also alleged sexual harassment by the owner. “He used to pay them Rs. 500 every three weeks,” she added. She said that apart from cases under the Bonded Labour System Abolition Act, the accused will be booked for sexual harassment and child labour. He will also be booked under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Need 3-4 weeks to decide on 7.5% quota Bill, says Governor||Governor Banwarilal Purohit on Thursday said it would take at least three to four weeks for him to arrive at a decision on granting assent to the Bill seeking to provide 7.5% horizontal reservation, to NEET-qualified State government school students, in undergraduate medical admissions. Replying to DMK president M.K. Stalin, who had on Wednesday written to the Governor urging him to give his nod to the Bill, Mr. Purohit said he was already seized of the matter and was getting it examined from all angles. The Bill seeks to give horizontal reservation for those who have studied in government schools, from Classes 6 to 12, and have qualified in NEET, in medical admissions. “The same has also been informed to the delegation of Ministers who had called on me recently,” the Governor said in his letter, which was circulated to the media. The Governor’s reply came on a day when Mr. Stalin announced a demonstration in front of the Raj Bhavan, on Saturday, to urge Mr. Purohit to give his assent to the legislation, immediately. Mr. Stalin had earlier said that the Governor did not understand the urgency, and his delay in granting assent had posed a challenge to the “honour” of the Legislative Assembly. “The delay has created a situation where government school students cannot enter medical colleges. The Governor and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami are not able to raise their voice because of the pressure from the BJP government at the Centre,” the DMK leader said. Soon after Mr. Purohit wrote to him, Mr. Stalin accused the State government of suppressing from the people the fact that the Governor had already briefed the Ministerial delegation about the time he required to study the Bill. “There is a rumour that the Governor had demanded the implementation of 10% reservation for economically weaker sections, among the forward communities, as a quid pro quo, to give assent to the Bill. The Ministers should explain whether such a demand was made by the Governor,” the Leader of Opposition said.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel awards compensation to woman denied info under RTI Act||The Tamil Nadu Information Commission has awarded a compensation of Rs. 10,000 to a woman whose petition under the Right to Information Act seeking her husband’s pay particulars was rejected as “third party” information. The case relates to the petition filed by A.V. Sukanya of Madurai who sought pay details of her husband, a Professor in the Alagappa University, Karaikudi. The information was required to support her alimony claim in court. However, the varsity’s Public Information Officer rejected her petition stating that it was “third party” information. Aggrieved over the response of the PIO and the First Appellate Authority, the petitioner moved the TNIC. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, State Information Commissioner S. Muthuraj heard both parties over the phone. Passing orders in the case, he held that the PIO had deliberately denied information to the petitioner. Knowing well that the details called for by the woman were required to get legal remedy for herself and her son, the public authority refused to part with the same. Directing Alagappa University authorities to pay Rs. 10,000 as compensation to the woman, Mr. Muthuraj reminded the public authority the order of the Madras High Court asking the Chief Secretary to issue a circular to all Departments, Public Sector Undertakings, and Corporations warning them of the legal consequences of not furnishing information under the RTI Act, 2005. He also directed the PIO to provide the three month’s pay slips of the employee, legal heir particulars as entered in the Service Report and other data sought by the petitioner. The Deputy Registrar was told to send an action taken report at the earliest.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Farmers in the Nilgiris move HC for settling loans||A public interest litigation petition has been filed in the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the State government to issue necessary orders to all nationalised banks to come up with a one-time settlement scheme for the benefit of farmers who had taken loans between 2006 and 2008 for shifting from tea to flower cultivation but ended up suffering huge losses. The petition filed by the Nilgiris District Floriculture Small Farmers Association was listed for admission before a vacation bench of Justices V. Parthiban and G.R. Swaminathan on Thursday. The judges directed the Registry to list it before a regular Division Bench led by Justice M. Sathyanarayanan on October 28 when the court would reopen after the Dussehra holidays. In an affidavit, filed through advocate Srinath Sridevan, association president N. Vishwanathan said the Nilgiris tea market was once the second largest in the country. Tea was cultivated on 45,974 hectares which amounted to 70% of cultivable land in the district. A vast majority of the cultivation was done by small farmers who owned less than one acre of land each. Around 65,000 families were dependent on tea cultivation for their livelihood. However, in 2003, there was a great recession in the global market. Hence, the government encouraged farmers to take up cultivation of exotic flowers and provided all necessary support including subsidies. Accordingly, several farmers availed themselves of a huge amount of loans for the transformation. However, they could not succeed in cultivating the flowers due to multiple reasons including the July 2008 squalls that destroyed the green houses constructed at huge costs. Since then, the farmers had been indulging in various forms of protest urging the government to come to their rescue and prevent the banks from taking coercive steps to recover the loans. In 2015, the association filed a writ petition seeking a direction to the government to frame a debt alleviation scheme. On July 22, 2016, the then Chief Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Justice R. Mahadevan directed the government to examine the plea. Accordingly, the Collector constituted a committee comprising government officials and farmers to assess the losses. On the basis of the committee’s report, the Collector on August 17, 2018 recommended the implementation of a one-time settlement scheme by which the farmers could be asked to repay only 50% of the principal amount after waiving off interest and penal interest. Though many banks implemented the recommendation without waiting for the government’s nod, a couple of them had not done so, the association complained.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Serosurvey finds that 32.3% residents in city have developed SARS-CoV-2 antibodies||The second serological survey in the city has found that one-third of the population has been exposed to the SARS-CoV-2 infection and has developed antibodies. According to the Greater Chennai Corporation, of the 6,389 samples tested, 2,062 were positive for the presence of IgG antibodies, recording an overall positivity of 32.3%. In fact, the first serological survey, the results of which were released in early September, found that one-fifth of the population in the city was exposed to the infection.  Meanwhile, the Directorate of Public Health (DPH) and Preventive Medicine has launched a State-wide serosurvey with a sample size of 26,640. According to a press release, the population-based serosurvey had been taken up across cities and villages in the State. A total of 888 clusters have been identified for the survey. In each cluster, the survey would cover 30 houses, collecting details and blood samples from 26,640 persons in total. It would screen the samples for the presence of antibodies against COVID-19. District-wise enumeration An official said the sample size was determined based on the population of the district. These samples would be tested in the State Public Health Laboratory in Chennai and other public health laboratories in Coimbatore, Salem, Tiruchi, Madurai and Tirunelveli. For this, high-end laboratory equipment worth Rs. 4 crore would be put to use. Chemiluminescent immunoassay technique would be used for the test. Public health teams were formed and trained to identify persons and take up testing in every district. The process would be completed by the second week of November. The survey was jointly taken up with IDFC, Mumbai, through a memorandum of understanding. At the end of the survey, the average number of persons affected by COVID-19 in the State would be enumerated at the level of each district. The findings of the survey would help the State government and the Health Department in coming up with policies, the release said.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TET certificate validity extension should be given to all, says teachers’ association||Teachers’ associations have welcomed the decision by the National Council for Teacher Education (NCTE) to grant lifetime validity to the Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) certificate in future. But they have appealed for extending the benefit to teachers who have already cleared the test. The NCTE approved the extension of the validity at its general body meeting held in September and said the provision to extend the validity from seven years to a lifetime would have “prospective effect”. “For those who have already passed out and already have the certificates, the NCTE would take legal opinion and act accordingly,” it said. The Tamil Nadu Teacher Association has said the decision will benefit teachers. But it has called for steps to extend this provision to teachers who have already got through the test. Livelihood issues “Teachers are losing their livelihood owing to lack of work and the certificates expiring after seven years will cause them more worries. We urge the NCTE to consider the plight of teachers who already have the certificates and extend their validity,” said P.K. Ilamaran, president, Tamil Nadu Teacher Association. In 2013, over 70,000 teachers passed the TNTET and several thousands are yet to land jobs. “Keeping this in mind, we are appealing to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister to extend the validity of the certificates of all these teachers,” said M. Elangovan, coordinator, 2013 TNTET Qualified Teachers Welfare Association. In 2018, the Tamil Nadu government announced that apart from the TNTET, teachers would have to qualify in a competitive exam. “Instead of going in for this additional exam, we want hiring to be done on the basis of TET seniority — for instance, teachers who cleared the TET back in 2013 and are still without jobs can be given preference...,” Mr. Elangovan said. In a circular, the Tamil Nadu Teachers Education University informed its affiliated colleges of the NCTE’s decision to extend the validity of the TET certificate. Registrar V. Balakrishnan asked the colleges to encourage students pursuing B.Ed and M.Ed to take up the TET.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two suspects held in theft of lingams||The Idol Wing-CID on Thursday arrested two persons, suspected to have stolen lingams from a mutt in Varanasi and tried to sell them for crores of rupees. The arrested were identified as S. Sivasankaran, 35, of Othakadai, and B. Rajesh Kannan, 38, of Thiruvathavur in Madurai. They tried to sell the lingams as precious antique items in the State. They were arrested after the investigation was reopened into the seizure of an emerald lingam, from four persons who had met with an accident at Viralimalai in Pudukkottai district, three years ago. In October 2017, the police recovered an emerald lingam from a sport utility vehicle (SUV) that collided with a bus at Viralimalai. Four persons travelling in the SUV were injured. People surrounded the vehicle and retrieved the lingam, weighing 8 kg, kept hidden in a bag. The investigation revealed that the four had gone to Nagercoil to sell it off to a buyer. As they failed to sell it, they were returning to Chennai with the lingam. The charge sheet was filed in a trial court and the investigation was reopened by the Idol Wing in Tiruchi on instructions from senior officers of the special wing after an application was filed in the jurisdictional court. A special team investigated the case and arrested Sivasankaran and Rajesh Kannan. “Sivasankaran was staying in a mutt in Varanasi and had stolen three lingams from a swami. He ran a temple at a place near Othakadai and cheated devotees. He attempted to sell the two other lingams for crores of rupees,” an officer said. The police recovered one white marble lingam, weighing 16.450 kg,hidden in an ashram at Renigunta, Andhra Pradesh. The two suspects with the seized articles were produced at the Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate Court at Kumbakonam. Police officers are not sure about the value of the lingams.  In October 2017, the police had recovered an emerald lingam from a sport utility vehicle (SUV) that collided with a bus at Viralimalai
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Empowering girls in Koovathur hamlet through kabaddi||G. Satish Kumar, a 32-year-old PT master at Swami Dayananda Matriculation School, has been providing kabaddi coaching for the girls in Koovathur fishing hamlet for the past three years. His aim: to secure a good future for them. Though the coaching is free, he is forced to seek donations from others to provide jerseys and shoes for the team members. Now the district police have come forward to help his team. “Most of the families here are poor and some of them get their girl children married at an early age due to poverty. I wanted to stop this. Hence I went and spoke to the parents and convinced them that the sport can fetch their children collegiate education and a good job. Many of them agreed and started sending their children for coaching despite their hardship,” he said. He formed a sports club and is now coaching 15 girls who are studying in Class VII. “It takes three years to develop a good team. They have won district and divisional tournaments and took part in State-level school kabaddi events. But the team does not have proper jerseys or shoes and I struggle to take them for tournaments in other districts. Being poor, most of the children are are not able to fend even for their travel expenses,” he added. The team is supposed to participate in a tournament in Tiruvannamalai on Friday and when Mr. Kumar was wondering how to travel to the district with his team mates, help arrived from the police. “I heard about the team and I requested a NGO called Directions Charitable Trust to sponsor them. We will try to help them in whichever way possible. Involving the girls in sports and making them excel in it will help prevent child marriages too. We will organise other skill development programmes,” said E Sundaravathanan, ASP, Mamallapuram sub-division. Arjunan Isaiarasu from Directions Charitable Trust said his organisation was happy to help the team. “We will continue to support them,” he said. M. Nathiya, mother ōf M. Narmada who is part of the Kabaddi team, said she wanted her daughter to excel in sports and get a good job. “Seeing her, other residents in our hamlet are inspired and send their daughters for coaching. We will not get her married at a young age, we want her to pursue higher studies. All this is happening due to the efforts of this kabaddi coach,” she said.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With 3,077 new cases, tally surpasses 7 lakh||Tamil Nadu’s tally breached the seven lakh-mark on Thursday, as 3,077 more persons tested positive for COVID-19 . The State added one lakh cases in the last 21 days. It was on October 1 that its tally surpassed the six-lakh mark. With the new cases, the State now accounts for a total of 7,00,193 infections. As many as 4,314 persons, including 1,077 in Chennai, were discharged on Thursday. This took the total number of persons discharged so far to 6,55,170. Another 45 persons — 25 in government hospitals and 20 in private facilities — succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 10,825. This included 13 deaths in Chennai, five in Salem and four each in Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur. A majority of them — 17 persons — were in their 60s. Two of the deceased, who were in their 50s, did not have co-morbidities. Chennai accounted for 833 fresh cases, followed by Coimbatore with 285. There were 193 cases in Chengalpattu and 170 in Tiruvallur. A total of 155 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tiruppur, while Salem saw 140 cases. Kancheepuram had 99 cases. A total of 31 districts reported less than 100 cases. Tenkasi had the least number of cases, at five. As of date, the number of active cases in the State stands at 34,198. A total of 81,259 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 92,75,108. Three more private laboratories — the Molecular Lab, Karpagam Hospital in Coimbatore; the Macro Diagnostic Lab in R.A. Puram, Chennai and the Muthamil Hospital Molecular Lab in Tirunelveli — were approved for COVID-19 testing. There are now 197 testing facilities in the State.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ramadoss hits out at govt. for not fulfilling people’s demands||In a sharp attack on the State government on Thursday, S. Ramadoss, founder of PMK, a key ally of the ruling AIADMK, accused it of not heeding to people’s demands. On the other hand, he praised Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy, saying the latter was fulfilling all his promises and was also going beyond them, delivering welfare measures to the people. While commending Mr. Reddy in a tweet, the PMK leader, who aligned with the AIADMK ahead of last year’s Lok Sabha polls, criticised the Tamil Nadu government. He said those ruling the State now were refusing to say anything about fulfilling the requests of the people, and even if this was pointed out to them, they were not bothered by it and were not fulfilling their needs. However, he did not specify which demands of the people were not being fulfilled by the government. Earlier in the day, Dr. Ramadoss urged the Vanniyar community to get ready for a massive protest, demanding separate reservation. In a social media post, he pointed out that the demand for 20% reservation for the community was a long-pending demand, for over 40 years, and a lot of protests and sacrifices had already been made. However, Dr. Ramadoss said those who ruled the State in the past, and the current government, had not fulfilled the demand. “Time has come again to fight for our rights and this protest will be a historic one. It will make the government request us to stop the protest and accede to our demand,” he said.  ‘Posturing by PMK’ The ruling AIADMK, however, felt that Dr. Ramadoss was resorting to posturing, ahead of the 2021 Assembly elections, by attacking the State government. A senior AIADMK Minister, preferring anonymity, said the PMK founder’s posturing was to improve the bargaining power of his party during the run-up to the elections. However, PMK sources said that Dr. Ramadoss was upset because the government had not implemented a separate reservation for the Vanniyar community. Asked if his tweet would not cause a strain in the relationship between the PMK and the AIADMK, sources said that Dr. Ramadoss was ready for any consequences.  Time has come again to fight for our rights and this protest will be a historic one. It will make the government accede to our demand
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||As normal services resume, hospitals take steps to manage patient inflow||Post-lockdown, outpatient services and elective surgeries have resumed in many government hospitals, resulting in an increase in the inflow of people. Handling both COVID-19 and usual patients simultaneously has led to hospitals taking additional measures to manage crowds and ensure adherence to precautionary norms. With the lifting of lockdown restrictions, the number of outpatients visiting government hospitals is on the rise. While the Rajiv Gandhi Government Government General Hospital (RGGGH) is now receiving 7,000 to 8,000 outpatients a day, the outpatient census at the Government Stanley Medical College (SMC) Hospital is 4,000, and around 2,500 to 3,000 at the Government Kilpauk Medical College (KMC) Hospital. “We have started regular surgeries, and our departments are functioning in full swing. The departments have been split into two, one involved in treating COVID-19 patients and the other for normal patients,” P. Balaji, SMC dean, said. He added that they were making arrangements to create additional entry and exit points to manage the crowd flow into the trauma block. At RGGGH, where elective surgeries have resumed after the lockdown, seating arrangements with appropriate spacing have been put in place for patients and their attendants. Dean E. Theranirajan said stickers had been pasted on alternate seats to ensure adequate spacing and sufficient number of doctors had been posted in outpatient departments. “We have issued passes for in-patient attendants,” he said. Doctors are insisting that people should wear masks and maintain physical distancing. At KMC, authorities said measures had been taken to ensure that adequate spacing was maintained in the general outpatient departments. The hospital has been performing surgeries with departments such as obstetrics and gynaecology, trauma, burns, paediatrics and orthopaedics functioning as usual even during the lockdown. “We still have 10 persons coming to the hospital for one patient. People should avoid unnecessary visits. We have to ensure that there is no overcrowding to prevent transmission of COVID-19,” a senior doctor in a maternity hospital said.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tutorials on K-Pop to be released||The Consulate General of Republic of Korea in Chennai has announced that as a part of their 4th Korean Cultural Week celebrations, online tutorials on K-Pop singing and dancing will be released starting from Friday. For this initiative, the Dream K-Pop Girls, a team of five college girls, will be sharing their self-made video tutorial classes on social media. They will talk about their journey with K-Pop and interest in Korean culture, and introduce their own techniques for singing and dancing as seen in K-Pop songs. Through this, they aim to get more people interested in expressing their talents and creativity through K-Pop. The members of Dream K-pop Girls had earlier emerged successful in a series of K-pop contests conducted across the country. They are Rhea Rajkumar, a third year MBBS student at Madras Medical College; R. Sruthi, a postgraduate in Business Economics; Subiksha Priyal, a first year fashion designing student; Sindhoo Dhana, a software engineer; and Jeson Dagam, a third year medical student. In a press release, the consulate said that this initiative was considered to be the first attempt to ‘Indianise’ K-Pop song and dance by the young generation of India. Hong-yup Lee, Deputy Consul General, said they were proud to introduce this Korean cultural week event with Indian youngsters. The video tutorials can be found on Instagram on the handle @dream___kpop and on YouTube at the Dream Kpop 2020 channel. Persons who share these videos or add comments stand a chance to win prizes. Screenshots of these can be sent to K_culture.chennai@yahoo.com.  This initiative is considered to be the first attempt to ‘Indianise’ K-Pop song and dance by the young generation of India
23 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||High Court refuses to entertain appeal against woman’s acquittal||The Madras High Court has refused to entertain an appeal against the acquittal of a woman from the charge of bigamy. She had been accused of marrying for the second time a month after obtaining an ex-parte divorce decree which got set aside four months thereafter. Though her first husband had accused the woman of having chosen to go for second marriage after a sub court had ordered notice to her on his plea to set aside the ex-parte divorce decree, Justice P.N. Prakash refused to grant leave to file an appeal against the acquittal. The judge pointed out that even according to the appellant (the first husband who had lodged the complaint of bigamy), his wife had filed a divorce petition in 2011, obtained an ex-parte decree on February 19, 2015 and got married to another person on March 22, 2015. Pointing out that the second marriage had reportedly taken place only after the dissolution of the first marriage, the judge said the contention that the ex-parte divorce decree was set aside by the same Sub Court in Arani on July 10, 2015 was “a different matter”. He also went on to state that for the offence of bigamy, it was essential for the complainant to prove that the accused had underwent religious matrimonial ceremonies required to complete the marriage. Such proof was miserably absent in the present case, he added. The judge held that a Judicial Magistrate in Ranipet had rightly acquitted the woman, her second husband and parents from Sections 494 (marrying during lifetime of husband or wife) read with Section 109 (abetment) of Indian Penal Code on July 17 this year. “This court does not find any perversity or illegality in the order passed by the trial court warranting interference,” Justice Prakash observed. In his verdict, the Judicial Magistrate E. Deiveegan had refused to punish the accused solely on the basis of a marriage registration certificate produced by the complainant to claim that his wife had got married to another person. The magistrate had said that even an admission by the accused that she married another person during the lifetime of her first husband could not be a valid evidence to prove such a marriage. The onus was only upon the complainant to prove the fact through sufficient evidence. It was essential to prove through credible eye-witnesses or documentary evidence that the accused, professing Hinduism, had got married by performing rituals such as ‘Saptapadi’ and ‘Homam’ or through ‘Suyamariyadhai’ or ‘Sirthirutha’ mode, he had said.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Illegal mobile phone re-sale network busted||The police busted a criminal network which was dealing in stolen mobile phones at a subway near Beach railway station in the early hours of Thursday. Nine suspects were nabbed by a special team led by Joint Commissioner of Police, North, V. Balakrishnan. The special team began investigations following a tip-off on the registration number of a suspicious two-wheeler in Tondiarpet. The team shadowed the suspect and were led to a gang that gathered at the subway near Burma Bazaar. A police officer said, “The criminals stole mobile phones from people who were walking during the night. Between 5 a.m.-7a.m., the illegal market was functioning. The brokers, who also assembled in the subway, bought handsets from the snatchers for prices ranging from Rs. 1,000 to Rs. 2,000 each. Later, they sold the hardware to shopkeepers in Burma Bazaar and other grey markets.” IMEI number changed “The sellers formatted the gadgets and put them in new packaging. The network then sent the packaged phones to other States, mostly Kerala and Bihar. They even changed the IMEI numbers using a software so that police would not be able to trace the gadgets,” said the officer. The suspects have been identified as R. Marudhupandian, 49, of Tondiarpet; S. Chandru, 34, of Vyasarpadi; S. Pugazhendhi, 27, of Manali; S. Anthonysamy, 48, of Mannady; N. Balamurugan, 40, of M.K.B. Nagar; and four others. Over 50 mobile phones worth Rs. 6 lakh were recovered from them. They were remanded in judicial custody. The police also appealed to the public not to fall prey for cheaper mobile phones and advised them not to buy any hardware without receipts.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Soorarai Pottru release put off||The release of actor Suriya’s Soorarai Pottru on Amazon Prime Video, slated for October 30, has been put off. The film’s scheduled release had generated considerable buzz since it was one of the first big Tamil films to see a direct release on an OTT platform. In a statement on Thursday, the actor said, “ Soorarai Pottru is a film very close to our hearts and we feel very passionately for this compelling and inspiring story. Unfortunately, the wait for the film’s release will now be a little longer than anticipated.” The actor said that since the film focused on the aviation industry, they had to deal with multiple permissions and norms owing to the fact that they were dealing with the real Indian Air Force aircraft and security. “A few NOCs are still pending for approval and we understand that the wait is inevitable as this adverse time is demanding more focus on the nation and its priorities than anything else.”  Soorarai Pottru , directed by Sudha Kongara, is said to be based on the life of G.R. Gopinath, the founder of Air Deccan. Along with his statement, the actor took to his social media pages and shared another song from Soorarai Pottru .
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||List of Assembly seats in new districts released||The Election Commission (EC) has released the list of Assembly constituencies that will come under the newly created districts in Tamil Nadu. According to a release from Chief Electoral Officer Satyabrata Sahoo, Kancheepuram district will now have the Alandur, Sriperumpudur (SC), Uthiramerur and Kancheepuram constituencies. The newly created Chengalpattu district will cover the Sholinganallur, Pallavaram, Tambaram, Chengalpattu, Tiruporur, Cheyyur (SC) and Madurantakam (SC) constituencies. Trifurcated Vellore After trifurcation, Vellore district will have Katpadi, Vellore, Anaikattu, Kilvaithinankuppam (SC) and Gudiyatham (SC). Ranipet district will cover Arakkonam (SC), Sholingar, Ranipet and Arcot. The newly created Tirupathur district will have the Vaniyambadi, Ambur, Jolarpet and Tirupathur constituencies. Villupuram district will have the Gingee, Mailam, Tindivanam, Vanur, Villupuram, Vikravandi, and Tirukoilur constituencies, while the newly created Kallakurichi district will cover the Ulundurpettai, Rishivandiyam, Sankarapuram, and Kallakurichi (SC) constituencies. Tirunelveli district will cover Tirunelveli, Ambasamudram, Palayamkottai, Nanguneri and Radhapuram. The newly created Tenkasi district will have Sankarankovil (SC), Vasudevanallur (SC), Kadayanallur, Tenkasi and Alangulam.  After trifurcation, Vellore district will have Katpadi, Vellore, Anaikattu, Kilvaithinankuppam (SC) and Gudiyatham (SC). Ranipet district will cover Arakkonam (SC), Sholingar, Ranipet and Arcot
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Madhavaram market to work till afternoon for festive sales||Following a demand from fruit merchants, the Madhavaram temporary market will remain open till afternoon due to the festive season. This was decided at a meeting held in the market on Thursday. Wholesale merchants said the market would allow up to 250 vehicles daily as festive days are near. S. Srinivasan, president, Chennai Fruits Commission Agents’ Association, said, “We are now open till 9 a.m. But we requested an extension as more trucks will arrive to meet the increasing demand due to the festivals.” The Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority has now extended business hours till 2 p.m. till Sunday, he said.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Withdraw T.N. Governor’||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder and MP Thol. Thirumavalavan has written to President Ram Nath Kovind seeking the withdrawal of Tamil Nadu Governor Bunwarilal Purohit. The letter, dated October 21, cited the Governor’s inordinate delay in giving assent to the legislation brought in by the State government for providing horizontal reservation of 7.5% to government school students in medical courses, which has been unanimously passed in the Assembly. Mr. Thirumavalavan pointed out that the Governor was violating his obligations, and this created hindrance to the State government. Mr. Thirumavalavan said that the indifferent attitude of the Governor had jeopardised the entire medical admission process.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 1.23 crore in unaccounted cash seized||The police seized around Rs. 1.23 crore unaccounted cash and close to 9 kg of silver articles from a car coming from Telangana at the Integrated Check Post at Elavoor near Gummidipoondi on Thursday evening. The police intercepted a car in which four persons — Ashok, of Madhavaram; Sathish Kumar; Rahman; and Ansar, of Telangana, were travelling and found Rs. 1.23 crore cash and silver articles. Since they did not have any supporting documents to explain the source of the money, the cash was seized.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Withdraw 10% EWS quota: Anbumani||PMK MP and youth-wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss on Thursday urged the Centre to immediately withdraw the 10% quota for economically weaker sections (EWS), among the open-competition category, contending that it was making way for social injustice. In a statement, he said that in the recently released SBI clerk preliminary exam results, the cut-off for the OBC/SC/ST category was 59.50%, while for the EWS, it was only 57.75%. Opportunities meant for SC/ST and OBC candidates were going to EWS candidates, and this was dangerous and against the principle of social justice, Mr. Anbumani said.  In a separate statement, Dravidar Kazhagam president K. Veeramani, pointing out the social injustice in the SBI clerk preliminary exam results, said the EWS quota was brought in for the welfare of the upper castes.
23 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami’s statement unpalatable, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday said it was unpalatable that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had sought to portray himself as a munificent lord by announcing that his government would offer free vaccination for COVID-19 (as and when it became available). “While he is not able to provide any support to the people who have lost their livelihood [due to the pandemic], he seeks to promote himself as a munificent lord. It is unpalatable,” he posted on his Facebook page. Mr. Stalin said it was the duty of a government to vaccinate the people, for free, during a pandemic, but the Chief Minister spoke as if he was doing a favour.  “Mr. Palaniswami has made the announcement as if free vaccination will be a great achievement,” he said.
23 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Efforts on to keep COVID-19 at bay in Coimbatore Central Prison||Tamil Nadu Prison Department is continuing vigorous efforts including quarantining of new prisoners to prevent the spread of COVID-19 in Coimbatore Central Prison. G. Shanmuga Sundaram, Deputy Inspector General of police, Prisons, (Coimbatore range), told The Hindu on Thursday that new remand and convict prisoners were admitted to Coimbatore Central Prison by following various safety measures. “New prisoners are lodged in separate facilities in sub-jails for 14 days before shifting them to the Central Prison. They will be quarantined in a separate facility in the Prison for another 14 days before shifting to main blocks,” he said. Prison authorities check whether a new remand prisoner was subjected to COVID-19 test during the medical examination conducted by the police as part of the remand procedure. The test results come while they undergo the quarantine in sub-jails. Remand prisoners, who are not subjected to COVID-19 test, are quarantined separately in sub-jails. “Majority of the remand prisoners are brought to sub-jails after undergoing the test,” said Mr. Shanmuga Sundaram. The same procedure is followed for new convicts, convicts who return to prison after parole and for those who are detained under the Goondas Act and the National Security Act. Similarly, prison staff who return for duty after a leave also get themselves tested for COVID-19. “The staff sensitise inmates to follow safety guidelines such as wearing mask, frequent hand washing, physical distancing and personal hygiene,” the official added. Mr. Shanmuga Sundaram on Thursday flagged off a COVID-19 awareness rally organised by the staff of the Central Prison under the leadership of Superintendent of prison R. Krishnaraj. Prison staff also distributed masks, sanitisers and pamphlets on COVID-19 to people on Dr. Nanjappa Road.
23 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Three detained in lathe owner’s murder||Peelamedu police on Thursday detained three persons in connection with the murder of a lathe owner at Thottipalayam Pirivu in Coimbatore on Wednesday. The police said the deceased, S. Soundar (23) of Boopathi Street, suffered a stab while trying to prevent an attack on his friend N. Elangovan (27). One of the accused, Michael Antony (24), a resident of Cheran Ma Nagar and an autorickshaw driver, had borrowed Rs. 38,100 from Mr. Elangovan’s mother N. Bagyalakshmi (46) when he was a tenant in her house at Rajiv Gandhi Nagar at Thottipalayam Pirivu. Michael vacated the house after Ms. Bagyalakshmi insisted on it because he was being a nuisance. The police said the woman asked Michael to return the remaining portion of the borrowed money and this led to a dispute between him and Mr. Elangovan. Michael came to Ms. Bagyalakshmi’s house along with his friends on Wednesday and picked up a quarrel with Mr. Elangovan. Soundar and Mr. Elangovan’s friends R. Arun (28) and S. Kribakaran (19) were present. According to the police, Ragini (32), a transgender who came with Michael, assaulted Mr. Elangovan with a wooden log. As Soundar, Mr. Arun and Mr. Kribakaran tried to block Ragini, Michael stabbed Soundar with a knife, and escaped with the others who had come with him. The police said that Michael, Ragini and another transgender named Venba (23) were detained on Thursday.
23 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Hanuman Sena functionary arrested||The Bazaar Street police on Thursday arrested a functionary of Hanuman Sena in connection with a dispute between two groups with regard to their attempts to reoccupy the Then Vadal Street next to T.K. Market where the Coimbatore Corporation had cleared the encroachments by vegetable vendors. S. Prabhu (39) of Uppara Street, district secretary of Hanuman Sena, was arrested, said the police. Two groups had attempted to encroach upon the street for vegetable sales in view of the festival season. In June, the civic body had removed encroachments by 85 vegetable vendors based on a court order.  Woman dies of burn A 24-year-old woman from Jharkhand, who allegedly attempted to end her life by immolating herself, succumbed to burns at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Wednesday. The deceased has been identified as S. Harishma who was working in a tea estate at Sirukundra near Valparai. The police said the woman took the extreme step on Tuesday, allegedly over a dispute she had with her husband. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
23 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Transgender’s body salted to delay decomposing’||Police teams investigating the murder of transgender entrepreneur M. Sangeetha suspect that her body was sprinkled with crystal salt, after being stuffed in a plastic barrel, in an attempt to delay decomposing and foul smell. Several packets of salt was found sprinkled on the body when it was taken out of the drum by the police at her residence on N.S.R. Road in Saibaba Colony on Wednesday morning. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) G. Stalin said that this was the first murder case he came across in Coimbatore wherein the dead body was found salted. “The salt could have been used to delay the decomposing”, he said. The police said several packets of salt could have been available at Sangeetha’s residence as she was into catering business. She also headed the operation of an eatery named Covai Trans Kitchen on East Venketaswamy Road at R.S. Puram, which was fully run by transgenders. The suspects being questioned included those who worked with her.
23 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Headmistress placed under suspension||The Department of School Education on Thursday placed the headmistress of a panchayat union primary school near Pollachi under suspension following her arrest in connection with the sexual assault of a girl student. Ayyammal (55), who had been the headmistress of the school for 13 years, would remain suspended till further notice, officials said. Her husband Thangavelu (56) allegedly sexually assaulted the girl in an isolated place on the school premises in March and the headmistress allegedly threatened the victim not to disclose the incident to anyone, according to the police. The Pollachi All Women Police arrested the couple on Wednesday under Sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.
23 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Session on communication skills||The Coimbatore Speakers Forum will conduct an online meeting every Friday to help people improve their communication skills. On Friday, keynote speaker Sandeep Ramalingam would speak on ‘Viral Inhibition by Sodium Chloride’, a release said. Interested may join the online meeting using Zoom videoconferencing platform at 6.29 p.m. with Zoom ID 85961151266 and password csf228.
23 October 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Varsity releases rank list for agriculture courses||Annamalai University has released the rank list for B.Sc Agriculture, B.Sc Agriculture (Self-financing), and B.Sc Horticulture admissions. The university had invited online applications for admission to the courses from July 20 to August 18. Vice-Chancellor Prof. V. Murugesan on Wednesday night released the rank list for B.Sc Agriculture, B.Sc Horticulture in the presence of Registrar R. Gnanadevan, Controller of Examinations and various heads of departments. Total applicants A total of 8,654 applications were received for B.Sc Agriculture, 2,815 for B.Sc Agriculture (Self-financing) and 1,669 for B.Sc Horticulture courses. Among the received applications, 308 were rejected for B.Sc Agriculture, 88 for B.Sc Agriculture (Self-financing) and 41 for B.Sc Horticulture. The online counselling for all courses will be held from October 27 to 30 and the counselling schedule will be published in the university website www.annamalai university.ac.in No separate individual call letter will be sent to the candidates. Admission will be based only on the basis of merit by following the rules of reservation of the Government of Tamil Nadu. The merit list will be drawn based on the marks obtained by the candidates in relevant subjects in HSC or equivalent examinations.
23 October 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Hogenakkal opened to tourists||Hogenakkal is opened up for tourists albeit with COVID preventive restrictions after seven months here on Thursday. Collector S.Malarvizhi upon inspecting Hogenakkal and reviewing the protocols announced the opening up of the tourist destination, as long as the water inflow was under 20,000 cusecs. The district administration’s arrangement allows bathing, massages, fish meals, coracle rides albeit with restrictions. Addressing the media after reviewing the arrangements in Hogenakkal, Ms.Malarvizhi said, tourists will be allowed up to Kothikalparai Coracles can operate from Kothikalparai, and go upto Manalmedu for a view of the waterfalls, she said. The Collector also said that four medical teams will be set up in Hogenakkal for thermal scanning and screening of COVID like symptoms. Tourists will be allowed only after wearing masks and observe other protocols of sanitising and physical distancing. The permissions will, however, be reviewed on a daily basis depending on the water inflow. Coracle rides will be allowed with 3 plus 1 persons, including the coracle operator as opposed to the 6 members allowed before COVID. Hogenakkal was opened from 3 p.m. on Thursday, after week long review of the arrangements, the Collector said.
23 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Karungalpalayam weekly shandy witnesses brisk sales||With return of buyers from other States, the weekly cattle shandy at Karungalpalayam witnessed an increase in transactions as 75% of the cattle brought to the shandy were sold out here on Thursday. Farmers from various districts bring their cattle to the market that is held on Thursdays. Traders from Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and a few other States purchase cattle and transport it to their native. Due to COVID-19, the shandy remained closed for over six months and was reopened last month. However, due to the pandemic, arrival of cattle was very low for the past three weeks. With normalcy returning, traders from other States arrived in large numbers on Thursday as the shandy witnessed brisk business transactions right from early morning. A total of 480 cattle arrived this week which is a sharp increase when compared to the past weeks. Earlier, fever tests were conducted for farmers and traders before they entered the shandy premises. Also, through the public address system, they were instructed to wear face masks and ensure personal distancing.
23 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Rampant enroachment of footpaths by vegetable sellers||People visiting the vegetable market at VOC Park Ground are facing hardship as traders had encroached on the footpath leaving little space for them to move inside the premises. Due to lockdown, shops that functioned at the Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market at Panneerselvam Park were moved on the Corporation’s central bus stand premises in March and later shops were constructed at the ground and relocated. Currently, over 700 shops are located on the premises where wholesale market functions from evening to next day morning and the retail market from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m. everyday. During the rainy season, the pathways turn slushy and hence the civic body had two weeks ago tar-topped the premises. But, shopkeepers started encroaching the space on both sides of the pathway by placing vegetables and boxes on it. “Walking in the little available space with a bag is very difficult”, said Amudha of Kollampalayam. She said that competition is prevailing among the shopkeepers in encroaching the available space which is a major cause of concern for the visitors. Though shopkeepers were allowed to sell vegetables only at the allotted shop, they encroach the pathways regularly. Traders said that only by encroaching the pathway, they can give proper display of vegetables which is also preferred by the people. They also said that since their shops are smaller in size, they were forced to place vegetables on the footpath.
23 October 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Festival season pushes up prices of fruits, flowers in Erode||With a few days left for Saraswati and Ayudha pujas, wholesale and retail markets are bustling as people started to purchase essential items like flowers, fruits, pumpkin and puffed rice here on Thursday. Commercial and business establishments are on the path of recovery after the lockdown as Saraswati and Ayudha pujas were the major festivals to be celebrated during the pandemic. With two days left for the celebrations, sale of puja items had picked up at the wholesale and retail markets in the city. Sale of puffed rice, fruits and puja items have begun while sale of flowers, sugarcane, flowers, mango leaves, banana plants are expected to be at its peak on Friday and Saturday. “The prices of most of the puja items had gone up significantly”, said K. Sumathi of Chinnamuthu Street. She said that apple is sold at Rs. 180 a kg while pomegranate is sold at over Rs. 140 a kg. While ash gourd is sold for Rs. 20 to Rs. 25 a kg, price of flowers has increased by over 30% to 40% in the past few days and will see further increase in the next three days. “Only during puja festival, the price of flowers and fruits touch its peak as they demand is very high”, said Kannan, a wholesaler. He said that prices of coconut, fruits and flowers will be on the rise till puja is over as people will purchase the items despite high prices. “It is an auspicious occasion and people will not hesitate to spend it on goddess”, he added.
23 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Action sought against power looms dumping cotton waste on road||Residents and motorists at Veerappanchatram have urged the Corporation to take action against power looms that dump cotton waste on streets and roads. Thousands of power looms are functioning at Veerappanchatram, Periyavalasu, Periyasemoor and other areas and the cotton waste generated during production is sold by the loom owners. Cotton waste that cannot be sold or processed is dumped on the streets and roads by the owners and sometimes set on fire causing air pollution. Residents of Bharathidasan Street said the waste dumped on the streets consumed one-third of the road, leaving little space for vehicle movement. The residents said conservancy workers also refused to clear the dumped garbage.
23 October 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||CUB’s water conservation projects highlighted at webinar||Doing its part to promote Niti Aayog initiatives of the Central Government, Kumbakonam head-quartered City Union Bank (CUB) has implemented projects on conservation of soil and water in the town, creating a positive impact on the lives of people. Owing to the cleaning, desilting and deepening of Watesamangalam, Valampiran, Semmangulam, Kizhapattu, Edannavasal and Paruthikottai lakes undertaken in association with farmers association, water accruing from the bountiful rains could be stored and the surplus could be drained into Bamini river. Thereby, floods could be prevented and celebration of water festival was enabled, N. Kamakoti, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of CUB said, addressing students of Valluvar College of Science and Management, Karur, during a webinar conducted on Sunday, as part of a TEDx event. As a licence holder of TEDx events, the institution hosted a nine-day event inviting prominent speakers who had contributed for protection of nature. The programme focussing on climate change. Recharge of Seikulam, Banadurai, Cauvery Baghwat padithurai, Pidarikulam, Pachayappa tank, Biragithoppu tank and many other waterbodies had paved way for recharge of aquifer and improvement of soil quality and prevention of erosion, Mr. Kamakoti said, elaborating further on CUB's CSR (Corporate Social Resposibility) initiative. The positive effect of upkeep of the waterbodies was felt after the rainfall during November-December 2017. CUB had also contributed towards creation of percolation ponds, repair of check dams, bunds formation and cleaning up of the supply channels, earning appreciation from various stakeholders, Mr. Kamakoti said.
23 October 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Dewas-based gang involved in highway dacoity, say police||A day after the midnight dacoity on a highway in which smart phones worth several crores were taken away, police has zeroed in on the involvement of a gang from Dewas district of Madhya Pradesh. The dacoity was carried out by an Ankit Jhanjhar gang from that district, according to the police. Seven teams Seven teams have been formed under the supervision of Superintendent of Police Bandi Gangadar and headed by the Additional Superintendent of Police Shaktivel to crack the case. More details have emerged on the crime, the investigation of which until late Wednesday evening awaited a formal complaint from the consignor from Sriperampudur Industrial Estate. According to the FIR, the consignment consisting of 15 boxes of 928 mobiles, totalling 13,920 mobiles from Flextronics Technology India Private Limited, Kancheepuram was Maharashtra-bound to Xiaomi Technology India Private Limited. The consignment that was being transported in a DHL courier service-owned container truck was driven by Arun Kumar (34), with the assistance of a stand-by driver Satish Kumar (29). According to the police, around 3 a.m, over eight men in three lorries had intercepted the vehicle, beat up the drivers and took away the container truck at knife-point. Several hours later, the truck was found abandoned 10 km away from the crime scene, near Alagubavi off the Shoolagiri highway, where the gang had transferred the consignment to another vehicle. Inspector General of Police, West Zone, K. Periaiah inspected the spot. A forensics team also inspected the site of crime, and the vehicle.
23 October 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Dewas-based gang involved in highway dacoity of smart phone consignment: police||A day after the midnight dacoity on the highway in Krishnagiri that involved robbery of smart phone consignment running into several crores of rupees, police have zeroed in on the involvement of a gang from Dewas district of Madhya Pradesh. The dacoity was carried out by the Ankit Jhanjhar gang, according to the police. Seven police teams under the supervision of the Superintendent of Police Bandi Gangadar and headed by the Additional Superintendent of Police Shaktivel have been formed. More details have emerged on the crime, which until late Wednesday evening awaited a formal complaint from the consignor from Sriperampudur Industrial Estate. According to the FIR, the consignment consisting of 15 boxes of 928 mobiles each from Flextronics Technology India Private Limited, Kancheepuram, was bound for Maharashtra. The consignee was Xiaomi Technology India Private Limited. The goods that was being transported in a DHL courier service owned container truck driven by Arun Kumar, 34, with the assistance of a stand-by driver Satish Kumar,29. According to the police, at 3 a.m, over 8 men in 3 lorries had intercepted the vehicle, beat up the drivers and took away the container truck at knife-point. The truck was later found abandoned 10 km away on the highway near Alagubavi off the Shoolagiri highway, where the dacoits had transferred the consignment to another vehicle. The abandoned vehicle was spotted several hours later. Forensic team had inspected the site of crime, and the vehicle. FIR has been registered under Sections 395 and 397 of IPC. Earlier, Inspector General of Police, West Zone, K. Periaiah inspected the spot.
23 October 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco foreman held for graft||A foreman of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation office in Krishnagiri was arrested on graft charges on Thursday. The accused, Palanichamy, had allegedly demanded a bribe of Rs. 8,000 for providing a new household connection. The complainant, Dhanalaksmi of Bethapalli, alleged the money was demanded when she applied for the connection. A trap was laid and the foreman was arrested.
23 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Iranian onions arrive in city markets||Around 25 tonnes of onions, imported from Iran, arrived at the onion market on East Marret Street here a couple of days back to arrest the steep rise in price of onions. Traders say limited quantities of imported onions have arrived in Mattuthavani and Paravai markets. S.T.M. Thiagarajan, a trader in central vegetable market in Mattuthavani, said the imported onions were being sold for Rs. 15 to Rs. 20 lower than the price of Bellary onions brought from Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh - the major areas where onions are cultivated. “In the wholesale market, imported onions can be bought for Rs. 65 a kg. But Indian onions are sold up to Rs. 80, depending on the quality. These Iran onions were largely purchased by hoteliers as it is profitable for them, said S. Alagurajan, a trader on East Marret Street. “Since these imported onions are huge, many residents don’t evince much interest in buying for their domestic use,” he added. Mr. Thiagarajan said the traders were planning to bring in more quantities of the imported onions. Discussions were being held with other traders to stabilise the selling price of the imported onions. However, purchasing smaller quantities of Iranian onions will not have a huge impact in reducing the price of onions, said S. Manuel Jeyaraj, president of Madurai Central Vegetable Market and Perishable Commodities Merchants Co-ordinated Association. The traders attribute the rise in prices of onions to reduced supply from other States. “The city is receiving only 50% of onions that is usually bought by the traders. This is mainly due to heavy rains in Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, which destroyed the crop” said Mr. Jeyaraj. Till Deepavali The prices of onions would remain high till Deepavali, said president of Central Market Wholesale Vegetable Vendors Association P.S. Murugan. An Cooperation department official said onions would be sold for Rs. 45 a kg at farm fresh outlets in Madurai in two days. In the initial phase, we have placed an order for one tonne onions. We will increase the quantity of onions sold at the outlets based on demand from the public,” he said.
23 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai gets its first drive-in restaurant||Collector T.G. Vinay, on Thursday evening, inaugurated a drive-in restaurant on the premises of Hotel Tamil Nadu on Alagarkoil Road, a facility run by Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation. Now, Madurai residents can enjoy a peaceful evening in an open environment, said M. Guneswaran, Senior Manager of the hotel. “Participating in indoor events inside air-conditioned halls are not recommended in the wake of the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. So, the drive-in restaurant is a safe option for families to spend an enjoyable evening where all COVID-19 safety precautions are followed,” he said. People can drive their car to the lawn inside the hotel where the drive-in restaurant will function. “Families can place orders from the restaurant and the food will be delivered to their car. They can enjoy their meal inside their car while maintaining personal distancing with other customers,” said Mr. Guneswaran. The customers can also have food at tables that are located far away from each other. The drive-in restaurant will function on Friday, Saturday and Sunday evenings from 6.30 p.m. to 9.30 p.m. The restaurant would offer a variety of food options, appealing to all age groups, said Mr. Guneswaran. A large screen has been installed on the lawn where cricket matches and other important videos would be screened. Budding artistes would also perform in the evenings when the drive-in restaurant was open for business.
23 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||College starts new course||The American College has signed a memorandum of understanding with Logistics Sector Skill Council, a Central government body engaged in skill development, to introduce from this academic year an apprenticeship-embedded undergraduate programme - Bachelor in Management Studies (BMS) - with specialisation in maritime logistics. In a press release, Principal M. Davamani Christober said this programme could be termed as an apprenticeship-based BBA or B.Com. degree programme in logistics, operating from the satellite campus of the College at Chathirapatti. The core focus of the programme would be on development of skills, knowledge and attitude as per latest UGC guidelines. The programme was aimed at creating skilled human resources in the logistics sector. Students would attend two-year regular classes (concept-based learning) and a whole year in apprenticeship, with a monthly stipend of Rs. 9,000. Students who complete the first year would get a certificate, the second year with a diploma and the third year with a degree.
23 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Furnish scanned copy of answer sheet, says HC||Considering the plight of a Class XI student, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the Directorate of Government Examinations to see to it that a scanned copy of the economics answer sheet is furnished to him and the same is re-evaluated. The court was hearing the petition filed by G. Ramesh who sought a direction to the authorities concerned to furnish a copy of his son G.R. Balaji’s economics answer sheet and to re-evaluate the same. The grievance of the petitioner was that his son had secured 506 out of 600 marks in the Class XI examinations for the 2019-2020 academic year. However, he had only secured 55 out of 100 marks in economics. The petitioner said that his son was a bright student and had applied for a scan copy of the answer sheet through his school so that he could apply for revaluation. However, due to network connectivity issues, the school could not upload the application. During hearing, the State submitted that a G.O. had made it clear that the application for a scanned copy of the answer sheet should be uploaded within a prescribed time, otherwise the request will not be entertained. Taking into account the good marks secured by the student in other subjects, Justice S. Vaidyanathan directed the Directorate of Government Examinations to furnish scanned copy of the economics answer sheet within 10 days and to re-evaluate it within a month.
23 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MLA commissions colour Doppler ultrasound machine||Madurai Central MLA P.T.R.P Thiagarajan inaugurated a colour Doppler ultrasound machine, an advanced scan equipment to identify anomalies of a foetus during pregnancy, at Muthu Saradha Scan Centre run by Madurai Corporation on North Masi Street here on Thursday. The equipment, costing around Rs. 16.50 lakh, was bought from MLA Constituency Development fund. Speaking to the media after the inauguration, the MLA said this advanced machine was usually available only at government hospitals. It would help in early identification and treatment of abnormalities in the foetus, and thus help reduce infant mortality rate. On an average, around 35 pregnant women visited the scan centre each day and a radiologist had been appointed, he said. He later inaugurated a scan equipment each at the Urban Primary Health Centres in Puttuthoppu and Aruldosspuram. Each equipment, costing Rs. 5 lakh each, was bought from the MLA Constituency Development fund. City Health Officer P. Kumaraguruparan was also present.
23 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Stop installing high lamp masts in narrow street’||Rockfort Welfare Association, Tiruchi, has filed a petition before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court seeking a direction to restrain Tiruchi Corporation from installing high masts carrying LED lamps in North Rockfort Street, Malaikottai, under the Smart City Mission. The petitioner, R. Sundararajan, secretary of the association, said Rockfort was one of the heritage sites in Tiruchi identified for beautification. As part of the project, high lamp masts were proposed to be installed for illuminating the hillock. North Rockfort Street was one of the spots where high masts would be installed. This would cause a lot of hardship to residents as the street was narrow. Installation of the high masts would further shrink the road and make it unmotorable, particularly for emergency vehicles like ambulances and fire engines, the petitioner said. Also, during temple festivals temple car would not be able to enter the street, the petitioner said, and sought a direction to restrain the Corporation from installing the high masts in the narrow street. A Division Bench of Justices K. Kalyanasundaram and Abdul Quddhose ordered notice to Tiruchi Corporation and adjourned the hearing till November 11.
23 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MP raises doubt over reservation in recruitment||Su. Venkatesan, Madurai MP, has raised suspicion over implementation of reservation in recruitment for SBI-Junior Associates, on declaration of the preliminary examination results and cut-off marks for different categories of short-listed candidates for Tamil Nadu. In a letter addressed to Union Minister for Social Justice and Empowerment Taawar Chand Gehlot, he said the cut-off marks for general category was 62. But it was the same for Other Backward Classes (OBC) and Scheduled Castes (SC) too. While it was 59.5 marks for Scheduled Tribes (ST), for economically weaker sections (EWS), it was just 57.75. “Since these cut-off marks are not in consonance with social realities, the question arises on whether reservation has been implemented properly in declaration of results,” he said. It must be clarified whether general category candidates belonging to all reserved categories were put in general list of candidates when they secured more marks than the prescribed cut-off marks for the said category. He also sought the number of OBC, SC, ST, EWS candidates in the general category list. Since cut-off mark for EWS was lower than that of OBC, SC and ST, how many EWS candidates appeared for the examination and how many were short-listed. The MP sought the range of marks secured by all reserved category candidates.
23 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Three get 10 years RI for ganja trafficking||The Special court for Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act cases here has sentenced three men to 10 years rigorous imprisonment for trafficking 150 kg of ganja. Special court judge V. Padmanabhan sentenced K. Paraman, M. Pandian and Shaik Alauddin to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 10 years and imposed a fine of Rs. 1 lakh each. The trio were arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau in 2017.
23 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||57 mobile phones recovered||As many as 57 mobile phones that were stolen and missing in the last three months and recovered by Madurai Rural District Police Cyber Club were handed over to the owners on Wednesday. Superintendent of Police Sujit Kumar gave the mobile phones, totally worth Rs. 6.70 lakh, to the owners. So far, he has restored 266 stolen and missing stolen phones valued at Rs. 31.04 lakh. Similarly, in the last three months, the police recovered Rs. 69,470 - the money people lost to fraudsters from their bank accounts.
23 October 2020||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Fall in single day COVID-19 tally in Madurai district||Madurai recorded 57 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, which took the total number of positive cases in the district to 18,257. A total of 45 persons were discharged from hospitals in the district, which now has 742 active cases. With one new fatality, the district’s death toll rose to 413. With 40 fresh cases, Thoothukudi’s infection tally rose to 14,639. After 47 patients were discharged from hospitals, the district has 502 active cases. Kanniyakumari, which added 36 cases on Thursday, has recorded a tally of 14,506. The district has 630 active cases after 76 people were discharged from hospitals. The total number of positive cases in Virudhunagar rose to 15,250 with 30 new cases. Thirty-six people were discharged from hospitals, leaving 169 active cases in the district, which has registered a death toll of 219. Twenty-eight people tested positive in Dindigul, which saw its total case count rise to 9,672. Hospitals in the district marked the discharge of 27 people. 26 cases in Tirunelveli Tirunelveli’s tally rose to 14,002 after 26 people tested positive for the viral infection. Even as 60 patients were discharged from hospitals, 437 cases are undergoing treatment. Theni had 24 fresh cases, with which the district’s tally moved up to 16,065. There were 48 discharges from hospitals. Sivaganga recorded 15 new cases, which took the total number of positive cases to 5,730. Twenty-five people were discharged in the district. Ramanathapuram reported 11 fresh cases to have a tally of 5,924. There were 13 discharges. Tenkasi continues to maintain lesser number of fresh cases. The district recorded only five new cases on Thursday to have an infection tally of 7,766. While six people were discharged from hospitals, the district has 150 active cases.
23 October 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||130 kidney patients recover at Asaripallam GH||The Kanniyakumari Government Medical College and Hospital at Asaripallam, which was flooded with fresh positive cases everyday till a few weeks ago, has so far successfully treated over 11,000 patients including 130 with chronic kidney disease. Out of over two lakh tests conducted till now, 14,470 were found to be positive till Wednesday (October 21). Of this, the medical college hospital has taken care of 5,000-odd cases as in-patients and another 6,000-plus cases in COVID Care Centres established outside the campus. “Of this, 1,165 cases were in Intermediate Care Unit and another 1,340 patients had to be treated with oxygen support due to heavy lung involvement,” says Suganthi, Dean, Kanniyakumari District Medical College Hospital. Though most of the cases could easily be diagnosed with the viral infection following regular test protocols, 1,440 had to undergo CT scan for confirmation of infection in the lung and another 4,200 X-rays were taken by the Department of Radiology. The most challenging cases that the doctors at the hospital had to deal with were 130 positive patients with chronic kidney disease. More importantly, 440 of them had to undergo heaemo-dialysis sessions at regular intervals. “Since these patients would be very weak owing to prolonged treatment and medication for the failed kidneys, the viral infection would pose serious threat to their lives. So, our team of doctors had to neutralise the virus even as haemo-dialysis was being done periodically,” Dr. Suganthi points out. Of the 383 positive pregnant women, 183 deliveries were conducted at the hospital, where 260 paediatric positive cases, including 56 symptomatic cases, were also treated successfully. “Though we take utmost care in ensuring the best medical care to all positive patients, we lost 208 to the viral infection, mainly due to underlying medical conditions such as hypertension, diabetes and cardiac ailments,” she says. Dr. Suganthi attributes the greater success rate to the efforts of the district administration to create modern medical facilities for treatment of COVID-19 patients and the doctors, nurses and other workforce of the hospital. “When we were in need of well-equipped intensive respiratory care unit to treat seriously infected COVID-19 positive cases, the steps taken by the Collector ensured creation of the facility within the shortest period. The timely establishment of an ultra-modern facility saved the lives of several hundreds of patients, including a 76-year-old woman after 53 days of treatment, who would have to spend a few lakhs of rupees in private hospitals,” says Dr. Suganthi. Former Radhapuram MLA M. Appavu, and MLAs Rajesh Kumar and N. Suresh Rajan reposed their faith in Kanniyakumari District Medical College Hospital after they tested positive for the viral infection.
23 October 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Two die as car rams tree||Two persons died when the car they were travelling in rammed a tree at Karumakavundampalayam near Tiruchengode in the early hours of Thursday. Tiruchengode police rushed to the accident site. A. Ranganathan (55) died on the spot. His son-in-law J. Vijaykamal (42), who drove the car, was taken to the Government Hospital in Erode, but was pronounced dead by doctors. He was a functionary of the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam, and had contested the Assembly elections in 2016. Ranganathan’s wife Hemavathi, Vijaykamal’s wife Divya and sister-in-law Ahalya were injured in the accident and admitted to the GH. The family was returning to Erode from Bengaluru.  Driver killed Two trucks collided on Tiruchi Road in the early hours of Thursday, leaving a driver dead. According to police, a truck with a load of firewood was proceeding to Erode from Mohanur when another truck headed for Namakkal collided with it. The drivers of both vehicles, Sathish (25) and Ravi (40), suffered severe injuries and were rushed to a hospital. Sathish was declared brought dead and Ravi is undergoing treatment. Namakkal town police registered a case.
23 October 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Claims on dinosaur eggs to be verified||With some residents creating a flutter, claiming to have unearthed dinosaur egg fossils in an irrigation tank in Kunnam in the district, Collector V. Santha on Thursday said that she would seek expert opinion on the same, from the Geological Survey of India. Several images of large spherical objects, which some people claimed were dinosaur eggs, were shared on social media on Thursday. At least 25 such egg-shaped balls were found on the bed of the Kunnam tank. The locals alerted Revenue officials who inspected the spot. “There are at least 25 such balls, each weighing at least 200 kg. We were unable to relocate them immediately,” said A. Chinnadurai, Kunnam tahsildar. The matter has been reported to the District Collector, he said. The Collector told The Hindu that officials of the Geological Survey of India would be apprised of the finds. “We can move them to an appropriate location for safekeeping, if necessary,” she said. L. Thyagarajan, former principal and history professor, Government Arts College, Ariyalur, said that only a study of the layering inside the objects would indicate whether they are fossilised dinosaur eggs.
23 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records 212 new cases||Puducherry recorded two COVID-19 deaths and 212 new cases on Thursday. The fatalities involved a 55-year-old man in Puducherry and a 65-year-old woman in Karaikal. The overall tally stood at 582 deaths, 4,039 active cases, including 2,517 patients in home isolation, a cumulative total of 33,832 cases and 29,211 recovered patients. The test positivity rate was 5.51%, case fatality rate 1.72% and recovery rate 86.34%. The new cases were detected from testing 3,847 samples. Puducherry accounted for 167 of the new cases, followed by Karaikal (20), Yanam (12) and Mahe (13). In all, 195 patients were discharged in the last 24 hours. The death toll by region is Puducherry (480), Karaikal (54), Yanam (42) and Mahe (six). The Health Department has so far tested 2,78,193 samples of which 2,41,023 returned negative. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said a decision had been taken to fully utilise the vacant beds at the IGMCRI. Earlier, while only critical patients were referred to the facility, it has now been decided to send non-critical patients too to the IGMCRI, which was now fully equipped in terms of facilities and manpower, the Minister said. Meanwhile, Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi has instructed officials to explore ways to decongest the fish market through relocation or changing timings. Time extension Extension of shop timings is also under consideration to diffuse crowds. The permission order for organisations to organise protests would include a clause binding them to follow safety protocols.
23 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||SEC appointment is illegal: CM||Terming the appointment of retired IFS officer Roy P. Thomas as the State Election Commissioner to be “illegal,” Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Thursday said the government has not yet completed the legal process in challenging the initiative taken by the Lt. Governor in the appointment process of the SEC. “We are in the process of challenging the High Court order in the Supreme Court. Because of COVID-19, the process got delayed,” Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy told The Hindu.  The Madras High Court had dismissed a writ petition filed by Minister for Local Administration A. Namassivayam challenging the Lieutenant Governor’s decision to reject the nominee of the Cabinet for the SEC post. The court upheld the decision of the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Lt. Governor to call for advertisements. Mr. Narayanasamy said when the file for Mr. Thomas’s appointment came to his office, he had questioned the decision. “The appointment was based on a notification which was annulled by the Legislative Assembly. How could the appointment be made on the basis of a notification quashed by the Speaker. I wanted the Legal Department to examine the issue but my concerns were completely ignored. It is a unilateral decision taken after bypassing a democratically elected government,” the Chief Minister said.  How could the appointment be made on the basis of a notification quashed by the Speaker?
23 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Lt. Governor welcomes appointment of SEC||Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi on Thursday said with the appointment of State Election Commissioner, the Union Territory would soon have panchayat elections. In a message to the media, she said the Union Territory would soon have grassroot democracy. “In 2018, the Supreme Court directed the government to hold election within four months and sternly warned that no delay can be brooked. The government was committing contempt of court by not holding elections. Vested interests did not want civic body elections to be held and hence cast all obstacles,”’ she said. 10 years since last poll Stating that the last local body election was held 10 years ago, she said with local self governance in place the Union Territory would be eligible to get more Central funds. “Puducherry is gradually transitioning towards self governance more now with panchayat elections. More funds will come from the Government of India. Funds were not coming since we did not have elected bodies,” the Lieutenant Governor said. The elections would be an opportunity for true social workers and activists who want to see change and transformation, she said. State Election Commissioner Roy P. Thomas also called on the Lt. Governor at the Raj Nivas. Secretary Local Administration Jayant Kumar Ray and Officer on Special Duty G. Thevas Neethi Dhas were also present.
23 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Poll panel chief chosen from among 10 nominees||The new Puducherry State Election Commissioner Roy P. Thomas was selected from among 10 candidates who had applied for the post. A panel consisting of Chief Secretary Ashwani Kumar, Advisor, Union Territory, Ministry of Home Affairs Jitendra Agarwal and Director, Ministry of Panchayati Raj S. S Prasad oversaw the selection process, a senior official told The Hindu . Those who had applied for the post, included a few retired IAS, IPS and IFS officers who had served in the Union Territory in different capacities, details accessed by The Hindu revealed. “The entire selection process was based on candidates' work experience, background and professional commitment. The three-member panel conducted the interview and scrutinised the applications,” said the official. Mr. Thomas, who hails from Kerala, is currently serving as a consultant in the Ministry of Environment Forests and Climate Change in New Delhi. Prior to that, he had served in the Government of Kerala as conservator of forests and in various other capacities. He has got experience in conducting Parliament, Assembly and local body elections, the official added. As per the order issued by the Under Secretary to Government Giddi Balaram on Wednesday, the SEC appointment would be for a period of three years or till he attains the age of 68, whichever is earlier. Meanwhile, Mr. Roy took charge on Wednesday afternoon and, soon thereafter, issued a circular saying “all official, demi-official letters and confidential communication intended to the State Election Commissioner, Puducherry, may kindly be henceforth addressed to him.” His office would function from the Election Department Complex at Reddiyarpalayam, an official said.
23 October 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||CM defends new farm laws||In an interaction with farmers representatives in Pudukottai, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami defended the new agriculture laws brought in by the Centre and claimed that they would benefit farmers. Mr. Palaniswami was here to chair a meeting to review the measures taken to control COVID-19 in the district. He said some were blaming the State government for supporting the farm laws but the accusations were being made for political reasons, he maintained. The new laws will protect farmers from price crash and help them make profit. Farmers can sell their produce anywhere in the country and there was no need to depend on intermediaries. It was for these reasons that the AIADMK government supported the new laws, he said. The AIADMK government would work continuously to protect farmers interests and would be the first to raise its voice if there was any move against the farming community, he maintained. The Chief Minister disclosed that a new government dental college would start functioning in Pudukottai from the next academic year with an intake of 50 students. Mr. Palaniswami also inspected the kudimaramathu works at kavinaadu kanmoi near Pudukottai Town and rode a bullock cart for some distance.
23 October 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||CM defends new farm laws||In an interaction with representatives off armers in Pudukottai, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami defended the new agriculture laws brought in by the Central government and claimed that they would benefit farmers. Mr. Palaniswami was here to chair a meeting to review the measures taken to control COVID-19 in Pudukottai district. He said some were blaming the State government for supporting the farm laws but the accusations were being made for political reasons, he maintained. The new laws will protect farmers from price crash and help them make profit. Farmers can sell their produce anywhere in the country and there was no need to depend on intermediaries. It was for these reasons that the AIADMK government supported the new laws, he said. The AIADMK government would work continuously to protect farmers’ interests and would be the first to raise its voice if there was any move against the farming community, he maintained. The Chief Minister disclosed that a new government dental college would start functioning in Pudukottai from the next academic year with an intake of 50 students. Mr. Palaniswami also inspected the kudimaramathu works at kavinaadu kanmoi near Pudukottai Town and rode a bullock cart for some distance.
23 October 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Land acquisition for project to be expedited’||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Thursday reiterated his government’s commitment towards implementing the Cauvery-Gundar river-link project, and said that it would fulfill the dreams of the farming community. Unveiling a statue of ‘a jallikattu bull with a tamer’ at the Viralimalai Assembly constituency, represented by Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar, Mr. Palaniswami said that steps would be taken to acquire the required land, expeditiously, for the canal to be dug up from Mayanur, in Karur district. The scheme envisages a new link canal for 250 km, to carry surplus waters of the Cauvery, from the Mayanur barrage in Karur district, to Agniyaru, South Vellar, Manimutharu, the Vaigai and Gundar, under the intra-State river-linking programme. The mega project will fulfill the dreams of the people of agrarian Pudukottai and turn the district into a fertile region, he said, adding that he would soon visit the district to lay the foundation for the project. Terming Pudukottai ‘a land of valour’, Mr. Palaniswami said that as many as 110 jallikattu events, the highest in the State, were organised in the district last year. He complimented Mr. Vijayabaskar, jallikattu organisers and officials for installing the statue at Viralimalai. Earlier, speaking after inspecting a manufacturing unit of the ITC in Viralimalai taluk, Mr. Palaniswami said that Tamil Nadu stood first, at the all-India level, in attracting new investments in 2020. The State was able to attract investments to the tune of Rs. 40,718 crore, notwithstanding the pandemic, by signing 55 MoUs that would provide employment opportunities to 74,712 persons, he said. Tamil Nadu was at the forefront in industrialisation, and it had successfully organised two global investors’ meet and had attracted substantial investments, the Chief Minister said. During the 2015 global investors’ meet, the ITC had signed an MoU with the State to invest over Rs. 1,077 crore for setting up its plant for manufacturing food products at Viralimalai. In the first phase, the company invested Rs. 820 crore, providing employment to 2,200 persons. Nearly 85% of the employment at the ITC unit was provided to rural women residing in the surrounding areas. The ITC invested another Rs. 351 crore, in the second phase, for its expansion and the creation of other facilities. He complimented the ITC for setting up its plant here. He invited the company to make more investments in the State. Mr. Palaniswami also inaugurated Ashirwad’s wheat flour making unit, set up at a cost of Rs. 100 crore, inside the plant. Ministers C. Vijayabaskar, M.C. Sampath and S. Kamaraj, Pudukottai Collector P. Uma Maheswari and others participated.
23 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Yercaud boat house to get facelift||The renovation works to improve tourist amenities at Yercaud boat house are progressing at steady pace. The Yercaud boat house, which is one of the major tourist attractions in the hill station, remained closed since the lockdown. Though tourism activities have resumed in the hill station, the boating services remained closed to the public as part of containment measures. According to authorities at boat house, the renovation works here are being carried out a cost of Rs. 48 lakh. “The existing shed has been removed and six new boat jetties with shelter is also being constructed. Once completed, tourists would be able access the boats and board and alight from them”, official said. Authorities said that currently there are 55 boats of various seating capacity and they are being regularly maintained and kept ready for operations once restrictions are relaxed. Officials said that they have also placed orders of seven row and motor boats here. The Yercaud lake is spread over an area of over 10 acres and works are under way to remove water hyacinths, officials said.
23 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Disaster preparedness drill held in Salem||Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Shevapet Fire Station conducted a drill at the Collectorate here on Thursday to test the preparedness to handle emergencies, including those that could occur during the northeast monsoon. District Collector S.A. Raman, District Revenue officer R. Divakar and other senior officials were present. The personnel demonstrated various methods of rescue during disasters such as fire, building collapse, tree fall, floods and road accidents. The personnel showed how household articles such as tyre tubes and water cans could be used to stay afloat and reach a safe spot during floods. Techniques to carry persons who were injured or unconscious were also demonstrated. They also demonstrated how fire could be doused. District Fire Officer M. Velu also witnessed the drill in which nearly 40 crew members took part.
23 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Stadium construction inspected||Salem Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh on Thursday inspected the construction of an indoor stadium near Kottai Chinnasamy Street here. The Corporation is constructing the stadium at Rs. 3.51 crore under the Smart Cities Mission. A release said the ground floor was spread over 1,034 sq.m and 20 four-wheelers and 90 two-wheelers could be parked on it. The first floor would have tennis and basketball courts, and space to play carrom.
23 October 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Congress begins signature campaign||New farm laws, enacted by the Centre, are an attempt to hand over crores of farmers and their farm lands to corporates, said Virudhunagar MP, B. Manickam Tagore. Talking to press persons after inaugurating a signature campaign organised by the party against the farm laws, he said that these legislations would eventually transfer the farm lands to corporates like Ambani and Adani. All States, where mandis and cooperative societies have strong network, are opposing these laws. “Even in Tamil Nadu, we have good farmers and small traders with link to sell their produce. There could be some irregularities here and there. But, with these new laws, not only farmers but smaller traders of foodgrains also would be wiped out,” he said. He said that around 2 lakh signatures would be collected in Virudhunagar district till Deepavali and on November 19, these signatures would be handed over to the President Ram Nath Kovind. He was also critical of the AIADMK government that was supporting the laws. It showed that it was against the welfare of farmers. Party district functionaries Sreeraja Chokkar and Dhalavaipandian, former Sivakasi municipal vice-chairman, Arasan Asokan, were present.
23 October 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Sathaya Vizha to be held on Monday||The ‘Sathaya Vizha’ organised every year to mark the birth anniversary of Emperor Raja Raja Cholan has been cut short as a single-day event. It will be held on October 26 this year and will be confined within the premises of the Big Temple in view of the COVID-19 pandemic situation. However, this year the Sathaya Vizha Committee has planned to celebrate the event on October 26 within the Big Temple premises by observing the religious part of the celebrations only. Number of visitors for the event will be restricted, sources said. Meanwhile, the Thanjai Periyakoil Urimai Meetpu Kuzhu has called upon the State government to make sure that the celebrations in connection with the Sathaya Vizha at the Big Temple were conducted by reciting Tamil hymns along with Sanskrit hymns. It pointed out that during the consecration of the temple in February this year both Sanskrit and Tamil hymns were chanted as per the Court directions.
23 October 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||5-star status for PMIST||Developing ideas for protection and publication of the same in the Intellectual Property Rights Office Journal by the faculty members and students attached to the Institute of Innovation Council of the Periyar Maniammai Institute of Science and Technology (PMIST), a deemed university, has earned five-star status for the institution under the National Innovation and Start-ups Policy. A total of 16 designs for protection was formulated by the IIC during the last year (2019-20) and four such designs were published in the IPR Journal. Apart from this the Periyar Technology Business Incubator facility set up at the PMIST campus drew the attention of industry experts who had interacted and guided the students on start-ups, entrepreneurship, innovation and IPR. On the National Innovation Day, Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, Union Minister for Education, announced the ranking for higher education institutions for their performance under the National Innovation and Start-ups Policy.
23 October 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Demo by AIDWA against onion price rise||Members of the All India Democratic Women’s Association on Thursday staged a demonstration here against skyrocketing of onion prices. The vegetable is being sold at Rs. 100 per kg. Led by AIDWA district secretary P. Poo Mayil, the protesters wearing ‘onion garlands’ raised slogans against the price rise. They said the Narendra Modi-led Union government should take immediate steps to check the price rise and hoarding of onions by traders. The Centre should work with the State governments for sale of onion at reduced price through ration shops.
23 October 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Vilathikulam incident: AIADMK, DMK MLAs, cadre booked||Vilathikulam police have registered case against the ruling AIADMK and DMK functionaries, including two sitting MLAs, following unruly scenes in the town on Wednesday evening. When the DMK got permission to organise a flag-hoisting function in front of bus stand on Wednesday, as former AIADMK MLA G. V. Markandeyan, who defected to the DMK recently, wanted to make his presence felt, the AIADMK too approached the police at the eleventh hour for permission to hold a similar function at the same spot. Anticipating unsavoury incidents, police denied permission for AIADMK function. However, the AIADMK cadre, led by Vilathikulam MLA Chinnappan, tried to take out a procession to the bus stand, but was stopped by the police. They picked up a heated argument with the police and staged road roko. Meanwhile, the DMK, which was told not to violate the lockdown protocol on crowd congregation, mobilised around 500 persons including Thoothukudi MLA Geetha. Consequently, the police on Thursday booked MLAs Chinnappan, Geetha and Markandeyan and the cadre of both parties under Sections 143 (unlawful assembly), 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of diseases dangerous to life), among other sections of IPC.
23 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Positivity rate comes down significantly in central districts||Positivity rate, the number of samples that test positive among the total figure, has come down significantly in central districts, including Tiruchi, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. The positivity rate stood at 3.6% in Tiruchi district as against the State average of 4.7% between October 12 and October 18. It was 4.5% between September 28 and October 4 in Tiruchi district as against the State average of 6.5%. As many as 21,958 persons were subjected for COVID-19 test in Tiruchi district during the week (October12-18). Of them, 780 swab samples were tested positive for the virus as per the RT-PCR test method, thereby working out to 3.7%. The statistics show that it went down gradually from October 12. It did not show an upward trend on any day of the week. The State positive rate too witnessed a sharp decline during the week. A total of 6,28,658 persons were tested for COVID-19 in the State during the week. Of them, 29,672 persons tested positive for the virus, working to 4.7%. It was 6.5% between September 28 and October 4. Among the districts, Chennai continued to top the positive rate with 8.3% followed by Krishnagiri with 8.2% and Coimbatore with 3.3%. Nagapattinam stood at 4th position by clocking 6.3%. It is the only district in the central region to report more than the State average. Perambalur district turned out to be the least infected district with just 1.5% positivity rate in the State. Most central districts have also performed better in containing the spread of the virus during the week. The positive rate was 2.5% in Pudukottai district and 2.7% in Ariyalur district. Thanjavur district that continued to witness a surge in cases of COVID-19 too seems to have brought the situation under control when compared to previous weeks. The positivity rate for the week stood at 3.7%, which is 1% less than the State average. Out of 18,770 samples lifted for testing, 691 tested positive for COVID-19. The rate was 8.6% on September 28 and October 4. The positivity rate in Tiruvarur district stood at 4.4%. It was 3.9% in Karur district. Tiruchi Collector S. Sivarasu told The Hindu that the situation was under control in the district. There has been a steady decrease in the number of COVID 19 cases and positivity rate since August. Decentralisation of vegetable trading, intensive fever camps and high number of COVID testing were among the intensive measures taken to contain the spread of the virus in the district. “We have never decreased the number of persons subjected for COVID-19 testing right from April. An average of 2,000 samples were lifted per day. Based on the results, we mounted vigil over the primary and secondary contacts of those who tested positive to check whether they were infected. The line departments worked in tandem to subject the primary and secondary contacts to rule out the infection,” Mr. Sivarasu said.
23 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||302 positive cases and 6 deaths recorded||The central districts on Thursday recorded 302 fresh cases for COVID-19 and six deaths - three in Tiruchi, two in Thanjavur and one in Nagapattinam. An 83-year-old man suffering from coronary artery disease, a 68-year-old man and a 78-year-old man both suffering from diabetes died of the viral infection in Tiruchi. A 69-year-old man who suffered from acute respiratory distress syndrome and a 65-year-old woman with a pre-existing condition of systemic hypertension died of COVID in Thanjavur. A 72-year-old man from Nagapattinam also died of the viral infection without any co-morbidities. Thanjavur recorded the highest number of cases in the region, with 72 patients testing positive for the infection. Among them were two students at the Government Medical College Hospital, Tiruvarur, and a retired school headmaster. Tiruvarur recorded 55 new cases, while in Tiruchi, 62 patients tested positive for the infection. Patients in Tiruchi were from existing containment zones and were primary contacts, inter-district travellers and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. In Karur, 37 patients, including residents of Vengamedu, Kavundampalayam and Thanthonrimalai tested positive for the viral infection. In Nagapattinam, 35 fresh cases were reported, while in Pudukottai 27 cases were reported. Among them were local index cases and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. Both Ariyalur and Perambalur district recorded an equal number of COVID cases on Thursday with seven patients testing positive on Thursday. In Ariyalur district, one person from Ariyalur, one from Thirumanur, two from Sendhurai and three from Jayankondam tested positive. The addition of these patients further increased the total number of COVID-19 cases recorded in the district to 4,302. Meanwhile, in Perambalur, among the seven patients, two each hailed from the Perambalur block, Veppanthattai, and Veppur while one belonged to Alathur block. Meanwhile, a total of 400 throat swabs were lifted at the government hospitals and primary healthcare centres in the district and sent for processing.
23 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Is it curtains for some engineering colleges in Tiruchi region?||Continuation of at least six self-financed engineering colleges in Anna University’s Tiruchi region hinges on the extent of admission of students in the fourth round of Tamil Nadu Engineering Counselling for which the provisional allotment will be published on October 28, it is learnt. Barring the Anna University- BIT Campus in Tiruchi, several seats in the counselling process were not filled in most of the other colleges in the region in the earlier three rounds of counselling. The trend of admission has not been encouraging in the University's four constituent colleges as well - at Tirukuvalai in Nagapattinam district, Panrutti in Cuddalore district, Pattukottai in Thanjavur district, and in Ariyalur district, sources said. Colleges in Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Perambalur, Ariyalur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam and Cuddalore districts come under Anna Unviersity's Tiruchi region. A number of self-financing colleges reportedly bank on the scholarship accruing from the admission of first-generation and Scheduled Caste students. The practice of these colleges has been to identify potential candidates early on and guide them to make their choices in the counselling process. A first-generation graduate is entitled to a scholarship to the tune of Rs. 20,000 per year, and an SC student gets as much as Rs. 70,000 per year, under various heads. However, some of the colleges have not been able to mobilise these categories of students also. In recent years, one engineering college was closed due to lack of patronage and another is on the verge of closure. In the absence of admissions, it is mandatory for the colleges to apply for Progressive Closure. Only the existing students will permitted to complete the course. Unlike in previous years, the number of students with good cut-off marks has also been low this year. For instance, there were only 12,263 students for the first round of counselling with cut-off between 199.667 and 175. Likewise, there were only about 23,000 students who had qualified for the second round of counselling with cut-off between 174.75 and 145.5. Last year, there were about 35,000 students in the second round of counselling. Most of the seats in the self-financing colleges in central districts had hoped to fill the seats this year only in the third and fourth rounds of counselling, sources said. According to a functionary of a private college management, institutions cannot sustain without proper admissions for two continuous years. On an average, an engineering college requires not less than Rs. 25 lakh per month to cover costs of salaries, electricity, consumables, and other expenditure, leave alone the money required to service bank loans. In the absence of admissions, closure becomes inevitable, he said.
23 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||MLA stopped from entering airport lounge||AIADMK MLA E. Rathinasabhapathi was allegedly stopped when he tried to enter the departure lounge at the airport to see off Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami during his return journey to Chennai after concluding his visit to Pudukottai on Thursday The incident occurred in the evening when the Chief Minister arrived at the airport to leave for Chennai by an IndiGo flight. Sources said the MLA was stopped as he apparently did not have a pass. Only pass holders were allowed, the sources added.
23 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Children should be aware of laws protecting them’||The Tiruppur Peoples Forum for Protection of Environment and Labour Rights (TPF) and Village Community Development Society (VCWS) jointly organised a block-level awareness and consultation programme on prevention of school dropout rate among adolescent girls, laws on protecting women workers in the workplace and decent working conditions in textile industries, at Manapparai recently. School teachers, representatives of voluntary organisations, panchayat presidents, women self help groups members and parents of textile women workers participated in the event. Speaking at the meet, R. Manamalli, Inspector of Police, Law and Order, Manapparai, said that children and women should be aware of the laws protecting them. Work place grievances should be addressed thorough Internal Complaints Committee especially in the textile industries and hostels functioning within the mill premises. P. Muthumanickam, Counselor, District Child Protection Unit, explained the core points of the existing laws protecting children and women in the community to the participants. He also explained the protection offered to children and women from sexual harassment under the POCSO Act. Advocate M. Jayanthi highlighted the importance of Internal Complaints Committee under the Sexual Harassment at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act 2013. An open discussion with the participants was also held.
23 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Gandhi Market traders to suspend business for 3 days||The wholesale and retail traders of Gandhi Market, who presently operate from G. Corner and temporary markets in different parts of the city, on Thursday decided not to transact business for three days beginning Sunday, urging the State government to take steps to vacate the interim injunction against the reopening of the Gandhi Market. Speaking to reporters at G. Corner grounds, Ve. Govindarajulu, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peramaippu, said that representatives of 27 associations of traders of Gandhi Market had decided to suspend their trade from Sunday to Tuesday. It was to highlight the sufferings of the traders, who operate from G. Corner and other places after the closure of Gandhi Market from March 27. The hearing on the case against the reopening of Gandhi Market had been slated for October 28 in the Madurai bench of Madras High Court. “We apprehend that the Tiruchi district administration is favouring the litigant. It should respect the sentiments of nearly 2,500 traders. The Gandhi Market should be opened immediately. We hope that the State government would respect the sentiments of traders. It should take sincere steps to vacate the interim injunction so as to reopen the market,” Mr. Govindarajulu said. The future course of action of traders would depend upon the court proceedings. If favourable decision was not taken, the Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangangalin Peramaippu would take a call on a State-wide agitation.
23 October 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Child rescued from lift||A male child aged one year whose leg was stuck in the grill gate of a lift was rescued by fire fighters here on Thursday night. The incident happened on the fourth floor of an apartment at Mela Chinthamani here. Fire fighters said they received an alert following which a team went to the apartment for the rescue operation. A senior official said the child's leg had got stuck in the grill gate of the old lift. The child was with his grandfather inside the lift. Fire fighters used a door breaker and other equipment to release the grill and rescued the trapped child and the aged person.
23 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Final phase of river-linking project begins in Tirunelveli||With the State government’s allocation of Rs. 161 crore, work on the fourth and final phase of Tamirabharani-Karumaeniyar-Nambiyar river-linking project began at Aayankulam near Thisaiyanvilai in the district on Thursday. Radhapuram MLA I.S. Inbadurai and Executive Engineer of Public Works Department (River Linking) Gnanasekaran inaugurated the 20-km-long project. The work was taken up on an outlay of Rs. 369 crore to use about 2.765 tmcft (20% of 13.76 thousand million cubic feet) of surplus water available in the Tamirabharani every year. The excess water would be diverted through Kannadian channel and a 75.17 km-long flood carrier channel would be formed to take the water to the dry regions of Nanguneri and Thisaiyavilai in Tirunelveli district and Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district. As the 6.5-km-long Kannadian channel’s carrying capacity was increased from 450 cubic feet per second (cusecs) to 3,680 cusecs, formation of a new channel to be dug up to M.L. Theri, a sand dune, near Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district, from Kannadian channel at Vellankuzhi was started. The proposed canal can carry 3,200 cusecs of water. There are many canals that will connect the 75.17-km-long canal with a host of tanks in the basins of Karumeniyar and Nambiyar and the Manimuthar’s tributaries such as Pachchaiyaar, Koraiyaar and Yelumichchaiyaar. The main canal will link with the Pachayar. When the project is completed, it will benefit 50 villages in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts, of which five are in Palyamkottai taluk; 17 in Nanguneri taluk; 10 in Radhapuram taluk; 16 in Sattankulam taluk and two in Tiruchendur taluk. With the surplus water, irrigation facilities can be provided to about 23,040 hectares in the two districts. Of about 1,076 hectares of land required for the project, 994 hectares fell under the category of dry land and 14.5 hectares under wet land. About 68 hectares were poromboke lands. Since the State government, with the hope of getting the assistance from the Centre, released funds, foundation stone was laid in February 2009 by then Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi and the first two phases of the project could be completed. As the then DMK government could not get mandatory clearance from the Union Government’s Ministry of Environment, the river-linking scheme was in limbo after the change of guard in 2011. The then MLA of Radhapuram, M. Appavu, approached the High Court and got a few directions to the State government in support of the project. The undue delay has meanwhile increased the project cost from Rs. 369 crore to Rs. 872 crore. “The project, which was launched during the DMK regime without any assurance and clearance from the Union Ministry of Environment and Forest, had to be stalled for want of funds. The AIADMK government later got assurance and Rs. 217 crore from the Centre to execute the third phase of the work. Now, the fourth phase of the work has started with the funding of Rs. 161 crore and will be completed before January-end,” Mr. Inbadurai said.
23 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Compound walls to showcase Tirunelveli’s history and culture||The compound wall of Tirunelveli Collectorate, facing the perennial Tamirabharani, sported a new look on Thursday, thanks to beautiful paintings by a group of artists. The objective was to highlight the ancient and rich culture of the district. As part of its beautification programme, Tirunelveli Corporation has planned to adorn the walls of important government buildings with paintings. Reason why the District Collectorate’s compound wall now sports a new look. The art work by painters of Cheranmahadevi Kalaikkoodam highlight the rich culture of Tirunelveli district, its traditional industries, tourism potential, contribution to art and culture, famous sons of the soil, scenic spots and so on. Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish took a look at the paintings on Thursday and sounded thrilled. “The painters have done an exceptionally laudable job her. We will take efforts to beautify the compound walls of all government offices with paintings so as to tell the public, especially new-comers, about the richness of the district. Due steps will be taken to protect the paintings for a longer duration,” Ms. Shilpa said.
23 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||A tribute to Tiruppur by students||Students of NIFT-TEA College of Knitwear Fashion in Tiruppur recently created an artwork in the style of Maharashtrian Warli art as a tribute to the cotton knitwear industry of the district. The artwork depicts the process of production of cotton knitwear garments and export of the garments. “We tried to depict how the garments made here end up at a fashion show near Eiffel Tower in Paris, France,” said G. Boopathi Vijay, lecturer from the Department of Apparel Fashion Design who oversaw the project. Spanning around 400 sq.ft. on a wall near the college’s entrance, the artwork was completed on October 16 after a month. Two students painted the artwork using acrylic paints and four students assisted them, he said. With Warli art popularly known for depicting a spiral chain of humans, this style was chosen to illustrate the involvement of several people in the manufacturing of garments in Tiruppur district from the production stage till it reached customers across the world, according to Mr. Vijay. For Picasso As the college continues to remain closed, a team of students had been involved in creating unique artworks on its premises. The team was preparing for an artwork to honour artist Pablo Picasso for his birth anniversary, he said.
23 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Premature baby discharged from Tiruppur GH||A premature baby boy, who weighed only 550 grams at the time of birth, was discharged on Wednesday after nearly three weeks of treatment at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. Bhuvaneshwari (25) from Pooluvapatti in Tiruppur delivered the baby after 24 weeks of pregnancy on July 29. According to Priya Visuvasam, In-charge, Department of Paediatrics, the premature baby was admitted at the neonatal intensive care unit the next day and after nearly three weeks, the baby weighed 1.46 kg on Wednesday. The baby boy was placed under a ventilation system called continuous positive airway pressure and was transfused with packaged red blood cells as he was found to be anaemic. Prior to discharge, the boy was also subjected to retinopathy of prematurity screening as long periods of oxygen supply could damage the retina of premature babies, Dr. Visuvasam said. “The baby is stable now,” she noted. On Wednesday, the baby was handed over to the parents in the presence of Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy. The District Early Intervention Centre will monitor the baby’s health for the next six months as he is still underweight, according to Dr. Visuvasam.
23 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Siblings drown in quarry pit at Avinashi||Two brothers drowned in a stone quarry pit at Avinashi here on Wednesday. The police said P. Ayileshwaran (10) and his brother Balan (9) went to take bath at the quarry in Periyayeepalayam on Wednesday afternoon. Their mother Kasthuri, an employee at a garment company in Tiruppur, returned home at around 7.30 p.m. and found the boys missing. On information, personnel from Avinashi Fire Station retrieved Ayileshwaran’s body from the pit at around 10.30 p.m. At around 7 a.m. on Thursday, Balan’s body was retrieved. The Avinashi police registered a case and the bodies were sent to the Government Hospital for autopsy. The woman and sons moved to Avinashi from Chennai in March. As the quarry had remained defunct for nearly 30 years, water had accumulated in the pit and the locals frequently visited the spot to bathe, the police said.
23 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Sale of fertilizers to be restricted to farmers in the Nilgiris||The sale of fertilizers to farmers in the district is being restricted by the Agriculture Department. “The Director of Agriculture, Chennai, had issued orders to the district administration to inspect the top 20 buyers in the district. The inspection was conducted by a squad and irregularities like bulk billing and sale of urea to landless farmers were noticed, nine licences were suspended from 7 to 15 days for violating procedures,” a release from the Department of Agriculture stated. Following this action, a meeting was organised by R. Zakir Nawaz, Assistant Director of Agriculture, Quality Control, here on Thursday for about 100 dealers of fertilizers. They were sensitised to the sale of urea through Point of Sale machines. The Assistant Director said restrictions had been placed, limiting the sale of fertilizers to farmers. “A farmer can buy only 100 bags of fertilizer each month and three bills can be done for a season. A planter or estate owner can buy only 500 bags a month. The dealers were also instructed to follow the rules framed under Fertilizer Control Order, 1985. The sale of fertilizer above MRP will be dealt with seriously which will lead to cancellation of licence,” Mr. Nawaz said. Later, he told The Hindu a recent analysis of plant, soil and water samples in the district had revealed that there was an excessive use of chemical fertilizers. “To curb the use of fertilizers, this sensitisation programme was conducted,” said Mr. Nawaz.
23 October 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||A memoral for fallen heroes in Jammu &Kashmir||Umesh Gopinath Jadhav, 43, from Maharashtra residing in Bengaluru has started collecting soil from the graves of war heroes from across the country to build a memorial for fallen soldiers in the state of Jammu and Kashmir. He was here to collect the soil from the grave of Field Marshal Sam Manekshaw at his cemetry. Mr. Jadhav said that the death of 40 CRPF jawans during the Pulwama attack had shocked him. He said that he was visiting the graves of army jawans, border security force personnel and police who had lost their lives in battle or had made great sacrifices for the country. He started collecting soil from the graves of the country’s war heroes since April 9. Mr. Jadhav had already collected soil from the graves of the 40 soldiers killed in the Pulwama attack, as well as heroes from the graves of Kargil war heroes. He has travelled across the country and has collected soil from the graves of 76 war heroes.
23 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||62 fresh cases registered in Vellore district||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 17,343, with a total of 62 new cases reported on Thursday. While 16,532 patients have been discharged after treatment, the active cases in the district stands at 514. The district’s death toll is 297. In Ranipet, 27 persons tested positive, taking the tally in the district to 14,637. In Tirupathur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 6,305, with 54 new cases on Thursday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 38 new cases were reported, taking the total to 17,258. Out of this, 16,465 have recovered and there are 534 active cases. As many as 69 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Thursday. With this, the total number of cases in the district touched 22,796. The official death toll stood at 264. Villupuram district reported 60 fresh cases, taking the total to 13,355.
23 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||VIT donates Rs. 1 cr. for flood relief work||Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) on Thursday donated Rs. 1 crore to the Telangana Chief Minister Relief Fund for relief and rehabilitation measures in the rain and flood-hit areas of the State. Registrar of the VIT-Andhra Pradesh University C.L.V. Sivakumar handed over the demand draft for Rs. 1 crore to K.T. Rama Rao, Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development and Information Technology, Telangana. Vellore Institute of Technology Founder and Chancellor G. Viswanathan said that the institution stands with the Telangana government. “We hope the State will return to normalcy quickly,” Mr. Viswanathan said.
23 October 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Fitness programme started at fire stations for personnel||In a bid to boost fitness within the force, the Fire and Rescue Services Department has opened a gym in Villupuram to help firefighters attached to 14 fire stations in Villupuram and Kallakurichi districts remain physically fit for the task. The gym was set up by Robin Castro, District Fire Officer of Villupuram district. A 2019-batch officer, Mr. Castro has introduced a schedule for all the 145 firefighters in Villupuram and Kallakurichi districts to remain physically and mentally fit. Inspired by the Director General of Police (DGP) of the Fire and Rescue Services Department, C. Sylendra Babu, a fitness enthusiast, Mr. Castro has roped in enthusiastic firefighters, including commandoes attached to the force, to make time for an hour of practice daily before resuming work. On an average, firemen in the two districts attend to 130 distress calls besides executing rescue operations. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the personnel are also engaged in the decontamination of public places under the civic bodies. “Such a fitness programme was necessary to not only keep the force fit but also reduce their stress levels. This has helped them improve their performance,” he said. As part of their training, the commandos have to run for 5 km daily, followed by weight training for 20 minutes, rope training and tyre exercises. The team, led by Mr. Castro, also goes cycling during the weekends, covering a minimum of 100 km. P. Sivagurunathan, leading fireman attached to the Villupuram Fire Station, said that the physical training has been an integral part of his daily routine. “I make it a point to exercise at the gym here daily for one-and-a-half hours. This has not only helped me build muscles but also improve my overall well-being and productivity,” he said. Mr. Castro said that the facilities for weight training have been introduced for firemen in all the 14 stations in the two districts.
23 October 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for killing 13-year-old||A 22-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for allegedly murdering a 13-year-old boy and burying his body in a casuarina grove at Nochikuppam near Marakkanam. The boy had gone missing on October 9 and his body was found buried in a casuarina grove on Wednesday. The body, in a decomposed condition, was exhumed on Thursday in the presence of police and revenue officials and sent for post-mortem. The victim’s father had filed a missing complaint with the Marakkanam police on October 9. During investigation, the police found the boy was last seen with one K. Abinesh, 22, also from Nochikuppam. The police detained Abinesh, and he confessed to the murder. Police said the accused took the boy under the pretext of catching parakeets and lured him to an isolated spot near the coast. Abinesh allegedly tried to sexually assault the boy. When he resisted, Abinesh strangled him to death. He was arrested and a case has been registered .
23 October 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Fall armyworm found in maize||The district administration has come up with an integrated pest control measures to check the attack of Fall Armyworm in maize that has been spotted in different areas in the district. In a press release, Collector R Kannan said that out of the 24,000 hectares of farm area targeted to raise maize, farmers have so far covered 15,596 hectares. The standing crops were of 15 to 45 days old. He urged farmers to follow integrated crop protection measures as successfully done last year to contain the spread of the pest. Among them are summer ploughing, mixing of neem cake with the soil and use of pheromone traps. Recommending deep ploughing, Agriculture Department officials have advised farmers to mix 250 kg of neem cake for every hectare. Seeds should be treated with 10 grams of bio-pest control like Beauveria Bassiana and 10 gram of Metarhizium 30% (FS) or 6 mg of cyantriniliprole 19.8% and Metarhizium 19.8%. This will help in controlling the pest in the first15to 20 days of crop. Farmers were asked to go for simultaneous sowing in all lands. A uniform distance of 60 cm by 25 cm gap should be maintained for lift irrigation crop and 45 cm by 20 cm gap for rain-fed areas. Besides, for every 10 rows, 75 cm of gap of one row should be maintained. One solar-powered trap and 12 pheromone trap should be laid for every hectare. Besides, beneficial crops like cowpea, sunflower gingelly and sorghum and samanthi can be raised a border crop and black gram and green gram can be raised as inter crop. Farmers should detect eggs and larvae of fall armyworm under maize leaves and eradicate them. Lime powder should be mixed with sand in the ratio of 1:9 and sprayed on crown. If the pests are found in 5% area of the farm, neem seed mixture or azadirachtin 1,500 ppm 5 ml in one litre of water or 2 ml of azadirachtin 1% in one litre of water should be sprayed. To prepare neem seed mixture, 10 kg of neem seed should be powdered and it should be mixed in 50 litres of water and kept for one day. After filtering it, 200 gram of khadi soap powder should be mixed and added to 200 litres of water. If the spread of pest is up to 10%, then Bassiana Thuringiensis Kurstaki 400 gram or one kg of metarhizium anisopliae or one kg of Beauveria Bassiana should be sprayed. No chemical pesticide should be used between flowering and harvesting period.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 285 new cases||Salem district on Thursday reported 140 new COVID-19 cases, of which 119 cases were indigenous including 67 in Salem Corporation limits. Twenty-one patients returned from Karur, Namakkal, Chennai and Coimbatore. Four patients aged 48, 74, 65 and 50 died in the district. In Namakkal, all the 74 cases reported were indigenous. Extend co-operation to serosurvey: Collector Meanwhile, District Collector S.A.Raman appealed to the public to extend co-operation for collection of blood samples as part of serosurvey. Mr.Raman said in a release that samples would be collected from 42 clusters, 30 in rural areas, one in Municipality limits and 11 in Corporation limits. According to a release, 30 samples would be collected from a cluster from person aged above 18 years. Mr. Raman said that four teams, including lab technician, health inspector and health nurse has been formed for the purpose and the samples would be collected till November 5. Erode reported 80 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 9,459. While 111 persons were discharged, 867 persons continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll to 116. Krishnagiri district saw 45 cases and Dharmapuri 38 cases. Coimbatore district’s COVID-19 case load dropped below the 300 mark again on Thursday with 285 persons testing positive. The district had 314 positive cases on Wednesday while the case load remained below 300 on Monday and Tuesday. The Health Department said that 3,753 patients were undergoing treatment in the district as on Thursday, while 290 persons were discharged. The district reported the death of a 59-year-old patient. RTO Central closed The Regional Transport Office – Central on Dr. Balasundaram Road here was closed on Thursday after a 57-year-old man, who was one of the personal assistants in the office, tested positive, an official said. The premises of Regional Transport Office – Central would remain closed for disinfection on Friday and would likely to reopen on Saturday, the official said. Tiruppur district reported 155 cases, taking the district’s tally to 11,727. Three persons aged 45, 54 and 55 died of the disease, taking the toll so far to 174. Of the 11,727 cases, 10,531 recovered and 1,022 were active cases. On Thursday, 252 patients were discharged. In the Nilgiris, 62 persons tested positive, taking the total number of cases in the district to 6,273, with 425 persons undergoing treatment. One more death was reported, raising the district’s toll to 37.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||All in State will get free COVID-19 vaccine, says Chief Minister||“The coordinated efforts have yielded good results at a time when even developed countries are finding it difficult to control the spread of the virus,” Mr. Palaniswami said. The number of positive cases had come down, while the number of those who recovered from the infection had increased. These measures had also helped to bring down the mortality rate. Complimenting officials on their dedication in the fight against the infection, Mr. Palaniswami said adequate testing centres had been created all over the State and bed facilities had been augmented at hospitals. Leading by example Tamil Nadu was on top in respect of testing: RT-PCR tests were being done on 90,000 persons a day. Mr. Palaniswami accused Leader of the Opposition and DMK president M.K. Stalin of spreading false information in a "planned manner" about the investments made in the State after the global investors meet. The establishment of the manufacturing unit of ITC Ltd., at Viralimalai in the backward Pudukottai district, providing employment to 2,200 persons, was an example of the government’s commitment to attracting investments and promoting industrialisation, he said.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four of a family killed in road accident||Four persons of a family were killed in a road accident near Palani here on Thursday. The police said that Nataraj of Athappa Goundanpudur near Oddanchatram planned to get their elder son married soon. He left home with his family members in two cars to Pappampatti near Palani in connection with an alliance proposal. As one of the vehicles, which was driven by Nataraj’s son Manivel (29), suddenly toppled and hit a roadside tree at Karadikootam, its occupants including Manivel, Nataraj, Karuppanan and Muthammal (parents of Nataraj) died on the spot. On information, Palani Taluk police rushed to the accident spot and sent the bodies to the Government Hospital for post-mortem. Tyre burst A senior officer, who conducted an investigation at the spot, said that preliminary inquiries revealed that the accident may have occurred after a tyre burst, which could have resulted in the wheels going out of control of the driver. ‘We have to examine it thoroughly,’ he said and added that Mahalakshmi, who was also travelling in the car, was admitted to the hospital with multiple injuries.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Programme on ‘front accounting’ held||The Department of Commerce of Sadakathullah Appa College, Palayamkottai, in association with IIT-Bombay, recently conducted a five-day student development programme on ‘front accounting’. The Digital Learning Centre of Sadakkathullah Appa College has signed a memorandum of understanding with IIT-Bombay to offer ‘spoken tutorial’ to faculty, scholars and students. The Institute has designed free open source software for use by all disciplines. Also, the faculty and students are given training to enrich teaching-learning activities. Under the guidance of Mohamed Kasim Khan, Project Manager, Spoken Tutorial, Ministry of Education, Government of India, and Swapnali Kadam, Coordinator – Training (Tamil Nadu), IIT - Bombay, Spoken Tutorial, Ministry of Education, Government of India, the training on ‘Front accounting’ was given. Shajun Nisha, Chief Coordinator, STP-IIT Bombay, highlighted the objectives of the programme and the uses of the software ‘front accounting’ in commerce studies. Principal M. Mohamed Sathick presided over the event.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man gets life term||The special court for trial of cases registered under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act here has sentenced the maternal uncle of a 15-year-old girl for sexually assaulting her. According to the prosecution, Sivan Perumal, 34, hailed from a village under Ambasamudram All Women Police Station limits. He was married to Jaya for nine years and the couple did not have children. As he was desperate to have a baby, Sivan Perumal tried to lure his 15-year-old niece, a beedi-roller living near his house, with the help of his wife. Jaya invited the girl to her house under the pretext of showing a new saree. The girl went to her uncle’s house on February 15, 2017. Jaya asked her to try the saree and locked the house from inside. Sivan Perumal, with the help of Jaya, sexually assaulted her. The couple pacified her with the promise that Sivan Perumal would marry her as they wanted to have a baby. Subsequently, the girl was sexually assaulted by Sivan Perumal on various occasions and became pregnant. She gave birth to a baby. When the couple and their relatives started threatening her, she filed a complaint with the police, the prosecution said. POCSO Court Judge Indrani sentenced Sivan Perumal to life imprisonment and slapped a fine of Rs. 50,000 on Thursday. Jaya and other accused were acquitted for want of evidence. Though Sivan Perumal denied the charges against him, the DNA test conducted on the baby nailed him.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Gandhidham-Tirunelveli special train announced||Southern Railway will operate a festival special superfast train service between Gandhidham and Tirunelveli. The special superfast train service between Gandhidham-Tirunelveli will be operated via Madgaon, Ernakulam junction, Thiruvananthapuram Central and Nagercoil Town. The train will run to the timings of Train Number 19424/19423 Gandhidham-Tirunelveli-Gandhidham Humsafar Express in both directions. Advance reservation is compulsory in all classes and passengers should strictly follow COVID-19 safety protocol throughout the journey. Train No.09424/09423 Gandhidham-Tirunelveli-Gandhidham weekly superfast festival specials: Train No. 09424 Gandhidham-Tirunelveli Weekly Festival Special will leave Gandhidham at 2 p.m. on Mondays – October 26, November 2, 9, 16, 23 and 30 and reach Tirunelveli at 11.30 a.m. on the third day. The train will stop at Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, Vasai Road, Panvel, Ratnagiri, Madgaon, Karwar, Mangalore junction, Kozhikode, Shoranur Junction, Thrissur, Ernakulam Junction, Kayankulam Junction, Thiruvananthapuram Central and Nagercoil Town. In the return direction, Train Number 09423 Tirunelveli – Gandhidham Weekly Festival Special will leave Tirunelveli at 7.45 a.m. on Thursdays - November 5, 12, 19 and 26 and December 3 and reach Gandhidham at 4.30 a.m. on the third day. On October 29, the first service will leave Tirunelveli at 7.45 a.m. and reach Gandhidham at 6.40 a.m. on the third day due to prevailing monsoon time table timings via Konkan Railway. This train will stop at Nageroil Town, Thiruvananthapuram Central, Kayamkulam junction , Ernakulam junction, Thrissur, Shoranur junction, Kozhikode, Mangalore junction, Karwar, Madgaon, Ratnagiri, Panvel, Vasai Road, Surat, Vadodara and Ahmedabad. The trains will comprise one AC 2-Tier, five AC 3-Tier, 10 sleeper class, four general second class and two luggage-cum-brake van coaches, a statement said.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TNCSC revises target||The Tamil Nadu Civil Supplies Corporation has revised its target for paddy procurement for the year 2020-21 to 40 lakh tonnes. Going by the response from M. Sudha Devi, Managing Director, TNCSC, to the questions regarding procurement of paddy given to reporters at the District Collectorate here on Thursday it seems that the record procurement of 32.41 lakh tonnes of paddy from October 1, 2019 to September 30, 2020 has given confidence to the Corporation to hike its target for procurement. The TNCSC MD has said that ever since the decentralisation of paddy procurement took place in 2003, such a huge quantity of procurement has not been recorded.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Rare collection||
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In a tough spot||
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Shrunk stretch||
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||23-10-2020-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA  NAADA INBAM, 24992672 Celebrating Devi on Navarathri online at www.youtube.com/parivadinimusic. 6.15pm Kamalamba Navavarana Krithis presented by Thamarakkadu Shri. Govindan Nambudiri. (Part -2).
23 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Centre should take stern stand against Telangana’||The Union government should not yield to the demand by Telangana for redistribution of Krishna waters by a new river water disputes resolution tribunal, Congress leader and former Irrigation Minister H.K. Patil said in Hubballi on Thursday. The Centre seems to be taking a soft stand towards Telangana in the matter. This is not a positive development. This could lead to very serious negative implications for Karnataka. The Centre should take a stern stand against the demand by Telangana and not allow the issue to be raised before a fresh tribunal, he told journalists. ‘Clarify stand’ He urged the Centre to clarify its stand on the issue. He demanded that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa take a delegation to the Centre asking it to reject Telangana’s demad. Floods Mr. Patil criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Union government for failing to protect the interests of Karnataka in several issues, including responding to natural calamities in the State. “Since last year, Karnataka has suffered several calamities. Hundreds of rural families have lost their bread winners, farmers have lost crops and cattle and houses of countless poor families have collapsed. The State has suffered losses of more than Rs. 40,000 crore last year, while this year’s losses are yet to be calculated. I believe crops over 10 lakh hectares have been damaged and the losses add up to Rs. 35,000-Rs. 40,000 crore. People are suffering due to the unprecedented rainfall and water release from dams. But the Centre’s response has been discouraging. They have given only a fraction of what the State asked for. Mr. Modi should release adequate compensation to Karnataka,” he said. He faulted the State government for what he called callous attitude towards floods in North Karnataka. Officers are negligent towards their duty of establishing relief centres and caring for people lodged there. In several flood-hit villages, officers are yet to open relief centres. This should stop. Mr. Yediyurappa should issue a strict warning to officers and see that they carry out flood relief operations in a proper manner. Polls He said that the Congress was poised to win all the six Legislative Council seats as people were upset with the BJP that had not fulfilled any of its promises. “I am travelling with other Congress leaders to collect the opinion of graduates and other enlightened citizens. I see that most of them are disappointed. They feel betrayed by Mr. Modi on his poll-time promises that he never kept. They are asking what happened to the promise of creation of two crore jobs and reducing corruption. People feel bad about voting for the BJP and want to support the Congress in the coming polls,” he said. He said that the power struggles in the State BJP was also a cause of concern for the people.
23 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||IAF officer visits Airmen Training School||Air Officer Commanding in Chief, IAF Training Command, Air Marshal R.D. Mathur, arrived in Belagavi for a two-day visit to the Airmen Training School in Sambra on Wednesday. Air Commodore S.D. Mukul, Air Officer Commanding, ATS, received him. He inspected various facilities at the centre and interacted with officers and trainees. He emphasised the need to impart high quality training in view of the technological advances. He asked trainees to sustain the steep learning curve and become fully effective air warriors on completion of their training, according to a release.
23 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Yatnal shares post seeking KSE’s expulsion||Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, MLA and former Union Minister, shared a supporter’s social media post that asked why the BJP should not expel RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, who had on Wednesday demanded Mr. Yatnal’s expulsion for criticising Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. Mr. Yatnal shared the social media post by his follower Ankush Vashistha that said why Mr. Eshwarappa should not be expelled for organising, in the past, Rayanna Brigade that was seen as a threat to the BJP. The post said, “We know who has a loose tongue. You are asking for the expulsion of Mr. Yatnal. But you should be expelled from the party first. Have you forgotten the Rayanna Brigade?”
23 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Naval chief pays a visit to Karwar base||Chief of the Naval Staff Admiral Karambir Singh visited Karwar Naval Base on Thursday. He was received by the Admiral Superintendent of Yard (Karwar) and the Chief Staff Officer of the Karnataka Naval Area. Admiral Singh addressed officers and sailors at Karwar and complimented the contribution of the Naval Base towards sustaining high levels of operational tempo. He also appreciated the Naval Ship Repair Yard in Karwar in providing maintenance support and repair service to ships and submarines during the COVID-19-induced lockdown period. He acknowledged the contribution of INHS Patanjali for being the first Armed Forces hospital in the country to treat civilian COVID-19 positive patients. He said that patients from Uttara Kannada were provided quality care leading to their speedy recovery. The Admiral wished the men and their families a happy festive season.
23 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Farmer arrested, ganja seized||The district police arrested a farmer for growing ganja crop in his sugarcane farm. Mallappa Bheemappa, a farmer from Jaganur village near Chikkodi, had cultivated 19.5 kilograms of ganja amid his sugarcane crop. A team of officers from the Chikkodi Police Station arrested him and seized the banned substance. They said that it was valued at Rs. 78,000. A case has been registered.
23 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Trains to run on original route||South Western Railway will restore some trains to their original schedule as the repair work on a bridge near Pune has been completed. Following the completion of repairs to the bridge between Bhilwadi and Nandre near Pune, some trains will resume operating on their original routes. They were diverted away from the track earlier. The Vasco Da Gama-Hazrat Nizamuddin Special from Vasco Da Gama will run now on the normal route. Hazrat Nizamuddin-Vasco Da Gama Special commencing from Hazrat Nizamuddin will run on the original route. Yesvantpur-Hazrat Nizamuddin Sampark Kranti Special from Yesvantpur will run on the scheduled route. Hubballi-Lokmanya Tilak Terminus Express Special service and Lokmanya Tilak Terminus-Hubballi Express Special service will commence on Friday.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sira hots up as big forces descend on turf||Once an important military outpost for the Mughals in south India, Sira in Tumakuru district is witnessing a fierce political battle in the byelection arena now. In the field are a veteran fighting to retain his party’s turf, a young and politically ambitious leader looking to send a message, and a newly anointed party chief keen to prove his mettle. The octogenarian Janata Dal (Secular) leader, H.D. Deve Gowda, is camping in Sira to ensure the party’s victory while B.Y. Vijayendra, son of Chief MinisterB.S. Yediyurappa, has been in the constituency for over 10 days now. Congress leaders D.K. Shivakumar and the former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah, according to sources, will be seen more often in the constituency. While the traditional rivalry between the Congress and the Janata Dal (Secular) in this Vokkaliga turf remains, the BJP is trying to make inroads into the Vokkaliga heartland after its victory in K.R. Pet constituency in Mandya during the bypolls in December last. With just over 10 days left for the polling on November 3, the constituency has seen heightened political activity, though the outcome has no consequence on the BJP government in the State. To retain identity The entry of Mr. Gowda to the electoral fight, party sources said, comes at a “politically important juncture” for the party that is anxious about retaining its identity as a regional player, and to prevent a repeat of K.R. Pet bypoll results.The party derives its strength from Tumakuru and Mandya districts, and losses here could progressively erode the party’s base, sources said. The former Prime Minister on Thursday told the “BJP youth leader” (Mr. Vijayendra) that Sira is not K.R. Pet to take the JD(S) lightly. “Loss in Sira could have a long-term impact on the party, which has a strong base in Tumakuru district. He does not want to let it go and see its impact in the next elections,” sources said. Mr. Gowda has not been involved so closely in a constituency in recent years, sources said. On the other, Mr. Vijayendra, BJP vice-president, has been working in the constituency, approaching leaders and voters at the booth level. “The BJP does not have a great base here.A victory for the BJP in Sira on the lines of K.R. Pet could send a political message since it is also not a Lingayat-dominated constituency. It will help build the young leader an image outside Lingayat politics,” sources said. Mr. Vijayendra’s presence, however, has been marked by Opposition’s allegations of distribution of money to woo voters, a charge he has dismissed as stemming from “frustration”. For KPCC president Mr. Shivakumar, who is being seen in a covert struggle for Vokkaliga leadership with JD(S) leaders, the bypoll in the Vokkaliga heartland is an opportunity to prove his capacity. It is also his first electoral outing after taking over as chief of the State party unit. Sources close to him said a victory in Sira and R.R. Nagar, both with sizeable Vokkaliga population, could attract more Vokkaliga leaders from the JD(S) to the Congress fold.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Autopsy reveals virus was active 18 hours after death||The novel SARS-CoV-2 virus can be lurking around in some parts of the body even after 18 hours of death. A clinical autopsy done on the dead body of a 62-year-old COVID-19 patient in Bengaluru, who died after 14 days of treatment, has revealed that the virus was active in the mouth, throat and nasal area 18 hours after his death. The autopsy, claimed to be the first in India, was done early last week by forensic expert Dinesh Rao, who heads the Department of Forensic Medicine in Oxford Medical College and Research Institute in the city. “I took up the autopsy to understand the disease process and its outcome, and to study if there is a need to modify the treatment protocols. Of the various swabs I took, those from the mouth, throat and nose tested RT-PCR positive, while there was no trace of the virus on the skin of the face, neck, or internal organs like the respiratory passage and lungs. That is because the lung surface was dominated by bacterial infections,” Dr. Rao said. Virus effect “The lungs, which are normally like a soft sponge ball, were more like a leather ball. They normally weigh about 600-700 gm, but this victim’s lungs together weighed 2,180 gm and the texture was leathery. There were blood clots and the air sacs were ruptured. It was shocking to see what the virus had done to the lungs,” he said. “These findings indicate that artificial ventilation or oxygen administration would not have helped the patient. The patient required thrombolytic therapies that involve dissolving the clots in the body first. The air sacs were filled with clots and that had to be dissolved first,” he explained. Also, going by these findings it is advisable that all COVID-19 bodies should be cremated and not be handed over to families, he said. Stating that these findings only pertain to a single COVID-19 body, the doctor said: “We need more research to understand the disease process and modify our treatment protocols instead of blindly following what the World Health Organisation (WHO) recommends. All guidelines and treatment protocols put out by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) are based on WHO recommendations and international data. Dr. Rao, who conducted the 1.10-hour autopsy all alone as none were willing to join him, said he only took help to lift the body and keep it on the autopsy table. “There are a few more tests — immunohistochemistry, CT scan of the body, electron microscopic, and virological tests — that I wanted to do but had no facilities. More research is needed in this regard,” he added.  The lungs were more like a leather ball. They usually weigh about 600-700 gms, but this victim’s lungs weighed 2,180 gm. Dinesh Rao forensic expert
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Redrawing quota — a politically, legally fraught issue||While Karnataka is seeing a heightened demand for re-engineering the reservation matrix, with Kuruba community demanding the Scheduled Tribe (ST) tag and Valmiki community seeking a hike in overall ST reservation quota, any inclusion and exclusion from quota is a legally and politically fraught issue, experts say. For starters, the State government is yet to accept the socio-economic survey (caste census) report, which can provide ground for redrawing quota, even as many caste groups, especially Lingayats and Vokkaligas, are critical of the census methodology and outcome itself. Meanwhile, already on the table is H.N. Nagamohan Das Committee Report that recommends a hike in reservation for STs by 4%, taking it to 7%, and for Scheduled Castes (SCs) by 2%, taking it to 17%, in proportion to their population. If Kurubas are to be declared ST as per their demand, the quota for STs will have to be proportionally increased. Breaching limit The larger issue is also that the State has already hit the apex court set 50% cap on reservation and any hike poses a challenge. Seniors in the backward classes movement argue that the socio-economic survey should be the basis for reconstitution of the matrix, essentially demanding that communities that have progressed since availing of benefits be stripped of them to accommodate others who continue to be “backward”. This argument is particularly aimed at the Vokkaligas and Lingayats. However, leaders of these communities say they are prepared for even a legal challenge, depending on the outcome of the caste census. Any attempt to push communities out of quota would face a big challenge. “Other backward classes (OBCs) make up about 52% of the State’s population, but enjoy 32% reservation. So any cut further is unfair and politically fraught,” said a senior OBC leader from the BJP. This leaves the State government with the only option of increasing the quota beyond 50%, a recommendation by the Nagamohan Das committee as well. One way out is through a Bill to increase reservation beyond the 50% limit passed in Parliament and including it under the IX Schedule of the Constitution, putting it beyond judicial review, like in the case of Tamil Nadu, experts said. However, some legal experts say this can be done at the State level. “Indira Sawhney judgment of the apex court that caps quota at 50% also says this can be relaxed in exceptional circumstances, The State government can use this argument,” said a retired Karnataka High Court judge. Legal experts such as C.S. Dwarakanath, former chairman of the Karnataka State Backward Classes Commission, argue for a complete reconstitution of the matrix based on the caste census. “There is no scientific rationale for classification of communities under various categories for reservation. This has only meant the dominant castes within the category enjoying all benefits at the cost of smaller communities,” he said. Complex procedure There are also complex procedural issues in including any community in the ST list. The Union government has to pass a Bill in the Lok Sabha and the President of India must give his assent. Given the complexity, the government may not be willing to do that right now, said many. “Kurubas are essentially shepherds who are there in every State, though their names may vary. Any attempt by the Union government to list Kurubas in Karnataka as ST will only have a snowball effect across the country. Other STs are unlikely to quietly accommodate such a large community in their quota bracket,” said a senior OBC leader. He added that Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, while under pressure to respond to these demands, is unlikely to “touch the beehive”.  (Concluded)
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Want to be known beyond the identity of being D.K. Ravi’s wife’||For 31-year-old Kusuma H., the transition from the classroom to canvassing in her constituency appears seamless, but she says the two worlds are very different. The Congress candidate from Rajarajeshwari Nagar Assembly constituency in the byelections says while she earlier had to learn and teach from a prescribed syllabus as a lecturer, she now does not have the luxury of saying that questions asked by her voters are “out of syllabus.” Speaking to The Hindu , she talks about her plans for the constituency and how she is striving to carve her own identity. Excerpts: Do you think it is possible to carve your own identity because people know you as late IAS officer D.K. Ravi’s wife? Now D.K. Suresh, MP, also appears to be in the limelight while campaigning for you. I am D.K. Ravi’s wife and I cannot change that. What I, however, want is to be known beyond that identity. D.K. Suresh sir is an experienced politician who has done a lot of good work and I do not think I will be overshadowed by him. Why is it important for women to get into electoral politics? I come from a family of privilege. Despite that, when my husband died, I had to face several accusations as a woman. I often think about the hardships that women who are not as well placed have to face. Politics is a space where we can reach out to people and it is important for women to take the plunge. What will be your priorities for the constituency if elected to power? My priority is to improve affordable healthcare, in the midst of a pandemic. There is economic slowdown and people have lost jobs or seen steep cuts in salaries, which needs to be addressed. I also want to focus on education and environment, issues close to my heart. Is this your one off attempt in politics or are you are here to stay? I am here to stay. Winning or losing the elections will not change my motive of wanting to help people. How do you perceive your chances of winning against BJP candidate Munirathna Naidu, who has won twice from here? I do not think of how strong or popular my opponent is. I am only trying to focus on how I can reach out and convince people that I will do a good job if elected. You are foreign educated and come from a family of privilege. Will you be able to understand the problems at grassroots?  People do not know how my initial upbringing was. My father hailed from an agricultural background and was once a bus conductor. I definitely understand the difficulties of people and connect.  Winning or losing the elections will not change my motive of wanting to help people.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||New SWM policy aims to achieve 100% segregation at source||The State government on Thursday approved the Karnataka State Urban Solid Waste Management (SWM) Policy-2020 and the Urban Solid Waste Management Strategy-2020. The new policy has an ambitious target of achieving 100% segregation at source of solid waste in all urban local bodies across the State. The new policy also aims to reduce waste going to landfills to less than 30% of the total waste generated by 2025. The policy was prepared by the Directorate of Municipal Administration in compliance with the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, and is applicable to all ULBs in the State. According to the policy, most of the ULBs in the State spent maximum portion of their overall budget for waste management on collection and transportation of solid waste. “Often, less than 10% of the budget is spent on treatment, processing, and final disposal of solid waste. Proper processing, including recycling facilities, do not exist in most ULBs in Karnataka and therefore, majority of the waste is being taken to unscientific disposal sites for dumping,” the document stated. The new policy calls for focus and effort on segregation of waste and proper processing of waste. However, biomedical waste, e-waste, faecal sludge and sewage, construction and demolition waste, and industrial waste have not been covered under the new policy as they do not fall under the scope of SWM Rules, 2016. Awareness campaigns The zero-waste initiative, ‘Namma Kasa Namma Javabdhari’, will be implemented across the State along with awareness campaigns on the practice of reduce, reuse, recycle (3Rs).
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||4 arrested for cyber fraud||Police officials with the cyber crime division of the CID arrested four persons from Rajasthan for allegedly creating fake social media accounts of police officers and government servants in a scam to extract money from their contacts. A police team tracked down the accused to Bharatpur and arrested Ansar, Balwinder Singh, Saini and Saddam. “We are on the lookout for a fifth person, Shakeel, who allegedly created the fake profiles,” said a senior police officer. The accused would get details of their targets’ friends list on Facebook, then make a fake profile using an official photo and send requests for financial help to their contacts via the site’s messaging app. Recently, the cyber crime division received as many as four complaints, three from senior police officers. Fake identity papers According to the police, they gang created fake Aadhaar cards by mixing various photographs, addresses and numbers. They used this information to get SIM cards. Ansar, a retailer of SIM cards, would apply for a SIM with these fake identity papers while Balwinder Singh, who works for a leading telecom service provider, got them activated. DIG (Economic Offences) Rohini Katoch Sepat, who supervised the investigation, said that similar cases had been registered in other parts of Karnataka. “Over 10 such cases were filed in different police stations across the State,” she said.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man rescued from Varthur lake||A 37-year-old man was rescued from a pool of sludge in Varthur lake. Srinivas, a resident of Balagere near the lake, went to the lake around 4 p.m. on Thursday to retrieve his cattle. “Due to heavy rains over the past few days and ongoing restoration work, there are sludgy patches in the lake. Srinivas was trapped in one of them. We saw him shouting for help. We alerted the fire and emergency personnel,” said Wesly Fernandes, a BBMP marshal. Narasimha Murthy, a Fire Department personnel who was part of the rescue operation, said that Srinivas was stuck around 150 metres away from the edge of the lake. “At one point, he was neck-deep in water. We used a rope to rescue him,” he said. Jagadish Reddy of Varthur Rising said that such instances are a regular occurrence as cattle often venture into the lake bed.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM holds virtual meet with investors||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa participated in the 7th National Forum of Public Affairs Forum of India on Thursday and held virtual meetings with various industries, including Dalmia Group and Bharti Enterprises, and made a pitch for investments in Karantaka. He held talks with industry captains and detailed them on the opportunities in IT/ITES services, machine tooling, manufacturing, aerospace, biotechnology, and engineering design in the State. Karnataka has attracted investment worth Rs. 1.38 lakh crore, the highest in the country, which would create 70,000 direct employment in the State, he said. Meanwhile, Gaurav Gupta, Principal Secretary, Commerce & Industries Department, said, “The pandemic has taught us the importance of building a strong value chain. As a leading industrial State, Karnataka offers industries to not only localise supply chains and de-risk their operations but also strengthen the local ecosystem that would help in creating sustainable solutions.”
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||JD(S) to support Independent candidate||In a setback to the JD(S), the party’s candidate contesting from Karnataka West Graduates’ constituency to the Legislative Council has become “neutral”, forcing the party to announce its support to an Independent who is in the fray. A note from the party on Thursday announced that the party had decided to extend support to Basavaraj Gurikar, Independent contesting from the constituency, polls for which are scheduled for October 28. Mr. Gurikar has been involved in organising government school teachers. It said that the party had decided to support the Independent candidate after its nominee, Shivaraj Kallur, had remained neutral in the contest. He has withdrawn from poll campaign and was showing no interest, said party sources. Former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy appealed to the party workers and voters to back the Independent candidate and work for his victory.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Paddy procurement from Nov.||The Cabinet sub-committee on minimum support price for commodities has recommended to the government to purchase a minimum of 16 quintals of paddy from an acre from each farmer during 2020-21 under the minimum support price scheme. It has proposed to procure a maximum of 40 quintals of paddy from farmers. It has proposed to release Rs. 300 crore from the State Revolving Fund for procurement. A registration process to procure paddy would commence next month.
23 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||96 fresh cases of COVID-19 in Hassan||Five people died of COVID-19 in Hassan on Thursday, increasing the death toll to 409 in the district. Besides that 96 fresh cases of the infection were reported in the district on the day. So far 23,800 confirmed cases have been reported in the district. Among them, 21,250 have recovered and 2,141 are under treatment. Of those under treatment, 41 are in the intensive care unit. Of the fresh cases reported on the day four are from Channarayapatna, seven from Alur, 54 from Hassan, six from Holenaraipur, 15 from Arkalgud, seven from Belur, two from Sakleshpur taluk and two more from other districts, said a press release issued by K.M. Sathish Kumar, District Health Officer.
23 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Revanna sees Cong., BJP ‘pact’ for bypolls||Former Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Revanna has alleged that the Congress and the BJP had an understanding in the by-elections to R.R.Nagar and Sira Assembly constituencies. He said at a press conference in Hassan on Thursday that both the national parties did not want the JD(S) to grow in the State. The agenda of both the parties was to defeat the JD(S). He said the State government had no concern for people affected by the floods. The government machinery had been engaged in the election campaign, ignoring the plight of people in northern districts.  Local bodies Further, Mr. Revanna said the State government had ignored the basic principles of democracy while finalising the reservation for the posts of president and vice-president in urban local bodies. The BJP had planned to assume power in 48 local bodies without required strength. The officers had been supporting the ‘unethical’ practices of the government, he alleged. He also alleged that the Advocate-General of the State had been “dancing to the tunes of the government” and had changed his statements before the court repeatedly, to please the people in power.
23 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||1,247 cheating cases in shops in Shivamogga||The Department of Legal Metrology has unearthed 1,247 cheating cases in Shivamogga district till September 30 this year and collected a fine of Rs. 10.30 lakh from the offenders. Assistant Controller of the department, S. Manjunath, in a press release issued in Shivamogga on Thursday said the staff conducted surprise checks at shops and establishments to detect irregularities in weights and measures. During such checks, the staff noticed 1,247 instances and slapped a penalty on the offenders. The department also collected Rs. 68.44 lakh as fee for verifying and stamping the weights and measures in the district.
23 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||GESCOM yet to restore power supply in three flood-hit villages in Kalaburagi||Though Gulbarga Electricity Supply Company (GESCOM), a State-owned undertaking entrusted with the responsibility of supplying electricity in the six districts of Kalyana Karnataka region, has successfully corrected power disruptions caused by heavy floods, three villages are yet to get power supply. Speaking to The Hindu on Thursday, GESCOM Chief Engineer Laxman Chauhan said that Mandarwada, Kobal and Raddewadagi villages in Jewargi taluk that were completely flooded for days on end are yet to get electricity supply restored. “Many electricity polls have fallen and transformers are damaged. The ground around the village is too wet to walk on and take up repair work. We are waiting for the ground to get dry and hard for taking up repair and restoration work,” he said. According to the officer, 2,154 electricity polls have fallen and 1,093 transformers submerged in the floodwaters across Kalaburagi district. In Yadgir district, 325 electricity polls have fallen and 267 transformers are submerged. “Meanwhile, most of the fallen electricity polls have been restored to their original position in the two districts. As for flood-hit transformers, we cannot say all of them have been destroyed. Some may function properly and some may have to be replaced. We are checking them,” he said. When asked, the officer said that GESCOM had enough transformers to replace defunct ones. To a query on demand and supply of electricity, Mr. Chauhan said that power procurement was surplus in GESCOM. “We are given between 28 million units and 30 million units a day as compared to the demand of around 25 million units,” he said.
23 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Make railway division operational’||Members of the Kalyana Karnataka Grahakara Vedike and the Hyderabad Karnataka Janapara Sangharsha Samiti on Thursday submitted a memorandum to the General Manager, Central Railways, Sanjeev Mittal, urging him to fulfil the long-pending demand to make Kalaburagi Railway Division operational. In a memorandum, samiti president Lakshman Dasti and vedike president Sunil Kulkarni stated that though the Union government had announced the Railway Divisional headquarters in Kalaburagi in 2014 and a detailed project report given approval and the required land allocated to Indian Railways, the Railway Division still remains a distant dream. At present, the region is served by three railway zones — Central Railways, South Central Railways and and South Western Railways; and five divisions — Solapur, Guntakal, Secunderabad, Hyderabad and Hubballi. “As the region is divided into various zones and divisions, it is difficult to get train facilities. To get one new train facility started from the region, we have to get approval from various divisions and zone offices,” Mr. Kulkarni added. The other demands included the starting of festival special express train between Solapur and Hassan and to resume the Kalaburagi-Hyderabad Inter-city express that was cancelled during the lockdown. Vedike unhappy Kalyana Karnataka Grahakara Vedike also expressed displeasure over the manner in which Mr. Mittal conducted the inspection. Mr. Mittal, who was in the city to inspect the Kalaburagi-Solapur doubling works, had not stepped out of his car during inspection. He asked his secretary to collect the memorandum, the vedike said.
23 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Special package sought for areas devastated by floods||State secretary of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) Mahadev Dinni has demanded that the government announce a special package for taking up relief and rehabilitation in the areas affected by the recent floods in Kalaburagi, Vijayapura and other districts. Addressing a media conference here on Thursday, Mr. Dinni also demanded that the government take steps to ensure that crop loss survey was carried out objectively leaving no affected farmer outside the purview of compensation. “Thousands of houses have been damaged and standing crops on vast tracts of lands are destroyed in the floods. The future of the flood victims is bleak. The government should immediately complete the survey and come up with an objective picture of loss and announce a special package to compensate the affected people and restore infrastructure,” he said. Mr. Dinni also criticised Deputy Chief Minister and Kalaburagi district in-charge Govind Karjol for not visiting the flood-hit areas in the district. BSP district president Mallikarjun Kodli and leaders Ramachandra Jhandre, Prakash Sagar, Mailari Shellagi and others were present.
23 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||NEKRTC withdraws additional charge for weekend trips||North East Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC), State-owned transport company having its primary operations in Kalyana Karnataka region, has withdrawn the 10 % additional charge that it was collecting from passengers travelling during the weekend. In a media release, Managing Director of NEKRTC M. Kurma Rao cited the disinterest among passengers and also the competitive rates offered by private bus operators as the reasons for the withdrawal of additional weekend charge. “As people are showing little interest in using public transport on major routes owing to COVID-19 and as prices offered by the private players on major routes are relatively lesser than that offered by NEKRTC, the 10 % additional charge imposed on these routes during the weekend is withdrawn to attract more passengers,” he said. He also made it clear that the additional charge will remain withdrawn till December 31, 2020. NEKRTC imposed 10 % additional charge on major routes for buses leaving the originating station on Fridays and destination stations on Sundays.
23 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Officer told to disburse relief amount to people in 15 days||Commending the Kalaburagi district administration for the timely response in taking up rescue and relief work in the flood-hit areas, Deputy Chief Minister and district in-charge Govind Karjol has directed the Deputy Commissioner to disburse Rs. 10,000 relief amount to every affected family and complete crop and house damage survey within 15 days. In a letter to the Deputy Commissioner on Thursday, Mr. Karjol has also asked the administration to conduct the survey objectively and distribute compensation amount honestly. He asked the officer to ensure that no eligible beneficiary was left out and deprived of compensation. “The issue we need to focus on now is to conduct the survey and distribute compensation to the flood victims at the earliest. The poor may survive on their wages. But, they cannot get houses built on their own. The houses that were undermined in the floods may collapse in about 15 days. Enough care should be taken in conducting the survey,” he said. “Though conducting crop loss survey may be difficult at this stage, the administration needs to monitor the situation for the next 15 days and start the survey. I am going to randomly check the work. All the officials in the district shall get actively involved in the task. All officers should involve themselves in the survey work in such a way that people should feel assured of them getting fair compensation,” Mr. Karjol said. He also directed the Deputy Commissioner to strictly follow the directions given by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa during his recent visit to flood-hit areas and submit a report on it at the earliest.
23 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Molecular biology lab inaugurated||The Khaja Bandanawaz Teaching and General Hospital in Kalaburagi run by the Khaja Bandanawaz University, an autonomous institution, inaugurated a molecular biology laboratory here on Thursday. The laboratory is accredited by National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL) and authorised by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) with biosafety level-2 with COVID-19 testing facility. Pro-Vice-Chancellors of KBN University Faruqueuddin Ahmed and A.H. Raja Sab said that the laboratory has the capability to conduct the much-sought-after confirmatory test for diagnosis of COVID-19 during the prevailing accelerated phase.
23 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. releases additional Rs. 14 cr. for Pachchanady relief works||The State government has released an additional Rs. 14 crore for relief works related to solid waste slip at a landfill site of the Mangaluru City Corporation at Pachchanady in August last year, according to Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyas Kamath and Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharat Shetty. Earlier, the government had released Rs. 8 crore for the relief works, they said in a statement. With this, the government has released Rs. 22 crore, in all, sought for by the district administration for relief works. The garbage slip in the rainy season had affected 35 families besides bringing down several coconut and arecanut palms. The waste slip covered 13.5 acres of private land, including farm land. A revenue official in the corporation said that of the Rs. 8 crore released earlier, half of the amount has been reserved for building a retaining wall in the area. Of the balance Rs. 4 crore reserved for providing compensation to the affected families, Rs. 2.52 crore has been given to 32 families having “pahani” towards damage caused to their farm land. The official said that a meeting of the affected families has been called next month to decide on the other forms of compensation to be given to them and other relief measures to be taken up in the affected area. Meanwhile, the civic body has proposed to the government bio-mining of solid waste dumped over the years in the site to reclaim the land for further use by recovering non-biodegradable material in the same site to send it for recycling. According to the corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar, bio-mining is estimated to cost Rs. 17 crore. An environment engineer of the civic body said that the dumped solid waste spread over 25 acres, including the 13.5 acres of private land, in Pachchanady is estimated to be six lakh tonnes. Once bio-mining is taken up, it is expected to come down to 2.4 lakh tonnes as the refuse derived fuel (RDF) material (such as plastic recovered) in the site are estimated at 40 %. The Rs. 17-crore cost estimated excludes the transportation of the recovered material in bales. Bales of plastic recovered will have to be transported to cement industries which are at least 700 km away from Mangaluru. It required an additional fund, he said.
23 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘We will stand by harassment victims’||The National Commission for Women (NCW) will not have any change in its view on the Hathras incident and it will stand by victims of harassment, said NCW member Shyamala Kunder here on Thursday. Answering a question regarding the action taken on those who had revealed the name of victim of rape and murder in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh on the social media, Ms. Kunder said that notices have been served against those involved. “The NCW will definitely take action in the issue following a reply to notices and the ATR (action taken report) from officials,” she said. The NCW, she said at a press conference, has initiated all necessary legal steps to provide justice to the victim of the Hathras incident. On the remark made against a woman candidate from Bharatiya Janata Party by a Congress leader in Madhya Pradesh during an election campaign, Ms. Kunder said that the commission is waiting for the action taken report from the officials. They have been given 30 days to submit it. “We hope to get a factual report. If officials do not reveal the facts, action will be taken against them too,” she said and added, “The NCW will have no change in its view and it will continue to stand by victims of harassment.” Ms. Kunder, who is in-charge of cases from eight States, including Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, said that the NCW has been acting quickly on all instances of harassment that come to its notice. With more cases of women becoming victims of cyber crime and dowry harassment in the State, Ms. Kunder said that the police have been asked to make women aware of facilities such as the police control room and the Sakshi one-stop centre from where they can be get help.
23 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Workers stage protest in Bunder||Members of the Bunder Shramika Sangha resorted to a strike from work and staged a protest in Bunder here on Thursday urging Mangaluru City Corporation and Mangaluru Smart City Ltd. to repair roads in Bunder area dug up for laying underground drainage pipelines under the Smart City Mission. Speaking on the occasion, secretary of the sangha and president of Dakshina Kannada unit of the Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) B.K. Imtiyaz said that Port Road, Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry Road, J.M. Road, Krishna Mill Road and Ansari Road required immediate repair. Though the local MLA had given instructions to repair the road at the earliest, officials have not responded. Workers are finding it difficult to pull their carts. The sangha will give the corporation a one-month deadline. If roads are not repaired by then, it will take out a jatha of carts pulling them up to the corporation’s office in Lalbagh and lay a siege to the corporation office. Councillor Abdul Latheef said that development of Bunder should not be ignored by Mangaluru Smart City Ltd.
23 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Southern Rly. transports 100 harvester machines||As many as 100 harvester machines transported by the Business Development Unit of the Southern Railway from Chinna Salem to Surathkal reached here on Thursday. Loaded on 32 wagons, the train had left Chinna Salem on October 21, a Southern Railway release said. Recently, it transported over 80 harvester machines, loaded on 32 wagons, from Chinna Salem to Nalgonda in Telangana. Overcoming all odds caused by the COVID-19 situation, Southern Railway is transporting raw material and finished products which help traders, businessmen and farmers, it said.
23 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Weekly superfast festival special trains to run via Mangaluru Jn. from tomorrow||The Railways will operate Train Nos 02198/02197 Jabalpur Junction-Coimbatore Junction-Jabalpur Junction Weekly Superfast Festival Special (fully reserved) trains via Mangaluru Junction from October 24 and October 26, respectively. The Gandhidham-Tirunelveli-Gandhidham Weekly Superfast Festival, via Mangaluru Junction, will be operated from October 26, a railway release said. Monsoon schedule Train No 02198 Jabalpur Junction-Coimbatore Junction Weekly Superfast Festival Special (fully reserved) will leave Jabalpur Junction at 11 a.m. every Saturday from October 24 to October 31. The train will reach Coimbatore Junction at 4.40 a.m. on the third day. Train No 02197 Coimbatore Junction-Jabalpur Junction Weekly Superfast Festival Special (fully reserved) will leave Coimbatore Junction at 3.30 p.m. every Monday from October 26 to October 31. It will reach Jabalpur Junction at 8 a.m. on the third day. Non-monsoon Train No 02198 will leave Jabalpur Junction at 11. a.m. every Saturday from November 7 to November 28. It will reach Coimbatore Junction at 2.50 a.m. on the third day. Train No 02197 will leave Coimbatore Junction at 6 p.m. every Monday from November 2 to November 30. The train will reach Jabalpur Junction at 8 a.m. on the third day. Train No 09424 Gandhidham-Tirunelveli Weekly Festival Special will leave Gandhidham at 2 p.m. October 26, November 2, 9, 16, 23 and November 30 and reach Tirunelveli at 11.30 a.m. on the third day. In return direction, Train No 09423 Tirunelveli-Gandhidham Weekly Festival Special will leave Tirunelveli at 7.45 a.m. on November 5, 12, 19, 26, and on December 3 and will reach Gandhidham at 4.30 a.m. on the third day. Only one service, i.e., on October 29, will leave Tirunelveli at 7.45 a.m. and reach Gandhidham at 6.40 a.m. on the third day due to the monsoon timetable.
23 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||No garbage collection in Udupi today||Solid waste will not be collected from people’s doorsteps in Udupi city on Friday due to Ayudha Puja, the Commissioner of Udupi CMC has said.
23 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Post-COVID-19 treatment, patients complain of many health issues||After recovering from COVID-19, patients are said to be complaining of problems such as breathlessness, joint pain, chest pain, cardiac related issues and even memory loss. With nearly 50 per cent of the recovered patients complaining of these issues, a private hospital in Mysuru on Thursday announced the launch of the Post-COVID-19 Recovery Clinic to treat the rising number of patients suffering from mid= and long-term effects of the infection. The recovery clinic at the Apollo BGS Hospitals in Kuvempunagar will be run by a team of specialists with the help of neurologists and immunologists. Announcing the clinic at a press conference here on Thursday, hospital’s consultant physician Sanjeev Rao Girimaji said the clinic was launched as many patients had contacted doctors about symptoms they are experiencing and not knowing how to to deal with them. The clinic aims to help patients get specialised care with the guidelines laid down and the clinicians trained to ensure that patients get correct treatment, he added. COVID-19 can impact vital organs and acute events such as stroke and myocardial infection, and chronic conditions including diabetes and hypertension are a part of the post-COVID conditions. A number of sudden deaths in post-COVID patients had been reported and most of these are attributed to acute cardiac events, a release from the hospital said. Consultant pulmonologist Madhu K. said COVID-19 attacks not just the lungs but other organs as well and leaves behind lingering health issues. Some of the manifestations occur weeks and months after the treatment. N.G. Bharateesha Reddy, Vice-President and Unit head, Apollo BGS Hospitals, Mysuru, in the release, said the COVID-19 syndrome is adding to the disease load and if not addressed with special attention will lead to an increase in morbidity and mortality beyond the pandemic among the recovered patients. A patient information booklet was launched.
23 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Jamboo Savari: Elephants take part in first rehearsal||The first rehearsal for the scaled-down Jamboo Savari on the day of Vijayadashami was conducted on the palace premises on Thursday. Dasara elephants led by Abhimanyu and a limited number of participants, including the mounted police, were present. The rehearsal was restricted till the Balarama Gate of the palace. ‘Pattada Ane’ Vikrama and ‘Nishane Ane’ Gopi could not participate in the rehearsal since they were participating in the Dasara related rituals of the Wadiyar family. They are expected to join for the next rehearsals. Abhimanyu, along with ‘Kumki’ elephants Kaveri and Vijaya, were taken near the elevated rostrum in front of the palace where the police officers standing on the elevated platform showered petals on the elephants to rehearse for the low-key procession. Abhimanyu would be carrying the 750-kg golden howdah for the first time on the day of Dasara finale on October 26. At the rehearsal on Thursday, Abhimanyu was not carrying the wooden replica of the howdah but the tusker had undertaken weight training with sandbags and the wooden replica since its arrival from the forest camp. After the showering of flowers on them, the jumbos moved towards the Balarama Gate which were followed by the Mounted Police and other police personnel. The rehearsal ended at the gate. However, when the rehearsal was about to end, a horse of the mounted police panicked and the rider (policeman) fell off. However, the horse calmed down and the rider climbed back to complete the procession. The final rehearsal will be conducted on Saturday, a day before the Ayudha Puja, besides another rehearsal scheduled on Saturday. Sources told The Hindu that a couple of cultural troupes and one or two tableaux are expected to be part of the procession but there was no clarity on it yet. Entry to the palace for Jamboo Savari will be restricted to less than 300 on advice of the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, Bengaluru. Accordingly, the arrangements would be limited with the seating only for the shortlisted participants, similar to the way it was done for the inauguration atop the Chamundi Hills. Meanwhile, senior forest veterinarian D.N. Nagaraj, who has been looking after the elephants, told The Hindu that all five elephants were in good health and completed scheduled rehearsals for the big day. Abhimanyu has been successfully handling the tasks as it was not new for him since such tasks he had carried even before as a stand-by to Arjuna, the outgoing lead elephant, which was retired from the tasks as it turned 60 years. “Abhimanyu is perfectly handling the tasks. All training so far went off smoothly,” the vet said, after the rehearsal. The Forest Department has full faith that Abhimanyu will pull off the task with perfection as it has been in the elite Dasara jumbo team for over two decades. It is best known for its astuteness in the operations for capturing errant elephants and aged and injured wild tigers straying out of forests. Called an “all-rounder”, the jumbo makes the job easier for the forest authorities with its expertise of tracking the target jumbo in operations because of its quickness on any terrain. Abhimanyu is known to perform its job with finesse, according to forest sources.
23 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||State to push for intangible cultural heritage tag for Mysuru Dasara||Fresh efforts will be initiated to secure UNESCO’s intangible cultural heritage tag for Mysuru Dasara given its historicity and continuity. The issue is being seriously promoted by the Department of Archaeology Museums and Heritage, Government of Karnataka, which has resolved to complete the groundwork and prepare the documentation required for the purpose. This was also one of the resolutions passed in the heritage committee meeting held in December last year but the pandemic broke out soon after, bringing all activities to a halt. N.S. Rangaraju, convenor of INTACH, Mysuru, and one of the members of the heritage committee, told The Hindu that this is a long-pending issue and should be taken to its logical end. “Though our traditions such as Navaratri and Dasara don’t need anyone’s stamp of approval, securing the intangible cultural heritage tag will put Mysuru on the global map of tourism as a centre for art and culture besides helping promote the State’s culture at a global level’’, he said. UNESCO has described intangible cultural heritage as ‘’practices, representations, expressions, knowledge, skills – as well as the instruments, objects, artefacts and cultural spaces associated therewith – that communities, groups and, in some cases, individuals recognise as part of their cultural heritage’’. It also states that “intangible cultural heritage, transmitted from generation to generation, is constantly recreated by communities and groups in response to their environment, their interaction with nature and their history, and provides them with a sense of identity and continuity, thus promoting respect for cultural diversity and human creativity’’. UNESCO lists oral traditions and expressions, including language as a vehicle of the intangible cultural heritage; performing arts; social practices, rituals and festive events; traditional craftsmanship etc as forms of intangible cultural heritage. At present tradition of Vedic chanting, Ramleela, chanting of Buddhist hymns in the Ladakh region, Yoga, Kumbh Mela, Navrouz, and Kutiyattam (Kerala’s Sanskrit theatre) are among the 12 traditions recognised as intangible cultural heritage. There is a general perception that intangible heritage inscription for Dasara celebrations can also help promote greater pride in the city and its traditions. Prof. Rangaraju said it will also give a fresh thrust to the preservation of local traditions and cultural practices besides an increased visibility and spotlight on Mysuru. Also, inscribing Dasara as an intangible cultural heritage will reinforce the sense of belonging and ownership which people of the State display towards the tradition which has been documented by medieval travellers including Domingos Paes and Fernao Nuniz of Portugal.
23 October 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Case of Dalit girl missing for five years shrouded in mystery||Mystery shrouds the case of a Dalit girl supposed to have married five years ago but was missing for 5 years and is now suspected to have been murdered by her in-laws. The victim, Meghashree, was a student of MET College in Bengaluru when she came into contact with T.K. Swamy of Tirumalapura village in Pandavpura taluk of Mandya district . The two are said to have married, as per Meghashree’s kin. But the girl apparently did not retain any contact with her parents or relatives after marriage as there was opposition from her family who belong to a village in Malavalli taluk. But her mother who was pining to see her daughter made efforts to trace Meghashree but it was futile in the absence of any definite address. “However, she stumbled upon Swamy’s voter’s ID card in an old almirah which was being cleaned ahead of the festival, on Occtober 14. She rushed to Tirumalapura village on October 16 only to be told by the local residents that the girl was murdered by her in-laws five years ago”, according to Y.N. Mamatha, who heads a local human rights and social welfare outfit. She told The Hindu that it could as well be a case of honour killing as it was an inter-caste marriage. The police also reopened old files pertaining to unnatural deaths and unidentified bodies to crack the case. A photo of an unidentified woman whose body was found in a canal in 2015 is now under scanner as it resembles Meghashree, according to Mamatha. The case is now being investigated by a team headed by Srirangapatana Dy SP Arun Nage Gowda. He said they cannot jump to any conclusion at this stage as Swamy claims that he never married the girl though they were in love. Mr. Nage Gowda said they have gone into the old records and Meghashree’s photo bears no resemblance to the body of a woman retrieved from the canal 5 years ago. “We need to conduct a DNA test and will ensure that the probe is fair’’, he added.
23 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MMCRI’s lab does over 1 lakh swab tests||Even as the number of swab samples tested for COVID-19 has crossed 2.90 lakh-mark in Mysuru district, the Microbiology Laboratory of the Mysore Medical College and Research Institute (MMCRI) has alone tested over one lakh swabs. MMCRI Dean and Director C.P. Nanjaraj said 89,589 samples belong to Mysuru district while 11,024 samples were from other districts. In total 1,00,613 swab samples were subjected to testing at MMCRI till October 20, he added. The lab at the MMCRI was also carrying out tests of samples sent from other districts in the beginning when they lacked the testing facilities. After the districts, including Kodagu, Mandya and Chamarajnagar, also got the COVID-19 labs, they started doing the tests in their own facilities and the samples sourced from Mysuru district were tested at the MMCRI lab. Among the tests, 9,295 samples tested positive and this included 8,926 positive cases from Mysuru district and 369 from other districts, he said. In the government labs, including the MMCRI’s lab, 2.59 lakh tests had been done and over 31,000 samples in the private labs as on October 21. The cumulative positive cases in Mysuru have crossed 45,000 with 45,864 cases as on October 21. This is the second highest in the State after the cases in Bengaluru. The number of patients in home isolation was also decreasing with a remarkable recovery rate. As on Wednesday, 3,723 patients were in home isolation and the total active cases stand at 5,046.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||LED streetlight project finally takes off||The ambitious plan of replacing the city’s nearly five lakh streetlights with energy-efficient LED lights is finally beginning to take off. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) had announced the project in 2018 with the expectation of completing it by 2021. Under the first phase, one lakh streetlights will be replaced. The fitting of the new lights is expected to begin by December 2020. The consortium that had bagged the global tender had been directed to complete Phase 1 of the project by April 2020, but that deadline has long passed. Last week, BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad held a meeting with officials and fixed new deadlines. He told The Hindu that the survey of 65,690 streetlights in Rajarajeshwarinagar, Bommanahalli and Dasarahalli zones has been completed. “The survey in the rest of the zones is likely to be completed in another 20 days,” he said, adding that officials have been directed to take Bengaluru Electricity Supply Company (BESCOM) on board for the survey, infrastructure work and rate contract to be floated by the BBMP. Though the Letter of Intent was issued to the consortium in 2019, the actual work began in June this year. The International Financial Corporation, a sister concern of the World Bank, is the transactional advisor for the project. Earlier this year, former BBMP commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar had stated that the civic body would recommend to the State government to cancel the global tender since the work was yet to be taken up. Admitting that this indeed was the case, Mr. Prasad said some approvals were holding up the work. “All the necessary approvals have been issued and the work has begun,” he said. The civic body spends Rs. 12 crore on an average every month on streetlights. The project was conceived with the aim of reducing the expenditure on electricity. The consortium has assured 84.5% energy efficiency. “It is a win-win for BBMP, which will not be spending on capital investment. The consortium will pay the BBMP 20% of the energy savings and retain the rest towards recovering capital investment. It is also obliged to maintain and operate the LED streetlights for the next 10 years,” Mr. Prasad added.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BMTC starts trial run of electric bus||The Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) on Thursday started trial run of an electric bus for the second time after a gap of over six years. A Hyderabad-based company has provided a 12-metre-long AC e-bus for the trial. But it’s unlikely that electric buses will ply the city’s roads any time soon. While the State government has directed the Corporation to prepare an action plan for the leasing of 300 e-buses under FAME-II scheme (Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of Hybrid and Electric Vehicles in India), it has asked BMTC not to incur any expenditure in the current year. Under FAME-II, the Centre will provide a subsidy of Rs. 55 lakh per bus, and the State government will cover Rs. 33.33 lakh (per bus). The State government had made an allocation of Rs. 100 crore in the 2020-21 budget for electric buses. The BMTC wants the State to release the money as a subsidy to lease the buses. The Union government had recently directed the BMTC to issue supply orders by December 31, 2020. The BMTC made several attempts to lease e-buses over the last few years but the initiative has so far failed to take off. The Corporation is likely to issue fresh tenders in the coming days. Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi said that leasing of buses will be done in a phased manner. He added that many companies manufacturing e-buses will provide vehicles for trial runs in the coming days. “After assessing their performance, a decision will be taken on operating e- buses,” he said. At the inaugural trial run on Thursday, Mr. Savadi travelled on the bus from the Traffic and Transit Management Centre (TTMC) at Shantinagar till Vidhana Soudha where Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa inspected it.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BMRCL accepts panel’s suggestion, 59 trees saved||The Karnataka High Court on Thursday directed BMRCL not to go ahead with felling 39 trees and translocating 29 trees at various locations of the metro project till November 4, the next date of hearing on a PIL petition. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the interim order as the 15-day waiting period for the BMRCL to execute permission granted for removing trees will come to an end on November 1, before the court takes up hearing of the petition on November 4, and the petitioners are required to file their responses to the permission granted. Initially, the BMRCL had submitted an application for removing 130 trees at various locations in BTM Layout, government ITI college ground, Dairy Circle, Lakkasandra and M.G Road. However, the BMRCL decided to retain 59 of the 63 trees identified for axing in the government ITI college ground for building a fabrication yard. The company readjusted the yard structure location on the suggestions made by the Technical Expert Committee (TEC), which includes experts from the Department of Forestry and Environmental Sciences of the University of Agricultural Sciences, Bengaluru. Of the remaining 71 trees, the TEC granted permission for removing 68 trees (for felling 39 trees and for translocating 29) while asking the BMRCL to retain three more trees at BTM Layout as they were at the boundary of the project and not hindering construction activities. The tree officer of the BBMP had on October 17 granted permission as per the advise of the TEC. Meanwhile, the BBMP said that census of around 30,000 trees has been completed. The civic body would give a geo-tag for every tree covered under the census as it was pointed out by the petitioner’s counsel that not all the trees covered have been given a geo-tag. BBMP counsel said that he had advised officials geo-tag every tree.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||MLA’s nephew gets bail||The Karnataka High Court has granted bail to Naveen P., nephew of Pulakeshingar MLA Akhanda Shrinivasa Murthy, in a case of him allegedly posting derogatory statements related to Islam on his Facebook account, resulting in large-scale violence in D.J. Halli-K.G. Halli on August 11. Justice B.A. Patil passed the order while noticing that the investigation has been completed and charge sheet has been submitted to the court and the alleged offences do not carry punishment of more than three years. Though the prosecution claimed that he is a habitual offender as his social media posts on Hindu deities had caused problem and seven cases were registered against him, the court was informed that he was acquitted in all those cases. “Merely on the ground that there is threat to the life of the petitioner if the bail application is allowed, it would indirectly affect the fundamental right of the petitioner when the only allegation against the petitioner is that he has posted some derogatory remarks against Prophet Mohammed on his Facebook account and subsequently, the same has been withdrawn,” the court observed while ordering his release on bail. The court directed the petitioner to furnish a bond for Rs. 2 lakh and two sureties of the like, and not to tamper with prosecution’s evidence directly or indirectly. The court said his bail can be cancelled if he is found indulging in similar offences again.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||New police station||The Home Ministry has carved out a new police station at Govindapura, from the jurisdictions of the D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli police stations. The aim is to strengthen policing in the ‘area, which is prone to a high crime rate and law and order issues, like seen recently’, said a senior official. All three police stations have now been reorganised as a police sub-division to be headed by an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP). An officer justified the development citing the violence on August 11 when both D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli stations were attacked by mobs. “There is an element of lawlessness in the area. There is a need for the police to dominate the area,” said the officer. However, the approach of increasing policing as a solution to the recent violence in the area has come under severe criticism. “A preliminary analysis of August 11 violence shows that there is a lack of trust between citizens and the police, which was at the root of the violence. The problem is not less policing but bad policing,” said Vinay Sreenivasa, a member of a citizen-led fact-finding committee that examined the violent attacks. Senior human rights advocate B.T. Venkatesh said, “The problem is that governments see everything through the prism of law and order. Clamping down on the area with more police may end up worsening the problem. The move seems to be politically motivated with communal undertones.” Activists pointed out that the rise in crime cannot be addressed in isolation. “There are many social aspects, like unemployment and malnutrition, as documented in the fact-finding report. A six-year-old girl died of malnutrition in 2013. If the government has acknowledged high prevalence of drug abuse, why not open rehabilitation centres,” said Mr. Sreenivasa.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State government shifts Bhagyalakshmi scheme from LIC to India Post||The LIC argued that the premium amount being paid by the government is less, sources said. The government pays a premium of Rs. 19,350 for the first child and Rs. 18,350 for the second. India Post provides an interest rate of 7.6% on deposits under the scheme. The public is allowed to invest a minimum of Rs. 250 and a maximum of Rs. 1.5 lakh per year. The Siddaramaiah government neglected the scheme by reducing the allocation in the State budgets, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has alleged. Rajyotsava awards Sources said that the Cabinet also discussed the Rajyotsava awards, which will be given out in a simple ceremony this year. Among other decisions, the Cabinet withdrew a 2018 government order for a French company to establish an unit generating electricity from solid waste at Chikkanagamangala in Bengaluru limits. To curb illegal depositors’ schemes, operated by chit funds and private firms, the Cabinet also approved the Karnataka Banning of Unregulated Depositors’ Scheme Rules, 2020. It also approved the Karnataka State Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, 2020; the Karnataka State Civil Services (Amendment) Rules, 2020, for recruitment of stenographers typists, and the Karnataka State Civil Services (Amendment) (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, 2020, according to official sources. The Cabinet also approved the revised estimate of Rs. 26.92 crore for implementing early warning dissemination system in three coastal districts under the National Cyclone Risk Mitigation Project.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: State sees highest single-day recovery||The State on Thursday reported 5,778 new COVID-19 cases taking the total number to 7,88,551. With 74 new deaths, the toll rose to 10,770. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. As many as 13,550 persons were discharged on Thursday taking the total number of recoveries to 6,84,835. This is the highest number of recoveries made on a single day so far. Of the remaining 92,927 active cases, 940 patients are being monitored in the Intensive Care Units. While the positivity rate for the day reduced to 5.38%, Case Fatality Rate touched 1.28%. In Bengaluru Urban Bengaluru Urban reported 2,807 cases taking the tally to 3,18,366. With 36 of the 74 deaths from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 3,667. Active cases in Bengaluru reduced to 58,431. As many as 1,07,354 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 20,853 rapid antigen tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 70,60,189.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Sporting time||
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Sound of music||spb standalone
23 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha caseload rises with 837 cases||COVID-19 cases continue to climb in the district with 837 people testing positive for the disease on Thursday. The fresh cases include 809 patients who contracted the virus through local transmission, 16 people who came from other States and seven from abroad. The source of infection of another five people remains unidentified. The district recorded one COVID-19-related death. Of the 837 cases, 159 were reported from Alappuzha, 93 from Cherthala, and 65 from Mararikulam South. Thiruvanvandoor (48), Pulinkunnu (42), Purakkad (39), Cherthala South (30), Thannermukkom (27), Kayamkulam (27), Chennam Pallippuram (22), Chengannur (20), Thuravoor (18), Haripad (15), and Aroor (15) also reported a high number of cases. 7,459 active cases Meanwhile, 436 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district recovered. The district had so far logged 27,055 cases. Among them, 19,521 people recovered while 75 succumbed to the disease. The active caseload in the district stands at 7,459. 48 arrested The police registered 43 cases and arrested 48 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of the disease in the district. Action was taken against 229 people for not wearing face masks and 1,095 for not maintaining physical distancing. All wards in Punnapra South grama panchayat, ward 19 in Chengannur, and ward 28 in Kayamkulam municipality were declared as containment zones. Parts of ward 4 in Punnapra North, ward 4 in Ala, wards 5, 17, 22, 11 in Thanneermukkom, ward 7 in Champakulam, and ward 8 in Punnapra North grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.
23 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Jamaat leader passes away||Kerala Muslim Jamaat Council State chairman A. Pookunju passed away here on Thursday. He was 74. He had been undergoing treatment for various ailments for the past one year. He breathed his last at a private hospital around 3 a.m. Born to Hassanarkunju and Zainaba Umma in Kayamkulam, he completed his law studies from Government Law College, Thiruvananthapuram, and Government Law College, Kozhikode. He entered politics through the Kerala Students Union and later joined the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML). Mr. Pookunju held various positions, including general secretary of the Jamaat council, IUML State committee member, Kerala State Wakf Board chairman, government pleader, among other posts. His mortal remains were laid to rest on Thursday evening.
23 October 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Kannur varsity to launch Green Computing initiative||The Department of Information and Technology at Kannur University will launch a ‘Complete Green Computing Initiative’ at its central computing facility built on the Mangattuparambu campus. The project, which is part of the Make in India initiative, will use SMAASH PC and Smart Power Station manufactured by ITI Palakkad. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the project through videoconferencing on October 27. Vice Chancellor Gopinath Ravindran said the university would be able to save about 144,000 units of electricity and reduce its carbon emission by 102 metric tons in five years through the Green Computing initiative . He said all the computers in the students’ amenity centre would be using SMAASH PC. The Vice Chancellor further said that even if 10% of the new desktop installations were powered by a Smart Power Station, it could save 10 million units of grid power per year. While desktop computers used 150 watts, the power consumption of the ITI SMAASH PC was just 35 watts, he said. Mr. Ravindran observed that installing a single SMAASH PC with a solar panel could eliminate 267 kilograms of carbon production per year. Consumption of eco-friendly products could also reduce waste generation, he said. The inauguration will be attended by Minister of Higher Education K.T. Jaleel, Member of Parliament Rajmohan Unnithan, T.V. Rajesh, MLA, and syndicate members.
23 October 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Kerala will again become tourists’ paradise, says CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that Kerala will once again become tourists’ paradise once it overcomes the pandemic challenge. The Chief Minister was speaking after inaugurating online four tourism projects implemented in the district. He inaugurated boat terminals at Parassinikkadavu and Pazhayangadi, the beautification of the Chokli Bund Road, and the Palakkad Swamy Math Park as part of the Malabar River Cruise Tourism project. The State government has approved projects worth Rs. 53.07 crore as part of the Malabar River Cruise Tourism project to connect rivers in Kannur and Kasaragod districts. The project includes 17 boat terminals and walkways along Mahe, Anjarakandy, Valapattanam, Kuppam, Perumba and Tejaswini rivers. The construction of the first cruise route, boat terminals and walkways from Parassinikkadavu to Pazhayangadi has been completed. Thirteen projects are in the final stages. Piling work on two projects would begin soon, said a release.
23 October 2020||Kannur,KERALA||KSTC to set up digital printing and dyeing unit||Kerala State Textile Corporation Limited (KSTC) will set up an environment-friendly fabric dyeing and digital printing unit using modern technology at Nadukani. The Nadukani Textile Digital Printing and Dyeing Centre will be established on 10 acres. The foundation stone for the centre will be laid on October 23 in the presence of Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan, who will be the chief guest, and Lok Sabha and Rajyasabha MPs. K.T. Jayarajan, MD, KSTC, said the establishment of the centre would help the State which was hugely dependent on Tamil Nadu and Karnataka for carrying out dyeing, printing, and finishing of fabrics.
23 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Kochi has 3,404 cases of CRZ violations||The State government is awaiting reports on 3,404 cases of reported Coastal Zone Regulation (CRZ) violations in Ernakulam district. Another 301 cases have been compiled by the district committee appointed by the government to track violations. The picture of CRZ violations in the district emerged in a recent affidavit filed by Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta before the Supreme Court. The affidavit also indicated that there were 152 cases in the district, which belonged to the category of permissible constructions for which prior clearance was not obtained. Kollam and Alappuzha topped the list of violations with 4,860 and 4,650 cases respectively. The affidavit indicated that the district committees had reported a total of 27,735 cases of violations across the State. The Chief Secretary also indicated that the final list of violations might vary after field verifications and site inspections. The coastal district committees prepared the draft CRZ violation list with the help of documents available with local bodies. The list was published on the websites of the districts for comments, suggestions, and opinions from the general public. The public appealed to the coastal committees to conduct field verifications before finalising the list of violations against the CRZ notification. Field verifications could not be completed in time owing to the pandemic outbreak, the Chief Secretary submitted. He also submitted that complaints raised by the public against CRZ violations might be confirmed after field verifications and site inspections with satellite imageries and field collection data using advanced geo-informatics tools such as Differential Global Positioning System and Electronic Total Station. Incidentally, the State-wide crackdown on CRZ violations got a momentum after the demolition of the four apartment complexes at Maradu. While ordering the demolition of the structures, the Supreme Court had also asked the State government to come up with a list of violations in the State. In his affidavit, the Chief Secretary sought an additional eight months for completion of identification of violations.
23 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Selective testing for SARS-CoV-2 need of the hour, say experts||While a section of doctors and health experts have raised demands for more widespread COVID-19 testing in the State, others suggest that a judicious allocation of resources would be a more prudent strategy. Health economist Rijo John said the State was doing an average of 1,422 tests per million per day for the past week, which placed it in the seventh position compared to other States. “But with a test positivity rate at a seven-day average of 14%, we should be testing a lot more, otherwise we will miss registering an increasing number of cases,” he said. From a seven-day average of around 62,000 tests on October 7, absolute testing figures had fallen by around 20% to a seven-day average of 50,431 on Tuesday, he said. While the test positivity rate had been at 16% a few days ago, it had fallen a little recently, since fewer cases are being detected, he added. Besides, the State has not been releasing figures on positivity based on the type of test done, Mr. John said. “Around 80% of the tests done are antigen tests, and these tests have a lower test positivity rate than RT-PCR tests,” he informed. “We have tried to increase testing. From the 2,000-3,000 tests we were doing initially, it hit nearly 70,000 recently, which is a 20- to 30-fold increase,” said Dr. Amar Fettle, State nodal officer for public health emergencies. “If we are to increase testing further, more people will have to be diverted to testing. Others will have to be recruited and trained, since the process is a time-consuming and meticulous one, right from collection to package, dispatch, and documentation,” he added. Testing figures had fallen a little a few days ago, when a new software portal was introduced. Tests were done, but there had been a glitch with entering the data, Dr. Fettle said. Considering the pandemic’s trajectory in the State which had reached a plateau in the past few days, a marginal increase from an average of around 50,000 tests now to nearly 75,000 tests daily might be beneficial, said Dr. T.S. Anish, Associate Professor of Community Medicine, Government Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram. “For the time being, a large increase in testing might not be necessary. If test positivity rate increases further to over 20%, maybe tests would have to go up further,” he said. “We need to see if resources are being used effectively. If tests are increased to one lakh, we need to see what our advantage will be. We might be able to pick up more cases and get a more reasonable estimation of the actual number of infected people. With the current testing figures, if we can detect symptomatic cases, increased testing might reveal cases among asymptomatic people or those in quarantine, which does not help in controlling the spread of the disease,” he said.
23 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Industrial corridor project gets going||The State government on Thursday signed the Share Holders and State Support Agreements with the National Industrial Corridor Development & Implementation Trust (NICDIT), a Government of India designated agency, for the Kochi-Bengaluru Industrial Corridor. The agreements were signed in the presence of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The State Support Agreement (SSA) was signed by K. Sanjay Murthy, Chief Executive Officer of the NICDIT, and Alkesh Kumar Sharma, Additional Chief Secretary, Special Projects (Infrastructure & Industries) in charge of the Industrial Corridor projects in the State. The Share Holders Agreement (SHA) was signed by Santhosh Koshy Thomas, MD, Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (Kinfra), and Mr. Murthy. Kinfra is the nodal agency of the State for implementing the project. SPV to be formed A special purpose vehicle (SPV) will be formed for the detailed planning, design, implementation, operation and management of the projects. There will be equal number of representatives of the State government and the NICDIT on the board of the company, which will be a 50:50 equity participation joint venture. The Kochi-Palakkad stretch of the corridor is in the first phase of its integration. The regions in Malabar will also be linked to the corridor in due course. Manufacturing clusters Integrated Manufacturing Clusters (IMCs) are planned along the corridor to boost manufacturing activities, including electronics, IT, biotechnology, and life sciences, in the districts of Palakkad, Thrissur and Ernakulam in Phase I, and the districts of Kannur, Kozhikode, Malappuram and Kasaragod in Phase II. These require less land and are less sensitive to prices. This will also ensure higher value addition in jobs generated in the corridor region. Mr. Murthy appreciated the support of the State government in expediting land acquisition and project development activities. “This is one of the fastest developing projects in India and I would like to thank State government for appointing senior officials in its development and implementation,” he said. The NICDIT will provide support up to Rs. 3,000 crore as equity for the project and will also assist in master planning, design, engineering, EIA & environment clearance and in marketing the project to potential investors in India and abroad. “The project is expected to attract investments in basic infrastructure development, electronic hardware manufacturing, knowledge-based industries, defence & aerospace engineering, information technology, food processing and port-based logistics development. This is a significant step towards the overall development of the State,” said Mr. Sharma.
23 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Day one of ‘new normal’ evokes mixed response||A meeting with teachers on videoconferencing platforms and introductory sessions on the college and the academic courses aired through YouTube marked the inaugural day of the first semester undergraduate courses at affiliated colleges of Mahatma Gandhi University (MGU) on Thursday. The ‘new normal’ came as a surprise to both the aspirants and their parents, as they walked in digitally into their colleges amid the pandemic crisis. The managements gave an overall view of the colleges and facilities to the students. Principals pointed out that it was a new experience deviating from the traditional buzz around the first day of the new batch of undergraduate students. “The first day was mainly planned as an induction programme, where representatives of managements and senior faculty members shared their experience and provided insights into the various academic and infrastructural facilities available on the campuses,” they said. Senior teachers elaborated on grievance redressal forums and anti-harassment committees available at the institutions and requested the students to utilise the ongoing online sessions as an opportunity to get familiarised with a new mode of learning. Teachers from various departments held separate online meetings after the common induction programme with their students. “We had asked parents to join the videoconferencing platforms, so that they would get a fair idea about the courses as well as the challenges and opportunities,” they said. Meanwhile, the freshers said they enjoyed the first day of online classes even though they missed the excitement of being on the campus. “It may take us a while to get used to the new situation. I hope the teachers will give us a chance to meet my classmates and interact with them over a video session soon,” said Irene George, an undergraduate student of English. The youngsters were concerned about the lack of mobile and Internet connectivity hampering their efforts to get uninterrupted access to online sessions. Teachers said they would be taking stock of the online learning gadgets and facilities available for each student in the coming days. “We will try to support those who lack even the basic systems to access online modules,” they added.  It may take us a while to get used to the new situation. I hope teachers will give us a chance to meet my classmates and interact with them over a video session soon Irene George Undergraduate student of English
23 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||AuSa to bring much needed relief to auto drivers in city||There is light at the end of the tunnel for autorickshaw drivers in the Greater Kochi area, amid a pall of gloom caused by a steep fall in demand for public transport, thanks to the impending launch of AuSa, an autorickshaw-ride-booking app. It will be more than a ride-booking app and will be launched this year itself. The app will change the face of autorickshaw operations in the region. The public image of drivers too will improve, since the fare will be fixed, just like for online taxi cars. Over the years, a section of drivers who fleeced passengers and often refused to operate trips had brought a bad name for the sector, said Binu Varghese, secretary, Autorickshaw Drivers Union (AITUC). “Already, the foray of e-autos in the city hub has been well accepted by passengers, since the fare is Rs. 10 for 2 km. The app will further bring in accountability while offering a safer ride for commuters. It will be a win-win for passengers and drivers who now have to wait for long at stands to get passengers. Kochi Metro Rail Limited [KMRL] provided the initial support for the venture, while personnel of Technovia Info Solutions readied the platform for us,” he added. The Ernakulam Jilla Autorickshaw Drivers Cooperative Society bore the expenses of the initiative. The application will shortly be available in Google Playstore for downloading.
23 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Cheruthoni river in grave danger, tribunal told||The State Level Monitoring Committee on solid waste management has submitted a report before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) that the Cheruthoni river in Idukki district is under threat from encroachment and dumping of plastic and domestic waste. The report was filed before the southern Bench of the tribunal in a case related to the alleged encroachment on the river and nearby forest area. “Evidently, there is real threat to the existence of the river. The remnants of the check-dam across the river are the evidence of the encroachment. There is evidence of pollution of river water on account of dumping of plastic wastes and also on account of waste water from the nearby establishments,” said committee chairman A.V Ramakrishna Pillai in his report. Floods of 2018 Cheruthoni town and its outskirts faced the wrath of the overflowing waters in the devastating floods in 2018. Stating that it is a natural phenomenon that water will find its path and level, the committee report pointed out that the flood illustrated this principle. Constriction of river “The unprecedented rainfall resulting in incessant flow of excess water from the dam site, coupled with the constriction of the river on account of encroachments made the river flow across Cheruthoni town in 2018. Allegedly, the bus station at Cheruthoni is located over a portion of the river. Certain structures as well as the check-dam were practically washed away in the flood. Nature could achieve restoration which the authorities are the incapable of doing,” it said. The committee said the Irrigation Department was duty-bound to see that the river was not encroached upon by riparian owners. The Forest Department was legally bound to protect the forest area from illegal encroachments and constructions. Unless there was an effort on the part of the authorities, the very existence of our natural resources would be at peril, it said. The tests conducted by the State Pollution Control Board had found that there was slight contamination of the river owing to the presence of domestic waste water.  There is proof of pollution on account of dumping of plastic waste and waste water from establishments A.V Ramakrishna Pillai Committee Chairman
23 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||COVID victim’s family alleges negligence||The family of Jameela, 53, who died of COVID-19 at the Government Medical College, Ernakulam, on August 17 has filed a complaint with the Kalamassery police, alleging medical negligence. Faizal T.A., her son and resident of Kunnunkara village under the Paravur Taluk filed the complaint on Thursday against the doctors and nursing staff who were on duty on August 17 as well as the superintendent of the hospital. “We had doubts regarding my mother’s death. This got strengthened following revelations of medical negligence by Najma Salim, a junior doctor,” he said in the complaint. Mr. Faizal alleged that his mother had told her family about the lack of medical care at the hospital. “She also informed us that she did not get hot water despite requesting the staff. My mother had also asked us to shift her from the hospital,” he said. The family has demanded a comprehensive inquiry into her death after collecting evidence on the alleged medical negligence. The Kalamassery police, who had initiated an inquiry into the death of Palluruthy resident C.K. Harris on July 20, recorded the statement of his relative Anwar Hanif on Thursday. He alleged that the death had occurred owing to medical negligence at the intensive care unit. “We had lodged a complaint before the hospital superintendent soon after his death but failed to receive any response,” he said. Dr. Najma Salim on Thursday requested all not to portray the institution in bad light. “I had only pointed out lapses in a few cases,” she said. Meanwhile, protests demanding an inquiry into the alleged medical negligence continued on Thursday. Youth Congress and BJP activists took out a march to the hospital. The hospital authorities had denied allegations of medical negligence, maintaining that there was a deliberate attempt to tarnish the reputation of the institution, which continued to remain in the forefront of the fight against the pandemic.
23 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Special judge to decide on plea seeking time to move HC||The special judge trying the sensational female actor rape case may decide on the prosecution’s application seeking time for change of court on Friday even as the trial in the case has come to a halt for over a week. A. Sureshan, special public prosecutor, had moved an application before the Additional Special Sessions Court (SPE/CBI-3), Ernakulam, which is hearing the case, last Thursday seeking the transfer of trial to another court as he felt that fair trial would not be possible in the court. He alleged that the trial court was acting in a “highly biased,” manner, which was “detrimental to the judicial system and to the entire prosecution.” He feared that justice would be denied to the survivor if the case was tried before the present court. Report sought Meanwhile, the trial court is understood to have sought a report from the investigating officer on why the special public prosecutor was absent for conducting the trial. The official was repeatedly directed by the court on Thursday to make arrangements for the renewal of the trial as the proceedings had to be completed within the deadline fixed by the Supreme Court. Actor Dileep has been arraigned as the eigth accused in the case, in which seven others were accused of abducting and raping a female actor in a moving car. As the court resumed its business on Thursday, counsel representing the special public prosecutor informed the court that it was in the process of moving the Kerala High Court for changing the trial court. However, the special judge informed the prosecution that the trial could not be put on hold indefinitely on the ground that it was planning to move the High Court. Dileep’s petition It also posted the petition of Dileep against media houses for allegedly reporting the proceedings of the case for hearing on Friday. At the same time, sources indicated that the prosecution has apprised the State government and the officials concerned of its apprehensions.
23 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Three women to steer Navy’s Dornier aircraft||The Navy has operationally deployed its first batch of women pilots on the Dornier maritime recce aircraft operating from the Southern Naval Command headquartered here. The three women pilots are part of the six pilots of the 27th Dornier Operational Flying Training (DOFT) course. They graduated as ‘Fully operational Maritime Reconnaissance (MR) Pilots’ at a passing-out ceremony held at the naval air station, Garuda, here on Thursday. Rear Admiral Antony George, Chief Staff Officer (Training) of the command, presented awards to the pilots who are now fully qualified on the Dornier aircraft for all operational missions, according to a defence press release. The three women pilots of the first batch are Lieutenant Divya Sharma (from Malviya Nagar, New Delhi), Lieutenant Shubhangi Swaroop (from Tilhar, Uttar Pradesh) and Lieutenant Shivangi (from Muzaffarpur, Bihar). These officers had initially undergone basic flying training partly with the Indian Air Force and partly with the Navy prior to the DOFT course. Amongst the three women pilots operationalised for MR flying, Lt. Shivangi was the first to qualify as a naval pilot on December 2, 2019. The course comprised a month-long ground training phase, which was conducted at various professional schools of the command, besides eight months of flying training at the Dornier Squadron of the command, INAS 550. Awards Lt. Divya Sharma and Lt. Shivam Pandey were adjudged ‘First in Flying’ and ‘First in Ground’ subjects respectively. The Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief (South) rolling trophy in memory of the late Lt. Simon George Pynomootil for the ‘Most spirited trainee’ was presented to Lt. Kumar Vikram. This rolling trophy was instituted in June 2019 during the Diamond Jubilee Celebration of INAS 550 to immortalise the spirit of the officer who was a qualified Islander pilot and lost his life in an air crash while serving the squadron in May 1985.
23 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||MGU gears up to hold exams amid pandemic||Mahatma Gandhi varsity has renewed efforts to hold semester exams in the traditional pen-and-paper mode amidst the pandemic crisis. With the publication of the notification for second semester undergraduate and postgraduate exams, the authorities are hoping that the exams could be conducted as per physical distancing norms and other protocol prescribed by the health authorities. A standard operating procedure (SOP) is likely to be published for the conduct of the exams in November. The entry and exit of students will be arranged without overcrowding of candidates. Wherever possible, rush will be minimised by permitting students to leave the campus in a phased manner. The use of masks and sanitisers will be made compulsory for invigilators and students. There will be facilities for washing hands at the entrance and exit points in each college. Students will have to sanitise their hands before entering exam halls. The seating arrangement will ensure the minimum distance prescribed by the government. The authorities are hopeful that the exams can be conducted in November as regular classes remain suspended in view of the COVID-19 situation. An assessment of the turnout for each exam showed that physical distancing norms could be adhered to as there would be no other students on the campus, except those who appear for the semester exams. Major challenge The major challenge is to provide hostel facility to students from other districts. If college managements are not getting permission from the government to reopen hostels, the varsity will propose that they could identify budget hotels and accommodation for such students. The students may have to confirm the bookings, but the college authorities will be told to provide information on available facilities near the college.
23 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Matsyafed’s aqua tourism centres reopen||Matsyafed’s aqua tourism centres at Njarakkal and Malippuram will reopen for guests from Saturday, after remaining closed for eight months following the pandemic. The tourism infrastructure here has been repaired and tidied up, said Nisha P., manager of the agency’s fish farms and aqua tourism centres. Tour packages in the Rs. 350 to Rs. 400 per person range are available here. A few evening special packages too can be utilised. They include a ride through the backwaters. A “Dwayam” package has been readied, in which guests can visit both the aqua tourism locales and use the amenities there. They include water cycle, coracle, solar boat, pedal boating and rowing. Two women self-help groups that operate eateries here cook fish that guests catch while angling and serve along with the meals. Guests can also take the fishes they catch back home if they pay their price. The eateries also serve cooked meat if orders are placed early enough. With COVID-19 protocol in place, guests must book their visit on phone: 94970 31280 or 95260 41199.
23 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CM to open Community Skill Park at Kinfra||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan is set to inaugurate virtually, a Community Skill Park at Kinfra Park in Kalamassery on October 27. A total of 17 skill parks are being launched by the State in two phases and nine of them are already operational. The one coming up at Kinfra sees the coming together of IBM and ASAP (Additional Skill Acquisition Programme) launched by the State to tackle unemployment. The courses at the skill park are Artificial Intelligence and machine learning, business analytics, data science, cyber security, block chain management and Internet of Things. Students of arts and science colleges, management institutes, engineering colleges get training here.
23 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Talks begin on water transport system||Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) has initiated stakeholder meetings for the Integrated Urban Regeneration and Water Transport System (IURWTS) project. Discussions in this regard were held with Better Kochi Response Group (BKRG), an NGO, here on Thursday. The meeting discussed the project in detail, including the support needed for waste management. KMRL presented the technical aspects and challenges of the IURWTS project. BKRG, led by its president S. Gopakumar, gave inputs on the best engineering practices in the field of wastewater engineering and canal rejuvenation philosophies. KMRL managing director Alkesh Kumar Sharma sought the cooperation of all stakeholders, including professional organisations, for the successful implementation of the project. KMRL intends to seek views from the public, people’s representatives, government bodies, NGOs, and businessmen for the implementation of the project. The pandemic situation is definitely challenging, especially so since personal meetings to discuss the project are impractical, including for the planning stage, he said.
23 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Church denies change in policy on same-sex union||In the wake of reports suggesting that Pope Francis has welcomed same-sex civil unions, the Kerala Catholic Bishops’ Council has issued a statement affirming that there is no change in the Church’s stance on family life or same-sex love. “News reports that said Pope Francis has justified same-sex marriage in a documentary ‘Francesco’ directed by Evgeny Afineevsky, are misleading and baseless,” the Catholic body said in a release here on Thursday. “The Church doesn’t announce its doctrines on marriage and family life through documentaries. Pope Francis has said even before that people in the LGBT state are children of God and deserve all care, consideration and love. A similar stance was taken by the Church in the doctrine on sexual morality issued in 1975. The Church is of the view that homosexual tendencies and homosexual acts should be viewed separately,” the statement said. The Catholic Church doesn’t see the living together of same-sex lovers as marriage. But this has been recognised by some countries as a civil union. The Church is seriously considering adding those in such relations to the flock. This was the official stance pronounced by the Pope and there hasn’t been any change in this, the statement quotes KCBC media commission chairman Bishop Joseph Pamplany as saying. Pope Francis hasn’t taken a stance in contravention of the stated doctrine of the Church on sexual morality, says the statement issued by Fr. Jacob G. Palackappilly, KCBC spokesperson.
23 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||929 fresh cases recorded in Ernakulam||A total of 929 persons were confirmed to have contracted COVID-19 in Ernakulam district on Thursday. Barring seven of the newly infected, all others acquired the disease through local contact. The source of infection in 197 patients remains unknown. New cases were mostly reported from Edathala, Nellikuzhi, Kumbalanghi, Kothamangalam, Fort Kochi, Thrikkakara, Pallarimangalam, and Koovappady. There were seven health workers, six police personnel, an Indian Reserve Battalion official, and three migrant workers among the newly infected. As many as 414 persons recovered from the illness. Under observation On Thursday, 1,791 people were brought under disease surveillance and 2,407 taken off the list. At last count, there were 29,446 people under observation — 27,860 at home, 60 at COVID Care Centres, and 1,526 at paid quarantine centres. A total of 217 patients were admitted to first-line treatment centres/hospitals on Thursday, while 192 were discharged. The district has a total of 11,875 patients right now, 8,734 of them at home. For testing, 5,967 samples were sent from the district on Thursday, and the control room handled 420 calls, 218 from the public.
23 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Over 16,000 cases of non-compliance in district||The sectoral magistrates appointed to ensure compliance with the COVID-19 protocol have reported 16,369 cases in Ernakulam. As many as 14,154 cases have been resolved. The district has registered the highest number of cases filed by sectoral magistrates in the State. The district administration had appointed 128 persons as sectoral magistrates. They were deployed for monitoring containment zones and areas that recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases. A sectoral magistrate conducts at least 30 to 40 visits daily. They also ensure that the protocols are followed at shops, public places, weddings, and burial/cremation sites. Action has been taken against those who failed to wear masks and adhere to physical distancing norms. Those spitting in public places were also booked by the officials.
23 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||New tourism amenities at Bhoothathankettu||Chief Minister Pinayari Vijayan on Thursday inaugurated the renovated tourism amenities at Bhoothathankettu as part of the 26 tourism projects across Kerala that he launched on the day. The Ernakulam DTPC has readied tree-top houses, an open air theatre, organic garden and renovated cottages, among other amenities, at the 40-acre eco tourism locale. Pedal boating and angling too can be done.
23 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Corpn. to spend Rs. 5 cr. for restoration of canals||The Kochi Corporation informed the Kerala High Court that it had decided to spend Rs. 5 crore for the restoration of Mullassery canal, 12 Link Canal from Atlantic to Vaduthala, Puncha Thodu, and Kareethodu. It submitted that if the government gave the permission, it would hand over the amount to the district administration for undertaking the restoration work under Operation Breakthrough. Justice Devan Ramachandran asked the corporation to inform about the nature of actions it proposed to take against contractors and engineers in charge of bad roads. The government pleader said the repair work on Kundannoor-Petta road would be completed in two days.
23 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Sand removal: HC extends stay||The Kerala High Court on Thursday extended till November 25 the stay on the Thiruvananthapuram Vigilance court directive for probing the alleged corruption in the awarding of contract for removing the sand accumulated in the Pampa. The interim stay order came on a petition filed by the Director, Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau, challenging the court order. The court had issued the directive on a complaint by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala seeking a probe into the allegations of corruption in awarding the contract to Kerala Clays and Ceramic Products Ltd., a Kannur-based firm, to mine and transport sand. The Vigilance said the directive was passed without proper analysis of materials on record.
23 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||More recoveries in Kollam||Recoveries once again outnumbered new cases in Kollam with 481 persons testing positive and 750 patients recovering on Thursday. Among the positive cases are 478 persons who contracted the infection through contact, one health worker and two cases with no known source. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of 72-year-old Ayoor resident and 58-year-old Umayanallur resident are due to COVID-19. The district currently has 19,081 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 3,04,378. At present the district has 6,531 active cases. As part of strengthening containment and prevention, the Health Department has been conducting over 5,000 tests in the district every day. “The target is 5,500 tests a day and 1,000 samples are sent to Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology, Thiruvananthapuram, for RT-PCR. All Primary Health Centres are conducting antigen and RT-PCR tests,’’ said District Medical Officer R. Sreelatha. TrueNat testing facility for COVID-19 screening is available at District Public Health Lab 24x7 and Government Medical College Hospital, Kollam.
23 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Fish auction Bill to protect rights of fishers: Minister||The objective of the Kerala Fish Auctioning, Marketing, and Quality Control Bill is to end the exploitation by middlemen and protect the rights of fishermen by ensuring fair price to them, said Minister J.Mercykutty Amma in a statement. “Usually it is the tarakans , agents, and auctioneers who decide the price while fishers and boat owners have no role in this. They also claim 5 to 15% of the price of the catch. But as per the new norm, harbour management societies decide the commission percentage which will be later spent on infrastructure development and festival allowance and other financial aid to the fishers,” the Minister said. Pointing out the unethical practices in the field, she added that at present middlemen pocketed a huge percentage of the profit leaving the fishers with limited income and the proposed law would put an end to such practices.
23 October 2020||Kollam,KERALA||Book release||Former MP K.N. Balagopal released P.L.Vijilal’s book Nilavilikkunna Raktham Kalathodu Parayunnathu by handing over a copy to actor Prem Kumar recently. Brought out by Nila Publication, the book was released at a function presided over by Vasanthakumar Sambasivan while Kaithapram Damodaran Namboothiri attended the event online as the chief guest.
23 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Online training||The Indigenous Milk Products Training and Development Centre, Oachira, is conducting online training in milk production. The session will be conducted through Google Meet from 11 a.m. to 12 p.m. on October 30. For details and registration, contact 0476 2698550.
23 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Boost to Pala tourism||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday inaugurated the Meenachil River View Park and Green Tourism Complex in Pala town as part of the Green Tourism Circuit, which connects visitor attractions and pilgrimage centres across the high ranges of Kottayam and Idukki. The main attraction of the project, the first of its kind by the Tourism Department, is the Green Tourism Complex that has come up at the point where the Lalam stream converges with the Meenachil river. The bridge that connects to the complex is built on the lines of the London Bridge. It also has an underground structure having a glass roof, similar to the Love Museum in Paris. The authorities have also set up a snack bar, open conference area, river viewing platform, and electric lighting in the complex. The project was kick-started during the tenure of K.M Mani as minister in the previous UDF government. It, however, got a fresh lease of life following the election of Mani C. Kappan as the legislator of Pala. According to officials, the Green Tourism Circuit aims to connect the tourist destinations and pilgrimage centres in the eastern region of Kottayam with Pala as its gateway. First phase The first phase of the project, which received administrative sanction in 2013, envisages construction of pilgrim amenities at Ramapuram Nalambalam, Bharananganam Sri Krishnaswamy Temple, Edappadi Anandashanmukha Swamy Temple, and Ezhacheri Uma Maheshwara Temple. Land has been made available at Ilaveezhapoonchira and Illikkal Kallu in Meenachil taluk and at Kulamavu and Kumili in Idukki for expansion of the project. The Green Tourism Circuit Society was revamped in 2017 with the Tourism Minister as its chairman. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran presided over the programme, via videoconferencing. Mani C. Kappen unveiled the plaque at the newly inaugurated park. Thomas Chazhikadan, MP, and Jose K. Mani MP, Tourism Secretary Rani George, Director Balakiran attended the programme.
23 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||332 cases in Kottayam||As many as 332 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Thursday. Of the fresh cases, 331 persons, including a health worker, contracted the virus through local contact. The cases also included 45 persons aged above 60 and 36 children, besides 117 women. With 38 cases, Kottayam municipality reported the highest number of cases, while Ettumanur followed with 27 cases. Erattupetta and Changanassery reported 24 cases apiece. 191 recoveries With 191 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 6,937 active cases. Of the total 19,589 cases reported, as many as 12,888 have recovered so far.
23 October 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||History, heritage of Kozhikode to be showcased||Efforts are being made to unearth Kozhikode’s history and showcase it for posterity. They include construction of structures that will highlight the city’s medieval past as well as buildings in memory of Vaikom Mohammed Basheer, arguably its most famous resident, who made Beypore his home after marriage. M. Beena, secretary, District Tourism Promotion Council, said on Thursday that the funds released by the Tourism Department and the MLA were being utilised for the ongoing works at Tali and Kuttichira. “There were frequent disruptions owing to the pandemic situation. But a large part of the works is over and it will be finished as early as possible,” she said. Tali Temple and its surroundings were once the nucleus of the erstwhile Zamorin royalty. Some of the royal palaces were believed to have been situated around the temple, which also hosted Revathi Pattathanam, a debate between Vedic scholars. The Tourism Department is now renovating the temple pond and surrounding areas. Walls will be erected on the eastern walkway and carvings depicting the history of the royalty would find a place there. Adjacent to it, there would be small notes on the historical developments. The buildings surrounding the pond and the stairs would be renovated. A representational statue of the Zamorin too is expected to come up near the banyan tree outside the temple. A museum detailing the evolution of the city is also on the cards. Kuttichira, another unique part of the city, which houses large matrilineal Muslim ancestral homes and two ancient mosques, the Mishkal Mosque and the Muchundi Mosque, too would see renovation works. The area surrounding the pond there too would be beautified and new structures are expected to come up. Meanwhile, excavation works are going on at the now forlorn fort built by Tipu Sultan, the once mighty ruler of Mysore, at Feroke. Archaeologists have reportedly unearthed copper coins, coin pellet mould, and parts of British and Chinese crockery there. The works were taken up following a court order. Twenty-six years after he passed away, Basheer, who once famously described himself as the “Sultan of Beypore” is expected to get a memorial too. The Kozhikode Corporation recently held a meeting to discuss the issue and decided to demolish an unused community hall for building the structure. Additional land would be utilised too. Earlier, the government had allocated Rs. 50 lakh for a memorial for Basheer, but the funds could not be used and it was taken back. A cultural centre, museum, research centre, open theatre and miniatures on Basheer’s characters are expected to come up there.
23 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||932 fresh cases in Kozhikode||As many as 932 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Thursday. According to the District Medical Officer, 874 people acquired the infection through local transmission and the source was unknown in 42 people. The test positivity continues to be well above the admissible limit of 5% and is currently at 13.07. As many as 7,130 samples were tested. Kozhikode Corporation has the highest number of cases through local transmission at 281 and Kadalundi had 62 cases. A total of 1,153 people recovered from the infection. The number of active cases in the district is now 10,724 and 6,800 people are in home isolation. Meanwhile, a 91-year-old woman from Kuthiravattam in the city died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Thursday. Five other deaths were reported from there on Wednesday, a medical bulletin said. In Malappuram As many as 897 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Thursday. While 821 of them contracted the virus through direct local contact, the source of infection could not be identified in 65 cases. There were six health workers among the infected. District officials said that 731 people recovered from the disease on Thursday.  In Wayanad Seventy-one people tested positive for the virus in Wayanad on Thursday and the number of recoveries was 122. Sixty-three people got it through local transmission of the infection. The number of active cases in the district now is 986. As many as 377 people are in home isolation.
23 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||A town that no longer needs a dump||Vadakara Municipality has been the talk of the town for a few years now for its achievements in sanitation and hygiene. Being the first urban local body in the State to bag the Hygiene Status, the municipality has set a model in different areas. The newest is the conversion of a rubbish dump into a green park. The town’s dumping yard at Puthiyappa has a history of at least half a century. Just three decades ago, it was a trenching ground where dead bodies and even faeces used to be buried. Later, a compound wall was constructed around the one-acre plot, and it became a place to dump all kinds of urban waste. The authorities had to face protests from local people over maintaining it as a dumping yard, as the smell emanating from the yard and liquid waste were posing a threat to their well-being. A petition at the Kerala High Court prompted the municipality to take action, and it attempted to produce manure from waste, which, however, failed. Meanwhile, Vadakara became so efficient in waste management that it no longer required a dumping yard. “We have shown the State that if waste is segregated and recycled in the right manner, there is nothing to dump,” said Manalil Mohan, an environmentalist, who has been coordinating sanitation efforts of the municipality for a few years now. Clearing refuse The present municipal council began efforts to get rid of the dumping yard by clearing some of the waste from the yard and capping the surface using coir geotextile. However, around 30,000 cubic-metre waste is yet to be removed from the site. Biomining is the technology adopted at the site, in which waste is passed through a sieve to sort. In addition, efforts are being made to convert the area into a green park. Vadakara’s famed Hariyali Harithakarma Sena has been entrusted with the task.For over a month, members of the Sena under the leadership of Vijila M.K., Beena.T.K., and Sathi.T.T. have been undertaking plantain and vegetable cultivation in the land. The Green Technology Centre at Vadakara, another first in the State, is providing technical assistance. “In the current pace, it will take us at least a couple of years to convert the yard into a green park. It will be another first in the State,” Mr. Mohan said.
23 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Local body struggles to handle plastic waste||Even as the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation is making efforts to maintain and improve its Hygiene Status, the civic body is falling short when it comes to plastic waste management. Corporation health standing committee chairman K.V. Baburaj said despite the best efforts and good results the health wing had achieved in the earlier days of plastic ban this year, it was forced to hold back and concentrate on immediate situation owing to the pandemic. “We had made headway in controlling the flow of single-use plastic before the pandemic outbreak. But now, we are not in a position to carry out periodic inspections and follow-up procedures owing to severe staff shortage and COVID-19 restrictions,” Mr. Baburaj said. Piles of plastic waste, mainly disposable utensils and carry bags, can be found in various parts of the city, especially along the NH Bypass. However, Mr. Baburaj said travellers were responsible for waste piling up along the bypass. “We have a good system of collection and segregation of waste in the city. Despite initial glitches owing the pandemic, our Harithakarma Sena is now active. Waste found along the bypass is not generated by the city but disposed of by travellers,” he said. Meanwhile, the civic body is trying to improve its score for the Hygiene Status with more activities. “We had 85% marks. But our effort is to make it 100%,” he said.
23 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Daunting task awaits CPI(M) ahead of polls||A daunting task awaits the Communist Party of India (Marxist) ahead of the Assembly polls next year. It has to satisfy all its allies when seats are shared among the Left Democratic Front (LDF) constituents. The recent entry of the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) into the front and new constituents, the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) and the Indian National League (INL), have made the task challenging for its leaders. Sources said that the party would have to sacrifice some of the seats it had contested last time and reduce the number of seats of existing allies, including that of the Communist Party of India (CPI) and the Janata Dal (Secular). Last time, the CPI(M) and the CPI had contested 90 and 27 seats respectively. Impasse over seat-sharing is likely to surface after the three-tier local body elections in December this year as the Jose K. Mani faction and the LJD have reportedly staked claim for 12 and seven seats respectively. Bone of contention The Jose K. Mani faction has reportedly struck a deal with the CPI(M) for at least six seats, including the contentious Pala Assembly segment which is now represented by Mani C. Kappan of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP). Such an arrangement is likely with an immin ent split in the NCP as the late NCP leader and former Minister Thomas Chandy’s brother Thomas K. Thomas is reportedly planning to contest from Kuttanad on the LDF ticket. LJD Sources said the LJD, which had contested and lost all seven seats when the party was with the United Democratic Front as Janata Dal (United) in the 2016 polls, was expected to contest at least from five segments, including Vadakara. That means the JD(S) would have to be contented with four seats. The INL, which had been inducted into the LDF before the Lok Sabha polls, also looks forward to contesting in four seats. Last time when the party had an electoral understanding with the CPI(M)-led coalition, it contested and lost all three seats, including the Kozhikode South segment. Minor partners Besides, the CPI(M) has to accommodate the National Secular Conference led by P.T.A. Rahim, which had contested and won two seats — Kunnamangalam and Koduvally — last time. The other minor partners such as the Congress (S), Kerala Congress (Scaria Thomas), Kerala Congress (B), Janadhipathya Kerala Congress, Communist Marxist Party (Aravindakshan), and the Revolutionary Socialist party (Leninist) had also contested in the previous election.
23 October 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||IUWL slams move to raise age of marriage for women||The Indian Union Women League (IUWL), the women’s organisation of the Indian Union Muslim League, has called on the Central government to drop the move to enhance the legal age of marriage from 18 to 21. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, IUWL general secretary P.K. Noorbeena Rasheed stated that the move to enhance the age of marriage for women was not acceptable as it would cause social anarchy and lead to “living-in relationship and illegitimate children”. In the past, many developing countries had reduced the marriage for women from 21 to 18 considering the biological and social need of women, she said in the letter.
23 October 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Man dies as building collapses||A 64-year-man from Kannanchery near Panniyankara in Kozhikode city died on Thursday night when a two-storey building collapsed around 8.30 p.m. According to sources at the Government Medical College Hospital, the deceased has been identified as N.V. Ramachandran. The building, located near a lower primary school in Kannanchery, is reportedly an old one and it crumbled owing to structural issues. Ramachandran, who runs a fancy store, was found trapped inside. His godown was there. The building reportedly had six rooms. At the time of going to press, rescue operations were going on to see if any others were trapped there.
23 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corporation inspects IUML MLA’s house||A Town Planning Department team attached to the Kozhikode Corporation carried out an inspection at the house and its premises of Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) legislator K.M. Shaji near the civil station here on Thursday. The inspection was carried out on the basis of a directive from the Enforcement Directorate (ED) which is probing a bribery case of sanctioning Plus Two courses for an aided school at Azhikode in Kannur district in 2014. The case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act was that Plus Two courses were sanctioned to the school after collecting a bribe of Rs. 25 lakh from the management. A notice has been served on Mr. Shaji to be present for questioning him next month. Violations Sources said that documents showed that the house in Vengeri revenue village was in the possession of Asha, wife of Mr. Shaji, and that permission for its construction had been granted in 2013. But the approval had been granted to construct the house for a space of 3,200 sq ft. Now the total space of construction was found to be 5,500 sq ft.
23 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||SYS opposes IUML seeking Welfare Party’s help||The Sunni Yuvajana Sangham (SYS), the youth wing of the Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama, led by Sayed Jifri Muthukoya Thangal, has expressed its displeasure over Indian Union Muslim League (IUML)’s attempts at making electoral adjustments with the Jamat-e-Islami. SYS leaders have reportedly conveyed their displeasure to the IUML leadership. The IUML, under the leadership of its national general secretary, P.K. Kunhalikutty, has reached an understanding with the Welfare Party, the political wing of the Jamat-e-Islami ahead of the local body and Assembly elections in the State. Although the IUML has denied any tie-up with the Welfare Party, Mr. Kunhalikutty had hinted at making electoral adjustments with regional groups and parties for the local body elections. The opposition raised by the SYS towards making electoral adjustments with the Welfare Party will be discussed at a meeting of the UDF to be held on Friday.
23 October 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Resignation of MES leaders sought||Muslim Educational Society (MES) secretary N.M. Mujeeb Rahman has demanded that MES State president Fazal Gafoor and general secretary P.O.J. Lebba step down from the posts in the wake of the police registering a case against them for siphoning off Rs. 3.81 crore. The police registered the case against them following a court directive Dr. Mujeeb said here on Thursday that a criminal case was registered against the MES leaders for the first time.
23 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Lockdown unveils a birds’ haven||The Southern Railway Colony at Hemambika Nagar near here is a haven for birds. But it took a pandemic and a lockdown for the railway officials to uncover that haven. Dozens of bird species were identified and recorded in the Railway Colony during the lockdown, thanks to Divisional Railway Manager Pratap Singh Shami’s hobby in photography. “The birds I found here are testimony to the general saying that Palakkad is one of the most beautiful divisions of the Indian Railways,” said Mr. Shami. Manager at the helm Mr. Shami introduced the concept of “backyard birding” among his staff as most of them got stuck at home during the lockdown. He said he was surprised to find so many beautiful birds perching on the trees around his bungalow. According to M.K. Gopinath, Palakkad Railway Division’s public relations officer, more than five dozen species could be identified and photographed during the lockdown. “We were surprised to find so many varieties” he said. Main residents Among them were Indian grey hornbills, Asian koels, black-headed and golden orioles, different types of myna and bulbul, purple-rumped sunbird, rufous treepies, sparrows, many types of kites and hawks including marsh harrier and shikra, varieties of drongos, bee-eaters, herons, egrets, owls, nightjars, woodpeckers, parrots, peacocks and babblers. Using his Nikon P-1000 super-telephoto amateur camera, Mr. Shami shot several dozens of them from his house. “I did not have to even go out of my house to find such a great variety. Describing this place a mere haven for birds will be an understatement,” he said, playing the video of the birds he chronicled. Admitting that he was neither a serious birdwatcher nor a photographer, Mr. Shami said the birds helped him develop a fresh interest in nature and photography. Mr. Shami said Palakkad used to be widely appreciated as a beautiful division in Railways. “It is like living in a green mansion with colourful birds playing their mesmerising music all along,” he said.
23 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||IIT’s Nila campus to be opened today||The Indian Institute of Technology, Palakkad, will open its Nila campus on Friday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will inaugurate the campus through videoconferencing. It will be a transit campus. Union Minister of Education Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank will lay the foundation stone for the IIT main campus at Kanjikode. The first phase of the main campus in about 500 acres is expected to be developed by January 2022. Palakkad IIT Director P.B. Sunil Kumar said that they lost a few months because of COVID-19. Ramesh Venkiteswaran, Palakkad IIT Board of Governors chairman, will preside. He said that the IIT, Palakkad, with a young faculty of high calibre, will lay emphasis on research and interdisciplinary programmes.
23 October 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Hospital offers free treatment for poor||P.K. Das Institute of Medical Sciences (PKDIMS) at Vaniyamkulam launched a free treatment scheme titled Sasneham on Thursday. V.K. Sreekandan, MP, inaugurated the programme. The PKDIMS will offer free treatment to poor patients selected by a committee. They will also get 50% concession for surgery. Mr. Sreekandan also inaugurated the RT-PCR laboratory at the medical college. He hailed the institute for offering the tests at the rate fixed by the government.
23 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta tally at 195||As many as 195 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Thursday. The disease claimed three more lives in the district, taking the total number of fatalities to 75. With 327 recoveries, the district currently has 2,305 active cases.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Aruvikkara plant clears BIS water quality test||The bottled drinking water plant at Aruvikkara has finally cleared the water quality test of the Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS), paving the way for the launch of much-delayed commercial operations. The Kerala Irrigation Infrastructure Development Corporation (KIIDC), the Irrigation Department agency that now manages the Rs. 16-crore facility, is now awaiting the formal issue of the BIS certification. It will enable KIIDC to obtain clearance from the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India. which too is required to commercially market the bottled water. “Initially, we hope to launch 20-litre jars in the market in the first week of November in collaboration with Kudumbashree,” a senior KIIDC official said. It plans to market the water under its own ‘Hilly Aqua’ bottled water brand name. Water quality tests performed after KIIDC took over the facility from the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) had failed BIS tests on account of fungi presence in the water. KIIDC had taken steps to rectify the problem and a second inspection was carried out by a BIS team on October 12.  Completion in 2018 Although the KWA completed the construction of the 7,200 litres-per-hour facility in 2018, the government-run water utility was unable to obtain the BIS certification owing to technical problems. Subsequently, the government had decided, much to the chagrin of the KWA trade unions, to hand over the facility to KIIDC.  Rs. 2 cr. more pumped in Meanwhile, the State government is pumping in an additional Rs. 2 crore to get the bottled drinking water plant at Aruvikkara up and running. The Water Resources Department has issued orders sanctioning the money to the KIIDC “to operationalise the bottled water plant in a time-bound manner.” The plant has already cost the government Rs. 16 crore. But on takeover, the KIIDC had encountered several technical glitches that needed rectification. In July, KIIDC MD informed the government that the KIIDC had scant budgetary support and the expenditure for the Aruvikkara facility was being met from KIIDC funds.  BIS certification will enable KIIDC to obtain clearance from Food Safety and Standards Authority of India
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||838 new cases, 909 recoveries||Thiruvananthapuram’s COVID-19 caseload reported 838 new cases and 909 recoveries on Thursday, taking the number of active cases to 9,176. Five more recent deaths were attributed to the pandemic. These included the deaths of natives of Karamana (56 years old), Muttada (72), Vembayam (70), Maruthoor (56), and Attingal (47). Among those who were diagnosed with the disease during the last 24 hours, as many as 628 contracted the infection through local transmission. These included 13 health workers. The district administration has also placed 2,100 people in quarantine, taking the number of persons being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 25,339 at homes and 166 in various institutions. Sectoral magistrates, who have been tasked by the administration to detect violations of the prohibitory orders, initiated action against 465 people until 6.30 p.m. on Thursday. While cases were registered against nine people for violating the COVID-19 protocol, 42 others were fined for various violations. Besides, 414 people were let off with warning. The sectoral magistrates have initiated action against 6,328 people since October 4. Moreover, three cases were registered in connection with the functioning of markets in containment zones.  MLA tests positive Nedumangad MLA C. Divakaran has tested positive for COVID-19 and has been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital here. Confirming the development on Facebook, the legislator said his personal staff could be contacted for issues concerning the constituency. Mr. Divakaran and his office staff have remained in quarantine ever since his driver was diagnosed with the disease two days ago.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SNGOU will focus on science courses: VC||Sree Narayana Guru Open University (SNGOU) will utilise the laboratory and other facilities of government and aided colleges to offer science courses, says Vice Chancellor of the fledgling university P.M. Mubarak Pasha. Pointing out that the absence of practical classes has resulted in such courses finding few takers in other open universities, Dr. Pasha says the State’s strong network of arts and science colleges, affiliated to various universities, could be leveraged to circumvent hurdles associated with offering science courses in the distance education mode. Programme centres “We intend to designate well-equipped colleges as programme centres across the State to conduct practical classes on weekends. Considering that arts and science colleges spend 12 hours for laboratory sessions in a semester on an average for science courses, we hope to ensure an equal or greater duration within semesters that are 16 weeks long. Besides utilising the college facilities, the services of their faculty members will be roped in for conducting the practical sessions,” Dr. Pasha told The Hindu . The open university also plans to adopt a blended pedagogical approach that will enable it to disseminate offline modules in the virtual learning mode. Study materials that include tutorial videos and documents will be made accessible for students for a certain period, possibly for the duration of the course. “While the feature will be beneficial for large sections than live sessions owing to connectivity issues, we also intend to facilitate interactive sessions with teachers to supplement the learning process,” he says. Calls for collective efforts Dr. Pasha, who assumed charge along with Pro Vice Chancellor S.V. Sudheer and Registrar P.N. Dileep on Monday, says he hopes to overcome the teething challenges through collective efforts. The university, named after Sree Narayana Guru, will stay true to the ideals propagated by the social reformer. While ensuring top priority to equality and accessibility, the university will strive to uphold quality. While efforts are currently on to constitute Boards of Studies, the university will take a call on courses that could be launched immediately following discussions with Higher Education Department officials next week.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ponmudi lower sanatorium gets a facelift||The lower sanatorium at Ponmudi has been given a facelift by Kerala Tourism at a cost of Rs. 2.08 crore as part of converting the idyllic hill station into a world-class tourist destination. Children’s park, landscaping, resting places, and parking facilities even for buses had been created as part of improving the infrastructure and beautifying the lower sanatorium where the visitors first land at Ponmudi. The project was among the 26 kicked off by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in 14 districts on Thursday through videoconferencing. Minister for Tourism Kadakampally Surendran, who presided, said the sector was able to record the highest revenue during the last four years. Local legislator D. Murali welcomed the gathering. The beautification is part of the Rs. 200-crore project for the development of Ponmudi with the assistance of Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board. Rs. 25,000-cr. loss Kerala Tourism has suffered a loss of Rs. 25,000 crore owing to the pandemic-induced lockdown and job loss of hundreds employed by travel trade, Mr. Vijayan said while inaugurating the projects. The Chief Minister said the pandemic struck Kerala when the tourism sector was marching ahead overcoming several crises and natural disasters. The new tourism projects being launched were aimed at giving a fillip to the sector and increase footfall. “Kerala will bounce back,” Mr. Vijayan said. The projects were being executed in such a way that the ecology remained undisturbed, Mr. Surendran said. Commissioning of 15 cottages constructed by KTDC at Golden Peak Hill Resort here at a cost of Rs. 3.20 crore had led to the increase in footfall from domestic tourists.
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Downward trend continues in State||The State’s COVID-19 case graph which has actually been showing signs of dipping and plateauing since last week continued the trend on Thursday registering 7,482 new cases when 56,093 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The State registered 7,593 recoveries. The test positivity rate on Thursday was 13.3%. The number of active cases is 93,291. On Thursday, 23 deaths which occurred between October 7 and 21 were added to the State’s official death list. Of the new cases, 7,359 cases (98.3%) were locally acquired infections, with the source of infection remaining untraced in the case of 844 patients. The number of health-care workers who contracted the disease is 67. Among districts, Kozhikode reported the maximum number of cases with 932, Ernakulam 929, Malappuram 897, Thrissur 847, Thiruvananthapuram 838, Alappuzha 837, Kollam 481, Palakkad 465, Kannur 377, Kottayam 332, Kasaragod, 216, Pathanamthitta 195, Wayanad 71 and Idukki 65. The State’s active case pool has shown a stabilising trend with the number of active cases declining in many districts. Ernakulam, though has shown a reduction in active cases, still tops the list with 11,870 patients. Kozhikode has 1,153 cases, Malappuram 10,500, Thiruvananthapuram 9,176 and Thrissur 9,073 cases.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State seeks Centre’s nod to cull wild boars||The government has commenced steps to seek the Centre’s nod to declare wild boars as vermin under the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 to cull the animal. The Chief Wildlife Warden has directed Divisional Forest Officers (DFOs) to identify clusters or regions that have witnessed instances of man-animal conflict and extensive crop damage to enforce the provision and kill the boars en masse . Forest Minister K. Raju said the Forest Department had struggled to rein in the menace of wild boars owing to the stringent provisions of the law. Nevertheless, the government had recently permitted their killing by forest officials and farmers possessing licensed guns, subject to a number of clauses. While several wild boars had been killed by way of the order, their population continued to remain above worrying proportions. Farmers had raised concern over the efficacy of the order as only a few farmers possessed licenced guns. Clusters Considering the unlikelihood of the Centre permitting the culling of boars across the State, the government had commenced steps to seek permission for clusters, mainly hilly and forest fringe areas, Mr. Raju said. According to official statistics, the wild boar population had increased from 40,425 in 1997 to 60,940 in 2002, but slumped to 48,034 in 2011. However, the State was roughly estimated to be home to over 55,000 wild boars at present, sources said.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Travancore backwater tourism circuit soon||The work for the Travancore backwater cruise heritage tourism circuit linking the brackish-water Kadinamkulam Lake, the biggest inland waterbody in the capital district, and Anchuthengu lake will begin soon. Inaugurating the Perumathura beach development work on Wednesday, Minister for Tourism and Decaswoms Kadakampally Surendran said the Rs. 8.85 crore backwater tourism circuit would give a big boost to tourism in the capital and increase footfall. Boat jetties will be constructed at Murukkumpuzha, Poundukadavu, Kayikkkarakadavu, Panayilkadavu, and Puthenkadavu. A welcome arch will also be constructed at Veli.  Anjengo Fort, Lighthouse, Asan Memorial, Kayikkara, and historical places will form part of the circuit involving two lakes with Perumathura, 29 km north of Thiruvananthapuram.  Varkala beach The Minister said Kerala Tourism had kicked off the Phase I of the comprehensive development of the Varkala beach at a cost of Rs. 9 crore. In addition, projects worth Rs. 2.66 crore had been completed at Varkala as part of improving the infrastructure facilities. At Perumathura, Kerala Tourism will construct a road, children’s park, ticket counter, pavillion, walkway, stage, snacks bar, rest rooms, boundary wall, and a life guard room at a cost of Rs. 3 crore. The Minister said the the work at Perumathura will be completed by May 2021. Deputy Speaker V. Sasi presided.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||District witnesses dip in active case graph||Bringing much relief to the district administration, the active COVID-19 case graph has witnessed a significant dip during the last two weeks. Attributing the trend to a fall in daily caseload along with the high rate of recoveries, District Collector Navjot Khosa said the prevailing situation has lessened burden on the district’s healthcare capabilities that had showed signs of being stretched beyond its limits. The number of active cases fell from 12,752 on October 7 and 10,212 on October 18 to 9,176 on Thursday. Dr. Khosa added that the stringent curbs imposed in the district also had a positive impact. Pointing out that the COVID-19 treatment system at the hospitals of the district remained satisfactory, she said 27% of beds earmarked for COVID-19 patients in government hospitals remained unoccupied. The ICU and ventilator facilities were also adequate.  ‘Do not drop guard’ Notwithstanding the progress attained in containment efforts, the Collector cautioned against dropping guard against the pandemic. She added that it was too early to withdraw any of the curbs that prevailed in the district. Dr. Khosa also expressed satisfaction at the support extended towards the prohibitory orders invoked under Section 144 of the Cr.PC 1973 by large sections of the public.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. inactive amidst price rise: Chandy||The State government is remaining inactive even as the prices of essential commodities are witnessing a sharp spike amid the COVID-19 pandemic, former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy said on Thursday. The government has gone back on its promise that the prices would not be increased for five years. Onion prices have shot up from Rs. 25 a kg to Rs. 90, and that of shallots, from Rs. 35 to Rs. 120. Prices of garlic, beans, carrot, bitter gourd, green chilli, and drumsticks have also increased, Mr. Chandy said. The price of green gram has risen from Rs. 66 in 2016 to Rs. 74. The price of Sabari tea has risen from Rs. 165 to Rs. 172. Paddy farmers in the State too were knee-deep in crisis, Mr. Chandy said.
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Two care homes for transgender community||Two care homes for the transgender community are coming up in the State. The Social Justice Department has sanctioned Rs. 53.16 lakh to start the homes, Minister for Social Justice K.K. Shylaja said in a statement here. The amount — Rs. 26.58 lakh for each home — is for non-governmental organisations (NGOs) with experience in the area of rehabilitation to open the homes and meet the expenses involved in their running. Transgenders undergoing sex reassignment surgery as part of the transgender welfare measures of the department or those in distress with no other place to go will be accommodated in these short-stay homes. The government had last year sanctioned five short-stay and care homes for the transgender community. While the only home for transmen was in Thiruvananthapuram, the remaining — in Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, Kottayam, and Kozhikode — were for transwomen. Each was being run by a transgender community-based organisation (CBO). Three of these homes are functional while that for transwomen in Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam have wound up. In the wake of various issues coming to light in the running of homes by the CBOs, the government has decided that for comprehensive development of the transgender community members, the homes should be entrusted to NGOs. One home will be set up in Thiruvananthapuram for transmen, and the other in Ernakulam for transwomen. The government plan, ultimately, is to have only two short-stay homes in the State. The decision has been taken as the number of residents in the existing homes has been found to be low.  One home will be set up in capital for transmen, and the other in Ernakulam for transwomen
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Webinar on IT trends today||Ajith Kumar, Consulting Engineer, GE Transportation, will inaugurate the Inspire webinar series organised by the College of Engineering Thiruvananthapuram at 7.30 p.m. on Friday. The webinar on ‘IT Trends and Research for 2020 and beyond’ will feature Chris Howard, Chief of Research, Gartner, delivering the keynote address. To register: https://bit.ly/36L8i94.
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Skill training for girls in Kannur, Kasaragod||REACH (Resource Enhancement Academy for Career Heights), a finishing school under the Kerala State Women’s Development Corporation (KSWDC), is set to provide skill development training to 28 girls living at the Women and Children Home in Kannur and Kasaragod districts. REACH, which aims at improving employability among professionally qualified women and girls, will pilot the data entry course for girls in the two homes managed by the Kerala Mahila Samakhya Society. Twelve girls from the home at Mattannur in Kannur district and 16 girls from the home at Parappa in Kasaragod will take part in the free online course to be conducted in association with Kerala State Rutronix. The Certificate in Word Processing and Data Entry Operator course is targeted at girls who have passed Class 10. The Kerala State Rutronix will provide the certificate for the six-month course. The evening training will be held from 6 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. REACH officials said the training, arranged on the directions of Social Justice Secretary Biju Prabhakar, will equip the girls for self-employment or wage employment. They could apply to the PSC which recognises the data entry course or secure jobs as office assistant or administrator, or become self-employed by taking up data entry jobs on contract. It would also make them eligible for loans from Khadi Board at 5% interest.
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Inauguration of cultural initiative today||The State-level inauguration of Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat, the Union government’s initiative to promote cultural interaction between various States and Union Territories, will be organised by the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, on Friday. Kerala and Himachal Pradesh are the pairing States for the programme, to be organised online from 11 a.m.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Festival special train from Gandhidham to Tirunelveli||Railways have announced a Festival Special Superfast train between Gandhidham and Tirunelveli via Madgaon, Ernakulam Junction, Thiruvananthapuram Central and Nagercoil Town to facilitate convenient travel during the festival season. According to Railways, the train will run as per the timings of Gandhidham-Tirunelveli-Gandhidham Humsafar Expresses (19424/19423). Advance reservation is compulsory in all the classes and passengers should strictly follow the COVID-19 safety protocol throughout the journey. On third day Gandhidham -Tirunelveli Weekly Festival Special (09424) will leave Gandhidham at 2 p.m. on Mondays — October 26, November 2, 9, 16, 23 and 30 — to reach Tirunelveli at 11.30 a.m. on the third day. In the return direction, Tirunelveli-Gandhidham Weekly Festival Special (09423) will leave Tirunelveli at 7.45 a.m. on Thursdays — November 5, 12, 19, 26 and December 3 — to reach Gandhidham at 4.30 a.m. on the third day. On October 29, the first service will leave Tirunelveli at 7.45 a.m. to reach Gandhidham at 6.40 a.m on the third day.
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UST Global is ‘Champion of Inclusion’||UST Global has been recognised as a ‘Champion of Inclusion’ and one of the ‘100 Best Companies for Women in India 2020’ by Working Mother and Avtar. The recognition affirms UST Global’s commitment to meaningful gender diversity and equity, a company statement said.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KIIFB aid to RTC for buying 360 buses||The Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) will provide Rs. 286.50 crore to the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) for purchasing 360 new buses. Of the new buses, 50 will be electric ones that will operate as fast passenger and the remaining 310 will be powered by CNG and will run as super fast. The government accorded nod for the purchase of the new buses after a KIIFB board meeting with Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac in the chair had cleared the proposal, Minister for Transport A.K. Saseendran said on Thursday. The 50 electric buses will cost Rs. 27.50 crore and the subsidy under FAME 2 will be used for the purchase. The remaining Rs. 259 crore will be made available by KIIFB as loan to the KSRTC at a nominal interest of 4%. A green effort Mr. Saseendran said the initiative was part of the government’s effort to make Thiruvananthapuram city green. The government’s aim was to ensure that only CNG, LNG and electric buses plied on the roads of the State capital in another three years. A CNG pump has been set up at the IOC depot at Anayara and oil majors are undertaking studies for opening CNG pumps in other districts. While high speed diesel costs Rs. 71 a litre, CNG costs Rs. 57.3 and LNG Rs. 44 a litre. A 30% shift in fuel will lead to huge savings for the KSRTC.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cement price hike unjust: E.P. Jayarajan||Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan has demanded a rollback of the “unjust” increase in prices of cement by manufacturing companies. Accusing manufacturers of indulging in daylight robbery, he cautioned them of stringent action for such illegal actions. In a statement, Mr. Jayarajan said the indiscriminate price increase was intended to increase profits at a time when cement sales had slumped owing to the pandemic. A complaint in this regard had been forwarded to the Chief Minister. According to him, cement prices rose from Rs. 380 to Rs. 445 during the COVID-19 outbreak. Currently, the price of a sack of cement hovered in the range of Rs. 490 to Rs. 500. During the period, the manufacturers had also discontinued the practice of providing company discounts to dealers, prompting the latter to transfer the additional financial burden to consumers.
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Daily testing to be increased to 70,000: CM||The government intends to hike the daily COVID-19 testing to 70,000. The private sector should also come forward and do more testing, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Thursday. The rates have been revised so that more people would come forward to test, he said. He dismissed as untrue and misleading the allegations that negligence had led to the death of COVID-19 patients at Ernakulam Government Medical College Hospital at Kalamassery. He added that the government would take serious action against the doctors in the State Health Service who had come in open support of the allegations.
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Education grant||The Kerala Labour Welfare Fund Board is going online with the application for education grant in the wake of the COVID-19 restrictions. Applications can be submitted online throughwww.labourwelfarefund.inafter November 15. For details, dial 0471 2570440, 9747625935.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Suraj Soman wins INSA Young Scientist Medal||Suraj Soman, a scientist with the CSIR-National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST), Pappanamcode, has won this year’s Indian National Science Academy (INSA) Medal for Young Scientist.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Readymade garment unit of Hantex opened||Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan inaugurated a garment unit of Hantex at Oottukuzhy in the capital city on Wednesday. Hantex, which is under the Industries Department, is entering the readymade garment sector in a big way and the machinery has been imported from Japan, Taiwan, Malaysia, and Hong Kong. Garments would be manufactured using cloth woven on looms under Hantex, the department said. Employees will be specially trained to operate the computerised tailoring unit, according to the department.
23 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Water supply disruptions||Water supply to the following areas will be partially affected from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Friday and 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturday as the Peroorkada tank of the Kerala Water Authority is being cleaned: Peroorkada, Kudappanakunnu, Harveypuram, Chettivilakom, Kowdiar, Vellayambalam, Nanthencode, Kuravankonam, Pattom, Medical College region, Ulloor, Kesavadasapuram, Muttada, Ambalamukku, Oolampara, Pipinmoodu, Jawahar Nagar, and Sasthamangalam.
23 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram:,KERALA||Free online classes for PSC exam||The University Employment Information and Guidance Bureau is conducting free online coaching classes for the PSC matric-level preliminary examination. The programme will be spread over 100 days. For registration, visithttp://bit.ly/ueigb-psc-10th. For further details, call 0471-2304577.
23 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Police congress delves into new technologies||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the second Police Science Congress organised online by the Kerala Police Academy on Thursday. The event is an extension of the first congress held in November 2019 to provide a common platform to police forces/units, social scientists, forensic experts, and technocrats, to deliberate on themes of interest to police. Mr. Vijayan described the meet as quite appropriate for the times. “Awareness of forensic science, forensic medicine, cybersecurity, and a thorough knowledge of law have become indispensable for any investigating agency these days.” He said the Kerala Police Academy was resolved to train police officers in modern trends in relevant fields so that effective policing would result. Staying true to its commitment to law and order and preserving communal harmony, the Kerala government wanted to transform the police academy into a centre of excellence in police science and research. “This will scale up the training given to our police personnel and enable Kerala Police to further improve its record as one of the premier investigating agencies in the country,” Mr. Vijayan said. 150-odd papers There will be 33 keynote addresses and 150-odd papers on cybercrime and cybersecurity, forensic science and forensic psychology, forensic medicine and forensic nursing, emerging technology in policing, law, and criminology in the two-day event.
23 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Dog squad finishes training||The tenth batch of dog squad and their handlers completed training from the Kerala Police Academy State Dog Training School in Thrissur on Thursday. Twenty-two dogs and 44 handlers completed a nine-month training session at the centre. The training started on January 26. Fields of expertise Of the trained dogs, five are trackers while 11 are trained in detecting explosives. Four are experts in search and rescue operations and two have expertise in narcotic field. The dogs included brands such as Belgian Malinois, Labrador Retriever, Beagle, and indigenous ones such as Kanni and Chippippara. They were trained by sub inspectors P. Ramesh, V.V. Sasheendran, assistant sub inspectors P.R. Suresh, P.R. Mohankumar and senior civil police officer Joseph Charley. So far 155 dogs have been trained in 10 batches at the dog training school, which was inaugurated in July, 2007. The centre had held a workshop of working dogs in association with Veterinary University, Mannuthy, recently. The Kerala Police dog squad had won two medals at the National Police Duty Meet – silver in tracker section in 2018 and gold in explosive detection section in 2019.
23 October 2020||Thrissur/Palakkad,KERALA||Thrissur’s tally goes up by 847||Thrissur recorded 847 COVID-19 cases on Thursday while 1,170 people recovered from the disease. There are 8,967 active cases in the district and 98 patients from the district are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far 31,235 COVID-19 cases have been confirmed in Thrissur while 21,964 patients have recovered. According to the official statistics, 846 patients contracted the disease through local contact on Thursday. It included 122 patients above the age of 60 and 60 children below the age of 10. Senior citizens, kids High number of senior citizens and children among the patients causing concern for the district. In all 5,904 patients are under home observation. As many as 465 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad on Thursday. When 226 of them had contracted the disease through local contact, there were 227 cases without an identifiable source of infection. District authorities raised concerns at the increasing number of cases without traceable sources of infection. 239 recoveries There were three health workers among the new cases. Officials said that nine cases had come from across the State. There were 239 recoveries in the district on Thursday. There were 7,491 active cases in Palakkad.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Message on the wall||
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Tread with care||
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In spotlight again||
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Upholding fishers’ interests||
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Adding teeth to the force||
23 October 2020||ANTARVEDI (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Antarvedi temple chariot to be ready by December end||BC Welfare Minister Chelluboyina Venu Gopala Krishna on Thursday said the new 40-foot chariot of Sri Lakshminarasimha Swami temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district would be built by December-end as against the deadline of early January next. Making of the chariot was commenced on September 27 by the Hyderabad-based craftsman Ganapathi Acharyulu on the temple campus. The century-old chariot was gutted in the early hours of September 6 on the temple premises in East Godavari district. Accompanied by Principal Secretary (Endowments) Girija Shankar and Endowments Department Commissioner P. Arjuna Rao, Mr. Gopala Krishna inspected the work. Antarvedi temple chariot committee chairman and Additional Commissioner (Endowments) K. Ramachandra Mohan is monitoring the chariot work, for which the State government has granted Rs. 95 lakh. “A target has been fixed to complete the making of the new chariot by early January next. However, given the present stage of the work, the making of the chariot will be completed by December-end itself.” Major work “The giant wheels of the chariot are the major portion of the project and the work is expected to be speeded up. Hailing from East Godavari, I have been closely monitoring the making of the chariot. The Endowments Department is confident of handing over the chariot to the temple by December-end, enabling the temple authorities to fully prepare for the kalyanotsav,” said Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna. The annual kalyanotsavam is scheduled to be celebrated between February 19 and 28. Amalapuram Sub-Collector Himanshu Kaushik, Regional Joint Commissioner (Endowments) D. Bramaramba and other officials were present during the work inspection.
23 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chittoor officials plan to conduct 8,000 tests daily||The health officials on Thursday chalked out an action plan to check the spread of coronavirus in Chittoor district, with the daily average cases remaining at more than 500 and the death toll crossing the 750-mark, the highest in Andhra Pradesh. District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) M. Penchalaiah said Chittoor is one among the five districts in the State which record disturbing number of single-day spike in positive cases. “A majority of the cases are now emerging from the limits of Tirupati Municipal Corporation and its surrounding areas. The spread of the virus has been brought under control in the rest of the district,” he said. The DMHO said that plans are afoot to increase the number of tests per day to 8,000, when compared to 5,000 tests per day now. “We will focus on the primary and secondary contacts of the patients. We have clearly instructed the field staff to monitor the home isolation cases,” said Dr. Penchalaiah. ‘Maske Kavacham’ The implementation of ‘Maske Kavacham’ programme which was launched on Wednesday would be intensified at the field level across the district, he said. “People are now bit relaxed with the plummeting of cases . We must not lower our guard against the virus at any cost,” Dr Penchalaiah said.
23 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mystery shrouds death of pregnant woman||Mystery shrouds the death of a 23-year-old pregnant woman whose body was found hanging at her house at Boreddivaripalle in Chinnagottigallu mandal on Thursday. According to information, the woman, identified as Haritha, got married to Anand Reddy (27), both natives Boreddivaripalle, some six months ago. She woman was in the third month of her pregnancy. Her husband, who is working as a software professional at a company in Bengaluru, has been working from home in their native village. Haritha had recently resigned as a staff nurse at a corporate hospital near Chittoor. The police shifted the body to a hospital for autopsy. The neighbours reportedly told the police that the couple had been quarrelling frequently in the recent months. A case has been registered and further investigation is on.
23 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||One-eyed lone elephant driven back into T.N. forests||Following a five-day joint operation of the forest officials of Chittoor and Gudiyattam range of Tamil Nadu, the one-eyed lone tusker, which had reportedly killed a forest jeep driver last week, was driven into the Tamil Nadu forests on Wednesday night. About 30 elephant trackers from both sides located the tusker moving close to the Gudiyattam-Chittoor road on the border. The trackers, with the help of drumbeats and firing of crackers, drove the pachyderm towards the Gudiyattam range crossing the Chittoor limits. As the animal moved deep into the forests beyond the 5-km range, the possibility of its making an immediate comeback into the vicinity of the border villages was considered remote. The elephant was believed to be the one which went on rampage, destroying crops, in full view of villagers at Dalavaipalle in Yadamarri mandal in January . It was observed that it turned aggressive after it got separated from a herd of 15 members. Divisional Forest Officer S. Ravi Shankar said the presence of a lone elephant would pose a danger to human movement.
23 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Bail out flood-hit farmers’||The Federation of All India Farmer Associations (FAIFA) has urged the Central government to bail out farmers of Andhra Pradesh where crop damage has been reported in 25,000 hectares and monetary loss of Rs. 209 crore. In a letter to Union Minister for Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar, FAIFA national spokesperson Yeshwanth Ch said that cotton crop was damaged to an extent of 30,500 hectares with production loss of 0.54 lakh metric tonnes and monetary loss of Rs. 297 crore. Paddy crop was damaged to an extent of 85,000 hectares with production loss of 4.33 lakh metric tonnes and monetary loss of Rs. 801 crore. In addition, Groundnut production loss was estimated at 2.10 lakh metric tonnes and Rs. 1,107-crore monetary loss. Losses of other crops including redgram, blackgram, greengram and minor millets put together to an extent of 42,000 hectares were damaged with a production loss of 0.32 lakh metric tonnes and monetary loss of Rs. 80 crore. Horticulture crops The horticulture crops also suffered losses (above 33%), especially chilli in extent of 3,199.22 hectares followed by banana in an extent of 2,540.88 hectares. Monetary losses for bananas were pegged at Rs. 75.77 crore and for chilli at Rs. 74.31 crore. Onion to an extent of 781.26 hectares was damaged and the monetary losses were estimated to be Rs. 11 crore. Turmeric to an extent of 1,846 hectares was damaged and the estimated losses were pegged at Rs. 57.33 crore. Vegetables in extent of 2,365.43 hectares were damaged. In this connection, the FAIFA requested the Union Minister to direct the Cotton Corporation of India, FCI, Nafed etc., to extend full support by purchasing discoloured paddy, cotton, maize etc., and extend relief to the farming community. FAIFA further requested the Minister to send the Central team to conduct the field assessment and extend full support to both Telugu States.
23 October 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore registers zero deaths||Incidence of coronavirus started to abate in south coastal Andhra Pradesh as more patients recovered from illness while fresh cases come down further in the last 24 hours. The SPSR Nellore district registered zero deaths during the period. With two patients succumbing to the pandemic, the toll marginally rose to 565 in Prakasam district, according to a health bulletin released by the State government. The positive trend continued in both districts as 619 patients got cured during the period, while only 437 got infected. The number of recoveries outnumbered fresh admissions by over 180 in the two districts. With 126 new cases, the cumulative confirmed cases rose to 60,234 in SPSR Nellore district, where 237 patients got cured bringing down the number of active cases to little over 2,000. Health situation showed marked improvement in Prakasam district as 382 patients recovered from the illness in the last 24 hours when 311 persons contracted the disease. With this the number of active cases came down to 2,785. Advice to people Visiting the village secretariat at Dharmavaram in Marripudi mandal, Prakasam Collector P. Bhaskar exhorted the people to be fully vigilant as the incidence of coronavirus might go up during the rainy season. “There is possibility of healthy persons getting infected,” he said and wanted the grassroots level functionaries to keep a close watch on the health of the people, especially the aged, who were more vulnerable to contract the infection.
23 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Treat floods in A.P. and TS as national calamity’||CPI national secretary K. Narayana on Thursday urged the Centre to treat the floods in Andhra Pradesh and Telagana as a “national calamity” and extend liberal assistance to the two States. Addressing the media here, Mr. Narayana said the flood situation in the two States was grim. The Centre’s liberal financial support was needed to help the two States to take up relief and rehabilitation measures on a war-footing. The CPI leader accused the ruling BJP at the Centre and the ruling TRS in Telangana of paying too much attention on Hyderabad alone with an eye on the civic body elections for the sake of “political gains” and ignoring the other flood-affected areas. Referring to Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s caution to people as the threat of COVID-19 still continued, he said, “Empty words do not matter.” The Centre should show its commitment in the fight against the pandemic by stepping up allocation to the health sector to at least 6% of the GDP against a little less than 2% earmarked now. He demanded that the Centre withdraw the three “corporate-friendly” farm Acts.
23 October 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lord Malayappa rides ‘Suryaprabha vahanam’||On the seventh day of the Navaratri Brahmotsavams on Thursday, ‘Suryaprabha vahana seva’ was performed at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here. The processional deity of Lord Malayappa Swamy, in the attire of Lord Trivikrama, rode the ‘Suryaprabha vahanam’ at the Kalyanotsavam Mandapam inside the temple, where the priests performed the religious rituals. The ‘vahanam’, a symbol of Lord Surya, or the God of Light, is dragged by seven divine horses with Anura as the charioteer. It is believed that a glimpse of the Lord on the ‘vahanam’ bestows long life, health and prosperity. As a part of the religious proceedings, scholars recited hymns from the sacred texts in praise of Lord Suryanarayana. The festivities for the day climaxed with ‘Chandraprabha vahanam’ in the night.
23 October 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Third Kisan Rail leaves for Delhi||After the success of the two ‘Kisan Rails’ ferrying agricultural produces, the South Central Railway has launched the third one from Anantapur to Delhi. The train, carrying a load of 242.6 tonnes of fruits and vegetables, started its journey from Anantapur on October 21 for Adarsh Nagar station in New Delhi. Tomatoes, musk melon, mosambi, lemons and oranges were loaded in 10 parcel vans. With tomato farmers from Chittoor eager to avail of the facility, the officials swiftly extended parcel loading facility at Mulakalacheruvu railway station. Two parcel vans of tomatoes were loaded for the first time from this remote station and it will be transported to Nagpur. Tariff concession The ‘Kisan Rail’ aims at giving farmers’ income a boost by providing hassle-free, safe and fast transportation of agricultural commodities. The Ministry of Food Processing Industries has recently announced 50% tariff concession on transportation of notified fruits and vegetables through these trains to encourage the farmers to utilise the railway facility.
23 October 2020||TIRUPATI/KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hike in fine for violation of safety norms draws flak||The government’s decision to hike the fine levied for traffic rule violations by amending the MV Act have drawn a flak . In Tirupati, Telugu Nadu Students Federation (TNSF) leaders Ravi Naidu and R. Anand Goud demanded that the government should focus on improving the road infrastructure before levying such hefty fines. “The fine for not having driving licence is Rs. 10,000, while the same for not having registration varies between Rs. 2,000 and Rs. 5,000. A penalty of Rs. 2000 is being imposed for unnecessarily honking. Roadsare ridden with potholes. The government must get them fixed first,” they said. A.P. Auto and Trolley Drivers Unionstaged a protest in Kurnool opposing the unified slab while imposing penalty for two-wheelers and seven-seaters.
24 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC questions rationale behind SEC’s plea on official residence||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Thursday questioned the rationale behind State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar’s plea that his residence in Hyderabad be declared as the official residence of the A.P. State Election Commissioner. A single-judge bench which consisted of Justice B. Devanand, also asked whether it was not a waste of public money to have the official residence in Hyderabad and another one in Vijayawada. Reserving its order on the State Election Commission’s writ petition accusing the government of not cooperating in the conduct of local body elections and holding back funds of Rs. 40 lakh sanctioned in January 2020, the court was of the view that the petitioner was unable to show any proof of denial of support, except of non-payment of certain amounts to the SEC. Presenting his arguments during a hearing on the writ petition, Government Pleader C. Sumon claimed that a sum of Rs. 39.70 lakh was released on October 20 and about Rs. 110 crore since July 2019. He further said that the SEC’s contention that the government’s non-cooperation obstructed the process of elections had not been substantiated. He insisted that the affidavit filed by Mr. Ramesh Kumar neither contained any averment nor showed any instance of non-cooperation. The Government Pleader further pointed out that the State government was constitutionally obligated to extend all support and cooperation to the SEC, and that the question of support arises when the elections were announced. The petitioner also alleged that some posts were not filled by the government, but the court asked where was the proof of it.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA presents silk ‘vastrams’ to goddess on behalf of TTD||Goddess Kanaka Durga, the presiding deity of Sri Durga Malleswara Swamy Varla Devasthanam atop Indrakeeladri hill, was adorned in Sri Lalita Tripura Sundari Devi alankaram on Thursday, as part of the ongoing Dasara festivities. Penamaluru MLA Kolusu Parthasaradhy, presented silk robes to the deity on behalf of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD). Amidst chants of Vedic mantras, the Minister walked carrying on his head the sacred offering of ‘pasupu, kumkuma and tambulam’ and presented it to the goddess in the sanctum sanctorum. ‘Archaka sabha’ Later, speaking to the media, the MLA said the State government presented silk robes to the goddess on behalf of the TTD. He said he prayed to the deity to bless the people of the State and usher in prosperity. In an 'archaka sabha' held on the sixth floor of the Mahamandalam on the Indrakeeladri hill, the temple management felicitated 50 priests and presented to them a cash incentive of Rs. 3,500 each, ‘prasadam’ and ‘sesha vastram’. Devasthanam chairman Pyla Sominaidu said the archakas played a pivotal role in maintenance and smooth functioning of temples. He said he was fortunate to have got this opportunity to honour them on this occasion. Chief priests Y. Malleswara Sastry, Kanaka Sundara Sarma, L. D. Prasad, Lingambhatla Madhurnadh Babu and Assistant Executive Officer Sudha Rani coordinated the archaka sabha.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports one of the lowest deaths||The State’s COVID tally inched close to the eight-lakh mark as 3,620 new infections were reported in 24 hours ending Thursday morning. During the same period, the State saw only 16 deaths which was one of the lowest daily death tolls reported in months. The overall toll increased to 6,524 and the death rate remains at 0.82%. The overall tally stood at 7,96,919. Meanwhile, 3,723 patients recovered and the recovery rate increased to 95.13% with a total of 7,58,138 recoveries so far. Currently, 32,257 patients are undergoing treatment. Tests As many as 76,726 samples were tested in the past day with a test positivity rate of 4.72%. So far, 73.47 lakh samples were tested and the overall test positivity rate was at 10.85%. The tests per million ratio also increased to 1.37 lakh and the cases per million increased 14,924. Only West Godavari reported more than 500 and the highest number of new infections, while Kurnool continued to report less than 100 new cases. Four districts reported no new deaths and all others expect one reported two or less new deaths. The district-wise new infections and deaths are as follows: West Godavari (631 and 1), East Godavari (492 and 2), Chittoor (412 and 2), Guntur (385 and 4), Krishna (370 and 2), Prakasam (311 and 2), Kadapa (212 and 1), Anantapur (196 and 1), Visakhapatnam (171 and 1), Nellore (126 and 0), Srikakulam (12 and 0), Vizianagaram (122 and 0) and Kurnool (66 and 0). The district infection tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,12,186), West Godavari (81,252), Chittoor (75,343), Guntur (63,849), Anantapur (63,307), Kurnool (59,027), Nellore (58,668), Prakasam (57,636),Visakhapatnam (54,475), Kadapa (50,586), Srikakulam (43,136), Vizianagaram (38,573), and Krishna (35,986). Expect Krishna, recovery rate of all the districts was more than 90% and death rate was less than 1%. Chitoor’s death rate was 1%.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RGUKT entrance test on Nov. 28||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Thursday said the Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) will conduct a Common Entrance Test (CET) to establish merit for admission in its six-year integrated B.Tech programme for the year 2020-21. At a press conference here, the Minister said this was necessitated as 10th class grades were not available for this year and, therefore, the marks secured in the entrance examination would be considered the merit for admissions. The exam would be held on November 28 and the result would be declared on December 5, he said. Diploma programmes Mr. Suresh said the candidates taking RGUKT CET-2020 would also be eligible for admission into the 2/3 year diploma programme in Acharya N.G. Ranga Agricultural University (ANGRAU), Guntur; Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University, Tirupati (SVVU); and Dr. YSR Horticulture University (Dr. YSRHU), Venkataramannagudem. Important dates Explaining about important dates for the CET, Mr. Suresh said the notification was being issued on October 22, payment of fees through payment gateway and application submission should be done between October 28 and November 10 and the last date for online submission of application throughwww.rgukt.inwas November 10. He said the last date for online submission of application with a fine of Rs. 1,000 was November 15 and the students could download their hall tickets from November 22. The exam would be held on November 28 and the initial key would be published the same day. Objections on the initial key would be published on November 30 and final key would be published on December 1. The final result would be declared on December 5, the Minister said. Exam centres The Directorate of Government Examinations would conduct the Common Entrance Test in all the mandal across the State, provided at least 100 candidates registered in a centre. If the number of candidates was less than 100, they would be allotted the next nearest centre to write the CET. Ten exam centres were being established in Telangana. To prepare for the exam, students should focus on the A.P. SSC syllabus in mathematics, physical sciences and biological sciences. A model question paper would be made available in the university websitewww.rgukt.in
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Group-I mains exam postponed||A single-judge Bench of the State High Court, comprising Justice R. Raghunandan Rao, has ordered postponement of the APPSC Group-I Mains examination scheduled on November 2 and preparation of fresh preliminary results citing mistakes in the final key. Notification for the Group-I examination was issued on December 31, 2018, and the preliminary examination was conducted on May 26, 2019. There was a batch of 10 cases for cancellation of the examinations and reservation for the physically challenged and SCs and STs in the preliminary examination, and a case that challenged the correctness of the final key. The court dismissed the writ petitions that wanted the examinations to be cancelled altogether. As far as the demand for reservation in the preliminary examination was concerned, the court upheld the selection in 1:50 ratio without any reservation. Regarding errors in key, the court directed that five questions be reconsidered by the APPSC, and it should prepare a fresh preliminary qualified list of candidates who can write the mains. Meanwhile, in a statement, APPSC Secretary P.S.R. Anjaneyulu said the revised dates would be announced on October 29.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Auditions held for Srimathi Amaravati||Auditions conducted on Thursday for selection of participants for Srimathi Amaravati season 5, a beauty pageant, evoked good response. Pradeep Chowdary, CEO of Tejas Elite, a city-based event management company and organiser of the pageant, said the grand finale would be held on November 7 in Vijayawada. Qualified for finals Over 30 women from various walks of life participated in the audition round and 25 of them qualified for the final event. YSR Congress Party leader K. Rajani, fashion designer from city J. Anusha and winner of Srimathi Vijayawada season-4 Mallika Chowdary were the judges. Company's managing director Tejaswini said the objective of the event was to provide a platform to married women who otherwise seldom find such platforms to showcase their talent. She said the auditions were conducted in strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocol and so would be the grand finale.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister allays fears of farmers on smart meters||Minister for Transport and I&PR Perni Venkataramaiah has asked farmers not to believe in the false campaign being spread on water meters in the State. Taking part in the district committee meeting of the free power DBT scheme here on Thursday, Mr. Venkataramaiah said that fixation of meters and implementation of free power scheme through direct benefit transfer ensures free power for farmers for another 30 years in the State. He said farmers need not pay a single paisa from their pocket and the power supply would be given free of cost for nine hours in a day. Infrastructure Mr. Venkataramaiah said in Krishna district new sub-stations, transformers and other power infrastructure were established at a cost of Rs. 254 crore to implement the free power scheme. In 2019, there were only 50% day time feeders to support nine-hour free power supply and by March next the capacity would be increased to 100%, he said and added that the government sanctioned Rs. 1,700 crore for the same and by khariff, 89% day time feeders were ready. Vijayawada MLA and Brahmin Corporation chairman Malladi Vishnu, APSPDCL chairman Padma Janardhan Reddy, MLAs Jogi Ramesh, K. Rakshana Nidhi, District Collector A.Md.Imtiaz, farmers and other officials concerned were present.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NEET: discrepancies in marks alleged||Days after the announcement of results of the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET UG 2020), many students from across the country are complaining about “discrepancies” in their marks. A few candidates who have reportedly contacted the National Testing Agency (NTA) to report the same allege that they haven’t received any support. In Anantapur district, Narreddy Pedavemannagari Siva Prakash Reddy, who had appeared for the examination conducted on September 13, is facing a similar quandary, and suspects that his Optical Mark Recognition (OMR) sheet has been tampered with. “When I checked my OMR sheet and the answer key released by the NTA on its official website on October 6, I got a score of 639 out of 720 marks. But, in the final results declared on October 16, the score card showed only 419 marks, a difference of 220 marks,” Siva Prakash told The Hindu on Thursday. “Since we had not downloaded the OMR sheet on October 6, we had visited the NTA website to recheck the OMR sheet after the results were declared. But it was completely different. It was not my brother’s OMR sheet,” alleged Siva Prakash’s sister Vineetha. She said that they had compared her brother’s OMR with that of his friend’s and found that Siva Prakash’s OMR was not original. ‘Nil response’ “The OMR has been tampered with,” Ms. Vineetha alleged. “The multiple mails to the NTA, requesting for an office copy of my brother’s OMR have evoked nil response,” she alleged. Reports of students pointing out discrepancies have surfaced from many places. Venkata Vineela of Nandyal in Kurnool district had earlier told the media that as per the final key, she should have scored 550 marks. “But in the final results, I scored only 113 marks,” she lamented. Similarly, Sai Akshay of Chennai had alleged that his OMR sheet had been manipulated and that he was awarded zero marks. Siva Prakash said the NTA should respond and provide them with the official copy of the OMR sheet for revaluation.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR completes rail line project in record time||In a record-breaking feat by South Central Railway (SCR), the Rail Vikas Nigam Ltd. (RVNL) completed and commissioned 69-km of doubling of railway line between Uppaluru-Gudivada-Moturu and Gudivada-Machilipatnam, on Thursday. A release from the SCR said this was the biggest such achievement in Indian Railways and that it came as a gift for people of Andhra Pradesh coming as it did in the festival season. The newly-commissioned double rail line section forms part of the Vijayawada-Gudivada-Bhimavaram-Narsapur, Gudivada-Machilipatnam and Narsapur-Nidadavolu doubling and electrification project of the SCR, being executed at a cost of Rs. 3,000 crore. The project plan was formalised by the Rail Ministry and was entrusted to RVNL which had taken it up in phases. Out of the total length of 221 km of the project, 124 km has been completed, while the remaining would be completed by mid-2021. General Manager, SCR, Gajanan Mallya, expressed happiness over the achievement of the zone and RVNL and complimented the officials for timely execution of the works despite the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic situation.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APPSC displays list of selected candidates||The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has hosted on its official websitehttps://psc.ap.gov.inthe list of candidates provisionally admitted for verification of original certificates and oral test (interviews) for the post of junior lecturers in AP Intermediate Education. The certificates' verification and interviews will be held in the Commission's office opposite Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium in Vijayawada and the dates will be announced later, according to a statement released by the commission secretary. The commission will upload at a later date the memo to the candidates, two checklists, attestation for forms and other relevant material.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State has failed in tackling flood situation’||BJP State general secretary S. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said on Thursday that the government failed in containing the damage caused by heavy rains and floods. It was only after the Centre assured the State of all possible support that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy woke up from his slumber. Addressing the media here, Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said the deep depression in the Bay of Bengal caught the government unawares. In spite of advanced warnings, the government did not prepare itself to face the contingency. On the other hand, the government was desperately looking to mobilise financial resources that would keep it afloat.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Comprehensive land survey from January 1||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday directed officials to focus on conducting a comprehensive land survey aimed at providing permanent land ownership. Chairing a review meeting on land survey, Mr. Jagan instructed officials to begin the exercise from January 1, 2021, and complete it by August 2023. As the survey was being conducted after a long gap of about 100 years, he insisted that adequate number of survey teams should be deployed and the best of technologies such as drones and rovers should be deployed for digitalising the land records. The Chief Minister said land registration services should be provided in all village secretariats and equipment for undertaking the survey should be provided. The officials informed that the survey would be done in three phases and arrangements for it were under way. The survey details would be updated online on a regular basis directly from the drones and rovers along with pictures with GIS tags. The survey would cover 1.22 lakh sq km, and 4,500 survey teams were being put on the task. A pilot project was successfully implemented in Jaggayyapeta mandal of Krishna district. Deputy CM Dharmana Krishnadas, Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, CCLA Special Chief Secretary Neerabh Kumar Prasad and Commissioner of Stamps and Registration Siddarth Jain were present.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gang arrested for bid to exchange demonetised foreign currency||Sleuths of the Commissioner's Task Force (CTF) arrested a five-member gang and seized demonetised Turkish currency which was being exchanged in the city. According to police, acting on a tip-off, the CTF officials intercepted a car in Andhra Prabha Colony and arrested the five accused in possession of the 300 demonetised Turkish notes. The accused were planning to exchange the foreign currency for Rs. 45 lakh. The accused were identified as G Manohar (30) and G. Ravi Kumar (34) of Kadapa, T. Venkateswara Rao (47) and G. Srinu (36) of West Godavari and B. Sudhir Kumar Reddy (24) of Chittoor district. According to CTF ADCP K.V. Srinivasa Rao, Manohar and Ravi approached Sudhir with the currency and planned to exchange them for the real Indian currency. They took the support of Srinu and Venkateswara Rao, who were already into the trade of exchanging foreign currency. As per the plan, the gang brought the notes to the city.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VIT donates Rs. 1 crore for flood relief in Telangana||The Vellore Institute of Technology (VIT) has donated Rs. 1 crore to the Telangana Chief Minister’s Relief Fund for the relief and rehabilitation measures being undertaken in the flood-hit areas in that State. VIT-AP Registrar C.L.V. Sivakumar handed over a demand draft for the amount to Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao on Thursday. VIT founder and chancellor G. Viswanathan said the institue stands by the people of Telangana in this testing times. “The Telangana government is efficiently handling the flood situation on a war-footing. We hope that the State will return to normalcy soon,” he said.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three arrested for impersonating policemen||Three persons, who were allegedly impersonating police and extorting money from liquor smugglers, were arrested by the Jaggaiahpet police in the district on Thursday. The accused Ch. Siva Narendra, his brother Ch. Anajaneyulu and G. Gopala Krishna of the same town were allegedly collecting “fine” from liquor smugglers entering Andhra Pradesh from Telangana disguised as policemen. According to the police, the accused managed to collect Rs. 12,000 from three persons, who were illegally carrying liquor. Upon receiving a tip-off, the police spotted the gang and arrested them. Police found that the trio collected money via digital payments and are now searching for the smugglers through their bank account details.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||APSSDC signs MoU on skill development courses||The Andhra Prdesh State Skill Development Corporation on Thursday entered into agreements with DELL Technologies, JBM Auto Ltd. and CII-Institute of Logistics for partnerships with the government in the establishment of skill development universities and colleges. The MoUs were signed through a video conference by APSSDC chairman Challa Madhusudhan Reddy, Special Chief Secretary (Skills, Employment and Training) G. Anantha Ramu and APSSDC CEO A. Srikanth and Dell Technologies India president Alok Ohrie, JBM Auto Ltd. head (skill development) Rajeev Sharma and CII Logistics Institute head K.V. Mahidhar. Minister for Industries, IT and Skill Development M. Goutham Reddy participated from his camp office. DELL Technologies will be setting up a Centre of Excellence in the IT sector in Visakhapatnam and offer high-end, on-demand virtual courses in data science, data engineering, cloud architecture and information storage management. JBM Group will offer courses in automotive welding, tie and dye making and fitter.
23 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Headmaster trapped||The Anti-Corruption Bureau of West Godavari district has laid a trap and caught the headmaster of ZNVR High School in Pengonda of West Godavari while he was accepting a bribe of Rs. 10,000. According to a release, one Nuli Surya Prakash of Penugonda village lodged a complained with the Eluru range ACB officials alleging that the headmaster, Josyula Srinivas, has demanded a bribe to process the application for issuance of a duplicate SSC certificate. Following the complaint, ACB officials laid a trap on the school premises and the headmaster was caught while accepting bribe from the complainant in his office. Later, the headmaster was arrested and produced before the Special Judge for SPE & ACB cases, Rajamahendravaram.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Durga puja begins on cautious note as COVID plays spoilsport||Durga Puja, celebrated with fanfare by the Bengali community, began on a cautious note here on Thursday. Though the festival is celebrated for nine days, the festivities begin from Maha Sashti for Bengalis. But this year, the celebrations and the number of Sarbojanin (community) pujas in the city have been restricted due to the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic. Every year, 10 to 12 community pujas are organised, but this year only three or four associations have set up pandals, such as East Coast Railway Kalibari, Ukkunagaram Kalibari and Bengali Association. “This year, we are not conducting the puja, keeping in mind the COVID-19 protocols,” said Dr. Alok Mazumdar of Utsav. Similarly, pujas at 104 area Ashoka Park, Sriharipura, Nausena Bagh and Amzari Park have also been put on hold this year. The pujas are being held in a low-key manner at Bengali Association, Railway Kalibari and Ukkunagaram Kalibari. For the first time, there shall be no cultural programmes in the evenings. Bhog will not be served, as done previously, and the puja area will be barricaded to restrict the gathering of people, said organisers from East Coast Railway Kalibari. Strict social distancing “People have been asked to maintain social distancing, wear masks and carry sanitisers. We have also placed sanitiser at entry point,” said the organisers of Ukkunagaram Kalibari. “Even people offering pujas will have to maintain social distancing norms. We will serve bhog but social distancing will be maintained and all protocols will be followed,” said the organisers of Bengali Association.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Abide by COVID rules, transport operators told||Deputy Transport Commissioner G.C. Raja Ratnam has directed transport operators to invariably comply with COVID-19 protocol to check the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Raja Ratnam held a meeting with representatives of private bus, taxi, auto-rickshaw and lorry unions at the RTA office here on Thursday. He asked the owners of transport vehicles and union leaders to create awareness among drivers and staff on G.O. 520 and COVID guidelines issued by the government. “Passengers without masks should not be allowed to board vehicles. Posters on COVID prevention should be displayed in buses, taxis and on lorries. Passengers should be made aware of the need to maintain physical distancing and to sanitise their hands at regular intervals. Owners and drivers should ensure sanitisation of the vehicle with sodium hypochlorite solution. Passengers should not be allowed to travel aboard cargo vehicles,” Mr. Raja Ratnam said. Only 50% seats should be filled in transport vehicles and those with symptoms of COVID-19 should not be allowed to board the vehicles. Passengers boarding buses should be checked with thermal screeners and use of masks and sanitiser should be ensured, he said. He asked APSRTC officials to ensure compliance of the COVID-19 protocols.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag zoo curator clarifies on rankings||Curator of Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) Nandani Salaria refuted rumours that the IGZP stood first among 10 zoos across the country to be selected for development along the lines of international standards. According to Ms. Salaria, a few months ago, the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) had chosen IGZP along with nine other zoos in the country for being upgraded as a world-class zoo with a 10-year vision plan. Ms. Salaria said that the aim behind the move is to bring the standards concerning animal upkeep, staff welfare and visitor amenities on par with world-class zoos. The zoo curator said that IGZP was chosen after a series of detailed presentations and online meetings with the officials from CZA. “We had given presentations on various trends and opportunities that the IGZP has. We explained about the scenic location, topography and the natural setting that the zoo provides, as well as the threats and challenges faced by it. After taking everything into consideration, the officials selected 10 zoo parks including Vizag zoo,” she said. She also clarified that there is no ranking system of the 10 selected zoos. “Each zoo has its own strengths, challenges and opportunities which they need to work out,” she said. Ms Salaria added that CZA has chosen a consultant who will be visiting IGZP to help them prepare a 10-year vision plan. The plan will be implemented in due course, Ms. Salaria said.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Numismatist adds to his kitty||Collection of currency, including coins, paper currency and souvenirs, has been his hobby for several years. His kitty has several rare coins and they are his proud possession. B. Ravi Shankar Reddy, a numismatist and philatelist of the city, has now added new coins to his collection — commemorative coins of Rs. 75, Rs. 350 and Rs. 550. Commemorative coins are issued to mark special occasions and give a brief history and significance of the subject, place or event on which they are brought out, apart from details of the composition of the metal or metals, its characteristics and weight, says the avid coin collector and philatelist. The Rs. 75 coin was issued to commemorate the 75th anniversary of the First Flag Hoisting Day on December 30, 2018. The coin has themes of the Cellular Jail in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, along with the hoisting of the first Tricolour by Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose. It epitomises the spirit of the struggle for independence, when Netaji declared the Andaman and Nicobar Islands as the first Indian territory to be freed from the British Raj. The Rs. 350 coin was issued to commemorate the 350th Prakash Utsav of Sri Guru Gobind Singh, the 10th Sikh Guru, who was born on December 22, 1666. He had founded the new spiritual order known as ‘Khalsa’ in 1699. The Rs. 555 coin was issued to mark the 550th Prakash Purab of Sri Guru Nanak Dev, founder of Sikhism. His 550th birth anniversary was celebrated all over the world on November 12, 2019. Guru Nanak’s hymns were compiled in book form, which was subsequently published as ‘Adi Granth’. He started free community kitchens, through which his followers, irrespective of their caste and religion, were encouraged to eat together. “I had registered with the Mumbai, Kolkata, and Hyderabad mints. No announcement is made by the mints before issuing the commemorative coins and we have to keep checking online. It takes six months to two years to get the coin after it is released,” says Mr. Reddy. “I purchased the Rs. 75 and Rs. 350 coins for Rs. 2,844 and Rs. 2,985 respectively from the Mumbai Mint and Rs. 550 coin for Rs. 2600 from the Kolkata Mint,” he adds.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sanitation key to preventing transmission of poliomyelitis||Poliomyelitis is a viral disease that mainly affects children under five years of age. Polio, once an endemic disease with devastating results like paralysis, was eradicated from India in 2014 due to consistent efforts of the Government of India and partners of global polio eradication initiative like the World Health Organisation (WHO), UNICEF and Rotary International. The virus mainly invades the nervous system and can cause total paralysis. In most of the cases (90-95%), the infection is inapparent and would induce protective immunity, while paralytic polio occurs in less than 1 in 1,000 infected children, said Dr. Maruthi Prasad Upputuri, consultant paediatrician, KIMS ICON Hospital, in connection with World Polio Day on October 24. Polioviruses are spread by the faecal-oral route, which is why environmental sanitation plays a vital role in preventing transmission. Humans are the only known reservoirs of polio virus and thus even if a single child remains infected with polio virus, children in all countries are at risk of contracting polio. Pakistan and Afghanistan are the only countries left with endemic transmission. These being our neighbors, India should be on high alert. The rejection of poliovirus vaccine initiatives and campaign quality in security-compromised areas in parts of these countries are the major difficulties faced in eradication, he says.  Once polio is eradicated, the world can celebrate the delivery of a major global public good that will benefit all people equally, no matter where they live. Success will mean that no child will ever again suffer the terrible effects of lifelong polio-paralysis, Dr. Maruthi Prasad said. World Polio Day is observed on October 24.
23 October 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Missing spark: demand dries up for firecracker stall licences||There are not many takers for licences to set up temporary stalls for the sale of crakers on the occasion of Deepavali on November 14. Only around 200 applications were received so far. According to Regional Fire Officer (RFO), GVMC, Niranjan Reddy, about 150 applications were received for setting up stalls at Andhra University Engineering Grounds, nearly 25 applications were received to set up stalls at NTR Grounds, Anakapalle. Apart from them, another 20 received for setting up shops in other places in the GVMC limits. “Compared to last year, when we started to receive applications in the first 10 days, the response is lukewarm. But we have some more days time. Maybe a few more may come forward after Dasara,” he said. He said that in 2019, the total applications received for setting up firecracker stalls under the GVMC limits was around 350. On October 8, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha invited applications for stalls and also made it clear that no application will be entertained after October 25. Applicants were asked to take NOCs from the district authorities, Fire Officer, GVMC, electricity site plan and temporary shop/shops agreement from the owner of the land. A licence fee of Rs. 500 also has to be paid through treasury challan. The Police Commissioner also issued a set of rules for setting up of shops. According to the Police and Fire Department sources, many associations are yet to take a decision due to the COVID-19 situation and unavailability of grounds. Temporary rythu bazaars have been set up in several grounds to avoid overcrowding. Meanwhile, the Fire Department has strictly said that they would not allow any stalls near the road. “Many applications used to be received to set up stalls at MVP Colony and some other places. But this year, as some of those grounds are already occupied, not many came forward. Maybe the associations are looking for spots which are feasible for their business,” said a senior police officer. Officials are mulling increasing the number of sale days to avoid overcrowding. Till last year, authorities used to allow sale of crackers on three days. This year, authorities may increase the number of days. However, a final call is yet to be taken.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Army chief commissions INS Kavaratti||INS Kavaratti, the last of the four indigenously built Anti-Submarine Warfare (ASW) stealth corvettes built under Project 28 (Kamorta class), by Garden Reach Shipbuilders & Engineers (GRSE), Kolkata, was formally inducted into the Indian Navy at the Naval Dockyard in Eastern Naval Command, here on Thursday. It was commissioned into the Indian Navy by General Manoj Mukund Naravane, Chief of the Army Staff, in the presence of Vice-Admiral Atul Kumar Jain, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Eastern Naval Command (ENC), Rear Admiral Vipin Kumar Saxena (Retd), CMD, Garden Reach Shipbuilders & Engineers Limited, Kolkata, and other dignitaries The ship, named after the capital of the Lakshadweep group of islands, has been constructed using high-grade DMR 249A steel produced in India. The ship spans 109 metres in length, 14 metres in breadth with a displacement of 3300 tonnes and is regarded as one of the most potent Anti-Submarine Warships to have been constructed in India. It joins three other ships of the same class INS Kamorta, INS Kadmatt and INS Kiltan, at the ENC. Experts say that the induction of the ASW corvettes will be a game changer in the eastern seaboard, especially with the Chinese submarines trying to make sorties in the Indian Ocean. With the superstructure built using composite material, the ship is propelled by four diesel engines. The ship has enhanced stealth features resulting in reduced Radar Cross Section (RCS) achieved by X form of superstructure along with optimally sloped surfaces. The ship’s advanced stealth features make her less susceptible to detection by the enemy. The ship has high indigenous content with the state-of-the-art equipment and systems to fight in Nuclear, Biological and Chemical (NBC) warfare conditions. Also, the weapons and sensors suite onboard is pre-dominantly indigenous. Earlier, Gen.l Naravane was presented a guard of honour on arrival at the Naval Jetty. The inaugural address was delivered by Rear Admiral Saxena (Retd), CMD, GRSE, Kolkata. Vice Admiral Atul Kumar Jain, FOC-in-C, ENC, addressed the gathering which was followed by reading out the Commissioning Warrant of the Ship.
23 October 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Former Minister’s death condoled||Chalasani Gandhi, president of Rail Mazdoor Union (RMU) has expressed shock at the death of Nayani Narasimha Reddy, former Minister and a well-known trade union leader, who had worked for the betterment of the working class. Mr. Gandhi noted that he had an opportunity to work along with him in HMS and drew inspiration from him. He conveyed condolences to the bereaved family members.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Training programme for women entrepreneurs||A training programme in Entrepreneurial Advancement and Management (TEAM) programme for women entrepreneurs was organised jointly by the Vizagapatam Chamber of Commerce and Industry (VCCI) Women’s Wing and GITAM Venture Development Centre of GITAM Deemed to be University on Thursday. VCCI Women’s Wing president Hema Yadavalli said that young women were actively engaging with small businesses and suggested that they should avail of the government schemes to further their businesses. GITAM Venture Development Centre (GVDC) senior coaches Ashutosh and Sushant said that as part of building entrepreneurial ecosystem at GITAM, the university has partnered with North Eastern University (Boston) to harness their globally renowned expertise in venture development. They said that GVDC was helping student entrepreneurs incubate their ideas and develop them into business plans by providing guidance. VCCI Women’s Wing honorary secretary Sandhya Godey informed that the TEAM programme was designed to train women entrepreneurs.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for issuing ‘strange’ threats to youth||A 25-year-old man from Telangana was arrested by the Anakapalle Town police on Thursday for allegedly impersonating a police officer and threatening a youth. The accused was identified as M. Pandari (25) of Sangareddy district in Telangana State. “A youth from Anakapalle received a call from the accused, who identified himself as a police officer. The accused ordered the youth to get his head tonsured failing which he would be booked under several cases. The youth, scared for his safety, got himself tonsured. Later, sensing foul play, he lodged a complaint with the police,” Anakapalle Inspector (Town) K. Bhaskara Rao said. Ppolice arrested the accused from his native place and brought him to Visakhapatnam after following legal procedures. Police chalked up the strange demand of the accused to a deep-seated jealousy of those with long hair. He is learnt to have issued similar threats to several other people, police said. “The accused, after dropping out of school, eked out a livelihood as a shepherd. He spends most of the time watching dance shows on social media. He developed a jealousy of people having long hair and is learnt to have called people and making similar demands. He threatened them that he would file cases against them if they did not heed his instructions,” Mr Bhaskara Rao said. Police produced the accused in court and sent him to judicial custody.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six injured in accident||Six employees of a pharma company suffered minor injuries when their company bus hit a divider at Autonagar area under Gajuwaka police station limits, in the wee hours of Thursday. The incident allegedly occurred when the bus driver lost control over the vehicle. Gajuwaka police have registered a case.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AIBDPA foundation day observed in city||The foundation day of the All India BSNL and DOT Pensioners Association (AIBDPA) was observed by the District Branch of the Association at the BSNL General Manager’s Office at Dabagardens here on Wednesday. The AIBDPA flag was hoisted by senior leader and retired employee P. Latchiraju. District secretary K. Ramanjaneyulu and union leader G.S.N. Raju were among those who attended. The demands of the association include: revision of pension with effect from January 1, 2017, allocation of 4G spectrum to BSNL, payment of medical bills and wage revision for BSNL employees with effect from January 1, 2017.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nine persons arrested in five different offences||The city police arrested nine persons and took one juvenile into their custody in five separate cases here on Thursday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that in one case, a 20-year old youth named K. Premchand of JNNURM Colony in Parawada was arrested and a juvenile taken into custody for their involvement in two snatching offences. On September 18, the duo snatched a gold chain from a woman at Rajeev Nagar area and fled on their two-wheeler. In another case on October 19, the duo snatched a bag from a woman near the Agnampudi toll gate. Gold jewellery weighing 11.7 grams was seized from their possession. Police arrested six persons in two liquor theft cases pertaining to Kancharapalem police station limits. In one case, six persons in order to gain easy money gained entry into a bar at Kapparada area late on September 18 night. The accused decamped with 126 liquor bottles worth Rs. 60,000. Police arrested five persons while one more person is yet to be nabbed. In another case, police arrested P. Teja (24) of ITI junction, Kancharapalem for stealing several liquor bottles worth Rs. 50,000. In the fourth case, police arrested N. Venkata Suresh of Nakkavanipalem area for allegedly storing banned gutkha and khaini packets - altogether 24,000 pouches worth Rs. 3.60 lakh. In the fifth case, police arrested Satyanarayana (22) of NGGOs colony for allegedly stealing a gold chain.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Four fishermen go missing off Vizag coast||Four fishermen from Peda Jalaripeta area here, who went for fishing on August 21, have reportedly gone missing. Their family members sought the help of officials for search operation. According to the locals, O. Atchyutha Rao (21), N. Appalaraju (21), P. Veerraju (22) and O. Gurunath (18) ventured into the sea in a boat along with 10 other boats around 2 a.m. on Wednesday. However, they did not return till Thursday evening, while all others who went with them returned. “They are not new to the sea. Since childhood, they are venturing into the sea for fishing. May be because of the high-tides, they might have drifted to some other parts,” said T Raju, a resident of Peda Jalaripeta. The locals have informed the same to the Marine police and officials from Fisheries Department about the missing youth, who later launched a search operation. TDP MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu met the families and expressed hope for their safe return. A few fishermen opine that due to high tide, the boat might have drifted towards Kakinada coast. A few are about to leave for Kakinada hoping for their return.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag reports 171 new COVID-19 cases||The district reported 171 new COVID-19 infections and one death in the last 24 hours. The COVID-19 bulletin which was released on Thursday evening said that the total case load now stands at 54,987. The death toll rose to 465. As many as 175 persons undergoing treatment for COVID-19 recovered from the virus. Officials said that a majority of the COVID-19 patients are now being treated in home quarantine. With the new cases and discharges, the active cases in the district have come down to 2,272 while the number of recoveries stands at 52,250, the bulletin said.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Miscreants break open ATM, flee with Rs. 9 lakh cash||Unidentified miscreants decamped with Rs. 9.59 lakh cash from an ATM at Adarsh Nagar area under Arilova police station limits, in the wee hours of Thursday. A maintenance team of the bank that went to replenish the ATM saw that the shutter was downed. When they opened the shutter, they saw that the ATM was prised open and the entire cash inside the machine missing. They immediately alerted the police, who rushed to the spot. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crime) V. Suresh Babu and ACP Ch. Penta Rao arrived at the scene to oversee the investigation. A CLUES team arrived to do a thorough inspection of the area. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Suresh Babu said the miscreants used gas cutters to prise the ATM open and access the cash compartment. “There is no security guard at the ATM kiosk. At around 9 p.m. on Wednesday, a customer came to the ATM and left as the machine was not working due to technical failure. However, there was cash inside the machine. According to bank records, he was the last customer,” Mr. Suresh Babu said, adding that the CCTV camera was disconnected. A case has been registered and an investigation is on to nab the miscreants, police officials said.
23 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) holds protest against LG Polymers||CPI(M) State secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao demanded shifting of the LG Polymers plant and construction of a super-specialty hospital apart from providing compensation to all those who were affected by the gas leak that occurred in May this year. A protest was organised under the auspices of the LG Polymers Gas Leak Victims Association at the Gandhi statue near the GVMC building on Thursday. Addressing the participants, Mr. Narasinga Rao said that thousands of residents of colonies around the LG Polymers plant were suffering from respiratory and brain-related disorders. He alleged that the NDA government was tacitly supporting the plant management. He demanded that the State government initiate immediate action on the plant management, failing which the agitation would be intensified.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Today’s alankaram||
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Today’s alankaram||
23 October 2020||Abhinay Deshpande,TELANGANA||Post-floods, onion prices bring tears to middle class||Onion prices have hit the roof once again bringing tears to the working poor and middle class families. While many parts of the city are marooned and cut off from markets, the ubiquitous onion bulbs have become the most sought after. The current retail market price per kilogram is anywhere between Rs. 100 and Rs. 130. With truncated salaries due to COVID-19, spending money on these storage roots are burning a hole in the pockets, complained Afzal Ali, a private employee from Humayunnagar. With heavy rains in the onion source markets like Kurnool in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, the crop was submerged in rainwaters and farmers failed to reap their produce. Kurnool market yard, which used to get a daily average of 5,000 tonnes is now sliced down to less than 1,000 tons. This had upset the supply-demand matrices pushing up the prices consequently, said an market yard official. Hyderabad Onion Traders Association president Cheguri Venkat Ramana told The Hindu that the city requires at least 300 tonnes of onion per day and the supplies are now being procured from Maharashtra. Though arrivals are steady, the supply has become a major challenge due to recent floods, he said. Onion trading in the city takes place at Mahbub Mansion also known as Malakpet Gunj, State’s largest chilli and onion wholesale market. The minimum and maximum wholesale onion prices were recorded at Rs. 4,000 and Rs. 9,000 per quintal, respectively on Wednesday. Prices have doubled in one week. The produce which is coming to the gunj is from Nasik, Solapur, Ahmednagar, and other districts of Western Maharashtra. “Whatever we are getting is a stock product. Even there the crop was damaged due to rains,” Mr. Venkat Ramana said. He said that the prices of the bulbs may see an uptrend in the short term. According to him the white onion has become a premium, as only 100 tonnes arrived from Raichur in Karnataka on Tuesday and only 70 tonnes from Kurnool on Wednesday. Those who have turned into consuming organic farm products are finding that buying organic onions is now a luxury even for the well-to-do families. The prices of other vegetables have also seen a traction in their prices making vegetable consumption very dear for the families. Some families are even going for alternatives like cooking without onions and by substituting tamarind with tomato.
23 October 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||‘Paucity of funds’ affects road repairs in Bhadradri||More than a week after the heavy spell of rains that washed away a portion of the Mulakalapalli-Buruguvai road and battered a 3-km stretch of the Aswaraopeta-Burgampadu road, the repair works are yet to begin due to alleged paucity of funds to re-carpet the damaged stretches and fix the potholes. According to sources, the Roads and Buildings Department sent proposals for repairing the severely damaged 300-metre stretch of the Mulakalapalli-Buruguvai road at an estimated cost of Rs. 2.7 crore to the State government a few days ago. A gravel road was temporarily laid adjacent to the damaged stretch to facilitate vehicular movement on the road near the inter-State border with Andhra Pradesh, sources said. The pothole-ridden stretch of the rain-battered road between Aswaraopeta and Burgampadu is proving a risky affair for motorists. Khammam MP Nama Nageswara Rao on Thursday inspected a damaged stretch of the Khammam-Aswaraopeta section of the National Highway 365BB near Penuballi en route Aswaraopeta on Thursday. He asked the authorities concerned to expeditiously carry out the repair works in view of the severe inconvenience and risk faced by the motorists commuting on the rain battered portion of the highway. He also represented the matter to the technical experts of the National Highway Authorities of India (NHAI) highlighting the travails of the motorists and the immediate need for urgent repairs.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Nayani cremated with state honours||Former Home Minister and MLC Nayani Narasimha Reddy’s mortal remains were consigned to flames on Thursday with state honours in the presence of family members, Telangana activists and TRS leaders. His body was taken from Ministers quarters at Banjara Hills to Mahaprasthanam – the cremation ground, with hundreds of his supporters following him for the final rites. Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao was among the pall-bearers of the late leader and he was joined by several TRS leaders and Ministers. Nayani’s wife Ahalya, who was not keeping well was brought in a wheel-chair for her to pay the last respects. Police fired three rounds into the air as a mark of respect for the departed leader as the pyre was lit. Legislative Council Chairman Gutha Sukhender Reddy, Ministers Eatala Rajender, Mahmood Ali, Sabitha Indra Reddy and A. Indrakaran Reddy, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS )Parliamentary Party Leader K Keshav Rao, State level farmers coordination committee chairman Palla Rajeshwar Reddy, GHMC Mayor Bonthu Rammohan were among those who attended the funeral. Condolences Earlier, the Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao expressed shock over the death and recalled his association with the late leader during the Telangana separate statehood movement and in the state government. The Cabinet colleagues of Mr. Rao and Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar paid floral tributes to the body at Ministers Quarters. They recalled their association with Narasimha Reddy. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan also expressed grief at the passing away of Telangana’s first Home Minister and said he toiled for the Telangana formation as an unrelenting activist and for its development as Minister. “I extend heartfelt condolences on the unfortunate demise of the first Home Minister of Telangana State, former MLA, a fighter for Telangana statehood, leader of labour unions and a soft spoken mass leader Nayini Narsimha Reddy.” Union Minister of State for Home, G. Kishan Reddy said Nayani was a tall trade unionist, who influenced Telangana movement with his astuteness in leading masses. BJP State president Bandi Sanjay and Bhratiya Janata Party (BJP) national OBC president K. Lakshman recalled his contribution to Telangana movement as well as a trade unionist who spent time in jail during the Emergency period. TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and working president A. Revanth Reddy remembered him for the role in Telangana movement and also as a trade union leader. CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, former PCC president Ponnala Lakshmaiah and several other Congress leaders condoled his death.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||KCR asked to follow in Punjab’s footsteps||Former MLA and AICC secretary Ch.Vamshichand Reddy has urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to call for a special session of the Assembly to enact our laws to override the Central government’s contentious agriculture laws. In a letter to the Chief Minister, he said the Punjab government had enacted three laws in a special session to negate the Central laws, which were detrimental to the farmers. “You have openly opposed the new laws and show that spirit in calling for a special session and negate those laws,” he said. He said the Chief Minster was well aware of the injustice being done to the farmers by Central government's unfair farm laws. “ Protesting alone will not resolve the problems faced by our farmers. The pressing priority should be to protect our farmers from falling prey to the union's flawed decisions,” he said. For this the government needs to take concrete and conspicuous decision immediately by calling in for a special Assembly session and passing necessary laws to uphold the Minimum Support Price(MSP) and safeguard the Agriculture Primary Marketing Committees. “Also, selling or buying below the MSP has to be made a punishable offence so that the farmer will never be exploited.” “In wake of this injustice done to farmers, AICC president Sonia Gandhi has directed all the Congress-ruled states to pass their own bills and we assure you of full support in this regard.” he said in the letter. The Congress leader also requested the government to give a financial aid of Rs. 20,000 per acre to all the farmers who had incurred huge loss due to the untimely rainfall and guarantee them with minimum support price for all types of crops. “It is our prime responsibility to support and help them during these challenging times.”
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rain fuels LPG demand, impacts supply in limited way||The impact of the downpour the city and suburbs received in recent days on LPG (liquefied petroleum gas) cylinder supplies was restricted to some pockets, but the rain is set to trigger the annual pattern of cooking gas consumption by households increasing a bit early. An increase in refill bookings is being observed in recent days, Telangana LPG Distributor’s Association General Secretary K. Jagan Mohan Reddy said, attributing it to the rain. The monthly domestic LPG refill bookings, with the three public sector oil marketing companies together, in Telangana varies from around 47 to 51 lakh refills depending on the season. As per early pointers for this month, the increase in refill bookings is 8-10% in the State, he said, adding it could be a temporary phenomenon. Apart from more time taken to cook, when day temperatures begin to drop, and the need to boil water for bathing, last week’s torrential rains is also bound to make it necessary for many households to boil water for consumption. On the rain impact on supplies, he said it was restricted to a few pockets primarily because of water logging in the areas where some of the LPG godowns were located. In turn, it marginally increased the wait time for households. Executive Director and State Head of Indian Oil Corporation for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh R.Sravan S.Rao said the rain impact on last-mile distribution was limited to a few pockets that were inundated. Stating that the bottling plants of IOC functioned as usual, the backlog in supplies (wait from the time of booking) to households in Telangana as on Wednesday was 1.57 days, while in Andhra Pradesh it was 1.39 days. In places where roads were breached, IOC took cooking gas cylinders to nearby places from the customers could pick them up. Mr.Rao said there was neither need for customers to panic nor was there shortage of cylinders “as all our bottling plants are functioning to the normal capacity. We have surplus capacity and are geared to handle the [additional] demand” that sets in from the festive season. November, December and January are the peak consumption period.” As a gesture, IOC on Wednesday donated life jackets to police and food packets to residents of some waterlogged areas in old city. A senior official of Bharat Petroleum Corporation (BPCL) said contributing to the higher consumption would be many families who got free cylinders as part of the COVID-19 relief package from the government and like to continue using LPG.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Five die as 1,456 test positive||The GHMC area and its surroundings – Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri districts – continue to report a majority of COVID-19 positive cases as nearly one-third of the 1,456 total cases reported on Wednesday are from them. According a bulletin issued by the Health department on Thursday, the total cases in the State have gone up to 2,27,580. Another 5 COVID deaths were reported on Wednesday taking the total number of fatalities to 1,292. Of the total deaths, nearly 45% are due to COVID and 55% are due to co-morbidities. The officials stated that a total of 38,565 samples were tested for COVID screening on Wednesday, taking the total tests done till October 21 to 39,78,869. Of the samples tested on Wednesday, reports were awaited in 1,110 cases. Of the samples tested on October 21, about 44% (16,968) were of primary contacts and another 12% (4,627) were secondary contacts. With 1,717 COVID-19 patients being declared recovered, the number of total recoveries in the State has gone up to 2,06,105. The officials have put the COVID fatality rate in the State at 0.56% against 1.5% at the national level and that of recovery rate is 90.56% against 89.2% in the country. As of October 21, the number of active COVID-19 cases in the State is 20,183 including 16,977 in home and institutional isolation. Of the total positive cases reported in the State so far, 70% (1,59,306) are of asymptomatic persons and the remaining 30% (68,274) are of symptomatic persons. The district-wise positive cases reported on Wednesday included 254 from GHMC area, 98 each from Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri districts, 92 from Nalgonda, 89 from Khammam, 82 from Bhadradri-Kothagudem and 54 from Karimnagar. Number of cases from the remaining districts are below 50. Of the total beds for COVID-19 treatment in government hospitals, 1,345 are occupied and 7,216 are vacant. In private hospitals, 1,861 beds are occupied and another 7,104 are vacant.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Lost gold ornaments found, four held||With the arrest of four persons, Banjara Hills police cracked a theft case and recovered 1.25 kg of gold ornaments of 1.43 kg of stolen booty, worth Rs. 1 crore. The accused are Govti. Niranjan (40), Pavanam Balapeer (32), G. Ranjit Kumar (22) and M.Venkataiah (55), all migrated from Nagarkurnool district to Hyderabad. Another accused Kumar Rajaram is still at large. Giving details of the case, Hyderabad Commissioner of Police Anjani Kumar said that on October 9, complainant Ajay Kumar Agarwal of VS GOLD, Basheerbagh, sent their sales executive Pradeep Kumar Bodake to Krishna Jewellers Pearls and Gems, Jubilee Hills to collect their stock. While Pradeep was returning on a two-wheeler, he met with an accident at Banjara Hills and lost the gold ornament bag. “Due to heavy rainfall and storm, the bag with his cellphone was not traceable,” he said. On a complaint lodged by Ajay Kumar, a case was registered and during the course of investigation, police found that four days after the incident, on October 12, the missing mobile phone was turned on at Jagathgirigutta and within seconds it was switched off. Based on the last location, the teams went to Jagadgirigutta and verified all the mobile shops. “After painstaking efforts they traced the stolen mobile and with the help of surveillance cameras the accused were apprehended,” Mr. Kumar said. After the accident, when Pradeep started screaming that a bag containing gold ornaments was lost, Govti Niranjan, found it near his hut and sold the gold.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Act stringently against encroachers’||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy has underscored the need for stringent action against the encroachers of lakes, stormwater drains and other water bodies in and around the city in light of the recent devastation in the twin cities. He also urged the State government to hold a meeting with all political parties and domain experts to decide on the “tough decisions”. The Minister on a tour of various rain-hit areas in the capital throughout the day on Thursday observed that encroachments on the water bodies was the main cause of the large-scale inundation and damage to several residential colonies and slums. “Hyderabad brand image has taken a beating and the onus is on everyone to rise above political differences to protect its reputation,” he affirmed. Mr. Reddy visited many flood-hit areas in Assembly constituencies areas of Secunderabad, Sanathnagar, Nampally and Amberpet of Secunderabad parliamentary constituencies and assured assistance to the affected people. The Minister also used the occasion to appeal to the citizens to celebrate Dasara-Navratri festival and also the ‘Bathukamma’ festival by duly adhering to the COVID-19 norms and safety protocols in their respective homes only.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kidnapper worked as temporary driver for police||He did not want anyone to know about the phone calls he used to make to his girlfriend. That was when Manda Sagar knew, through a friend, about a mobile app of Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) technology. He allegedly used the same mobile app to make ransom calls to the parents of nine-year-old Deekshit Reddy in Mahabubabad town. In fact, usage of this mobile app by the accused in the boy’s kidnap and murder became a hurdle to the investigators to reach him. Though investigation revealed that the boy had been killed before his parents approached police about his disappearance, Sagar had been roaming in Mahabubabad town. “And he was making ransom calls to the boy’s parents even as multiple special teams of police were struggling to understand from where he was making calls,” a police officer said on condition of anonymity. Sagar downloaded the app nearly a year ago to speak with his girlfriend. The app enables user to make calls using VoIP technology. A private number, other than that of the call maker’s, displays on the receiver’s mobile phone. This makes it difficult for the receiver or others to track the caller’s number. Sagar reportedly secured two sleeping pills from a Registered Medical Practitioner after hatching the plot to kidnap the boy. He befriended the boy giving chocolates earlier. On the day of kidnap, he requested the boy to accompany him to a nearby petrol bunk to purchase some oil. He took the boy to a hillock where he convinced him to drink water laced with sleeping pill. When the boy woke up after a couple of hours, Sagar allegedly throttled him to death. He came back to his house and went to the house of boy’s uncle Manoj Reddy to learn about the reaction of boy’s parents. Sagar runs a two-wheeler spare parts shop. Sitting at the shop, he made ransom calls to the boy’s father Ranjith Reddy and asked him to come to a junction (called Three Shops) with money. “He could see Ranjith sitting from his shop but grew suspicious of policemen in plainclothes moving there,” an officer said.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Pregnant techie found dead at in-laws place||A five-month pregnant techie was found dead at her in-laws house in Jagadgirigutta on Wednesday night. The victim, Krishna Priya (24) died by hanging herself from a ceiling fan around 8.30 p.m. Police said that she fell in love and got married to Sravan Kumar of Papi Reddy Nagar in the area, who runs a fitness centre. At the time of their marriage, Priya’s parents gave Rs. 5 lakh dowry and for the past few months, Sravan’s parents were harassing her for an additional dowry of Rs. 12 lakh. “Unable to bear their harassment, she resorted to the extreme step,” police said. Based on the complaint lodged by her mother Leela, a case under relevant sections of IPC was registered against Sravan and his parents. There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdowns at this Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre Roshni.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Anti-terrorist drill conducted at airport||Close to 400 personnel from across CISF, Octopus, local police, GHIAL security, Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting (ARFF), terminal operations, Apollo medical centre and other departments were involved in a high-decibel counter terrorist drill at the Hyderabad International Airport on Thursday. The full-fledged mock exercise on “counter terrorist contingency” was held around 11 a.m at western departure ramp of the airport. During this drill a mock terror situation was simulated as per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) with activation of relevant security protocols leading to successfully neutralizing of the mock terrorists. The airport comes under hypersensitive airport category and such drills are conducted on a regular basis to ascertain the preparedness level of all key stakeholders at the airport in tandem with local authorities to ensure and impart a sense of confidence among the authorities as well as passengers.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||ACB finds gold, silver in Nagaraju’s aides’ lockers||Continuing their probe in the bribe case of former Tahsildar of Keesara late Erva Balraju Nagaraju, the Anti Corruption Bureau officials on Thursday opened the banks lockers of the former’s alleged benamis and found gold and silver in large quantities. The lockers were in the name of P.J. Mahender Kumar and his brother P.J. Nandagopal. The officials found 1.25 kg of gold worth Rs. 65 lakh and 35 silver bullion weighing 7.29 kg valued at Rs. 4.5 lakh. Documents pertaining to two properties were also found in those lockers, they said. “During the course of investigation, we found that Nagaraju’s wife Swapna was using those lockers,” the ACB official said. On October 14, Nagaraju, who was lodged in Chanchalguda Central Prison, ended his life by hanging.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Seven held for cricket betting||The sleuths of Hyderabad Commissioner’s Task Force (West Zone) on Thursday apprehended two people for organising online cricket betting for the ongoing IPL cricket matches. The accused are 44-year-old Harpal Singh and 43-year-old Anil Singh, both from Mangalhat area. Police seized a TV set, two mobile phones Rs. 34,500 cash from their possession. Personnel of Central Zone task force personnel raided a premises at Uppuguda and apprehended two bookies — Hanmaji Gari Bal Kishan Rao and Datrika Shiva Kumar — for accepting bets. They seized Rs. 4.21 lakh cash, five mobile phones, a smart tab and other material from their possession. Meanwhile, acting on credible information, the South Zone task force officials along with Mirchowk police busted cricket betting racket and apprehended three — Syed Qasim Ul Haq, Gulam Hasan Khan and Md Arif. They seized Rs. 73,000 cash, four mobile phones from their possession. Prime accused Hursh is still at large.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flood victims pour out their woes||People of several flood-hit localities in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area poured out their woes to the five-member Central team, visiting the State to assess the damage left behind by the recent rains and floods, on Thursday. Of the five members of the visiting team, a three-member team led by Joint Secretary in the Home Ministry Praveen Vashista visited several inundated colonies, inspected houses, roads, bridges and tanks damaged in the floods and also examined the restoration works taken up. The remaining two members went to nearby Siddipet district to assess the crop and other damage caused by rains. The team first visited the road over bridge damaged in the Chandrayangutta-Falaknuma area and the nearby localities inundated by flood. They interacted with the flood-affected people to have first-hand knowledge. Several residents of the area explained to the Central team that the flood water reached up to the first floor of houses after submerging the ground floor completely and the murky water and muck was still around even 10 days after flooding. Walls of their houses were damaged badly as they were soaked in water for over 10 days now. Commissioner of GHMC D.S. Lokesh Kumar and Chief Engineer of GHMC Jiauddin informed that heavy flow of water in the seven-metre wide nala after the breach of Palle Cheruvu tank had damaged walls of the bridges.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Academic certificates to be reissued free||The State government has decided to issue fresh educational certificates to students who have lost them in the floods. The certificates will be issued free of cost. Several parents and students had expressed worry after the certificates were either lost or damaged with their houses being inundated due to the unprecedented floods. The government has directed the Commissioner of School education, Intermediate education, Collegiate education, technical education and registrars of universities to issue fresh or duplicate certificates as and when the students apply, either online of offline. All the students who require a copy of their lost certificate can apply to the concerned authority duly giving details of name, type of exam, hall ticket number and year of exam. Applications can be made online or offline.
23 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Mahabubnagar civic official in ACB trap||Mahabubnagar municipal commissioner Vaddde Surendar was arrested by Anti Corruption Bureau officials on Thursday on the charge of taking a bribe for showing official favour. Surendar demanded and accepted Rs. 1.65 lakh bribe from the complainant, Ali Ahmed Khan of Mahabubnagar, to forward his quotations to the Collector for approval and to issue a work order for erection of a new chlorination plant at Mahabubnagar municipality. "He was trapped at his office and the amount was recovered from his possession," the officials said. They said that searches were being conducted.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Safety drill at NTPC||As part of the NTPC-Ramagundam Disaster Management Plan, a mock drill on major chlorine leakage was conducted at the Stage-1 chlorination unit on the plant premises on Thursday in the presence of Deputy Chief Inspector of Factories (Karimnagar) Y. Gangadhar Reddy. Later, a meeting of the Safety Committee was held, wherein NTPC senior officials, office-bearers of trade unions and safety committee members were present. Mr. Reddy, speaking on the occasion, appreciated NTPC-Ramagundam for their safety practices and systems at workplace.
23 October 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Musi Project cries for proper management||Three developments with respect to Musi Project came as blessing with the formation of separate Telangana and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government in 2014: sanctions for the much-needed replacement of the 20 dam gates, modernisation of the project’s left and right canals to augment irrigation for the 30, 000-acre ayacut, and recently, an electricity generator. In 2015, Rs. 18.77 crore was released for works towards installation of 12 new crest gates and eight regulatory gates. And two years later, in 2017, Rs. 65.56 crore was sanctioned for canal modernisation. As of today, all the gates are new, including the re-installed regulatory gate no. 5 that got washed away in October 2019. Modernisation works which were in progress, were held owing to crop season and weather activity. And thus ends the good story of Musi Project, post-2014. According to project officials, the threat to the nearly 60-year-old dam is for internal reasons rather than external factors. The dam has been lacking regular maintenance, is severely under-staffed, its managerial staff is mismanaged, which together pose operational risks during crucial hour. For instance, the collapse of the counter weight of crest gate no. 9 two months ago, was reportedly, “for poor handling and lack of assessment during gate operation.” The gate had ended in a lopsided closure, and fortunately the 35-ton beam did not dislocate the gate but fell away. The gate remains shut and inoperative. The project presently has four dam staff, ready-for-retirement class IV employees, who learned the job from seniors who retired or passed away, and lack technical knowledge. Officials say the requirement of dam staff alone is 30 personnel, including technician, electrician, fitter, diver, dam operators, work inspectors, and watch and ward staff. In the wake of the flood, the dozen right and left canal workers double up for additional work on the dam, but they are non-technical. It is also learnt that the project’s staff, the four engineers – one each for the right and left canals, an assistant and a deputy engineer – also lack technical expertise for supervision as they are all civil engineers, and not mechanical. According to official reports, requests for suitable dam and project staff has been on for the past three years, however, there has been no effect. And with regard to regular maintenance of the dam, in addition to the lack of staff, there are also grievances that the annual fund of about Rs. 4 lakh is not timely and insufficient. For the aggrieved project staff, from low-level workers to supervisory engineers, smooth and safe operation of Musi Project can be ensured only by recruiting suitable and adequate staff. “Else, the regular maintenance of the project should be entrusted to an agency, like it is at the Dr. K. L. Rao Sagar Project at Pulichintala.”
23 October 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||MLA on hunger strike for farmers||Munugode MLA Komatireddy Rajagopal Reddy demanded that the State government immediately open procurement centres for paddy and Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) centres for cotton, in addition to relief measures in the wake of the flood. He demanded that a list of tenant farmers be drawn up village and mandal-wise, to help the distressed section recover from losses caused by the natural calamity. Sitting on a one-day ‘hunger strike for farmers’ at Munugode on Thursday, he interacted with farmers and visited their damaged paddy and cotton fields. “Not opening CCI centres for procurement of cotton, which the government expressly advocated through the regulated farming system, is like opening doors for traders and middlemen. This is the same government that failed to help sweet lime farmers four months ago,” he remarked. Mr. Reddy met District Collector Prashant J Patil and handed over a memorandum.
23 October 2020||Serish Nanisetti,TELANGANA||Osman Nagar residents turn refugees near their own homes||Muhammad Iqbal has vacated his house that is surrounded by water and is now living in a rented house in another part of the city. Nasreen Begum and Fatima live yards away from their rented house which is ringed with shoulder-high water. Riyaaz comes everyday to see his house where all the family’s belongings are rotting in water. They, and perhaps 300 other families in Osman Nagar, are refugees near their own homes. “We sleep near the shops and other covered spaces and wait here for food and water being distributed by others. We have been reduced to begging,” says Fatima, who saw her few belongings get destroyed by gushing waters of the lake. But while other places in Hyderabad were marooned after the heavy rain of October 14, the Osman Nagar area has been under water for more than a month. Lower rents Most of the residents in the area were drawn to live here as the rents were low. “We paid Rs. 1,500 as rent but now all our belongings have been destroyed. And if we want to look for other places to move the house owners are asking Rs. 10,000 as deposit,” said Muhammad Saleem who works as a mason and lives in the colony. Surrounded by rocks, the low-income colony now looks a pool of water with the odd house sticking out. Two local mosques have also been filled by the rising waters of the lake. Streams of volunteers from various Non-Governmental Organisations and good samaritans have been visiting the area and distributing food, water and medicines. “We need food. But we also need a shelter. How long can be stay like this? The water can be drained and we will need help to clean the muck. Whenever I walk in the water to survey the damage at home it leaves an itch which stays for a long time,” says Riyaaz, who owns a house in the area. Identified as Shukur Sagar or Venkatapuram Lake, the spread of water was a huge sheet of water where the houses started coming up in 2009. “Only two times earlier did the water rise so high. Even during those years it receded within a week. But this year it is not receding at all,” says Muhammad Iqbal.  We sleep near the shops and other covered spaces and wait here for food and water being distributed by others. We have been reduced to begging. Fatima,a resident
23 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Central team visits Siddipet district||A Central team led by R.B. Kaul and K. Manoharan visited several villages in Mulugu and Murkook mandals on Thursday and examined the crop lost due to the recent heavy rains and floods. They also inspected the damaged roads and submerged houses. Collector P. Venkatrami Reddy took the team to the villages and showed them the damaged crops. The team visited Timmapur village in Mulugu mandal and interacted with farmers. Later, the team has visited Annasagar in Mulugu mandal where a culvert was washed away due to heavy flooding. The Collector informed the team that due to flooding all the fields were filled with sand and mud, and it would be a herculean task for farmers to make the fields cultivable again.
23 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Uttam promises drastic changes in TS||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy has said that there will be drastic changes in state politics if the Congress wins the Dubbak elections Mr. Reddy participated in door-to-door campaign at the headquarters town on Thursday and urged people to vote for Congress party. He said that no development took place in the constituency except the developments that took place during the tenure of late Minister Cheruku Muthyam Reddy. He said that vote for Congress means giving voice for questioning
23 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Election expenditure limit increased||The Election Commission of India (ECI) issued orders on Thursday increasing limit for election expenditure. The upper limit for expenditure to be spent by candidate contesting for the Legislative Assembly elections in Telangana was put at Rs. 30.8 lakh. The upper limit of expenditure comes into force with immediate effect and candidates contesting for the Dubbak byelection can increase their expenditure limit to the newly notified amount. In the past, the upper limit of expenditure was fixed at Rs. 28 lakh.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||From a trade union leader to Home Minister||Former Telangana Home Minister Nayani Narasimha Reddy, whodied early on Thursday, was a trade union leader and a founder member of State unit of Hind Mazdoor Sabha, one of the five national trade unions. He was 86.He was diagnosed with pneumonia when he was admitted to Apollo Hospitals on October 13 after he complained of breathlessness. The oxygen levels in his body were found to have dropped sharply. Fondly called ‘Narsanna’, he is survived by wife, a son and a daughter. Narasimha Reddy was born into an agricultural family in Neredugomma village near Devarakonda in erstwhile Nalgonda district. He joined politics attracted by the socialist ideology of Ram Manohar Lohia. He was Janata Party MLA twice from Musheerabad constituency in combined Andhra Pradesh in 1978 and 1985. He plunged into the separate-Telangana movement after K. Chandrasekhar Rao floated the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) in 2001. He had been actively associated with all the party activities ever since. In the absence of Mr. Rao, it was Mr. Narasimha Reddy who was given the responsibility of hoisting the national flag on occasions such as Independence and Republic Days at the party office. He was also the party representative at several platforms on the demand for formation of Telangana State. Elected for the third time as MLA from Musheerabad on TRS ticket in 2004, Mr. Narasimha Reddy was one of the six Ministers of the party to share power with the Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy-led Congress government in the State. The Telangana Rashtra Samithi pulled out of the alliance, both in UPA government at the Centre and the State, after two years. As Backward Classes Minister, Mr. Narasimha Reddy was in charge of YSR's native Kadapa district. He had lost a by-election in the term of the Assembly from 2004 to 2009 and the general elections in 2009. After the formation of Telangana State in 2014, he was made Home Minister by Mr. Rao. He also handled the subjects of labour and employment. As he was not a member of the Assembly, Mr. Narasimha Reddy was inducted into the Cabinet of Mr. Rao as a Member of the Legislative Council. He was denied party ticket to contest Assembly elections in 2018. Mr. Narasimha Reddy was known for his tough appearance in spite of advancing age. The name ‘Bullet Narsanna’ became his sobriquet as he was familiar riding the Bullet two-wheeler before joining the Telangana Rashtra Samithi.
23 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||More farmers now allowed inside mandis, says Haryana government||Amid allegations of slow procurement of Kharif crop and delayed payments, the Haryana government on Thursday said the number of farmers being allowed to mandis had been increased and the process would be completed by November 10. Speaking to The Hindu , Additional Chief Secretary, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Affairs Department, Pranab Kishore Das, said that initially the department had decided on conservative scheduling in view of the social distancing norms, but it had been increased this week. “We are now allowing 250-300 farmers in big mandis and 100-150 for smaller ones per day. The total number of farmers and the likely number of purchase days have been mapped mandi- wise and the number of gate passes per day increased accordingly. We hope to finish the procurement process by November 10,” said Mr. Das. He claimed that payments to farmers were cleared till October 5. “We make payment within three days of the produce reaching the godown and online approval received. It takes a few extra days for off-line purchase,” said Mr. Das. He said around 90-95% farmers reached mandis as per their schedule, when informed through SMS, denying there were any issue with the mechanism to inform them. Swaraj India chief Yogendra Yadav demanded that the government came clean on the allegations of slow procurement by making public the number of farmers registered under the ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ in the State for each mandi and those pending. The report by Swaraj India recently pointed out that only 5-11% of total registered farmers in the four districts – Bhiwani, Mahendragarh, Charkhi Dadri and Rewari – managed to sell their crops in the first two weeks of the six-week procurement session.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Man arrested for killing brother and sister-in-law||A man has been arrested for allegedly killing his brother and sister-in-law in outer Delhi’s Mundka, the police said on Thursday. On October 19, the police received information regarding missing of one Rajesh alias Raju and his wife Ruchi, both residents of Friends Enclave in Mundka. During investigation, one Sushila Devi told the police that her brother — Bhagwan alias Kala — told her that her another brother, Raju, and his wife were missing. She reached Mundka and came to know that her brothers had fought over something on October 16. She noticed that Bhagwan was not cooperating in search of Raju and Ruchi. “A team was constituted to search the missing couple. During enquiry, Baghwan said he murdered the couple on October 16 and dumped their bodies in Haryana’s Rohtak,” an officer said. On his disclosure, the bodies were recovered from Rohtak. Baghwan also said Raju was unemployed and used to quarrel with everyone. Baghwan told the police that he committed the crimes due to Raju’s “irresponsible behaviour”.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||BJP plans to increase house tax by 34%: AAP||AAP on Thursday alleged that the BJP-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation is planning to increase house tax by 34%. The party also said that the North body under pressure from parking and advertising contractors, who are allegedly close to BJP Ministers, is also planning to waive off tax on parking and advertisements. The party said it has opposed both the developments.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. told to give mobiles to DTC workers||The Delhi Parivahan Mazdoor Sangh has asked the Delhi government to provide mobile phones with data connections to contractual Delhi Transport Corporation employees following the public transporter’s decision to restrict deployment aboard its buses only to conductors with the ‘Chartr’ app on their phones.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Nikhil- brief||DJB Vice Chairman Raghav Chadha on Thursday met Union Minister of Housing and Urban Affairs, Hardeep Singh Puri, on the “exorbitant” arrears the Central Public Works Department and the Delhi Development Authority have to pay to the DJB, said the Delhi government. He requested the Minister’s intervention in recovering the dues of about Rs. 216 crore so that the DJB’s paucity of funds can be cleared, an official statement read.
23 October 2020||Aligarh,||Hathras case: AMU to extend tenure of ‘terminated’ doctors||Aligarh Muslim University has agreed to extend the tenure of two Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College doctors, whose services were allegedly “terminated” for their remarks in connection with the case of alleged gang-rape and death of a Dalit woman in Hathras. “On the request of the Chief Medical Officer of the hospital, received on Wednesday, the university has given its nod to the proposal to extend the tenure of the two doctors,” AMU spokesperson Omar Saleem Peerzada said over phone from Aligarh on Thursday. The order ending the contract of the two doctors — Dr. Mohamnad Azeemudin and Dr. Obaid Imtiaz — was issued by Chief Medical Officer S. A. Zaidi on Tuesday, a day after the CBI team probing the gang-rape and death case visited the hospital. The AMU authorities have denied the allegations of termination as “highly speculative” and said the two doctors were engaged “on a temporary one-month vacancy from September 9”. The Resident Doctors Association (RDA) had written a letter to the AMU Vice-Chancellor on Wednesday and urged him to take immediate steps to withdraw the termination order. The letter signed by RDA president Mohammad Hamza Malik and general secretary Mohammad Kaashif stated that the action against the two doctors smacked of “vendetta politics” and was aimed at muzzling the right to freedom of expression. The two doctors told reporters on Tuesday that “they were quite taken aback by this step because they had not been given a chance to present their view to the authorities”. In response to a query by media persons, the two doctors had hinted that they might have paid the price for giving their opinion to some journalists who had visited the hospital in connection with the Hathras case. The 19-year-old woman, who was assaulted and allegedly raped by four men, was under treatment at the hospital before being referred to Delhi. She died at a Delhi hospital later. Reported comments of one of the doctors contradicted the Uttar Pradesh police’s stand that the FSL report in the case found no traces of sperm, indicating that there was no rape.
23 October 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Lokayukta notices to Odisha MLA, five others||The Odisha Lokayukta has issued notices to six persons, including a Member of the Legislative Assembly, in connection with alleged deliberate destruction of an irrigation embankment in order to cover up corruption and substandard work. An RTI activist, Sarbeswar Beura, had filed a petition with the Lokayukta alleging that some people, who were involved in substandard construction of an irrigation embankment in Jajpur district, had deliberately blown away the embankment using dynamites in order to give an impression that floodwaters had caused the breach. According to Mr. Beura, the incident had taken place on the night of August 28 when there was floodwater in the Keura river under Dharmasala block of Jajpur district. The embankment between Gokarneswar and Budhalinga Majhipada Road was damaged, causing the loss of paddy in 4,000 hectares. People noticed that the breach in the embankment was not natural, but man-made. “It is alleged that Pranab Balabantaray, local BJD MLA, and Naren Jena, junior engineer of office of the executive engineer, Panikoili Road and Building Division were behind the conspiracy. They had engaged miscreants to damage this embankment with explosives in order to suppress irregularities and misappropriation of money in the construction work,” activist submitted.
23 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Akalis will block farm laws after forming govt.’||Former Punjab Deputy Chief Minister and Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal said after forming government in the State, his party will block the implementation of the Centre’s agriculture laws. He said the Akali Dal would declare the entire State a ‘Principal Market Area’ and repeal the amendments to Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) 2017, enacted by the Congress government. “It was the duty of the government to ensure that the produce of the farmers is procured at Minimum Support Price for all the 22 crops for which the Centre annually declares MSP. When the Akali Dal forms a government in the State, we will ensure that this demand is converted into an achievement,” he said here. Mr. Badal alleged that several farmer organisations have dismissed Punjab’s agriculture amendment Bills terming them meaningless. “Chief Minister Amarinder Singh should respond to the dismissive description of his Bills by these organisations,” said Mr. Badal. Referring to the State farm Bills, Mr. Badal said under the garb of these legislations the Congress, in consonance with the BJP, wants to weaken the intensity of this movement by uprooting it from its base in the country’s most agrarian State. “The Captain-BJP team misused the sacred precincts of the Punjab Vidhan Sabha to implement the Centre’s anti-farmer plans. It is shocking and painful that Punjab’s temple of democracy was misused yesterday [Tuesday] to endorse all the anti-farmer Acts of the Modi government,” said Mr. Badal. Dushyant attacks CM Separately, Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala accused Capt.Amarinder of deceiving farmers in the guise of Punjab farm Bills. “If Punjab CM truly cares about the farmers then he should pass a Bill to purchase crops like cotton, millets, sunflower instead of just wheat and paddy on MSP,” he said. “Why Congress-governed States do not pass Bills to buy crops at MSP in their States,” he asked.
23 October 2020||Lucknow,||Relief for Mukhtar Ansari’s sons||The Allahabad High Court has granted interim relief from arrest to the two sons of jailed MLA Mukhtar Ansari in a case of alleged illegal occupation of government land. An FIR was lodged against the MLA and his two sons Abbas Ansari and Umar Ansari in Hazratganj police station of Lucknow in August on charges of illegal occupation. The charges included criminal conspiracy, cheating, forgery and Section 3 of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984. Mr. Abbas Ansari is a national-level shooter and had also contested the 2017 Assembly elections only to lose by a thin margin.
23 October 2020||Mumbai,||‘Want to avoid political interference in probes’||A day after the Maharashtra government withdrew its ‘general consent’ to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to probe cases in the State, Home Minister Anil Deshmukh on Thursday said the decision was taken to prevent possible political interference in the Mumbai Police’s ongoing investigation into the alleged role of three television channels in the Television Rating Points (TRP) scam. “Henceforth, the CBI will need the Maharashtra government’s permission to probe any case. The agency cannot hold any investigation until sanctioned by the State government,” he said. The government’s move comes a day after the CBI took over a case registered by the Uttar Pradesh Police against “unknown channels and persons” in the TRP scam. The development led to suspicion that the CBI might also take over the Mumbai Police’s investigation into a similar case. Mr. Deshmukh recalled the manner in which the probe into the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput was taken over by the CBI despite opposition from the Mumbai Police. He said, “Earlier, the CBI had taken up the investigation in some cases. We are concerned about the CBI being used to intervene in the ongoing TRP scam.” The minister also recalled that a Supreme Court judge had described the Central agency as a “caged parrot” a few years ago. Mr. Deshmukh, however, said the government believes the CBI is a premier investigation agency of the country. “The CBI was given a free pass by the earlier government. We have withdrawn it. We thought about political scores being settled through CBI,” he said. The State Home Department’s order issued on Wednesday said, “In exercise of the powers conferred by Section 6 of the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946, the government of Maharashtra hereby withdraws the consent accorded to the Members of the Delhi Special Police Establishment vide Government Order dated February 22, 1989.” The Mumbai Police had registered an FIR on October 6 against three channels, including Republic TV, for allegedly manipulating TRPs. Republic TV has claimed innocence in the case and approached the courts.
23 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Durga Puja goes digital in Mumbai||Devotees in Mumbai are celebrating Durga Puja this year from the confines of their homes and taking part in rituals virtually in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. “This is the first time in 91 years of our Puja heritage that we are having a ceremonial Ghot Pujo instead of a Murti Pujo ,” said the organisers of Bombay Durga Bari Samiti, which has been celebrating the festival since 1930. Ghot Pujo essentially means worshipping urns symbolising goddess Durga and her children. “Keeping the safety of devotees in mind, we have decided to do away with traditional celebrations and honourMaaDurga with Ghot Pujo ,” said Susmita Mitra, president of the samiti.  All rituals will be conducted at Sangam Hall in Marine Drive and streamed on social media platforms. Due to COVID-19 restrictions, Arunima Bhattacharya, an in-house talent, has created a three-dimensional backdrop of Durga and her children.“We have been celebrating Durga Puja in an environmentally friendly way and hope to continue doing so in the years to come,” said Ms. Mitra. “Durga Puja is the celebration of the victory of good over evil, and one of the greatest challenges we face today is the pandemic and the threat to the world is now greater than ever.” Jayati Dasgupta, chairperson of the samiti, said, “As an organisation, we have always believed in promoting performing arts from diverse backgrounds while endeavouring to achieve its philanthropic objectives. Our programmes reflect the cultural ethos of India and meet our objective of furthering national integration.”
23 October 2020||Mumbai,||HC suspends minister’s sentence in assault case||The Nagpur Bench of the Bombay High Court on Thursday suspended the sentence awarded to Maharashtra Minister Yashomati Thakur for assaulting traffic policeman Ulhas Raurale for stopping her vehicle from entering a one-way lane in Amravati on March 24, 2012. A single judge Bench of Justice Vinay Joshi was hearing an appeal filed by the Minister for Women and Child Development and three others after a sessions court in Amravati on October 15 convicted and sentenced them to three months in jail and fined them Rs. 15,500 each. Ms. Thakur filed the plea through advocate Aniket Nikam seeking suspension of her conviction. The court said, “The appellant has been awarded a sentence of three months. Having regard to the quantum of the sentence, its execution needs to be suspended.” The court has adjourned the matter to October 27.
23 October 2020||Mumbai,||Guards, clerks and lawyers can take locals||The Maharashtra government on Thursday gave permission to uniformed security guards, lawyers and registered clerks at courts to travel on local trains. The State government order said that they will be allowed travel during non-peak hours on working days. Train tickets for lawyers will be issued only on producing valid identity cards of the Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa, while registered clerks will have to show cards issued by the Bombay High Court Registry.
23 October 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Police hunt for couple wanted in cheating case||The Kamothe police are on lookout for a couple who cheated a retired Mantralaya official of Rs. 23 lakh. In his complaint, Bhaskar Chichulkar (62), who retired in 2017 as section officer at the Mantralaya’s Central Director General Office, said a relative introduced him to the accused, Praveen Kamble, in 2018. Mr. Kamble claimed to be an assistant police officer at Taloja jail. The accused said he ran a business with his wife Sunita Kamble of providing essential goods to canteens at Thane and Kalyan jails. Mr. Chichulkar paid the accused Rs. 23 lakh after he promised to get him the tenders to supply bottled water, grains and dry snacks to the canteens. In July 2018, Mr. Chichulkar rented a shop near Thane jail and started providing bottled water to Mr. Kamble’s firm, which supplied it to Thane jail. In November 2018, Mr. Kamble stopped taking bottled water from Mr. Chichulkar and said a new tender for providing supplies to Thane jail’s canteen would be floated the next month. Later, when Mr. Kamble started ignoring his calls, Mr. Chichulkar visited his house in Kharghar, but found that the couple had moved out. He learnt that Mr. Kamble’s parents lived in Nerul, but they were not in touch with the accused. “Prima facie, we have learnt that Mr.Kamble was not associated with Taloja jail. We are verifying if he worked in the police department. The couple is yet to be arrested,” police inspector Vimal Bidave said.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi’s AQI inches close to ‘very poor’ category||The air quality of Delhi inched closer to the ‘very poor’ category on Thursday while Noida’s slipped to the ‘very poor’ category, according to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The air was slightly better in Gurugram, but remained in the ‘poor’ category. Delhi’s air quality is expected to remain in the ‘poor’ to ‘very poor’ category for the next two days owing to slow surface winds, as per government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research). “The overall Air Quality Index [AQI] of Delhi was in the ‘poor’ category as of today [Thursday] morning. Calm surface wind conditions started over the Delhi region which will lead to low ventilation, and hence deterioration of AQI is predicted. It is forecast that the air quality will be in the ‘poor’ to marginally ‘very poor’ category on October 23 and 24,” SAFAR said in a statement. The AQI of Delhi was 296 and the values for Gurugram and Noida were 215 and 308 respectively, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin on Thursday, which is an average of the past 24 hours.  The stubble burning fire counts around Haryana, Punjab, and border regions of Delhi increased to 1,428 on Wednesday from 849 on Tuesday, as per SAFAR. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5 in Delhi is estimated to be around 9% on Thursday. The local wind speed is “highly” unfavourable and the wind direction in neighbouring States is favourable for a “moderate” transport of pollutants to Delhi due to stubble burning. Campaign picks up In a related development, Environment Minister Gopal Rai and AAP MLAs took part in the “red light on, gaadi off” campaign at Tilak Marg intersection to reduce air pollution in the city. “The campaign will be started in all the 70 legislative assemblies of Delhi from October 26.There is an appeal to the residents that they should take part in the mega campaign,” Mr. Rai said.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU Registrar appointment takes an ugly turn||The power tussle between Delhi University Vice-Chancellor Yogesh K. Tyagi and Pro Vice-Chancellor P.C. Joshi on Wednesday over the appointment of the Registrar ended with the latter being replaced a day later. On directions of the V-C, Dr. Geeta Bhatt, who is also the Director of the Non-Collegiate Women’s Education Board (NCWEB), was appointed as the Pro V-C on Thursday. The move came hours after Mr. Joshi notified Vikas Gupta as the varsity’s Registrar following the Executive Council meeting that took place on Wednesday chaired by the former. Earlier on Wednesday, professor P.C. Jha had been appointed as the Registrar and Director of South Campus following which he issued a notification to postpone the EC meeting for a revision of agenda items. However, Mr. Joshi went ahead with the EC meeting and even wrote a letter to Mr. Jha asking him to “vacate the Registrar’s office.” This was followed by a communication from the university terming the EC meeting as illegal. “P.C. Joshi, Pro V-C, decided to go ahead and conduct the Executive Council meeting in which professor Suman Kundu participated as Director of South Campus and In-charge Registrar. This is in complete violation of the [earlier] notification. This meeting, therefore is illegal and void,” it had read. EC member Rajesh Jha said that the meeting held on Wednesday was in accordance with the statutes of the varsity. Mr. Joshi had been appointed Pro V-C on June 28 by the V-C. According to the varsity statute, the Pro V-C looks after the daily functioning in the absence of the V-C. The Education Ministry wrote a letter supporting Mr. Joshi. In a letter addressed to Mr. Gupta, he stated that Mr. Tyagi’s order should be considered invalid, as he was on medical leave. “...the order issued by the Vice Chancellor during his period of absence on medical ground without joining the office properly and officially is not valid and should not be acted upon by the university functionary. In future, if the VC wants to join the office, proper medical fitness certificate issued by the competent authority, who treated him, may be obtained,” said the letter sent on Thursday by Education Ministry Deputy Secretary Birendra Kumar Singh. It reiterates that Mr. Joshi will act as the VC. The Ministry’s letter also notes that the Pro VC had written to the Education Ministry on Wednesday to inform it that Mr. Tyagi was not discharging his duty.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Akbar-Ramani case sent back by Delhi court to previous judge||A Delhi court on Thursday sent back former Union Minister M.J. Akbar’s defamation case against journalist Priya Ramani for her tweets accusing him of sexual harassment to the judge who was hearing it for the past two years. Judge Vishal Pahuja, who was trying the defamation case, had earlier this month sent the matter to the Principal District and Sessions Judge seeking its transfer to another court on the ground that his court was now designated to hear cases filed against lawmakers pursuant to a recent verdict of the Supreme Court. On September 16, the apex court had asked the Chief Justices of all High Courts to list before an appropriate Bench all pending criminal cases involving sitting and former lawmakers where stay was granted. In terms of this order, certain cases that did not pertain to sitting and former lawmakers, but were already being heard by Mr. Pahuja were transferred to other courts. Principal District and Sessions Judge Kohli on Thursday, however, sent the case back to the court of Judge Pahuja. At the height of the ‘MeToo movement’ in 2018, Ms. Ramani accused Mr. Akbar of sexual harassment during his role as newspaper editor. Following this, about dozen of former colleagues of Mr. Akbar also came out with different allegations against him. Days before he resigned from his post of Minister of State for External Affairs in October 2018, Mr. Akbar filed a criminal defamation case against Ms. Ramani.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Over 3,000 new cases in Delhi for third day in a row||Delhi reported more than 3,000 new COVID-19 cases for the third consecutive day on Thursday, with 3,882 cases being reported in the past 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Also, 35 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 6,163. Of the total 3,44,318 cases, 3,12,918 people have recovered and there are 25,237 active cases. A total of 58,770 COVID-19 tests were done in the past 24 hours. Of the total tests, 16,795 RT-PCR tests were done, which is highest so far in a single day in the city. The Delhi government has been conducting more number of RT-PCR tests after the High Court last month directed the government to do so. Also, the number of active cases went above the 25,000 mark after 18 days on Thursday. It has been increasing steadily for the past three days and the active cases are the highest in the past 20 days. The number of people in hospitals also increased slightly and the number of people under home isolation had risen for the second day. Out of the total 15,704 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 67.5% were vacant, as per government data. However, 58.2% of ICU beds with ventilators are occupied and 53.4% such beds without ventilators are full. The positivity rate was 6.6% – the second highest in October. The overall positivity rate till now is 8.2%. The number of containment zones in the city on Thursday was 2,766.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||We shall take back our streets, say activists||A number of activists on Thursday spoke about the importance of protests in a democracy and said that “we shall take back our streets”. The speakers included author and activist Arundhati Roy, advocates Prashant Bhushan and Sanjay Hegde, United Against Hate co-founder Nadeem Khan, theorist Nivedita Menon, activist Bezwada Wilson and Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav. The panel said that “the state and the police” have begun to criminalise protests. “Democracy and dissent go hand in hand, but then the demonstrations expressing dissent have to be in designated places alone, said the Supreme Court. Was the Dandi March taken along designated routes?” Concerned Citizens’ Collective said.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Case against scribe Rajeev Sharma’s kin||The Delhi police have registered a case against the family members of freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma, who was arrested in an espionage case under the Official Secrets Act, for allegedly threatening and intimidating a witness in the case, said a senior police officer on Thursday. The officer said that when Mr. Sharma’s flat in Pitampura was raided, a man from the locality was called as a witness. “The witness filed a complaint at Rani Bagh police station. An FIR was registered and the case was transferred to Special Cell for further investigation,” added the officer. Adish Aggarwala, who was representing Mr. Sharma, said that they provided the entire transcript of the conversation between the witness and family members and there was nothing threatening. The transcript and the clip of call recording have been submitted in the court. A Delhi court on Tuesday had rejected the bail plea of Mr. Sharma.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Sisodia announces advance special festival package for all Delhi govt. employees||Deputy CM Manish Sisodia on Thursday said that the Delhi government will provide an advance special festival package and every Delhi government employee will get Rs. 10,000 in advance. “Keeping in mind the hardship of employees due to the COVID-19 and lockdown, the government took the decision,” the government said.
23 October 2020||Omar Rashid,||Allahabad HC restrains Ghaziabad authority from demolition of slum||The Allahabad High Court has restrained the Ghaziabad Development Authority (GDA) from carrying out demolition in a slum area in Ghaziabad, noting that the State should have offered a place to rehabilitate the residents before their eviction and demolition of their houses. “It would also be appropriate to state that when the entire globe is facing a pandemic, it is the responsibility of the State to protect everyone, more specifically the population of weaker sections from any hardship that may aggravate their plight adversely,” the court said. It was hearing a petition seeking directions to the GDA to not undertake any further demolition and or eviction of residents of Bhovapur Basti behind Radisson Blue Hotel, Kaushambi, Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh. In an order dated October 21, a Bench of Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Siddhartha Varma, while granting time to the GDA to file a counter affidavit, directed it not to proceed with the demolition till further orders. The court also issued directions to provide temporary shelter to the residents of Bhovapur Basti whose houses have already been demolished and see to the viability of providing houses under the Pradhan Mantri Avas Yojna. All necessary arrangements should also be made as a temporary measure by the GDA to provide essential amenities, including light and water, to the residents. Medical facilities The residents should be extended all necessary medical facilities, the court said, and listed the next date for November 18 when the GDA would have to propose a complete plan for rehabilitation of the residents.
23 October 2020||Pune,||Centre must do more to help farmers: Shetti||Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) chief Raju Shetti said that the Central government must provide 75% of the relief compensation to rain-hit farmers in Maharashtra, while the rest should be provided by the State government. Mr. Shetti, who had written to the Prime Minister, noted that most of the standing crop across western Marathwada, Konkan and Marathwada region had been affected. “When the pandemic erupted in March, the rural economy was in dire straits…it must be remembered that it was the farmers who strove to ensure consistent food supply throughout the lockdown. While medical and police personnel helped curb the contagion, farmers pulled out all the stops to provide milk, vegetables and other essentials to urban pockets,” said the former MP from Hatkanangale in Kolhapur district. The SSS chief said this was the Centre’s chance to display its beneficence toward Maharashtra’s farmers whose subsistence has been threatened by the ravages of the retreating monsoon. Mr. Shetti urged the Centre to send a team as quickly as possible.
23 October 2020||Pune,||Pact inked to develop virus antibodies||The Serum Institute of India (SII), along with the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI), a non-profit scientific research organisation, on Thursday announced an agreement with pharmaceutical major Merck to develop SARS-CoV-2 neutralising monoclonal antibodies. Monoclonal antibodies are co-invented by IAVI and Scripps Research as ‘innovative interventions’ to address the COVID-19 pandemic. If the antibody candidates being advanced through this partnership are shown to be efficacious in clinical trial, then SII will lead global manufacturing as well as commercialisation in low- and middle-low-income countries, including India.
23 October 2020||Washington,||Obama rips into Trump at rally||With less than two weeks to go before the election day, former U.S. President Barack Obama campaigned in Pennsylvania for his former Vice-President and Democratic nominee Joe Biden. At a rally in Philadelphia, Mr. Obama delivered an impassioned speech, in which he painted a picture of a “highly dysfunctional” President, Donald Trump, and his failing administration, while he made a character- and policy-based case for a Biden-Harris administration. Mr. Obama said Mr. Trump was not interested in the job and was using the presidency as a reality show to get attention. He criticised Mr. Trump’s handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, saying at least 2,22,000 Americans had died, millions of jobs were gone and 1,00,000 small businesses were closed. He compared South Korea and Canada’s handling of the pandemic to the U.S.’s, which has been far worse in terms of mortality and infections than the other two countries in question. “Donald Trump wants to take full credit for the economy he inherited and no responsibility for the pandemic he ignored,” Mr. Obama added. Mr. Obama took a shot at Mr. Trump having a bank account in China. The New York Times had reported earlier this week that Trump International Hotels operated an account in the country. “We know that he continues to do business with China because he has got a secret Chinese bank account. How is that possible? How is that possible?” Mr. Obama said. However, the bank account is not technically “secret” as the New York Times reported it had got the information from an analysis of Mr. Trump’s tax records. “Listen, can you imagine if I had had a secret Chinese bank account when I was running for re-election? You think Fox News might have been a little concerned about that? They would’ve called me ‘Beijing Barry’,” Mr. Obama told the audience. Mr. Obama vouched for Mr. Biden’s character, saying he had empathy and decency. He criticised the Republicans for repealing and not replacing the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare), and said Mr. Biden and his running mate Kamala Harris would expand Medicare (public health insurance) and create green jobs as part of Mr. Biden’s $2 trillion climate plan. ‘Trump’s conduct’ Mr. Obama kept returning to the theme of the President’s conduct. “With Joe and Kamala at the helm, you’re not going to have to think about the crazy things they said every day... You’re not going to have to argue about them every day... You’ll be able to go about your lives, knowing that the President is not going to retweet conspiracy theories about secret cabals running the world or that Navy Seals didn’t actually kill Bin Laden. Think about that, the President of the United States retweeted that,” he said, referring to a conspiracy theory that Mr. Trump had shared, according to which Mr. Obama and Mr. Biden had U.S. soldiers killed to cover up a plot related to Osama bin Laden. Mr. Obama said that with a Biden-Harris administration, the country would not have to deal with a President who threatened people who disagreed with him. “We wouldn’t tolerate it from a high school principal. We wouldn’t tolerate it from a coach. We wouldn’t tolerate it from a co-worker. We wouldn’t tolerate it in our own family, except for maybe crazy uncle somewhere, you know?” he said, asking why people were making excuses for Mr. Trump’s conduct. Mr. Trump spent the Wednesday evening campaigning in Gastonia, North Carolina.
23 October 2020||Bangkok,||Amid calls for resignation, Thai PM lifts emergency||Thailand’s premier on Thursday revoked an emergency decree that had been intended to quell pro-democracy rallies, despite it failing to stamp out daily protests demanding his resignation and reforms of the unassailable monarchy. The student-led pro-democracy movement has been gaining momentum since mid-July, with mostly young demonstrators calling for Premier Prayut Chan-O-Cha's removal and a rewrite of a 2017 military-scripted constitution. Some protest leaders have also issued controversial demands to reform the ultra-powerful and wealthy monarchy, whose influence permeates every aspect of the Thai society. The “severe” emergency measures were imposed last week after anti-government protesters flashed a three-finger salute to a royal motorcade. But the ban on gatherings of more than four people failed to discourage tens of thousands of demonstrators, who amassed daily around major Bangkok intersections. The former military chief — who masterminded the 2014 coup — had indicated late Wednesday that he was preparing to lift the state of severe emergency to defuse tensions. Mr. Prayut said in a televised address on Wednesday that the country must “step back from the edge of the slippery slope that can easily slide to chaos”. He had earlier also called for an extraordinary session of Parliament to discuss the crisis. That session will be held on Monday. However, a government statement announcing the withdrawal of the emergency measures on Thursday said the decision was because the political situation had improved. “The severe state of emergency has decreased and ended into a situation in which government officials and state agencies can enforce the regular laws,” it said. However, revoking the emergency decree was “just a game” for the authorities to buy time and reduce tensions, says political analyst Titipol Phakdeewanich. “This action has no significant meaning,” he said, adding that the severe measures should not have been imposed to begin with. “People have the right to protest,” he said, adding that this was enshrined in the Thai constitution.
23 October 2020||Beijing,||Vatican, Beijing renew deal on appointment of bishops||A 2018 agreement between Beijing and the Vatican was renewed on Thursday, despite strident U.S. condemnation and warnings from underground Chinese priests loyal to Rome that they have only become more marginalised since it was signed. The deal allows both Beijing and the Holy See a say in appointing bishops in an attempt to close a schism in China’s 12-million-strong Catholic community. Washington had put pressure on the Vatican to scrap the agreement, saying it has failed to shield Chinese Catholics from persecution. Both sides agreed to the extension “for two years”, foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said on Thursday. “The two sides will maintain close communication and consultation, and continue to push forward the process of improving relations.” China severed ties with the Holy See in 1951, forcing Catholics to choose between membership of the State-run Chinese Catholic Patriotic Association or non-sanctioned churches loyal to the Pope. However, while some have hailed the deal, others fear that China’s underground churches will become even more marginalised.
23 October 2020||Beirut,||Saad Hariri renamed Lebanon PM||Three-time Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri was renamed to the post on Thursday to create a cabinet that can lift the country out of its worst economic crisis in decades. Mr. Hariri, 50, made his comeback almost a year after stepping down under pressure from a protest movement demanding an overhaul of Lebanon's political system. The country is under international pressure to form a crisis cabinet to address a plummeting economy made worse by COVID-19 and the blast at the Beirut port on August 4.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. to nix business visas for H-1B speciality jobs||It is likely to impact several Indian firms which send their professionals on B-1 visas for a short stay to complete jobs on site. The State Department estimates that this proposal will affect not more than 6,000 to 8,000 foreign workers per year. $800,000 settlement On December 17, 2019, the Attorney General of California announced a $800,000 settlement against Infosys Limited to resolve allegations that approximately 500 Infosys employees worked in the state on Infosys-sponsored B-1 visas rather than H-1B visas, the State Department said. “The proposed changes and the resulting transparency would reduce the impact of foreign labour on the U.S. workforce of aliens performing activities in a speciality occupation without the procedural protections attendant to the H-1B classification,” it said. The State Department said the application process for a B-1 visa does not include similar procedural requirements to protect the U.S. workers like that of H-1B visas. Also, the fees for the B-1 visas are far lower than that of H-1B visas.
23 October 2020||Beirut,||‘Egypt executed 49 prisoners in 10 days’||Egypt executed 49 prisoners in just 10 days in October, Human Rights Watch said on Thursday, calling for authorities to “immediately halt” carrying out death sentences. “Egypt’s mass executions of scores of people in a matter of days is outrageous,” said HRW’s Joe Stork. The systematic absence of fair trials in Egypt, especially in political cases, makes every death sentence a violation of the right to life,” Mr. Stork said in a statement. Of the 49 killed, 15 were men convicted for alleged involvement in political violence.
23 October 2020||ATHENS,||Golden Dawn leaders sent to prison||A Greek court on Thursday ruled to imprison the leadership of the extreme right-wing Golden Dawn party, following their convictions for running the party like a criminal organisation, but granted suspended sentences to five of the party’s 18 former lawmakers, who were convicted of lesser charges. The ruling came after two weeks of summations by defense lawyers following the prosecutor’s recommendation that all former Golden Dawn lawmakers be allowed to remain free pending appeal. The party was founded as a neo-Nazi group in the 1980s and rose to prominence during Greece’s financial crisis. It was blamed for planning multiple hate crimes, including brutal street attacks on immigrants and left-wing activists. Eleven former party leaders convicted of simple participation received sentences of between five and seven years.  The decision ends a five-year-long trial involving 68 defendants, dozens of lawyers, and encompassing four cases, including the 2013 fatal stabbing of left-wing Greek rap singer Pavlos Fyssas and physical attacks on Egyptian fishermen and left-wing activists. Fyssa’s killer, Giorgos Roupakias, was also ordered to begin serving his life sentence. Lawyers representing the victims expressed satisfaction with the decision.
23 October 2020||Bolivia,||Arce’s victory is legitimate, says OAS||International observers on Wednesday declared Bolivia’s presidential election transparent and Luis Arce’s incoming leftist government legitimate, as an official but incomplete tally showed an overwhelming victory for the ex-president Evo Morales’ protege. The findings are sharply different from 2019 elections, when Mr. Arce’s former boss, Mr. Morales, won an unconstitutional fourth term in polls that sparked weeks of protests, leaving 36 dead and 800 wounded. . “People voted freely and the result was clear and overwhelming, granting strong legitimacy to the incoming government, to Bolivian institutions and the electoral process,” Manuel Gonzalez, head of the observer mission for the Organization of American States, said while releasing the team’s preliminary report on Sunday’s polls. With over 90% of polling places accounted for, Mr. Arce has 54.5%, Centrist ex-president Carlos Mesa has 29.2%, followed by right-winger Luis Fernando Camacho with 14.2%.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Sri Lankan Parliament passes 20th Amendment||
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Has India passed the COVID-19 peak?||Since mid-September, the number of daily new COVID-19 cases recorded has been reducing from the peak of 90,000-odd cases. A few days ago, the COVID-19 India National Supermodel Committee, constituted by the Department of Science and Technology, based on mathematical modelling studies, concluded that India had passed the COVID-19 peak in September. It also found that there will be fewer than 50,000 active cases from December and if proper safety protocols continue to be followed, the pandemic can be “controlled by early next year” with “minimal” active symptomatic infections by end-February. In a conversation moderated by R. Prasad , Gautam Menon and Giridhara R. Babu discuss whether India has gone past the peak. Edited excerpts:  The number of daily new cases recorded has been reducing from the peak of about 90,000 cases since mid-September even as the number of tests done each day remain at about 10,00,000. Does this suggest that the pandemic has peaked in India? Gautam Menon:I think what it suggests is that in the major cities, and in some districts adjacent to those cities that already have sufficient numbers of people infected, the number of new infections is going down, which is to be expected. I don’t think one can say that a bigger or an equivalent peak is not in store for us, because my feeling is that the virus has not been spreading uniformly in India. There are many districts where the number of cases remains small. So, it’s these cases that we will have to watch out for, especially after the festival season. Giridhara R. Babu:The most dense areas might have already been affected, whether it’s the metros or the tier-2 and tier-3 cities. While the infection is spreading temporarily from one area to another, we cannot certainly say that the worst is over yet. Until we touch the baseline, which is rock bottom, we will not be able to know whether another peak is visible. In my experience with measles and polio, even a slight deviation from the cohort of susceptible people versus how the infection is spreading will ensure that a bigger peak comes much faster, especially when people have been hiding away from the virus. So, we will have to see how it plays out during the winter and afterwards, especially when people start mixing with young people who can spread the infection to the elderly and to those who have co-morbidities. It is not a single wave at the national level which we should be looking at; instead, we should be looking at the State level. We should also be looking at the data from serological surveys, verbal autopsies and missed deaths from the States that are not reporting well, to understand the real nature of the peak. Except Telangana, the other southern States have been reporting a high number of daily new cases, while large populous States such as U.P., M.P., and Bihar have reported far fewer cases. How do you explain this enigma? GRB:Absence of evidence is not evidence of absence. Just because the southern States or some other States, including some in the north, are reporting more cases does not mean that only these States have circulation going on and other States have controlled it. Saying that only a few States have higher transmission compared to others is a statistical fallacy. This is the biggest trap we have seen in many infectious diseases. Due to integrity of reporting cases, many States get classified as high-risk States. The same thing happened, for instance, in the HIV programme. We should not repeat that mistake. We should build strong and resilient systems of data collection and reporting. There are many ways of assessing whether a State has already gone past the surge in cases or whether it is yet to surge. One of the key things I would like to see is State-level serological surveys throughout the State, and also pick some infections in the acute phase. Testing randomly throughout the State will help us know the case-to-infection ratio, and comparisons between reported cases versus those who have already developed antibodies. Knowing what proportion of people in the general population have positivity by doing random antigen tests and RT-PCR and verbal autopsies of deaths will tell us whether the State has gone past the surge in cases or is yet to surge. GM:Data are vital. What we need is much more granular data that will give us a better idea of whether it is just lack of reporting or insufficient testing that is governing these numbers or whether there is a genuine reason to be happy. But some of these States, like U.P., have been doing a high number of daily tests, yet the cases are low. Is it because of over-reliance on rapid antigen tests or under-reporting? GM:The ratio of RAT to PCR test is fairly high in both Bihar and U.P. The method of who you test and what level you test is certainly an issue. Also, whether the testing is done broadly enough in the general population to pick up certain numbers is a question. As a fraction of the absolute population of the State, those test numbers are not good on their own. GRB:Also important is when the testing is done. If testing is increased at a time when the surge in cases has not happened already, or the surge in cases has already happened, the number of people who are actually infected might be low. So, if the tests are increased when prevalence is low, you will obviously pick up fewer numbers. And we don’t know which districts are in which stage of transmission in several States. The Indian Council of Medical Research’s second sero survey says over 7% of the adult population has been infected and the virus has spread to the rural districts. Is testing really good in rural areas or will these areas see a surge later? GRB:I feel that there is disparity in the way we test in metros and urban areas and in rural areas, which is a function of this trend of the health system as such. The ICMR survey gave a clear approximation that the infection has spread to rural areas, at least in the surveyed areas. The rural areas should not be ignored; we will have to do more testing in rural areas to corroborate that. We also need to understand whether the rural dynamics of transmission are similar to urban areas. And that can only be known by doing more sero surveys there. We still don’t know what proportion of people are acutely infected and yet not detected. So it’s a sum total of all these things that will give a clearer picture. Without that kind of granular data, we will not be able to say whether rural areas have missing transmission or not. GM:From informal reports it does seem like many more people in rural areas are ill than are actually going in to be tested. Also, the delays in getting tested after falling ill, and in getting tested and getting a result, are significant in the progression of the disease from person to person. The expert committee has projected a minimal number of fresh cases by end-February. Is it correct based on mathematical modelling to project for a period of four months during the pandemic? GM:Well, I would not do that and I would not recommend that anyone does it either with any degree of confidence. I think all one can say is that this particular model with these particular numbers show that cases will come down for three or four months down the line. But we have no reason to believe that those numbers will remain the same, the parameters in that model will remain the same. A much better index is what is the fraction of the population of the country that you think is currently infected. And that will tell you how many more people are there to be infected. Currently there are about 7.5 lakh active cases but the committee says it will drop to 50,000 in December. Do you think it’s feasible? GM:It could be unusual for that to happen. They believe that 300-400 million people in India are already infected, which seems a little too high to me. I think 200-million plus is probably a reasonable ballpark figure. There are lots of people yet to be infected, a lot of them are in areas that have not been exposed yet. So, at what rate they will get infected is the important question. I suspect that there will be a background of infection as we go towards the next couple of months. It will not dip very significantly at least for the next two or three months. GRB:These predictions are good as long as they serve the purpose of planning, ensuring that we are stepping up our resources. But then if they give some kind of robust confidence that all is well and we might be free from this disease beyond December, I don’t think any of us have that kind of optimism yet. I would want to look at seven days average, at the minimum, to understand what is going to happen in the next seven days. GM:Yes, I agree. I don’t see what the point is of saying that something’s going to happen four months later when we don’t have enough knowledge. A week, two weeks in advance is the best that one can do. I worry that putting such a long horizon serves a political purpose rather than a public health purpose. The committee has not been able to provide any valid explanation for why India seems to have peaked. What could be the reasons considering that India has gone through various stages of unlock and movement of people has increased? GRB:The data suggest that areas that were prone to increased population movement and where people were working even when the lockdown was there and who did not follow the public health regulations were the ones who got the earlier waves of circulation. With the most dense areas having been affected already, it’s only the lesser population density areas which are the next focus. Therefore, the speed at which it will spread is going to be different from what it was earlier. The test positivity is also going down as testing numbers have not majorly decreased. Definitely there seems to be some decrease in cases but since we have not touched the baseline, we can’t be sure that this is over. What will the combined effect of the festival season, winter, unrestricted movement of people, opening up of business establishments and non-adherence to non-pharmaceutical interventions be on the virus spread? GRB:We don’t know what has happened before to actually know what is happening now and to predict what’s going to happen in the future. Let’s assume region A has already had a surge in cases and nearly 40%-50% of the people have been infected. So, even if festivals are celebrated and people congregate, one may not see that kind of a spike in cases in that region. Whereas, in region B, if the earlier surge was not there, the same kind of behaviour might result in big hotspots and many deaths. We don’t know what’s happening at the district level. So we need to make a beginning of trying to understand what is happening in each district to be able to predict which districts require more care. We are not using the data in the wisest manner. That’s my worry.  We should be looking at the data from serological surveys, verbal autopsies and missed deaths from the States that are not reporting well, to understand the real nature of the peak. Giridhara Babu
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Drive a harder bargain at the Delhi meet||In August 2016, just months before the United States presidential elections, then U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and India’s External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj had detailed discussions about the Paris Climate Change Agreement, with the U.S. urging India to sign it at the earliest. Part of the statement they issued included the U.S.’s [developed countries] commitment to mobilise $100 billion per year by 2020 as part of a Green Climate Fund (GCF) to help developing countries such as India with climate adaptation methods and renewable technologies. Then, the Paris Accord push The ratification of the Paris Agreement was then U.S. President Barack Obama’s legacy project, and Washington was pushing for India to join before election day, November 8, in a bid to help Democrat nominee Hillary Clinton with her campaign against Republican nominee Donald Trump, who was against the Paris deal. While New Delhi could have chosen to wait for the results of the U.S. elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi did not, and announced a few weeks after Mr. Kerry’s visit that India would ratify the UN climate protocol on October 2, to mark Mahatma Gandhi’s birthday. Months later, on June 1, 2017, the new U.S. President, Donald Trump, announced that the U.S. would exit the Paris agreement, and also revoked U.S. promises towards the GCF, calling it “very unfair” (https://bit.ly/3oqjw9s). “India makes its participation contingent on receiving billions and billions and billions of dollars in foreign aid from developed countries,” Mr. Trump added, conveniently ignoring the fact that it was based on his predecessor’s promises that India had made its calculations. This time, the Indo-Pacific As the U.S. Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, makes his way to India next week, history may just be repeating itself. This time, Mr. Pompeo is coming exactly a week before the election, and his brief is clear: to ensure that New Delhi (also Sri Lanka, the Maldives and Indonesia that are on his itinerary, from October 25 to October 30), makes a strong, public, strategic commitment to the U.S. on its plans in the Indo-Pacific. Mr. Pompeo has made no bones about his mission. In Washington on Wednesday, he said he was sure that his meetings “would include discussions about how free nations can work together to thwart threats posed by the Chinese Communist Party”. Just a few weeks ago, at the Quad Foreign Ministers meeting in Tokyo, Mr. Pompeo had said that as partners in this Quad (Australia-India-Japan-U.S.), “it is more critical now than ever that we collaborate to protect our people and partners from the Chinese Communist Party’s exploitation, corruption, and coercion.” In contrast, India has maintained that its membership of the Quad is aligned to its Indo-Pacific policy, and as Prime Minister Narendra Modi stated at the Shangri-La dialogue, in June 2018 (https://bit.ly/37vdHRZ), “by no means... directed against any country”. While there is no doubt that Beijing’s relentless aggression against India at the Line of Actual Control this year and its refusal to disengage or withdraw from land China’s People’s Liberation Army has occupied for more than six months is changing India’s priorities, the Narendra Modi government has maintained that it will resolve issues with China bilaterally. Any shift in that position at the U.S.’s prompting must also accrue benefits for India. Electoral calculations Mr. Pompeo’s tenuous position must also be considered closely. For one, it is by no means clear that Mr. Trump will win the presidential elections or that Mr. Pompeo will remain in that spot. In fact, all presidential polls, as well as predictions for the U.S. electoral college point to a probable win for Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden. Even if Mr. Trump does win the election, it remains to be seen how far he will take ties with China to the brink once he dusts off his campaign rhetoric. The weight of commitments made by Mr. Pompeo during his India visit could thus be assessed better in a similar visit made even a week later, once the election results are more clearly known. In the event Mr. Biden wins the election, India will hardly have endeared itself to the incoming administration by making strong statements of solidarity with Trump policy, strategic or otherwise. The two rallies Mr. Modi has held with Mr. Trump in Houston (2019) and in Ahmedabad (2020), as well as his use of the Trump campaign slogan, “ Ab ki baar Trump Sarkar ”, have already been noted within the Democratic campaign, and it may be recalled that most supporters of India in the Democratic leadership skipped the Houston rally. China and India’s three fronts As a result, South Block must consider carefully just what it discusses and projects from the meeting with Mr. Pompeo and U.S. Defence Secretary Mark Esper as they arrive for the Third India-U.S. 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh. China has gone from being the “Elephant in the Room” (as U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Stephen Biegun described it earlier this month) to becoming an agenda item on the table. Therefore, it is critical to study just how India hopes to collaborate with the U.S. on the challenge that Beijing poses on each of India’s three fronts: at the LAC, in the maritime sphere, and in the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) region surrounding India. On the maritime sphere, discussions will no doubt include strengthening ties in the Indo-Pacific, enhancing joint military exercises like the ‘Malabar’, where the entire Quad including Australia will participate next month in the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea, and completing the last of the “foundational agreements” with the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement for Geospatial Cooperation (BECA). On the SAARC region, Mr. Pompeo is speaking with his feet, given that his travels will take him to Male and Colombo as well. In Male, the U.S. has already announced a defence agreement that will pave the way for a strategic dialogue, and unlike in the past, New Delhi has not objected to ceding space in its area of influence in the Indian Ocean Region, as it will allow the U.S. to counter Chinese influence there. With Sri Lanka too, the U.S. has a pending defence agreement, but more importantly, discussions on infrastructure projects, and progress on its “Millenium Challenge Corporation” (MCC) offer of a five-year aid grant of about $480 million, that is meant to offer alternatives to the Rajapaksa government, will be key. At a time when India is delaying Sri Lanka’s requests for debt relief, given its own economic constraints, the U.S. aid offer will be seen as one way of staving off China’s inroads into Sri Lanka. Finally, and of most interest, will be how the U.S. and India can collaborate, if they can, on dealing with India’s most immediate, continental challenge from China: at the LAC. While the Indian Army will defend its borders with China on its own, there is much that Mr. Pompeo could promise, apart from enhancing and expediting U.S. defence sales to India. Mr. Pompeo must, for example, commit to keeping the pressure on Pakistan on terrorism, despite the U.S. need for Pakistan’s assistance in Afghan-Taliban talks. A firm U.S. statement in this regard may also disperse the pressure the Indian military faces in planning for a “two-front” conflict with China. Other key areas Mr. Pompeo should be pushed on resolving trade issues with India, an area the Trump administration has been particularly tough, and perhaps commit to restoring India’s Generalised System of Preferences status for exporters. The government could press for more cooperation on 5G technology sharing, or an assurance that its S-400 missile system purchase from Russia will receive an exemption from the U.S.’s Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA) sanctions. By inviting Mr. Pompeo this close to the U.S. elections, New Delhi has taken a calculated and bold gamble. Unlike the experience of 2016, however, our leaders must drive a harder bargain to consolidate the pay-offs from the visit. suhasini.h@thehindu.co.in
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||A compelling life story, lost in the fog of illogic||Occasionally, Muttiah Muralitharan has spoken of the anti-Tamil pogrom in 1977 when Sinhalese mobs ran a blade 12 inches across his father’s back, then burned down the family’s biscuit factory on the outskirts of the hill capital of Kandy, Sri Lanka. In recent years, this harrowing story has been recounted at political events in support of Sri Lanka’s President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, and his Sri Lanka Podujana Peramuna (SLPP or People’s Front). The suggestion from Murali is that if he can forgive this heinous act of racial violence and go on to become one of Sri Lanka’s most celebrated figures, forgiveness should be beyond no one. This is glib, of course. For many Sri Lankan Tamils who suffered the appalling privations of war for decades, and were not insulated by the kind of wealth and status Murali enjoyed from his youth, forgiveness could not — and perhaps should not — come so easy. But is Murali any more guilty of simplistic reasoning than those who have spearheaded the backlash against his biopic, 800 ? Across social media, Murali has been flamed as a traitor to the “Tamil cause”; accused of sidling up to the Sinhalese to perform the role of the Tamil mascot through whom southerners lived out delusions of their own benevolence. That Murali’s forays into political conversation have ranged from naive to calamitous is plain. (It is a view held even by some of his closest confidants.) But the suggestion that he should uncritically attach himself to the “Tamil cause” requires investigation. Many layers to history There is layered history here. Thanks largely to its position along one of the planet’s busiest maritime routes, the island is a place of near-unfathomable ethnic, religious and historical complexity. Waves of migrants have arrived over several millennia, some from North and East India, from the Malabar coast, the Arabian gulf, and from Java, each group forming a unique relationship with the state. Tamils, likewise, had come in waves, for over 2,500 years, and Malayaha (hill country) Tamils, from among whom Murali hails, were among the last to make landfall, lured over by the British to live and labour in hill-country plantations in almost uniformly abysmal conditions, for little pay. More than 150 years into life on the island, Malayaha Tamils remain among the nation’s most impoverished ethnic groups, with most estate workers earning less than 800 rupees (about Rs. 320 Indian) a day. The community’s health care and education outcomes continue to desperately trail national averages. The ‘Tamil cause’ More to the point, there has been no substantial political movement from Malayaha Tamils to join the separatist struggle that was produced in the north and east. For Tamils in the hills, economic concerns have long outstripped appetites for self-determination, and still do. Many also feel condescended to by northern Tamils, for their lower caste status, the recency of their arrival, and their use of a more common Tamil than the classical iteration of the language heard in Jaffna. If Murali is betraying the “Tamil cause”, which Tamil cause, exactly? Higher wages for plantation workers was not among the LTTE’s primary demands. Minorities are not always political monoliths. Although Murali himself grew up in relative wealth, his father and uncle having sold biscuits out of the back of a car to build the business up in the 1960s, it can be no surprise that it is poverty that Murali has concerned himself with in his considerable charitable works. Though at the peak of his cricketing career at the time, Murali had been a key figure in securing the resources to build more than 1,000 homes for tsunami victims after the 2004 disaster. In the years since he has supported significant humanitarian operations across the island. Perhaps this is tangential, but it is certainly not irrelevant. Murali has helped transform more lives through his goodwill than arguably any living cricketer. Many of those who have had his support are Tamils, particularly in the aftermath of the tsunami, when he personally organised and delivered a convoy of lorries filled with supplies to the north. Perhaps we should not be surprised that in casting Murali as a generic Sri Lankan Tamil, with no mention of his particular community, his harshest critics have stumbled into the same mire of illogic that inflamed the Sinhalese who attacked central hill-country Tamils over separatist agitations in the north and east. Nationalism, of any stripe, makes no concession to complexity. It smelts nuance down to a razor tip, for it has use only for weapons. Only a poster announcing the film was seen, but Indian actor Vijay Sethupathi has been forced to withdraw from the project. Somehow, Murali had not been so toxic when he played for Chennai Super Kings between 2008 and 2010 — years in which the war whipped up to its furious conclusion. Gripping script If the film is canned following Sethupathi’s exit, one of sport’s most compelling stories will go untold on screen. Beyond his monumental cricketing exploits, Murali had also been strung up in a career-long tussle over his bowling action, which served as a flashpoint between the sport’s grudging western powers and South Asia’s burgeoning administrative heft. His politics have long been viewed as problematic, but who is to say 800 would not have enriched itself with such contentions? The latest novel from the film’s co-writer, Shehan Karunatilaka, is a searing critique of wartime Sri Lanka. Sethupathi’s track record suggests he possessed the depth and range to honestly and sensitively draw out the conflicts in Murali’s story. Lost on detractors was the notion there can be more than one kind of biopic. Just as there can be more than one kind of Sri Lankan Tamil. Andrew Fidel Fernando is a writer for ESPNcricinfo, and the author of ‘Upon a Sleepless Isle’, an award-winning book on Sri Lanka
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||At 75, the UN needs a rebirth||October 24 marks the diamond jubilee of the United Nations. But far from joyous celebration, it is an occasion to sombrely reflect on why the UN is stagnating at 75 and how it can regain its lost lustre. Although much has changed in the international system since 1945, the world body continues to see a tussle between ‘principle’ and ‘power’. On the one hand, the UN represents hopes of a peaceful and just world order through multilateral cooperation, abidance by international law, and uplift of the downtrodden. On the other, the institution has been designed to privilege the most powerful states of the post-World War II dispensation by granting them commanding heights over international politics via the undemocratic instruments of veto power and permanent seats in the Security Council (UNSC). Arguably, if the great powers of that period were not accommodated with VIP status, we may have seen a repeat of the ill-fated League of Nations. Keeping all the major powers inside the tent and reasonably happy through joint control over the UNSC was intended to be a pragmatic step to avoid another world war. Presumably, the collective command model of big powers built into the UNSC is one of the reasons why there has been no third world war. A model that didn’t work But this model has also caused havoc. Almost immediately after the UN’s creation, it was pushed to the verge of irrelevance by the Cold War, which left the UN little room to implement noble visions of peace, development and human rights. It was only in the uncontested post-Cold War political milieu, when the liberal sole superpower, the U.S., strode like a colossus, that the UN could spring back to life and embark on a plethora of peacekeeping missions, nation-building interventions and promotion of universal human rights. In the U.S.-led ‘new world order’ of the 1990s, it appeared as if the problem of ‘power’ cutting out ‘principle’ had been resolved under the benign hegemony of a Washington that would be the flag-bearer of UN values. However, that golden age of the UN was too deceptive to last. We are now past the unipolar moment and the ghosts of the Cold War are returning in complex multi-sided avatars. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has labelled the present peaking of geopolitical tensions as a “great fracture”. The phrase ‘new Cold War’ is in vogue to depict the clash between China and the U.S. Tensions involving other players like Russia, Turkey, Iran and Israel in West Asia, as well as between China and its neighbours in Asia, are at an all-time high. The recrudescence of the worst habits of competitive vetoing by P-5 countries has prevented the UNSC from fulfilling its collective security mandate. So dangerous are the divisions and their spillover effects that Mr. Guterres has lamented that “we have essentially failed” to cooperate against the immediate global threat of the pandemic. He has also rekindled the old maxim, “The UN is only as strong as its members’ commitment to its ideals.” Obstacles to reforms But apart from rivalries of member states, there is a larger underlying problem. At the core of the paralysis of the UN is the phenomenon of P-5 countries (China, France, Russia, the U.K., and the U.S.) blocking reforms. Outmoded procedures based on the discriminatory original sin of superior prerogatives to P-5 countries have to be discarded. Why should expansion of the UNSC require consensus of the P-5? In the 21st century, why should there be veto power in anyone’s hands? If a simple majority voting method could replace the P-5 consensus method, the obstacles to UNSC reforms would reduce. On the 75th anniversary of the UN, there must be a global push against ossifying ‘rules’ which have privileged ‘rule’ of the few over the many. That is the only way to restore some balance between ‘power’ and ‘principle’ and ensure a renaissance of the UN. Sreeram Chaulia is Dean, Jindal School of International Affairs
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Unrest in Pakistan||Events in Pakistan’s Sindh province in the last few days indicate that the Imran Khan government is dealing with a serious political crisis, perhaps its biggest, since taking office in 2018. Eleven Opposition parties, which have now formed the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), have held two mammoth rallies, part of a plan for nationwide agitations, calling for the resignation of the PTI government over law and order, food shortages, inflation and gas cuts. They have called the Prime Minister both a failure at governance and the military’s “puppet”. But what has surprised many is their solidarity as well as the sharpness of their attack: at the rally in Gujranwala, former PM and Pakistan Muslim League (N) chief Nawaz Sharif, speaking from London, named Army Chief Gen. Qamar Bajwa and ISI chief Lt. Gen. Faiz Hameed for “rigging elections”, restrictions on the media, harassment of journalists, putting pressure on the judiciary and subverting other democratic institutions. While most Pakistani politicians, Mr. Khan included, have attacked Pakistan’s omnipotent military establishment when in opposition, and drop the rhetoric when they come to power, Mr. Sharif’s comments indicate a popular sentiment that is chafing at the curbs by the Pakistani establishment. The PTI government’s response is a well-worn script. For the past few months, government prosecutors, on Mr. Khan’s orders, have focused on preparing cases to send as many members of the Opposition to prison. The co-chairperson of the Pakistan’s People’s Party and former Pakistan President, Asif Ali Zardari, is already in custody on money laundering charges, while the government has requested the U.K. many times to extradite Mr. Sharif so that he can be charged and tried again. With the next generation of Bilawal Bhutto and Maryam Nawaz taking the stage at PDM rallies, the government swung into its next act: arresting Ms. Nawaz’s husband, Captain Safdar, after a midnight raid on their hotel in Karachi, charging him with disrespecting Jinnah’s mausoleum by raising anti-government slogans there. What made matters erupt was the arrest that had reportedly been carried out after Army rangers surrounded the Sindh Inspector General’s home and forced him to sign the FIR against Mr. Safdar. Top echelons of Sindh’s police force, backed by the Provincial PPP government, rose in outrage, applying en masse for leave after expressing their distress over the humiliation meted out to their chief. This was an unprecedented response which could have seen a more serious stand-off between the police and the Army. Matters are under control for the moment after Gen. Bajwa has promised an inquiry report on the controversial arrest within the next 10 days. However, with politics on the boil again and the PDM planning at least four more rallies this year, it is clear that Pakistan’s ruling party will find its feet held to the fire more frequently.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Sooner, better||Thanks to the pandemic, scientific institutions in India have been able to demonstrate their ability to rise to the occasion and show why the country should increase funding for science research and development. The ICMR’s approval, recently, of two indigenously developed tests that are rapid, low-cost and have high sensitivity and specificity provides the much-needed boost to scale up daily testing without diluting accuracy. After carrying out about one million tests each day for the last few weeks, India, for the first time, tested nearly 1.5 million samples on October 21. While most tests done each day were the low sensitivity rapid antigen tests, the ones developed by the Delhi-based Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, a CSIR institute, and IIT Kharagpur will now enable the shift to more accurate tests. The low sensitivity of rapid antigen tests has meant that even people with symptoms were being handed out a negative result nearly half the time, leading to undetected cases. With unrestricted movement, businesses opening up, the festival season beginning and winter around the corner, the requirement for a rapid, low-cost test with high accuracy is crucial in checking the virus spread through early detection and repeated testing of even asymptomatic cases. Having locally developed tests with higher accuracy will now help States to offer tests on demand — as required in a September 4 ICMR advisory — while keeping costs low. While the low sensitivity of rapid antigen tests arises from not isolating the viral RNA from the swab samples and amplification of the DNA before detection, the two indigenously developed tests follow these two vital steps, the reason why the sensitivity and specificity are far superior to that of the rapid antigen tests. But, at the same time, both the tests developed locally do require minimum laboratory infrastructure to isolate the viral RNA from the samples. For that reason, India has to still rely on rapid antigen tests in rural areas that have no laboratory infrastructure. But the tests developed by the Indian institutions, once commercially available, can readily replace the rapid antigen tests in places where such laboratory infrastructure is in place. Rapid antigen tests will become less important even in rural areas once research institutions succeed in developing protocols and tests for using saliva rather than swabs, and do not require isolation of viral RNA from patient samples before amplification and detection. Field testing and validation of such protocols is now pending. Relying on saliva samples would mean non-invasive sample collection, and probably even self-collection. Thus, the reliance on trained personnel would reduce and also minimise the risk of health workers getting infected.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Reading in the time of a contagion||One of the most awaited moments for those handling book review pages in newspapers and magazines is the annual catalogues of various publishers. They are elegantly designed, with special attention to fonts, and announce the titles that will highlight the upcoming year. For 2020, on offer were books by Thomas Piketty, Pankaj Mishra, Shashi Tharoor, Perumal Murugan, Romila Thapar, Ira Mukhoty, the prolific Ruskin Bond, and a host of volumes on the U.S. in an election year. There were biographies of an old emperor (Akbar), a shrewd politician (Muhammad Ali Jinnah), India’s first woman doctor (Anandibai Joshi) and a river (Brahmaputra). But with China reporting a cluster of pneumonia cases late in 2019, the new year began ominously. By March, when a stringent lockdown was announced in India to control the spread of the novel coronavirus, life as we knew it was changing forever. With people falling sick, others forced indoors and the economy in a tailspin, it was inevitable that publishing, like every other cog in the wheel, would have to brace for hard times. Uncertainty ruled the next three months. As schedules began to go awry for publishers, with printing presses shut, a shortage of hands and commissioning issues, the worry was that there would not be easy access to books for reading and review. With books not listed in the “essential” category, distribution was hit hard. Big wine and cheese launches became a thing of the past and were replaced by livestreams and webinars. The digital connect ensured the flow of material as PDFs, that included several books on the dreaded virus, but reviewers complained of weary eyes and said they missed the rustle of pages. For the publishing world, however, there are other more pressing anxieties. The financial impact for an industry already struggling for various reasons will be terrible. The independent bookstore round the corner is facing closure, even as the might of Amazon becomes stronger. Struggling bookstores are already offering discounts way beyond their means, and home delivery. Then there are other challenges, from the overriding trend of a gradual decline in reading for pleasure, and the shift to digital. India may be a population of 1.6 billion, but how many have access to the digital world for reading? COVID-19 laid bare the glaring inequities. The sale of e-books may have risen during the lockdown but it comprises a small portion of the publishing world in India and won’t make up for losses. Ask anyone in the publishing industry what Indians prefer reading, and there’s no clear answer. At the moment, books on health, economy, politics, religion, sport, romance and thrillers are “doing well”, though no one likes to define what it means in terms of sales. But the genres provide a clue to a reader’s mind. Why else would there be a renewed wish to read George Orwell’s dystopian novel 1984 ? Or all the sci-fi novels on contagion? Writers around the world are already keeping journals of the 2020 virus. In a recent literary anthology, Mario Vargas Llosa said when we cannot understand what is happening around us, as a society we turn to books to see if they offer any answers. Will this lead to novels like Daniel Defoe’s A Journal of the Plague Year ? Time will tell and readers will keep an eye.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Wilful murder (From an editorial)||We published yesterday the full text of counsel’s opinion on the Punjab criminals. It is a document that will repay careful study as it does from some of the ablest of British jurists. The local champion of the Dyer-hards went into mild hysterics over it and pretended to see in it nothing but the latest development in the “hounding” of that much-maligned hero, General Dyer. It also attempted to discount the value attaching to the opinions of so eminent a lawyer as Mr. Upjohn by assuming that the conclusions were based upon one-sided and perverted promises. A study of the full text will show that counsel have not gone a hair’s breadth beyond the facts conclusively established. Their opinion is founded firstly upon the admissions of General Dyer as to the actual happenings and as to his motives and second upon the report of the Hunter Committee which cannot be held to be unduly prejudiced against General Dyer.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Indo-US relations under cloud||Indo-American relations are once again passing through a periodic phase of mutual recrimination and unnecessary suspicion, when the real issues of the day get completely overshadowed by minor irritations, and avoidable distortions are allowed to develop even in the exchange of routine diplomatic courtesies between the two Governments. From India’s point of view, the most immediate provocation for this new wave of disenchantment is the latest U.S. move to resume military aid to Pakistan which can only add to the prevailing tension in the sub-continent without achieving anything tangible for the furtherance of the American interests in the region. Acting with characteristic maladroitness, the U.S. has decided to ignore India’s sensitivity and introduce this new element of bitterness in Indo-American relations in the hope of scoring compensating gains in Pakistan’s domestic politics by strengthening the hands of the pro-American lobby in the forthcoming general election. The timing of the American arms aid resumption is evidently intended to buttress the prestige of President Yahya Khan who is being severely assailed by hardliners like Mr. Z.A. Bhutto and Air Marshal Nur Khan for his attempts to reduce Pakistan’s dependence on China by seeking a balancing relationship with both the Soviet Union and the U.S.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Time is ripe for a demand push: Sanyal||In a fresh signal that the government could unveil another stimulus package soon, the Principal Economic Advisor in the Finance Ministry on Thursday said that the time was right for a generic push to spur demand in the economy. The official’s remarks come on the back of Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s statement on Tuesday that she had not shut the door on another relief and stimulus package to revive the economy, which had shrunk an estimated 23.9% in the April-June quarter. “The general problem is that there has been a shock to the system and we need to rebuild demand,” Mr. Sanyal said at the CII Financial Markets summit. “Some of it is coming back naturally, but not in every sector such as hospitality.” Mr. Sanyal stressed that the government had been ‘reticent to provide a large demand stimulus at the time of the lockdown as there was no point in pushing the accelerator with one foot on the brake.’ “We took a call that if we use up all our resources during April, May, June, July or August, then we won’t have resources to push later on. Now, as we are getting off the brake, we do want to press the accelerator,” stressed Mr. Sanyal. “The time has come for a generic push for reinflating demand in a fuller sort of way; not just provide safety nets as we had been doing so far,” he added. ‘Think big’ With Prime Minister Narendra Modi expected to meet industry captains and large global investors soon, Mr. Sanyal urged domestic businesses to refrain from seeking sectoral sops such as interest subventions. “Many of you will be interacting with the PM soon. Do talk to him, this is a moment in history that we do want to do big things. So, please do not go with the kind of ideas often seen in these meetings, seeking some subvention… Please do not waste our time with this. Think big. Ask for big things and if it can be done, we will do it,” he said. Mr. Sanyal pointed out how ‘difficult’ changes like labour laws and agricultural market liberalisation had been pushed through. Terming reforms in the legal system and the police critical, Mr. Sanyal said a national debate was needed to push them through. “The single biggest constraint to India’s growth is the poor quality of contract enforcement and legal resolution,” he added. The nitty-gritties for including Indian bonds in global bond indices were also being ironed out, Mr Sanyal said. “Those who make the bond indices – JP Morgan, Bloomberg, Barclays… they have looked at [the changes we have made on ownership limits that restricted India’s inclusion], are happy with it and holding consultations with their investors.”
23 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Bajaj Auto Q2 net drops 19%||Bajaj Auto Ltd. reported a 19% decline in net profit to Rs. 1,138 crore for the quarter ended September 30, from a year earlier. The company attributed this to lower treasury income and government restrictions on export benefits. The company’s turnover during the period fell 8% to Rs. 7,442 crore. Revenue from operations declined 7% to Rs. 7,156 crore. The company said optimisation of fixed costs had helped in improving the margin profile. Total unit sales during the quarter was 10% lower at 1.053,337 from a year earlier. “Domestic two-wheelers registered a strong turnaround in the first half of the quarter driven by pent-up demand,” the company said in a regulatory filing. “While the exact festive spike is awaited, early signs show indications of a recovery.” It added that domestic commercial vehicle (CV) volumes continued to remain muted and was dependant on adequate demand for short-distance mobility returning. ‘Cargo fares better’ “Within CV, cargo has fared better than passenger and our share has increased to 37% which is the highest ever. Overall, our market share was 53.3%,” it said. September recorded the highest-ever sales in exports at 2,12,000 units. “Strong revival of demand was witnessed in Latin America and Africa while ASEAN continues to be weak; Sri Lanka has stopped all vehicle imports. The growth in Latam is driven by the sports segment, namely Pulsar and Dominar,” the company said.
23 October 2020||Chennai,||Indian Bank posts profit on non-interest income||Public sector lender Indian Bank has posted a standalone net profit of Rs. 412 crore for the second quarter ended September, against a net loss of Rs. 1,755 crore, mainly on account of a 29% rise in non-interest income. “This has been a quarter of strong growth in all key parameters,” Padmaja Chunduru, MD & CEO, Indian Bank told the media. “The bank has recorded a 40% growth in operating profit and earned a net profit of Rs. 412 crore during the quarter,” she said. “The performance of Q2 is better than Q1. Going forward, we expect 8-10% uptake in credit growth during the current fiscal.” Allahabad Bank had merged with the Indian Bank as on April 1. At that time, Allahabad Bank carried accumulated losses worth Rs. 19,000 crore. Net interest income rose 32% to Rs. 4,144 crore. Gross non-performing assets (NPAs) declined to 9.89% of gross advances, from 12.64%, while net NPAs dropped to 2.96%, from 4.59%, of net advances.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘Smartphone market hits record 50 mn units in Q3’||The smartphone segment in India rebounded after the lockdown to touch an all-time high of 50 million units in the September quarter, with Chinese companies collectively holding 76% market share, according to research firm Canalys. “Smartphone shipments in India recovered in Q3 2020, posting 8% growth to 50 million units [from 46.2 million units in the year earlier period]. This is an all-time record for smartphone shipments in a single quarter in India,” Canalys said. Xiaomi remained the market leader with 26.1% share, shipping 13.1 million units. Samsung reclaimed the second place from Vivo with 10.2 million units (20.4% share). Vivo had 17.6% share (8.8 million units), while Realme had 17.4% share (8.7 million units) and Oppo had 12.1% share (6.1 million units). Apple regained momentum in India in Q3 with double-digit growth to about 8 lakh units.
23 October 2020||Chennai,||Ashok Leyland aims to boost ICV share to 30%||Commercial vehicle manufacturer Ashok Leyand Ltd. (ALL) is planning to increase its market share in the intermediate commercial vehicle (ICV) segment from the current over 20% to 30%, according to a top official. “We have been steadily gaining market share in the ICV segment for the past eight years and our brand, Boss, has been leading that growth,” said Anuj Kathuria, COO, Ashok Leyland. “From a 6% market share in FY12, we are now selling over 20% of the ICVs in the Indian market,” he said. “The plan now is to take the market share to 30%.” The company on Thursday rolled out the Boss LE and LX trucks with i-Gen6 BS VI technology. These two vehicles will address the 11.1 tonne to 14.05 tonne gross vehicle weight market. “ICV is the fastest-growing segment. It has also been recovering from the COVID-19 impact due to demand from construction, mining and e-commerce segments,” he said. “With the launch of these two trucks, we now have a complete portfolio. These new vehicles address a fast-growing segment that demands high uptime for long distances. The volumes are expected to pick up from October,” he added. The vehicles are priced from Rs. 18 lakh (ex-showroom Mumbai, New Delhi and Chennai).  The intermediate CV segment is the fastest-growingAnuj KathuriaCOO, Ashok Leyland
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Foreign funds raise stake in Reliance to record 27.2%||Foreign institutional investors’ holdings in Reliance Industries (RIL) rose to a record high of 27.2% in the quarter ended September 30, according to a regulatory filing by RIL. The statement showed foreign portfolio investors holding 165.8 crore shares, or 25.2% of the total shareholding. In the previous quarter, foreign investors held 24.72%. Besides, qualified institutional buyers held another 2.05% stake at the end of September, taking the total to 27.2%. In an investor note, JP Morgan said, “As has been the case now for two years, FIIs’ stakes in RIL hit new highs and increased by 60 bps quarter-on-quarter. Surprisingly, mutual funds’ (MFs) stake declined by 25 basis points (bps) and was the second straight quarter of stake decline,” it added. The last time domestic MFs reduced their holding in RIL over two straight quarters was in 2016, it said, adding domestic MFs held 5.12% of RIL as of September 30, down from 5.37% in the previous quarter.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bharti Infratel Q2 net profit declines 24%||Telecom infrastructure firm Bharti Infratel on Thursday posted a 24% decline in consolidated net profit to Rs. 733 crore for the second quarter ended September 30, from a year earlier. Revenue inched up 2% to Rs. 3,695 crore. Chairman Akhil Gupta said that the National Company Law Tribunal had accorded approval to the merger of Indus and Bharti Infratel. “The filing with the Registrar of Companies after the final closing based on agreed closing adjustments is likely to be done within 30 days,” Mr. Gupta added.
23 October 2020||Chennai,||TII net rises 6.7%, sales dip at cycles unit||Tube Investments of India Ltd. (TII), a Murugappa group firm, has reported a 6.67% increase in standalone net profit for the second quarter ended September 2020 to Rs. 96 crore. During the period under review, revenue dipped to Rs. 1,087 crore from Rs. 1,113 crore in the corresponding year-earlier period, the company said in a regulatory filing. TII’s engineering division’s revenue grew to Rs. 565 crore from Rs. 554 crore, while the revenue of its cycles and accessories unit declined to Rs. 212 crore from Rs. 217 crore. The revenue of metal formed products contracted to Rs. 353 crore from Rs. 379 crore, the company said.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Granules’ potassium pill gets FDA nod||Pharmaceutical manufacturer Granules India has received marketing approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) for Potassium Chloride Extended Release Tablets USP, 10 mEq (750 mg) and 20 mEq (1,500 mg). The product is bioequivalent to the reference listed drug (RLD) K-Dur and indicated in the treatment of patients with hypokalemia. Potassium Chloride Extended Release Tablets USP, 10 mEq and 20 mEq had U.S. generic sales of around $204 million for the twelve months ended August 2020, a release from the company said, citing IQVIA Health numbers. The drug will be manufactured at the Granules’ manufacturing facility in Gagillapur, Hyderabad.
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Aurobindo tanks on FDA warning to unit||Aurobindo Pharma shares tanked almost 7% intraday on Thursday on the back of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) issuing a warning letter to the oral solid manufacturing facility of subsidiary AuroLife Pharma in New Jersey, U.S. The shares ended the day 2.84% lower at Rs. 782.45. Stating that the subsidiary had received a warning letter from the USFDA, the firm said that in June the regulator had issued an Official Action Indicated status for the facility. “The existing business from this facility will not be impacted,” Aurobindo Pharma said in an exchange filing.
23 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Cognizant to acquire industrial IIoT firm Bright Wolf||Cognizant said it would acquire U.S.-based Bright Wolf, a privately-held technology services provider specialising in custom Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) solutions for Fortune 1000 clients, for an undisclosed sum. This is Cognizant’s eighth acquisition in 2020 aimed at accelerating growth in IoT, cloud, AI and analytics and digital engineering, it said.
23 October 2020||Mumbai,||RBI to purchase government securities of Rs 20,000 crore||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Thursday announced that following a review of the current liquidity and financial conditions, it had decided to purchase Government securities for an aggregate amount of Rs. 20,000 crore under Open Market Operations (OMO) on October 29. The multi-security auction will use the multiple price method.
23 October 2020||Ahmedabad,||A new TV and AC manufacturing factory to come up near Mehsana in Gujarat||Bengaluru-based QThree Techpark has partnered ABAJ Group to set up a television and air-conditioner manufacturing facility near Mehsana in Gujarat. The unit would be outfitted with robotic technology and machinery to meet a demand for 25 lakh LED TVs and six lakh air-conditioners a year. The companies said they would invest Rs. 1,000 crore to set up the unit.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Burger King files IPO papers; plans to raise Rs 542 cr via fresh issue of shares||Burger King India Ltd., a quick-service restaurant chain, has filed draft papers with markets regulator SEBI to raise Rs. 542 crore through fresh issuance of shares in an IPO. As per the draft red herring prospectus,the IPO comprises fresh issue of equity shares aggregating up to Rs. 542 crore and an offer for sale of up to 6 crore equity shares by QSR Asia, the promoter.PTI
23 October 2020||Paris,||Bayern Munich off to a cracking start||Bayern Munich began its defence of the Champions League title in ominous fashion by crushing Atletico Madrid 4-0 on Wednesday, while Liverpool and Manchester City also won but Real Madrid suffered a shock defeat. Madrid, the record 13-time European champion, went down to a 3-2 home loss against Shakhtar Donetsk, showing how far Zinedine Zidane’s side is just now from the standards being set by Bayern. Kingsley Coman put Bayern ahead against Atletico in Group A and later scored a stunning individual effort to wrap up the victory at an empty Allianz Arena. Long ranger In between Leon Goretzka and Corentin Tolisso were also on target for the German champion, with the latter’s strike a stunner from long-range. It was Bayern’s 12th consecutive Champions League win while the result for Atletico equalled its worst defeat under Diego Simeone. Bayern next goes to Russia to play Lokomotiv Moscow, which battled back to draw 2-2 at Red Bull Salzburg. Depleted Shakhtar Real was 3-0 down at half-time against a depleted Shakhtar and fell short with a second-half fightback. Strikes from Tete and Manor Solomon, either side of a Raphael Varane own-goal, gave the Ukrainian champion a three-goal half-time lead. Luka Modric and Vinicius Junior pulled goals back and Fede Valverde thought he had grabbed an injury-time equaliser but his deflected shot was ruled out for an offside. Liverpool shook off the absence of Virgil van Dijk to edge Ajax 1-0 behind closed doors in Amsterdam in Group D. Jurgen Klopp’s side kept a clean sheet and took all three points after Nicolas Tagliafico turned a wayward Sadio Mane shot into his own net on 35 minutes. Pep Guardiola’s City made it three wins for English clubs this midweek as it came from behind at home to beat Porto 3-1. Luis Diaz gave Porto the lead with a superb individual goal but Sergio Aguero’s penalty soon brought City level and Ilkay Gundogan’s free-kick put it ahead on 65 minutes. Substitute Ferran Torres then scored a superb goal to make sure of the win.  The results:   Group A: Salzburg 2 (Szoboszlai 45, Junuzovic 50) drew with Lokomotiv Moscow 2 (Eder 19, Lisakovich 75); Bayern Munich 4 (Coman 28, 72, Goretzka 41, Tolisso 66) bt Atletico Madrid 0.   Group B: Real Madrid 2 (Modric 54, Vinicius Junior 59) lost to Shakhtar Donetsk 3 (Tete 29, Varane 33-og, Solomon 42); Inter Milan 2 (Lukaku 49, 90) drew with Borussia M’gladbach 2 (Bensebaini 63-pen, Hofmann 84).   Group C: Manchester City 3 (Aguero 20-pen, Gundogan 65, Torres 73) bt FC Porto 1 (Diaz 14); Olympiakos 1 (Hassan 90+1) bt Marseille 0.   Group D: Ajax 0 lost to Liverpool 1 (Tagliafico 35-og); Midtjylland 0 lost to Atalanta 4 (Zapata 26, Gomez 36, Muriel 42, Miranchuk 88).
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandey’s masterclass helps Sunrisers flatten Royals||Sunrisers Hyderabad skipper David Warner must have been pleased to restrict Rajasthan Royals to 154 for six at the Dubai International Stadium on Thursday night. That is the kind of score a captain wouldn’t mind chasing after inviting the opponent to take first strike. It was indeed a fine effort from the Sunrisers Hyderabad bowlers. But for a cameo towards the end from Riyan Parag (20, 12b, 2x4, 1x6) and Jofra Archer (16 n.o., 7b, 1x4, 1x6), Royals would have finished with even less as none of their batsmen were able to convert their good starts. It all began with Robin Uthappa. An extra-cover drive for a boundary off Jason Holder, who was playing his first IPL game in four years, and a well-timed flick six over square-leg off Sandeep Sharma announced Uthappa’s intention. With the opening stand worth 30, Uthappa ran halfway down the pitch from the non-striker’s end for an impossible single and was rightly sent back by Ben Stokes. Holder, the bowler, threw the stumps down, catching Uthappa well short. Sanju Samson, who couldn’t reach 30 in the last six innings after beginning with two 70-plus scores, seemed to have regained his touch and timing. He played gorgeous drives through the off-side off successive balls from Sandeep before pulling Holder over midwicket for a huge six. However, Samson was castled off the next ball while trying to cut a fuller delivery. Samson (36, 26b, 3x4, 1x6) had added 56 for the second wicket with Stokes, who fell just two balls later. The England all-rounder was bowled by Rashid Khan who bowled an economical spell (4-0-20-1). Stokes’ 30 took him 32 balls and he hit just two fours. The opener’s role isn’t familiar to him, but Royals would have hoped for a bit more urgency from Stokes at the top of the order. Steve Smith and Jos Buttler needed to continue from where they had left off against Chennai Super Kings when they forged a match-winning partnership. However, on this night, the two could add only 24, as Buttler fell to a diving catch by Shahbaz Nadeem off Vijay Shankar. Smith (19, 15b, 2x4) was Holder’s third victim, the West Indian justifying his inclusion at the expense of the injured Kane Williamson by finishing with three for 33. Though some momentum was injected late in the innings by Parag and Archer, Warner must have felt satisfied with his bowlers’ show.   Sunrisers 118 for two  Sunrisers were 118 for two in 15 overs, with Pandey (69) and Vijay Shankar (31) at the crease. Warner (4) and Bairstow (10) were back in the dugout
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||National camp starts after quarantine period ends||The National camp for the Olympic core group shooters started at the Dr. Karni Singh Range, Tughlakabad, on Thursday, after stringent adherence to safety protocols. The shooters, coaches and other support staff had been tested for COVID-19 when they reported for the camp, and quarantined in a hotel for a week, before a second test cleared them for training at the range. “We did zoom sessions for fitness training during the quarantine period,” said Deepali Deshpande, the high performance coach for rifle. Meanwhile, the high performance coach for pistol, Delhi-based Samaresh Jung said that he had finished the formalities of home isolation and testing, and would be joining training on Friday. Most of the shooters reported for the camp. There were rare exceptions like Asian skeet champion Angad Vir Singh Bajwa who continues to train at his home range in Chandigarh, as he has to take care of his grandparents. Guidance In the absence of national coach Ennio Falco, who trains the skeet shooters, Angad said that he was following the guidance of his coach Tore Brovold for training routine at home. For the other Olympic quota holder in skeet, Mairaj Ahmad Khan, nothing much has changed as he has been training at the range, ever since it opened for training, long before the camp. “I hope Falco joins soon,” said Mairaj, who also got tested so as to follow the protocol. “For me, nothing much has changed, as I have been regularly training at the range,” said Mairaj. Saurabh Chaudhary and Manu Bhaker also had their home quarantine before joining the camp, as there was an option for those living in Delhi NCR to be in “home isolation”. Deepavali break There will be a break for a week for Deepavali, before the shooters assemble once again for training and continue till December 17.  We did zoom sessions for fitness training during the quarantine period. — Deepali Deshpande,high performance coach for rifle
23 October 2020||MUMBAI,||India’s Australia tour green-lit, set to begin with Sydney ODI||Having obtained the requisite government clearances, Cricket Australia (CA) has shared the provisional itinerary of India’s forthcoming tour with the BCCI. Unless the “teething issues” raised by the BCCI result in a stand-off, the tour is set to begin with the first ODI in Sydney on November 27 and culminate with the fourth Test in Brisbane from January 15 next year. While the BCCI is yet to confirm the itinerary, The Hindu understands that it has no problems with the schedule. Impending issues The impending issues, as confirmed by a BCCI insider, have more to do with the size of the touring entourage and whether the players’ families will be allowed to travel with them. “CA has advised families of players to be barred from travelling, considering the sensitivity and sanctity of the bio-bubble. But given the prolonged duration of the bubble the players will remain in, it would be in their interest if the families can be with them in Australia, at least for some time. Hopefully, the issue will be sorted out soon,” revealed the BCCI insider. Despite the itinerary not formally being made public, the Test specialists, along with the coaching and support staff, are set to arrive in Dubai by Sunday. Once they complete their quarantine, they can train together before the touring party departs for Sydney from Dubai after the IPL final on November 10. It is also learnt that the Indian team management has requested the BCCI for a psychologist and motivational trainer in Australia to better handle the challenges of living in the bio-bubble.
23 October 2020||BENGALURU,||ISL to kick off on November 20||The 2020-21 Indian Super League season will kick off on November 20, the organisers announced on their Twitter handle on Thursday. The competition will take place in a bio-secure environment across three venues in Goa. The format — after SC East Bengal’s addition as the 11th team — still remains undecided while the match schedule has to take into account the continental commitments of FC Goa, ATK Mohun Bagan and Bengaluru FC, India's representatives in Asia next year. The Asian Champions League, where FC Goa will play, is scheduled to begin in February. Mohun Bagan’s AFC Cup group stage matches commence in March, while the qualifiers for the same competition, in which BFC will participate, start in February.
23 October 2020||Madrid,||Stuttering Real seeks Clasico response||Real Madrid won LaLiga only three months ago because of its defensive steel and a relentless will to win but ahead of Saturday’s Clasico against Barcelona, it appears to be a team unravelling. After losing 1-0 at home to Cadiz for the first time in its history last weekend, Madrid fell 3-2 in the Champions League on Wednesday. Lethargic performances, where the pressing was slack and the passing imprecise, suggest this team is not as tuned in as it was in June and July. “We lacked a bit of everything but above all our confidence, which is the most important thing,” said Zinedine Zidane. It means it might not be a vintage Clasico this weekend but for Madrid it has become more important now, and for Zidane too. Two defeats in a week is one thing but three, the last of them against Barcelona, would the alter the dynamic. Zidane has credit in the bank but he will also know this run cannot continue.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capitals are hungry to win: Rabada||A lot of credit for Delhi Capitals’ stay at the top of the points table is being attributed to Purple Cap holder Kagiso Rabada. But he was quick to point out several other performers responsible for the team’s impressive showing. Rabada, during Thursday’s press conference, backed his response with facts. “We’ve seven players who’ve won (eight) Man-of-the-Match awards… there are match-winners galore. It shows all of us are hungry to win. Every bowler has bowled well. It is just that I happen to have the purple cap. That’s it!” The team’s award winners so far are Shikhar Dhawan (twice), Anrich Nortje, R. Ashwin, Axar Patel, Shreyas Iyer, Prithvi Shaw and Marcus Stoinis. He praised Nortje for his impressive efforts. “He’s bowling really well. He has a lot of pace. He’s always willing to learn and open to new ideas, and I think that’s a great trait to have. Anrich and I are always giving our best for our team.” About the conditions in the UAE, Rabada said: “I feel there is seam movement sometimes. But all the pitches have definitely slowed down, so it’s pretty similar to India, but it’s a different kind of slow. I feel the conditions in the UAE have something for everyone.” Liberal environment He was lavish in his praise of skipper Shreyas. “Shreyas has been really unbelievable. Leading overseas players on a big stage is a huge task. Shreyas is a just a normal guy who is chilled out. When we get on to the field, he is a captain who has to make decisions. I am sure Ricky (Ponting) is helping him. Shreyas has many tools around him, and he has used them well so far. “It’s a very liberal environment in our team — not a dictatorship — which is one of the reasons we’ve been really successful.”
23 October 2020||Los Angeles,||Woods eyes record 83rd USPGA title||Tiger Woods has improved his game since missing the cut at last month's US Open, and is defending his title at the Zozo Championship with an eye on next month's Masters. The 44-year-old former World No. 1 is trying for an unprecedented 83rd career US PGA title at Sherwood Country Club, where Woods once hosted his Hero World Challenge charity event. Improvement “My game is definitely better than it was at the US Open,” Woods said. “I feel a little bit more prepared, a little bit better, and hopefully that translates into playing the golf course.” Woods won his 82nd career Tour title last October in Japan at the Zozo, matching Sam Snead for the all-time record, but the event was moved to California this year in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, giving Woods a chance to repeat as champion on a different but familiar layout. “I think that having it here and having Zozo come to America and have it come to this venue in particular is fantastic for all of us,” Woods said. “The fact we're able to have this championship, it was a big thing for the Tour and a big bonus. It's awesome for us to be able to come back here to Sherwood. It's a golf course I know well.” As well as defending his crown, Woods is using the event as a tune-up for the Masters, which was moved from April to November due to the virus outbreak. Woods said he might play the Houston Open the week before the Masters. Play and practise “My plan is just to play and practise. This entire year has been different for all of us. My run-up to Augusta is unlike anything I've ever experienced. That's just the way it is. The whole idea is to be ready in a few weeks and whether or not that's playing one more event or just playing here at Zozo, just making sure that I'm ready for Augusta,” he said. Woods has, meanwhile, called off this year's World Challenge, planned for December in the Bahamas.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dhruvpal, Vishal shine in SCA’s narrow win||Dhruvpal Godara and Vishal Chauhan scored all goals between them in helping Sphiro-Cavalry-ASC (SCA) to a 10-9 victory over Army Polo and Riding Club (APRC) in a league match of the Cavalry Gold Cup 10-goal polo tournament at the Jaipur Polo ground here on Thursday. It was second defeat for APRC which had been beaten 11-3 by Jindal Panther on Wednesday. Sona Polo inflicted a second defeat on Velocity-48, racing to a 10-5 victory, thanks to a six-goal spree by Siddhant Sharma. All the four winning teams will compete in the last league match on Friday to decide the final berths.  The results (league): Sona Polo 10 (Siddhant Sharma 6, Angad Kalaan 2, Tommy Severn 2) bt Velocity-48 5 (Samir Suhag 2, Shamsheer Ali 2, Gaurav Sahgal).   Sphiro-Cavalry-ASC 10 (Dhruvpal Godara 6, Vishal Chauhan 4) bt APRC 9 (Arjun Patil 5, Basheer Ali 4).   Rajnigandha Achievers 8 (Daniel Otamendi 5, Padmanabh Singh 3) bt Velocity-48 6 (Samir Suhag 5, Shamsheer Ali)   Jindal Panther 11 (Simran Shergill 6, Dhananjay Singh 2, Phil Seller 2, Venkatesh Jindal) bt APRC 3 (Arjun Patil 2, Sameer Chaudhary).
23 October 2020||HYDERABAD:,||Match-winning knock by Srikar Bharat||Wicketkeeper-batsman K. Srikar Bharat scored a match-winning 64 (39b, 7x4, 3x6) to help Chargers XI score a 56-run win over Legends XI in the Andhra Cricket Association (ACA) T20 league championship (seniors) at the RDT ground in Anantapur on Wednesday. Chargers XI made 138/7 in 20 overs with Bharat being the top-scorer. In reply, Legends XI was bowled out for 82 in 18.4 overs with K.P. Sai Rahul (4/9) being the main wicket-taker. In another match, Titans XI notched up a six-wicket win over Kings XI thanks to Gulfaam Salesh (47, 45b. 2x4, 3x6) and D. Chaitanya (41, 37b, 2x4, 2x6). ACA President P. Sharath Chandra Reddy inaugurated the championship.  The scores: Kings XI 144/5 in 20 overs (C.R. Gnaneswar 35, Naren Reddy 64) lost to Titans XI 146/4 in 19.3 overs (Gulfaam Salesh 47, D.G.J. Chaitanya 41).   Chargers XI 138/7 in 20 overs (K.S. Bharat 64) bt Legends XI 82 in 18.4 overs (K.P. Sai Rahul 4/9).
23 October 2020||Sharjah,||Super Kings have to hang on for dear life||Its campaign turning from bad to worse, Chennai Super Kings is expected to try out a few younger players when it takes on defending champion Mumbai Indians here on Friday. CSK can still get to 14 points if it wins its remaining four games, giving it an outside chance of making the playoffs. Things have gone awry for CSK since the win over MI in the tournament opener. The team has lost the services of the injured Dwayne Bravo. Captain M.S. Dhoni has not been at his best and, barring Faf du Plessis, nor have his teammates. The team’s persistence with a struggling Kedar Jadhav has come in for a lot of flak and it remains to be seen if he makes way for either N. Jagadeesan or Ruturaj Gaikwad. MI won five games in a row before Kings XI Punjab halted the juggernaut, turning the tables in a double Super Over on Sunday. The four-time IPL champion’s batsmen have been in ominous form and the varied bowling attack could prove a huge challenge for the CSK batters. A well-rounded and consistent MI unit could prove too much for an under-fire CSK battling to salvage some pride.
23 October 2020||Portimao,||Hamilton eyes record 92nd victory||Lewis Hamilton and Mercedes seek to continue their record-making progress as Formula One escapes in search of some autumnal sunshine at this weekend’s Portuguese Grand Prix. Two weeks after shivering at the Nurburgring where the six-time champion drew level with Michael Schumacher on 91 wins, the travelling circus hopes also to avoid any contact with the growing second wave of COVID-19 across Europe. The local organisers of the race, which marks Portugal’s return to the calendar for the first time in 24 years since Jacques Villeneuve’s stirring victory at Estoril in 1996 and Portimao’s debut as an F1 race circuit, said there will be 27,500 spectators at the track each day under strictly-controlled conditions. Major attraction Little more than a week after Racing Point’s Canadian driver Lance Stroll was revealed to have tested positive for Coronavirus after falling ill and missing the Eifel GP, there is concern at so many attending. The lure of seeing Hamilton win a record 92nd race and Mercedes take an unprecedented seventh constructors’ championship is a major attraction, though the team’s triumph and celebrations are likely to be delayed by at least a week to the Emilia Romagna GP at Imola. Hamilton has a simple goal to claim his record win, but Mercedes needs to outscore Red Bull by 40 points, a feat that would require a near perfect showing and a flop from Max Verstappen. If Hamilton triumphs, he would be the second driver to claim the record for winning most GP races in Portugal — four-time champion Alain Prost having surpassed three-time champion Jackie Stewart’s total of 27 wins at Estoril in 1987. A Mercedes team success would also need Valtteri Bottas to be at his best and enjoy better fortune than he had in Germany where a power unit failure dimmed his title hopes. Team boss Toto Wolff, who this week rejected suggestions that he is planning his own F1 outfit, said Mercedes had identified a “failed electrical component” as the problem. Few of the current field of F1 drivers have raced at the undulating Portimao track apart from some in junior formula events, but Hamilton has normally impressed with his ability to learn and shine on new circuits. Stroll’s return Stroll’s likely return has been supported by his Racing Point boss Otmar Szafnauer as he, along with all team members, has tested negative ahead of this weekend’s contest. “All members of the team at the Eifel GP returned to the UK via a private charter flight and all tested negative upon arrival and again in a pre-event test for the Portuguese GP,” said Szafnauer.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Mind control||In Srimad Bhagavatam, Lord Krishna tells Uddhava the story of a rich, but stingy merchant of Avanti, said P.T. Seshadri, in a discourse. When the merchant lost all his wealth, he realised the impermanence of wealth, turned over a new leaf and became a sanyasi. But people did not believe he was a true sanyasi, for they remembered how wicked he had been. They grabbed his danda, polluted his food, tore his garments and beat him up. Yet, he ignored all this and continued with his meditation. When asked how he could be indifferent to such cruelty, he said, “For my sorrow or joy, my body is not the reason. God is not the reason either. My atma is not the reason. It is my mind that is the cause for joy or sorrow. The manas, trapped in the three gunas, makes us do karmas, So, we become attached to the world.” The man who questioned the sanyasi then asked him how to control the mind. The sanyasi replied: “Do your svadharma. Daana is important. So, give generously to others. Listen to the recitation of the Vedas, Puranas and Itihasas. Sing the names of the Lord. Nama sankeerthana is important. All these actions will calm the mind. The senses are under the control of the mind. So, if you do not control the mind, you cannot control the indriyas. If you bite your tongue, which of your indriyas can be blamed for the pain you experience — the tongue or the teeth? Neither of them is at fault. Likewise, if you do not control your mind, can you blame others for your plight? Sorrows that result because of your actions cannot be blamed on others. If you do not control mind, you will treat others with discrimination. You will see some as friends and some as enemies. Only one who has controlled his mind will take to the right path, and seek moksha.”
23 October 2020||Los Angeles,||Mickelson worries about risk of fans||Five-time major winner Phil Mickelson on Wednesday said he worries about the US PGA Tour allowing spectators at an event the week before the Masters and might skip it for a 50-and-over tournament. But Mickelson worried about the extra risk of allowing a limited crowd of 2,000 people at the Houston Open only days before Augusta. “The PGA Tour has done an incredible job of getting the players to play and compete in a safe environment,” Mickelson said. “I think they’ve done a phenomenal job of having us feel safe. I think they will do a very good, safe job in having 2,000 people at the Houston Open. “However, for me personally, I don’t like the risk of having that happen the week before the Masters. I just feel like the week before the Masters, that’s a big tournament we have and I just don’t want to have any risk heading in there. So it has made me question whether or not I’ll play there.”
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Altamash to play Jaison for top honours||Altamash Saifi scored a 52-12, 54-1, 42-8, 19-38, 64-12, 32-19 victory over Sunil Kumar in the semifinals of the Delhi State Suresh Sharma memorial 6-Red snooker championship. In the final, Altamash will face Jaison Malhotra.
23 October 2020||Pathanamthitta:,||Anilkumar wins title||Former State champion O.T. Anilkumar (Kozhikode) won the Pathanamthitta leg of the qualifiers for the all-Kerala Open online chess tournament on Thursday. He tallied 8.5 points to finish first in the in the nine-round tournament. Second triumph This is the second title for Anilkumar as he had earlier won the Malappuram leg. E.M. Akhilan (Thiruvananthapuram) and Jubin Jimmy (Kollam) — with eight points each — came second and third respectively.  Final standings (open):   1. O.T. Anilkumar (Koz 8.5 points), 2. E.M. Akhilan (Tvm 8), 3. Jubin Jimmy (Klm 8).   4. Abdallah M. Nisthar (Klm 7.5), 5. D. Thushar Varma (Tvm 7.5), 6. Arpith S. Bijoy (Knr 7.5).   7. John Veny Akkarakaran (Koz 7), 8. Rahul Krishna (Tvm 7), 8. Jinan Jomon (Wyd 7), 10. H. Goutham Krishna (Tvm 7).   Qualified players: S. Ramalingam, Alwin Baby, K.K. Prasad, Manu Narayanan, Santoe Thomas Alex, Adithya Krishna R. Nair. Girish Rajan, R. Adwaith Krishna, Elgin Mathew Varghese and Albin Regi .
23 October 2020||LONDON,||Becker courts trouble||Tennis great Boris Becker appeared in a London court on Thursday, accused of failing to surrender two of his Wimbledon trophies to be sold to settle his debts. The 52-year-old, declared bankrupt in 2017, has also failed to turn over his two Australian Open trophies, according to a new 28-count indictment that claims he hasn’t complied with orders to disclose information. The German pleaded not guilty to all counts during his appearance at Southwark Crown Court. Becker has allegedly concealed property holdings and more than £1 million held in bank accounts. The indictment lists Becker’s Wimbledon trophies from 1985, when at age 17 he became the youngest men’s singles champion at the All England Club, and 1989. Becker also won the tournament in 1986. He won the Australian Open in 1991 and 1996. Becker, who lives in London, was told that his trial would begin in Sept. 2021.
23 October 2020||KOLKATA,||Destiny still in our hands: McCullum||KKR coach Brendon McCullum said the batsmen were “timid” in their approach and “lacked intent” during the eight-wicket loss to RCB in Abu Dhabi on Wednesday. KKR managed just 84 for eight following RCB seamer Mohammed Siraj’s early three-wicket burst. “I didn’t think there was a lot in the pitch. Siraj bowled well and (Chris) Morris at times. But we were just a little timid in our approach,” McCullum said at the post-match press conference. “That’s frustrating… before the match we talked about wanting to show some strong intent with our batting… tonight we probably lacked that intent,” he said. McCullum said the team should keep its morale high. “Destiny is still in our hands and we’ve got to tidy up some of the areas,” he said.
23 October 2020||Ismaning (Germany),||Prajnesh in quarterfinals||Prajnesh Gunneswaran beat Lukas Lacko of Sovakia 6-4, 5-7, 6-4 to move into the quarterfinals of the €44,820 Challenger tennis tournament here. However, Ramkumar Ramanathan lost his singles second round and the doubles pre-quarterfinals with Purav Raja. Sriram Balaji also lost the doubles first round while partnering Luca Margaroli. In the ATP event in Cologne, Divij Sharan and Tennys Sandgren of USA found the second seeds Oliver Marach and Mate Pavic a hard nut to crack in the pre-quarterfinals.  The results:   €271,345 ATP, Cologne: Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Oliver Marach (Aut) & Mate Pavic (Cro) bt Tennys Sandgren (US) & Divij Sharan 6-4, 6-2.   €44,820 Challenger, Ismaning, Germany: Singles (pre-quarterfinals): Prajnesh Gunneswaran bt Lukas Lacko (Svk) 6-4, 5-7, 6-4; Botic Van de Zandschulp (Ned) bt Ramkumar Ramanathan 6-2, 6-2.   Doubles (pre-quarterfinals): Sebastian Korda & Brandon Nakashima (USA) bt Luca Margaroli (Sui) & Sriram Balaji 6-4, 7-5.   Lloyd Glasspool (GBR) & Alex Lawson (US) bt Purav Raja & Ramkumar Ramanathan 5-7, 6-3, [10-4].   $15,000 ITF men, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt: Singles (pre-quarterfinals): Martins Podzus (Lat) bt Arjun Kadhe 6-2, 6-1.   Doubles (quarterfinals): Vladyslav Manafov (Ukr) & Arjun Kadhe bt Flavio Coboli (Ita) & Alexander Donski (Bul) 6-1, 6-4 .
23 October 2020||DUBAI,||Indian women in UAE for T20 Challenge||The top 30 women cricketers from India arrived here on Thursday for the Women’s T20 Challenge scheduled to be held in Sharjah from November 4 to 9. They will undergo a six-day isolation, with tests on the first, third and fifth days, before entering the ‘bio-bubble.’ “Let’s hear it for our girls! Hello UAE! The Supernovas, Trailblazers, Velocity have arrived. CANNOT WAIT for WomensT20Challenge,” IPL tweeted. The teams will be led by Mithali Raj, Smriti Mandhana and Harmanpreet Kaur and the tournament will mark the beginning of the Indian women’s cricket season.
23 October 2020||BENGALURU,||‘My magical performance came true’||Mohammed Siraj was elated to have finally come up with the “magical performance” he had always hoped to produce for Royal Challengers Bangalore. The speedster’s three for eight was instrumental in RCB’s thumping eight-wicket win over Kolkata Knight Riders on Wednesday. “I get a lot of support from RCB fans, staff and others,” said Siraj. “I had always hoped for such a magical performance. Every season I wanted to do something different... something good for RCB. And finally the magical performance happened.” “At first, it didn't feel like the ball would swing much. When we entered the field, Virat [Kohli] asked me to get ready for the new ball. Bowling with the new ball gives you a different kind of confidence and I backed myself to deliver,” Siraj added.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 10:13 IST,||Sudoku - October 23, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||When life’s a beach||Just-launched Beachville is a vacation packaged within four walls. And heaven knows the city deserves a holiday getaway, given how 2020 has been going so far. Inside, the space bustles with a relaxed energy, enhanced by the all encompassing aroma of freshly-ground coffee, a fiesta of floating lights and trays of plump doughnuts. The reassuring hum of customers (many of whom come in for takeaways given the ongoing pandemic) is punctuated by cheery hisses from the espresso machine, set at the heart of the cafe. Chennai’s first roastery cafe, Beachville’s focus is on enhancing the city’s coffee experience by offering a gamut of services, ranging from personalised grinds to Aeropress classes. The overriding mission, however, is showcasing the flavours and strengths of responsibly-sourced Indian coffee beans. A part of the country’s new wave of roasters, who focus on technique to celebrate the delicate nuances of Indian beans, Divya Jayashankar launched Beachville Coffee Roasters in 2018. Previously living in New York, Divya would showcase South Indian filter coffee at Sunday markets and fairs there. This led her to explore roasting techniques. By the time she moved to Chennai, she was so fascinated by the potential of the Indian bean, she decided to build a career on it. Over a cortado — a creamy blend of fruity espresso drizzled with steamed milk — Divya explains how she believes that coffees have personalitiess. Influenced by third wave coffee, which considers coffee an artisanal food (enhanced by thoughtful cultivation, processing, roasting and preparation) Divya approaches every roast differently, focussing on bringing out the individuality of each batch. She is currently roasting Arabica from three of her favourite Indian estates now: Kelangur heights and Gungegiri in Chikmagalur, and Cauvery Peak in Yercaud. “I want a coffee that is sweet and bright. A brew for every mood,” she says, adding that she customises the blends to balance fruitiness with strength. She continues “Filter coffee has been a revelation. With the same beans and different roasts, we can get such a variety of flavours.” In a bid to encourage customers to experiment, the cafe’s roaster is on view and staff are available to answer questions. In the future, Divya plans to hold classes on brewing techniques and tastings. Besides the obligatory espressos, cappuccinos and lattes, Beachville also offers a decadent lineup of dessert-style salted caramel affogatos, toffee macchiatos and a surprising iced rose latte. Restaurateur Sandesh Reddy, who is partnering with Divya on the project, holds up a plate laden with savoury doughnuts, stuffed with Chipotle mushroom, parmesan pink sauce, guacamole and creamy eggs. The sweet versions are as unconventional: strawberry cheesecake, birthday cake, creme brulee, and salted toffee among others. Sandwiches will be added to the menu in a couple of weeks. With coffee occupying centre stage, the food menu is deliberately minimal. And if you don’t drink coffee? Well, there is hot chocolate, tea and an unusual compromise, styled like a beach vacation: tropical cappuccinos fiesty with fresh pineapple juice and coconut cream.  Beachville is at Vidya Theertha Nagar, St Mary’s Road, Alwarpet
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||The superhit golu||The Tamil classic song ‘Kalyana Samayal Saadham’ fills the air in the golu room at R Suresh’s Mandavellipakkam residence. Inside, more than 50 toy dolls have been transformed into various characters, including Krishna and Ghatotkacha. There are recreations of seven vital scenes from the 1957 fantasy Tamil-Telugu film Mayabazaar, starring NT Rama Rao, SV Ranga Rao, Savitri and Gemini Ganesan. Suresh and his son Saketh have used the last few weeks to recreate Mayabazaar in their golu this Navratri . Keeping COVID-19 social distancing precautions in mind, the family does not even step into the room when there are visitors: they give instructions to the Google Assistant placed between two dolls in thegolu, to play the relevant scene and music. “I remember watching this story as a street play in Vijayawada 40 years ago,” reminisces 60-year-old Suresh, a former IT professional with a passion for the arts, “When it was made into a film, I was awestruck by its plot, songs and grandeur.” Suresh has watched Mayabazaar in Tamil and Telugu multiple times, and introduced it to his 29-year-old son recently. “It has so many elements — of fantasy, magic and romance — all packed neatly,” says Saketh. The duo’s love for the film shows in its theme-based golu , which not only narrates the storyline but also adds extra elements such as music and lighting.  Suresh is known among his family as the one most interested in dolls and miniatures; travelling relatives would always pick up something to gift him. Over the years, this collection, along with the ones he bought himself, grew: the lofts of all his rooms are filled with them. They take a trip downstairs during Navratri, metamorphosing into the various characters Suresh plans for them every year. The year 2020 saw them turning into Krishna, Abhimanyu, Sasirekha/Vatsala and Ghatotkacha, with Suresh painstakingly designing special clothes for them to fit into the characters that feature in Mayabazaar . With the lockdown in full effect over the last few months, Suresh has had to make do with household items and a bit of online shopping.  “I used a 3D pen to draw a creative jalebi ,    and some unused CDs became the wheels of a chariot,” he laughs. He also put his knowledge of engineering and digital arts to good use: there’s a ‘flying’ Ghatotkacha attached to a rope, and dolls that revolve in a circular fashion using a small motor fitted beneath. All this is for his family and friends to witness from across the globe. Due to the pandemic, Suresh and Saketh have ‘e-enabled the golu’. Chips in Saketh, “We have timed the entire Mayabazaar story to seven minutes, using Google Routines.” When they have visitors, Saketh sits in the hall and instructs his e-assistant, which dutifully narrates the tale of Mayabazaar , complete with sound and light. For relatives and friends abroad, the family plans to have Zoom sessions every evening. Says Suresh, “We have celebrated Navratri every year with a unique golu, but 2020 will remain the most memorable.”
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Our past was real, truthful and prickly’||The world of Vikram Seth’s A Suitable Boy is a familiar one for Mira Nair. The auteur’s latest project has been the beautiful BBC show based on the 1,349-page tome. “It was 1951,” Mira says over a video call from the US. The filmmaker, who turned 63 on October 15, continues, “It was the year my parents got married. My father was a civil servant; he moved from Punjab to Orissa. I have lived in that time in a very real way. It is an era I have known, smelt, enjoyed and loved.” From Kama Sutra: A Tale of Love (1996) and Vanity Fair (2004) to Amelia (2009), Mira has worked on period dramas. “I do not set out to make a period drama. For me, it is quite the reverse. It is how to make a period drama, not feel period at all. How to make it breathe with life and with the unpredictability of life and yet be true in every single detail, to the time it was. Making A Suitable Boy was about how to sift through the modern mayhem of current Indian life, away from the frame.” Making A Suitable Boy was a huge, monumental and joyful task, says Mira. “I always saw it as cinema, so the horizons were vast and there was great depth of field. In the scenes with the Ganga, with the boats and the ghats, we are seeing three or four levels into the horizon. We had to change everything — from the house, ships and the sails to what fishermen and pilgrims wore. I hope people feel the pulsation of life of the era. In Maheshwar, this lovely village by the Narmada where we shot Barsaat Mahal, there were these beautiful old streets. The people who lived there looked like they belonged to the landscape. In the homes that we filmed in Lucknow, I cast the retainers, who had worked in those homes for 20, 30, 40 years because they looked like a part and parcel of that place. All this adds to the authenticity and to the sense of it brimming with life.” Tanya Maniktala plays Lata, whose mother wants to find her a suitable boy and Ishaan Khatter plays Maan, who is in love with the completely unsuitable Saeeda (Tabu). Both are practically newcomers. “I am unafraid of casting first timers. I have to see the spirit of the character in the person, that they have what feels to me like the essence of the character.” A dewdrop in action “For instance, I could see the mercurial and charming Maan in Ishaan. It was not fake it was coming from within. It was the same with casting Tanya. A Suitable Boy rests on her shoulders. I call Lata a dewdrop in action. She is on the brink of life, she hasn’t seen everything yet. But she is also intelligent and very self-possessed. Lata has a certain innocence, of observing without fully knowing what life has to offer.” Mira is grateful to her casting directors, Dilip Shankar, Nandini Shrikent and Karan Mally . “They cast all my films. This was a one-year casting process. This is the first international show that is entirely cast and made in India, because I insisted on it.” The script, however, was written by Britisher Andrew Davies. Would not a South Asian script writer have been a more apt choice? “To be honest, yes, but I came to the party a little later when Andrew had already been picked and eight hours of script written. I loved his distillation. Andrew gave it the television pace that we needed. I wanted to shift the emphasis to being a marriage of the politics of the time and the personal journey of Lata and Maan and not have just a Pride and Prejudice kind of vibe of who will she marry. Lata and Maan were the embodiment of modern India — of that India of 1951.” Does that mean upper caste, middle class, educated families were representative of the larger Indian experience of the time? “Oh, no,” Mira clarifies. “India is based in the hinterland. But Vikram Seth’s story is resolutely set in the anglicised, privileged class. Even though several classes are depicted, the major characters are ‘English-soaked’. I wanted to bring out the truth of these characters. The characters are who they are as Vikram wrote them.” Interwoven cultures While Mira has joked about A Suitable Boy being Crown in brown, one wonders what part nostalgia plays in the appeal of the show. “It was important for me to hold a mirror to what India used to be at that time—politically and emotionally. Despite the wounds of Partition, there was still a deeply syncretic and interwoven culture between Hindu and Muslim, from the poetry and music, to the friendships and the great loves. That absolutely inextricable tapestry is being threatened today. The young of today will not have any idea of how it could have been. My mother used to say ‘ savere hum Id manate the or shaam mein Diwali …’ [we would celebrate Id in the morning and Diwali in the evening]. That is not going to be remembered if we are not careful. Our past in A Suitable Boy was real, truthful and prickly. It was not nostalgia for its own sake, but about holding a mirror so that the young of today can remember a time from whence we came.”  A Suitable Boywill stream on Netflix from October 23
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||A remake that is original||They are cut from the same cloth, driven by their own ideologies. One comes from a position of privilege and is with the State, while the other is a messiah to the oppressed. But what sets them apart is, one is bound by the conventions of law and order, the other is not. Kamal Haasan’s DCP Adhi Narayanan and Nassar’s Badri, leader of a militant outfit, gave an edge to the PC Sreeram-directed Kuruthipunal , making its proceedings contemplative rather than it being a regular case of a cat-and-mouse game. There is a general anger against the system at fault that creeps into the narrative. Sreeram agrees that the anger and resultant feeling of being dwarfed by the system were what attracted him towards remaking Kuruthipunal . “In that sense, it is a very personal film to me. If you look at the photographs we had used in the first scene, we were angry with what had happened in the country then,” says Sreeram over phone, “The anger in me was a reflection in my shots; the camera was always in close proximity with the subject. I don’t have a theory behind it, but this was the way I wanted to tell the story.” Tight budget, tighter schedule Kamal and Sreeram were in Bombay when veteran filmmaker Govind Nihalani invited them for the screening of Drohkaal , starring the legendary duo Om Puri and Naseeruddin Shah.The film evoked a feeling inside of Sreeram, which he could not express then and even now. Kamal’s immediate response was to remake Drohkaal in Tamil and asked Sreeram what he thought. “That’s the best thing to do,” he said on a whim. Commercial viability was still a question of concern, given the absence of songs and the nature of the film (it was rated ‘A’). But Sreeram says they pulled it off in under 30 days with a tight budget and a tighter schedule — “The shooting was akin to a war footing. You cannot shoot three or four scenes a day, if not for a great star cast.” He credits Kamal Haasan for treading a fine line between displaying desperation and betrayal, which were the film’s underlying themes. “Kamal sir conveys the feeling of helplessness quite remarkably when he discovers that his boss [played by K Vishwanath], the one he looks up to, was a sellout. ,” says Sreeram, of an association that dates back a few decades preceding Kuruthipunal .  When the film released a year after its Hindi counterpart in 1995, the response it got was overwhelming. It was ultimately chosen as India’s entry for the Oscars that year, but was not nominated. “We all know the process one must go through to make it into the final list. For me, it [Oscars] was not a big deal. Although you could say that Kuruthipunal had the intensity of a Hollywood film,” he adds. The bigger deal, for Sreeram, was when Govind Nihalani came for the première and called it “a remake that is original”.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Dance, with a side of banter||Even on a Zoom call, the camaraderie is unmissable: Shakti and Mukti Mohan, the dancer-actor-sister duo, is actively looking for chances to poke fun at each other. It is this effortless dynamic, sans filters, that they wish to bring to Zee TV’s new reality show Dance With Me , as co-hosts. An interactive show, Dance With Me will invite entries from viewers (in the form of videos) which will be reviewed by the Mohan sisters, who will also take the audience through a ‘hook step’ every week. Former Dance India Dance episodes will also be featured. And, in between all the teaching, there will be a whole lot of “sisterly banter”. The idea is to create a community of and for dancers. The relaxed format works for these times, too. “As a result of the pandemic, dancers have the chance to introspect on why they started dancing in the first place. When you sit back and think, you end up creating more,” says Shakti.   Dance With Mewill be aired Sundays from October 25, at 10 pm on Zee Cafe and 10 am on Zee TV.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Our past was real, truthful and prickly’||The world of Vikram Seth’s A Suitable Boy is a familiar one for Mira Nair. The auteur’s latest project has been the beautiful BBC show based on the 1,349-page tome. “It was 1951,” Mira says over a video call from the U.S. The filmmaker, who turned 63 on October 15, continues, “It was the year my parents got married. My father was a civil servant; he moved from Punjab to Orissa. I have lived in that time in a very real way. It is an era I have known, smelt, enjoyed and loved.” From Kama Sutra: A Tale of Love (1996) and Vanity Fair (2004) to Amelia (2009), Mira has worked on period dramas. “I do not set out to make a period drama. For me, it is quite the reverse. It is how to make a period drama, not feel period at all. How to make it breathe with life and with the unpredictability of life and yet be true in every single detail, to the time it was. Making A Suitable Boy was about how to sift through the modern mayhem of current Indian life, away from the frame.”  Adding authenticity Making A Suitable Boy was a huge, monumental and joyful task, says Mira. “I always saw it as cinema, so the horizons were vast and there was great depth of field. In the scenes with the Ganga, with the boats and the ghats, we are seeing three or four levels into the horizon. We had to change everything — from the house, ships and the sails to what fishermen and pilgrims wore. I hope people feel the pulsation of life of the era. In Maheshwar, this lovely village by the Narmada, where we shot Barsaat Mahal, there were these beautiful old streets. The people who lived there looked like they belonged to the landscape. In the homes that we filmed in Lucknow, I cast the retainers, who had worked in those homes for 20, 30, 40 years because they looked like a part and parcel of that place. All this adds to the authenticity and to the sense of it brimming with life.” Tanya Maniktala plays Lata, whose mother wants to find her a suitable boy and Ishaan Khatter plays Maan, who is in love with the completely unsuitable Saeeda (Tabu). Both are practically newcomers. “I am unafraid of casting first timers. I have to see the spirit of the character in the person, that they have what feels to me like the essence of the character.” A dewdrop in action “For instance, I could see the mercurial and charming Maan in Ishaan. It was not fake it was coming from within. It was the same with casting Tanya. A Suitable Boy rests on her shoulders. I call Lata a dewdrop in action. She is on the brink of life, she hasn’t seen everything yet. But she is also intelligent and very self-possessed. Lata has a certain innocence, of observing without fully knowing what life has to offer.” Mira is grateful to her casting directors, Dilip Shankar, Nandini Shrikent and Karan Mally . “They cast all my films. This was a one-year casting process. This is the first international show that is entirely cast and made in India, because I insisted on it.” The script, however, was written by Britisher Andrew Davies. Would not a South Asian script writer have been a more apt choice? “To be honest, yes, but I came to the party a little later when Andrew had already been picked and eight hours of script written. I loved his distillation. Andrew gave it the television pace that we needed. I wanted to shift the emphasis to being a marriage of the politics of the time and the personal journey of Lata and Maan and not have just a Pride and Prejudice kind of vibe of who will she marry. Lata and Maan were the embodiment of modern India — of that India of 1951.” Does that mean upper caste, middle class, educated families were representative of the larger Indian experience of the time? “Oh, no,” Mira clarifies. “India is based in the hinterland. But Vikram Seth’s story is resolutely set in the anglicised, privileged class. Even though several classes are depicted, the major characters are ‘English-soaked’. I wanted to bring out the truth of these characters. The characters are who they are as Vikram wrote them.” Interwoven cultures While Mira has joked about A Suitable Boy being Crown in brown, one wonders what part nostalgia plays in the appeal of the show. “It was important for me to hold a mirror to what India used to be at that time — politically and emotionally. Despite the wounds of Partition, there was still a deeply syncretic and interwoven culture between Hindu and Muslim, from the poetry and music, to the friendships and the great loves. That absolutely inextricable tapestry is being threatened today. The young of today will not have any idea of how it could have been. My mother used to say ‘ savere hum Id manate the or shaam mein Diwali …’ [we would celebrate Id in the morning and Diwali in the evening]. That is not going to be remembered if we are not careful. Our past in A Suitable Boy was real, truthful and prickly. It was not nostalgia for its own sake, but about holding a mirror so that the young of today can remember a time from whence we came.”  A Suitable Boywill stream on Netflix from October 23
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Ghosts Use Facebook A strange feeling||The story so far: When Nana can’t fulfil Konica’s request of getting Ranbir Kapoor’s number, she invites him for a meeting to prove that he’s really a ghost.  They hadn’t bargained for this. The colour faded from their faces. “You little creeps! This was your stupid idea!” exploded Konica. “I’m out of this.” “You can’t go!” shouted Maya angrily. “Why blame us? It was you, Konica Di! You invited him here. Now, even if you go away, he’s going to find you.” So the meeting was fixed for Sunday evening, but the place Nana suggested made even Maya’s stomach flip. “Your Nana’s bedroom?!” said Konica. “Couldn’t we meet him anywhere else?” “Like?” Rocky shrugged. “The children’s park.” “But everyone would come to know. And they might just frighten Nana away,” said Maya worriedly and continued, “I haven’t been into that room ever since Nana went away. It feels strange.” Suspicious activity “What sort of strange, Maya?” asked Konica. “But why would a room feel different?” asked Rocky. Maya’s response made both Konica and Rocky’s hair stand on end. “Nana’s bedsheet. Mummy complains it always gets dirty.” “Like someone might have slept on it?” asked Konica. “Did you notice anything suspicious?” “How, Konica Di? Mummy keeps the room locked.” “Nobody puts a lock on a door inside a house unless they don’t want anyone to enter,” said Konica. “Mummy sometimes puts flowers on Nana’s picture. Now that you mention it,” Maya’s eyes became round. “Yesterday, I saw her go into the room with a big glass of milk and close the door behind her.” “Aunty takes milk for Nana’s ghost,” frowned Konica. By then, Maya had begun to feel squeamish. No doubt Nana was a ghost but the prospect of him living in his own bedroom, right next to hers, made her very uncomfortable. The next day, the children decided to meet at Maya’s house. It was decided that Maya would get the key and unlock the door to Nana’s bedroom while her mother was having her afternoon siesta so they could enter the room. “So what’s this new game all about?” Maya’s mother asked Rocky, as he stepped inside on Sunday evening. Maya sprang from behind the door and booed. Rocky dropped the shoebox. “You’re nasty, Maya!” he squawked, as Mickey crawled under the sofa. “Ghost bumps!” grinned Maya and nudged Konica, who stepped in behind Rocky.  To be continued.   “Nobody puts a lock on a door inside a house unless they don’t want anyone to enter.”
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Ring in the celebrations||For 10 days in October, people in India break out into vibrant and cheerful celebrations. Navaratri, Dussehra or Durga Puja... call it what you will, but one thing is for sure: the festive season is here, and how! Many a myth A popular legend behind this festival is that of buffalo-demon Mahishasura, who was granted a boon from Lord Brahma that no man or god could kill him. Fuelled by the power of “immortality”, Mahishasura and his army attacked Earth, heaven and hell. Since the boon only mentioned a man or god, the gods Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva combined their powers to create a powerful woman with 10 arms, mighty weapons, and a ferocious lion to ride upon. This was Goddess Durga. She killed the shape-shifting Mahishasura after an epic battle that lasted 10 whole days. Today, we celebrate the nine days of battle as Navaratri, and the victorious 10th day as Vijaya Dashami. Goddess Durga became Mahishasura Mardini or the slayer of Mahishasura. Another legend involves Lord Rama and his fierce battle with Ravana in Lanka. Lord Rama wanted to get the blessings of Goddess Durga before going off to fight. The puja required 108 blue lotuses. Since Lord Rama was able to gather only 107, he decided to offer one of his eyes instead of the missing lotus. Just then, Goddess Durga appeared before him and blessed him. Lord Rama won the battle and killed Ravana on Vijaya Dashami. The practise of worshipping daily implements on the ninth day of Navaratri also has a mythical connection. In the Mahabharata, the Pandavas were forced to spend a year in disguise after an exile of 12 years and decided to live in the kingdom of Matsya. Before they left, they hid their divine weapons in a tree. After finishing the last year of exile, they came back to retrieve their weapons on Vijaya Dashami. Before picking them up, the Pandavas worshipped them. See the connection? Around the country Different parts of the country celebrate the festival in different ways. For starters, the Gujarati custom of garba and dandiya - raas is very popular. People here dress up in traditional clothes and dance every night. While the garba involves women dancing in circles around a pot containing a lamp, the dandiya-raas witnesses people dancing while striking dandiya sticks in a rhythm. The Durga Puja celebrations in eastern India, including West Bengal, Assam, Tripura, Odisha, Manipur, Bihar and Jharkhand, are a feast for the senses. Grandly decorated pandals line the streets, echoing with loud chants and thundering drum beats. The elaborate pandals vie with each other, and visiting the region during this season is truly a one-of-a-kind experience. In the South, a common tradition involves displaying colourful dolls in stair-like structures and inviting friends and family to take a look. Called habba , kolu , gullu , or koluvu depending on where you are, this is a fun opportunity to socialise while tasting some delicious sundal . Any account of this season is incomplete without a mention of Karnataka’s Nadahabba (state festival), the Mysuru Dasara, which features parades, performances, processions and fairs. What’s more, the brightly illuminated palace looks simply splendid during this time. If you are in Delhi around this time, you could witness the dramatic re-enactments of the life of Lord Rama, for this is a common festive tradition. Effigies of Ravana are burnt to symbolise Lord Rama’s victory. In Punjab, people fast during Navaratri. On the final day, they invite nine young girls home, worship them, and serve them delicious food. Even as you merrily indulge in the season’s festivities, don’t forget to remember its underlying message: that good always triumphs over evil.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Told or said?||Sometimes, we use the word, ‘said’ and sometimes ‘told’.  “My mother told me to eat up the pudding.”  Can you also say, “My mother said me to eat up the pudding?” Doesn’t sound quite right, does it? So when do we use ‘said’ and when ‘told’? When the sentence mentions who the listener is, we use the word, ‘told.’ In the sentence we just read, we know who the listener is. The listener is ‘me.’  My mother told my brother, “You can’t have any more pudding.”  Here the listener is ‘my brother,’ So you can’t say, “My mother said my brother…”  The teacher told Kumar, “Stop looking out of the window.”  Here the listener is Kumar. So ‘told’ is used. On the other hand Then, when do we use ‘said’? When the sentence does not mention who the listener is.  The rat said, “Oh, dear! The cat is out of the bag.”  This sentence does not tell us who the rat is talking to. We only know that the rat has said something. So we use ‘said’, and not ‘told’.  The speaker said, “Please don’t sleep.”  Here again, the sentence does not mention who the listener or listeners are. So we go with ‘said.’ If the listener is included in the sentence, then it would read something like this: The speaker told his audience, “Please don’t sleep.”  But if you really want to use the word ‘said’ when the name of the listener is included in the sentence, you can say, ‘said to’. Then the sentence would read: The speaker said to his audience, “Please don’t sleep”.  Like most rules, this one too has exceptions. When talking about jokes, lies, the truth and stories, ‘told’ is used even though the listeners are not mentioned:  She told jokes.   He told a lie.   He told the truth.   She told a story.  Thankfully, not too many exceptions!
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||e-Dussehra, anyone?||It’s the festive season, folks! Well, that’s what the ads in the newspapers say. It doesn’t feel like there’s much to celebrate right now though, does it? Plus, even if I was in the mood to celebrate, exactly how am I supposed to? I’m not sure it’s a great idea to go pandal hopping or visit friends just yet. So does that mean, like everything else in life right now, Dussehra will go online too? While that sounds kind of awful, if you think about it, it might not be all bad. The bright side Let’s look at the pros! Every year, Dussehra means nine days of wearing kurta pyjamas in the evening. Now, I have nothing against kurta pyjamas but it would be great if they were made of dry-fit. Plus, since I hardly wear kurtas, apart from festivals and Independence Day at school, all my sets are either two sizes too large — so I can wear them for a while — or three sizes too small because we haven’t gotten around to buying me a new one yet! Either way, not comfortable. The reason I have to wear the kurta pyjama every day is that I have to go with Amma to all neighbourhood homes that have kept ‘golu’ or are doing special something for Navratri. Now, I didn’t mind seeing golus when I was a baby, but I’m in middle school now. Miniature cricket pitches made from sprouting coriander seeds aren’t really my thing any more. Plus, all the Aunties pinch your cheeks and say ‘You’ve grown so tall!’, ‘You’ve become so thin!’, ‘You have become so dark!’. UUUUUGH! NOT COOL, AUNTIES! Please keep your hands and opinions to yourself! After they’ve told you exactly what they think of how you look, they’ll give you a guided tour of their golu, and you have to have a bunch of handy adjectives ready. Mumbling ‘wow’ and ‘cool’ just won’t cut it. ‘Amazing!’, ‘outstanding’, ‘mind-blowing’ are the need of the hour. Makes you wish you’d paid more attention to literary devices in English class. Once you’ve gotten the grand tour, you’ll be asked to sing. It doesn’t matter if you can or can’t, want to or don’t. And they don’t mean Imagine Dragons or Camilla Cabello or Shawn Mendes; they mean classical music. How do I know? Because last year I sang ‘Señorita’, and the look on Amma and all the aunties’ faces made it very clear that that was not the correct song to sing. Try Lizzo at your own peril. If we’re celebrating e-Navratri or e-Golu or e-Dussehra, you can just say there was a network issue, or that your camera isn’t working, or that the Mahishasura e-virus corrupted your laptop. The possibilities are endless. The only con of e-Navratri? How am I going to enjoy all that amazing prasad ? Do you think I can ask the Aunties to Dunzo it over?  Miniature cricket pitches made from sprouting coriander seeds aren’t really my thing any more.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Dispelling darkness||Mihir, who was lost in his thoughts, was suddenly jolted by his mom’s voice, “What happened? Why do you look so sad?” “I was thinking that this year, we will not be able to attend the Dussehra festivities like the previous years. No carnival, no Ravan. All the fun will be missing.” Mihir sounded despondent. “Yes, but adherence to social distancing is more important, in view of the pandemic,” Mom tried to be reasonable. Mihir looked at her; he could not disagree, but was not convinced. Mom did not say anything more, but understood Mihir’s disappointment. The Dussehra carnival was a fun event, and all the kids used to wait with great anticipation every year. Together with friends When Dad noticed Mihir looking sad, he offered, “Why don’t you call a few of your friends for lunch? We can also have few rounds of carrom and ludo.” Mihir jumped with joy and hugged his dad. He immediately rang five of his close friends who were more than eager to join him for lunch and games. “So, what would you like for your lunch?” Mom asked Mihir. “Anything you prepare is simply superb. You seem to have a magic wand in your hand. I know you will prepare some mouthwatering delicacies,” Mihir replied. “I will prepare fried rice and manchurian,” Mom proposed. “Oh yes! That will be fantastic. My friends will love it,” said an excited Mihir. As the doorbell rang, Mihir rushed to open the door and found his friends waiting. Soon, the entire household was echoing with their uninhibited laughter. Everyone was excited and happy to meet each other after a long time. “I hope all of you were wearing your masks while leaving the house,” Mihir’s father enquired. “Of course, uncle! We must ensure others’ safety as well,” Amul displayed his mask. Amit was next to add, “And now, regular hand wash has also become a habit.” Ranjan smiled, “And it is so surprising that he never used to wash his hands even before lunch at school.” Soon, Mom entered the room with a large plate full of hot samosas . The enchanting smell was tempting, and all the boys pounced on the plate. Dad interjected, “Have your samosas in peace and then we can have a round or two of carrom.” Mihir once again raised his sore point: the Dussehra festival. “We will not be able to see the effigy of Ravan being burnt this year.” Ankit agreed with him, “I always wait for the event for months but, sadly, we will not be able to enjoy Dussehra.” All his friends were silent. Mihir’s dad intervened, “Can anyone explain why we celebrate Dussehra and burn an effigy of Ravan?” Nitin replied, “Ravan is considered a symbol of evil, and burning of his effigy denotes the end of all evils.” “So, what is the biggest evil we are witnessing right now?” Dad asked again. “CORONA!” the children yelled in unison. “Yes. It has brought our lives to a grinding halt,” Dad continued. Overcoming the evil “Why don’t we resolve to overcome this evil?” Mihir was quite excited. “Those who do not wear masks can be convinced about the utility and importance of using them. Once the pandemic is controlled, we can have a great Dussehra next year,” Nitin proposed. “And we can definitely enjoy the festival while following norms of social distancing and safety on Dussehra as well,” Mom offered her advice. “Of course, and we can have a grand Dussehra party at my home,” Amul smiled. “Let us plan for a Dussehra party then, over fried rice and manchurian,” Mom replied “Oh yes!” Mihir clapped his hands. “And my Dussehra party will not be as enjoyable without these delicacies too, ” Amul said and the room filled up with loud laughter and giggles.  “We will not be able to see the burning of the effigy of Ravan this year.”
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Navaratri Special||Across 1. Goddess worshipped during Navaratri (5) 3. Almighty (3) 6. Maha ____, the ninth day of Dussera (6) 7. Precious adornments (7) 10. Time taken by the earth to go around the sun (4) 11. The evening before (3) 12. To refrain from eating (4) 15. Lamp, in Hindi (3) 16. Rites, procedures (7) 17. Incarnation of Parvati (6) 18. Yearn (4)  Down  1. Stick held while dancing the Garba (7) 2. His effigy is burnt on Dussera (6) 3. Radiance (4) 4. An item of decoration used during Navaratri (4) 5. ____ dashami, tenth day of Dussera (6) 8. Triyambake has a third ___ on her forehead (3) 9. Sugary delicacies (6) 12. Coming before all others in order (5) 13. The opposite of falsehood (5) 14. We ____ you a happy Dussera (4)
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are.||Why are clouds white?  Clouds are white because light from the sun is white and because of something called ‘scattering’ of light. When sunlight hits an atmospheric particle in the sky, blue light is scattered away more strongly than the other colours, giving us the impression that the sky is blue. But clouds are made up of tiny water droplets. When sunlight hits these droplets, all the colours in it are scattered equally. Sunlight, therefore, continues to remain white, making the clouds appear white.  Why dowe get hiccups?  This funny noise is caused by your diaphragm, the dome-shaped muscle at the bottom of your chest. The diaphragm usually works perfectly. When you inhale, it moves down to help pull air into the lungs. When you exhale, it relaxes and air flows out of the lungs and through the nose and mouth. However, sometimes when you eat too quickly or too much, it causes an irritation in the stomach or the throat. The diaphragm pulls down in a jerky way, which makes you suck air into your throat suddenly. When the air hits your voice box, your vocal cords close suddenly and you're left with a big HICCUP! How to ask a curious question 1. Pick a question. 2. Visit www.ywc.thehindu.com/curiopedia and submit your question. 3. Watch this space or log on to www.ywc.thehindu.com to read your answer.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Design Young World Cover||Are you a budding artist? Do you like to draw, colour and paint? Then this is your chance to be a part of our Special issue for Diwali and Children's Day. Express yourself through your art. Create one cover that best expresses both the celebrations. The best work will be the cover for the November 14 issue! Students from Std II to Std VIII are eligible to take part. A few other best entries will also be featured. Dimensions:Width: 24 cm Height: 23 cm Last date:October 31 Size and quality:300dpi Subject:Mention ‘Young World Cover’ in the subject line  Send your entries to  youngworld@thehindu.co.in
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Cook up a storm||Ambrosia   What you need  Fresh chilled curd –2 cups Chilled water/milk, or half of both –2 cups Sugar –10 tbsp (or as required) Ice cubes –6 to 8 Chopped or sliced dry fruits –1 tbsp Cardamom powder –1 tsp  Get started  Whisk or blend the curd till smooth. Add sugar.   Now, add the water-milk mix. (If you want a thick lassi, then, add 1 to 1.5 cups of water).  Blend once again till the mix is smooth and creamy, and a frothy layer forms on the top.  Add the cardamom powder.  Add the ice cubes and garnish with dry fruits and serve.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||To sir, with love||The mischievous twinkle in his eyes was unmissable. He was full of zest and joie de vivre. He was compassionate and magnanimous. PSN sir, as he was fondly called, epitomised the adage, ‘Art is a reflection of one’s inner self.’ Whether it was singing the sangathis of his guru Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer or drinking his steaming hot cup of kaap i or listening to a raga alapana, he did it all with complete involvement. An exemplary musician and a generous guru, sir donned several hats with effortless ease. My earliest memory of him was when he visited my first guru and his close associate, K.R. Kedaranathan. After keenly listening to our singing, he would point out each child’s skill and discuss with our guru what was best for us. I saw the same meticulous approach and care when I subsequently trained under him. He made learning enjoyable and meaningful. His vadyar (Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer) meant the world to him. Every sangathi he learnt from him was passed on diligently. He believed in upholding classicism and adhering to his bani. And yet, as a teacher, he gave his pupils, wings to fly. “His greatest attribute as a guru was offering his sishyas a rich, layered and varied experience. He gave them freedom to enrich their canvas, fusing his guidance and their exploration and enabling them to find their own path,” say vocalist-duo Ranjani and Gayatri. Bharathi Ramasubban, who learnt under PSN sir from childhood, says, “An ashutosha , he took immense pleasure in the smallest of things. Sir allowed his students the time and space to blossom.” Nurturing talent Whether senior disciples like Udupi Gopalakrishnan, Balamuralikrishna, Abhishek Raghuram, Calcutta Shankar, Shankar Srinivas, Radha Parthasarathy; or younger ones like Sunil Gargyan, Prithvi, Akshay Padmanabhan and Manasvini (impossible to list all the names), every single student gained through his tireless nurturing and the pride he showed in their progress. He would take efforts to listen to the concerts of all his disciples and encourage them. “He had a unique way of dispelling doubts and anxiety when he attended a student’s concert,” says vocalist Gayathri Venkataraghavan. A.S. Murali recalls how he never took any dakshina for teaching, but a small amount of whatever a student gave volitionally would be put into a hundi to be used for charity purposes. C.R. Vaidyanathan is glad to have had the chance provide him vocal support during his concerts and for being able to teach students in Narada Gana Sabha in his presence. PSN sir was devoted to Tyagaraja, Sadasiva Brahmendral, and Kanchi Mahaswami. He raised funds and organised the Tyagaraja Swami Akhandam in Tiruvaiyar during Sivaratri, and the Brahmendral aradhana at Manamadurai every year. Even after he stopped travelling, he would visit the Tyagaraja Vidwat Samajam in Mylapore. Talented tunesmith An amazing tunesmith, PSN sir set to tune the songs of Ramalinga Swami and Narayana Tirtha and the Mooka Panchashati. He valued the knowledge he gained by interacting with vidwans during his tenure at the All India Radio. P.S. Narayanaswamy was unaffected by the many honours he received, some of them being the Padma Bhushan, the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award, and the Sangita Kala Acharya title from the Music Academy. These recognitions did not divert him from his primary goal of disseminating music. “His music is like the elixir, the magic potion that has been fed into us organically,” says Kunnakudi Balamuralikrishna. Words seem inadequate to describe P.S. Narayanaswamy. As I try to reconcile to the fact that I will never again sit in his class and enjoy his warmth and kindness, I remind myself that the torch he lit must keep burning bright. The music will always pay homage to him.   The writer is a well-known Carnatic musician.   His greatest strength as a guru was offering a rich, layered and varied experience to his students: Ranjani and Gayatri
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Musicians, know your rights||Although most Indian classical music composers identified their works with a clear watermark, a signature phrase or word, the act of claiming credit was considered disrespectful to not just the sanctity but to the universality of music. Today, however, given the highly commercial nature of music dissemination, copyright is a topic of urgency. And one that performers must grapple with — especially with concerts having gone online. “Nothing in our talim (training) prepares us to negotiate today’s music world of royalties, contracts, licensing etc. The moment you say, ‘here are the terms; please put them in writing,’ you will be met with hostility, and comments like ‘Even Pt. Ravi Shankar played for us. He never asked us for anything’,” said Hindustani vocalist Shubha Mudgal, talking at Stop Record Play, a recent webinar on recording contracts, copyright and creative hierarchy in classical music.  Organised by Mridangamela, an initiative by mridangists Viveick Rajagopalan and Anantha R. Krishnan, it was a key webinar for these times. As Viveick explains, “The object was to make the classical music community aware of their rights and get them to start asking questions. Our music is cloaked in bhakti, and rightly so, but if it is only that, why do music labels ask for legal rights for performances from the artistes? Artistes have substantial rights, actually.” The other panellists were Sandhya Surendran, entertainment lawyer; Jataneel Banerjee, founder and artiste, Grand Philharmonica Orchestra in the U.K.; and Aishwarya Natarajan, founder, Indianuance, a production and consulting organisation representing musicians. The idea was to remove the discomfort around legalities. As Anantha says, “We wanted artistes to know that it is within their rights to ask about these issues.” One key legal distinction discussed was that between ‘underlying rights’ — which refers to the lyrics and the melody; and ‘sound recording rights’ — which means the performers’ arrangement of the same. Claiming royalty Sandhya pointed out that it is only in 2012 that singers were also given equal rights under the Copyright Act. Today, singers as well as composers and lyricists are entitled to get a share of the royalties when a piece is performed. “In classical music, lyrics are often assumed to be ‘traditional,’” said Aishwarya. This means the composition is not proprietary. There is, however, no legal definition of what makes a lyric traditional. And this is where the problem arises. In Hindustani music, for instance, there are many compositions that are extracted from literature and many don’t have a clear signature, compared to Carnatic music where most composers have identified themselves within their compositions. The vague definition leads to piquant situations. As Shubha said, some of her compositions have been referred to as ‘traditional’ by some performers. The best route for vocalists who have cut albums is to join The Indian Singers’ Rights Association. The website, isracopyright.com, is a government-recognised society that can license recordings and distribute royalties. Though its current membership seems to be mostly drawn from playback singers, nothing precludes classical singers from joining. Instrumental recordings What about classical music instrumentalists? Sandhya explained that here, copyright would be possible only if the instrumentalists are acknowledged as composers. Otherwise, since there is no registered copyright society in India for non-vocalists, their performer rights are currently non-enforceable. The confusion that prevails today can be gleaned by the fact that Shubha was once sued for singing her own composition. It has been a bitter experience, she said. “Some of the biggest exploitation comes from the most celebrated and awarded artistes in the country, who often have not bothered to pay any part of their fee to their co-artistes.” Contrasting the system with that in the U.K., Jataneel said that in the U.K., the position is crystal clear — the label and the performers divide the proceeds of recordings equally. The performers’ part is further divided among the featured and non-featured performers. There are associations like Phonographic Performance Limited (PPL) in the U.K. and Sound Exchange in the U.S. that undertake collective rights management of their members’ sound recordings. The Indian classical music world has another problem. Given its deeply hierarchical nature, can younger artistes playing with senior musicians ask questions about what they are signing up for without being pulled out of the concert. This is something performers must come to terms with. As with the issue of sexual harassment, new norms that challenge hierarchies need to be created. As Shubha said, exploitation exists, and it is important to be aware of it and be forearmed. The important thing for artistes is to be aware of exactly what their obligation is. Is it just the concert alone one is signing up for? Is there going to be recording? What will the recording be used for? Will there be a further income stream? Said Aishwarya, “If you are an accompanying artiste, ask the featured artiste if there are any agreements with the organiser beyond performing at the concert. Is there going to be any further commercial exploitation?” These could include a commercial release later, using part, or all, of the concert for other purposes, etc. Option to share Every artiste has the right to decide whether or not they want a recording publicly shared. Even for online performances (such as on Facebook Live), Aishwarya’s advice is to ask for them to be taken down within a specified period in order to prevent later misuse. Underscore Records (underscorerecords.com) has free, downloadable model contracts and letters of agreement, that both soloists and accompanists can use when entering into agreements with organisers. The question need not always be whether or not the artiste intends to charge a fee for a particular use of a performance or how much to charge. The more important question is that all artistes be aware, ahead of performances, of all the uses of their work. As Shubha said, “We really don’t want to be a litigious community known only for contracts and agreements to the detriment of music. However, we should be conscious of what we are signing up for and how much we are willing to give away.” The author writes on classical music and musicians.  Today, given the highly commercial nature of music dissemination, copyright is a topic of urgency.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Epics retold through a blend of art forms||The universal appeal and relevance of our epics are what inspire artistes to revisit them. Sonal Mansingh’s two-day ‘Kala Yatra 2020’, a virtual presentation, was a blend of performances, talks, paintings and puppet shows. The festival began with Kalakshetra’s ‘Sita Swayamvaram’. The presentation lacked vibrancy, perhaps it was an old recording. Choodamani Nandagopal’s talk on the ‘Abduction of Sita’ followed by the depiction of Rama’s exile through a puppet show made for a seamless flow of episodes. Choodamani explained how the Ramayana lends itself beautifully to diverse art forms. The navarasas find perfect expression in the epic. Referring to the maiming of Shoorpanaka evoking laughter in Sita and Lakshman, Choodmani said it was difficult for 21st century minds to laugh over an instance of a woman getting maimed, no matter how wicked she is. Her lengthy talk, though very informative, could have been made more interesting with pictures. Aesthetic presentation The Dramatic Arts college of the Thailand-based Bundit Pattana Silpa Institute depicted the Swarn Mrig (golden deer) scene. It was replete with aesthetic movements and mime. The costumes, particularly the headgear, caught the eye. The Mareech dance was well choreographed. The presentation proved how the Ramayana is popular across South East Asia, with each region adding its own flavour to the epic. Prasoon Joshi’s elucidative talk in chaste Hindi on the character of Jambavant, who spanned across three yugas, bridged the abduction episode with the quest for Sita and the ensuing battle with Ravana where Jambavant plays a pivotal role in igniting (as a motivational speaker) Hanuman’s prowess. Joshi stressed on the conversation between human (Ram and Lakshman) and non-human (Jambavant and Sugreev) as indicative of interactions at higher levels of consciousness. Another puppet show showed ‘Lanka dahan’ (Lanka on fire). The curtains came down with ‘Sankatmochan Hanumanashtak,’ a group presentation by the students of Delhi-based Shri Kamakhya Kalapeeth, depicting the life of Hanuman, his companions Bali, Sugreev, Jambavant, his search for Sita, and his innate devotion to Lord Rama. Sadly, occasional disturbances marred the visual appeal of the presentation. Next on Mahabharata With its wide range of characters, the episodes from the Mahabharata on day two made for a lively offering. Dr. Bharat Gupt threw light on the incidents that led to ‘Bhishma Pratignya’ (Vow of Bhishma). The professor maintained that Bhishma was a flawless character and if there were faults, it was in his father Shantanu and the social milieu of the times. The comparison of Bhishma with a Greek tragic hero was interesting. It was followed by a riveting solo by Sonal Mansingh. For those of us who have not seen her on stage recently, it gave a glimpse of her artistry, especially her abhinaya. The multi-layered character of Draupadi — from a proud princess of Panchal to a morally wounded woman who loses everything — was explored with finesse. Her fiery spirit was brought to the fore with conviction. The back and forth technique and the use of fabric as a metaphor were commendable. Sonal’s dance was an eclectic mix of Odissi, Bharatanatyam and contemporary. Focus on Karna ‘Karna Vadh’ by Rasa United (Delhi), that brought together Chhau, Kuchipudi and Bharatanatyam, had ace dancer S. Vasudevan in the lead. He conveyed the pathos of Karna through an effective narrative. Dr. Sahana Singh spoke about the Mahabharata and education, with examples of learning centres that had thrived in that era. The battle of Kurukshetra and its aftermath were well portrayed through Nangiar Koothu, and the dancers of Natanakairali showcased ‘Urubhangam’. Balarama, Duryodhana and Gandhari were played in front of a huge brass lamp, the light accentuating gestures, eye movements and expressions. Even the goriest scenes were played with such subtlety that they lingered long after the show was over.  The author, based in Delhi, writes on classical dance.   The two-day virtual event ‘Kala Yatra 2020’ saw a confluence of music, dance and literature
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Bhagavata Mela loses its star||The passing away of Melattur S. Natarajan, who put the small town of Melattur, near Thanjavur, on the global cultural map, has created a void that is hard to be filled. He was a torchbearer of the Bhagavata Mela sampradaya, a ritualistic theatre form performed only by male members of the Bhagavata families. The natakams are staged in the precincts of the Sri Narasimha temple in Melattur and its four adjoining villages during Sri Narasimha Jayanti in the month of Vaisakha.  Natarajan, who headed the Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Bhagavata Mela Natya Nataka Sangam, imbibed the art from his father Swaminatha Iyer and other senior artistes. Natarajan was five when he began acting in the plays and he soon became one of the most refined exponents of the art form. I have visited Melattur to witness the annual Bhagavata Mela festival for a decade. During these visits, Natarajan and I revived our decades-old family connection. Refreshing portrayals An engineer by profession, he strived hard not only to prove himself a worthy inheritor of his family legacy but also enriched the art form by staging 10 of Melattur Venkatarama Sastry’s 12 natakams. During his 70-year career, Natarajan lent a refreshing touch to certain aspects of the Bhagavata Mela technique. In his early days, Natarajan also worked with the celebrated natyacharya, K.P. Kittappa Pillai. In a conversation with this writer, Kittappa Pillai once said that the ‘Melattur jatis’ that he had composed for Bhagavata Mela natakams were learnt by Natarajan “with great involvement”. An accomplished actor, he was known for his enactment of female roles such as Leelavati in ‘Prahlada Charitam’ and Chandramati in ‘Harishchandra’. His exquisite abhinaya conveyed the nuances of these characters. In his portrayal, one could see the exploration of Natyadharmi and the four-fold aspects of natya. A recipient of the Sangeet Natak Akademi award and the Tamil Nadu government’s Kalaimamani award, Natarajan not only popularised this ancient art form but also groomed enthusiastic youngsters. Though Bhagavata Mela has lost one of its best artistes, the play must go on.  The writer is a veteran   dancer and scholar.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||100 slokas in 100 ragas||Music is an integral part of the Navaratri experience. Devi-themed concerts and the release of albums mark the nine-day festivities. This year, the Bengaluru-based musician and teacher Shakuntala Murthy has set the 100 slokas of the ‘Soundarya Lahari’ to tune in 100 ragas. “The first part, ‘Ananda Lahari’, with 41 verses, describes the union of Shiva and Shakti, and the remaining 59 verses are an ode to the beauty of Parvathi. One needs to appreciate the lyricism in the slokas to understand the magnificence of Shakti,” says Shakuntala. Soundarya Lahari in raga format is nothing new, but each stanza of four lines has been set to a different melodic scale by Shakuntala. “The aim was to encourage the musically-inclined to explore more ragas and the uninitiated to get acquainted with 100 different raga scales,” she says. The Shankar Mahadevan Academy Trust has selected the work as part of its ‘Archive to Alive’ project. The project not only preserves the works of the maestros, but makes them accessible to all. “You can learn freely as self-study, or choose a paid course, to be taught by an instructor from SMA,” says Deepa Sridhar, trustee of the Academy. It took Shakuntala four months to complete this project. “It did not involve just composing in different ragas but notating the 100 slokas in those ragas. I also had to work on the Sanskrit enunciation.” Shakuntala has earlier worked on a dance-musical, ‘72 Nritya mela Raga Malika’, based on Melakartha scheme of Carnatic music. “I interspersed the three-hour production with dance pieces to highlight bhava, rasa and bhakti,” she says. Getting here The octogenarian, who hails from a family of musicians and musicologists, is a gold medallist in ‘Vidwath-music’ and a graded artiste of All India Radio, Bengaluru. “Music was not a hobby, but a passion,” says Shakuntala. Along with her vocalist-sister Sukanya Narayan and percussionist-brother Krishnamurthy, she launched an album of dasa-sahitya , ‘Smarisu Manave’. The three also co-authored the book, Sangeetha Akshara Swara Hridaya for advanced music students to create kalpanaswaras.   The writer is   a Bengaluru-based freelance journalist.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Spiritual voyage||‘Deiveega Isai Payanam,’ an album of 21 songs on various deities, penned by Thiruvalampozhil K. Ramkumar, senior vice-president, Ashok Leyland, and composed and rendered by Carnatic vocalist Dr. R. Ganesh was released by R. Seshasayee, former executive vice-chairman, Ashok Leyland. T. Ananthanarayanan received the first copy in the presence of K. Sridharan, former management executives of the company.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||When life’s a beach||Just-launched Beachville is a vacation packaged within four walls. And heaven knows the city deserves a holiday getaway, given how 2020 has been going so far. Inside, the space bustles with a relaxed energy, enhanced by the all encompassing aroma of freshly-ground coffee, a fiesta of floating lights and trays of plump doughnuts. The reassuring hum of customers (many of whom come in for takeaways given the ongoing pandemic) is punctuated by cheery hisses from the espresso machine, set at the heart of the cafe. Chennai’s first roastery cafe, Beachville’s focus is on enhancing the city’s coffee experience by offering a gamut of services, ranging from personalised grinds to Aeropress classes. The overriding mission, however, is showcasing the flavours and strengths of responsibly-sourced Indian coffee beans. A part of the country’s new wave of roasters, who focus on technique to celebrate the delicate nuances of Indian beans, Divya Jayashankar launched Beachville Coffee Roasters in 2018. Previously living in New York, Divya would showcase south Indian filter coffee at Sunday markets and fairs there. This led her to explore roasting techniques. By the time she moved to Chennai, she was so fascinated by the potential of the Indian bean, she decided to build a career on it. Over a cortado — a creamy blend of fruity espresso drizzled with steamed milk — Divya explains how she believes that coffees have personalities. Influenced by third wave coffee, which considers coffee an artisanal food (enhanced by thoughtful cultivation, processing, roasting and preparation) Divya approaches every roast differently, focussing on bringing out the individuality of each batch. She is currently roasting Arabica from three of her favourite Indian estates now: Kelangur heights and Gungegiri in Chikmagalur, and Cauvery Peak in Yercaud. “I want a coffee that is sweet and bright. A brew for every mood,” she says, adding that she customises the blends to balance fruitiness with strength. She continues, “Filter coffee has been a revelation. With the same beans and different roasts, we can get such a variety of flavours.” In a bid to encourage customers to experiment, the cafe’s roaster is on view and staff are available to answer questions. In the future, Divya plans to hold classes on brewing techniques and tastings. Besides the obligatory espressos, cappuccinos and lattes, Beachville also offers a decadent line-up of dessert-style salted caramel affogatos, toffee macchiatos and a surprising iced rose latte. Restaurateur Sandesh Reddy, who is partnering with Divya on the project, holds up a plate laden with savoury doughnuts, stuffed with Chipotle mushroom, parmesan pink sauce, guacamole and creamy eggs. The sweet versions are as unconventional: strawberry cheesecake, birthday cake, creme brulee, and salted toffee among others. Sandwiches will be added to the menu in a couple of weeks. With coffee occupying centre stage, the food menu is deliberately minimal. And if you don’t drink coffee? Well, there is hot chocolate, tea and an unusual compromise, styled like a beach vacation: tropical cappuccinos fiesty with fresh pineapple juice and coconut cream.  Beachville is at Vidya Theertha Nagar, St. Mary’s Road, Alwarpet.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Court denies bail to suspended councillor in Delhi riots case||A Delhi court on Thursday denied bail to former Aam Aadmi Party councillor Tahir Hussain in three different FIRs related to the north-east Delhi riots, noting that he used his muscle power and political clout to act as a kingpin in planning, instigating and fanning the flames of communal conflagration. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav said that the public witnesses against Mr. Hussain were residents of the same locality and if released on bail at this stage, the possibility of him threatening or intimidating them could not be ruled out. The court also rejected Mr. Hussain’s contention that he be treated at parity with other co-accused persons in the cases who had been enlarged on bail. It said that the role assigned to Mr. Hussain in the cases was totally different and distinct from the rest of the co-accused, as he was the “main kingpin/conspirator in the case”. The judge noted that at the time of the eruption of the communal riots, Mr. Hussain had been in a powerful position (sitting AAP Councillor of the area).  Mr. Hussain, who had been in judicial custody since March 16, argued that there was no cogent and legal evidence which was admissible in the eyes of law to connect him with the incident alleged in the cases. “There is no evidence by way of even a single video footage or CCTV footage to prove that the applicant [Hussain] had participated in the riots or caused damage to any property,” he argued. ‘Victim of circumstances’ Mr. Hussain said he belonged to ‘Aam Aadmi Party’ and was a ‘victim of circumstances’, as he had been caught up in a political cross-fire, and the allegations levelled against him were nothing but a political blame game to malign his image. He also contended that the primary witness had initially not named him in his complaint but inculpated him only while recording of his statement by the investigating agency. This, he said, was nothing but merely an “improvement” done at the instance of the investigating agency. “Even if there were no direct acts of violence attributable to the applicant, he cannot shy away from his liability under the provisions of the Sections invoked against him , particularly on account of the fact that his house/building became the hub/centre point for the rioters and rabble-rousers to unleash the worst communal riots since Partition in Delhi,” the court said.  The judge stated that he found “ocular evidence” of independent witnesses to be categorical, which gave the clear details qua the active role played by him in the incidents in question. The Call Detail Record analysis of Mr. Hussain’s mobile number confirmed his presence at or around the scene of crimes on the dates of incidents, the court said. It also rejected his contention on the delay in the recording of statements of witnesses by the investigating agency.
23 October 2020||October 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Build Your Future Ready Homes||Homebuilders always have a question of what to consider as a mandate for their property when it comes to technology, but, always relegate it as least priority allocating no budget right from planning. This is a major mistake considering the technological advancements happening today. Believe me, it’s not a costly affair for technology infrastructure to be in place and make your home future-ready even if you don’t have plans to do it right now. We have come across people who consult right after foundation stone is laid and also people who come in late even after plastering is done for technology planning. It is better to plan early as the majority of the cabling can be done along with electrical cabling of the house to save unnecessary expenses later if and when one plans to adopt some technology for the building. Let us consider Audio planning for the home, the most common audio system for a new home is multi-room audio where each person can listen to his favourite song in his/her room or selected area with few clicks of buttons through speakers pre-installed in-wall/in-ceiling. How this solution is useful? Consider a simple analogy of your car interior as your home and you get in with your portable speaker for audio listening. If the car has a built-in music system and speakers it will give you an audio listening experience rather than a mere song listening. Moreover, the built-in music system in your car helps remove the clutter if you choose to carry a portable speaker, which is what we all are looking for. So, if one can have the wiring done and necessary points marked for future, it will be a great time and money saver to enable you with the multi-room audio system in future, but a minor job for a technology integrator at the planning stage. Similarly regarding the TV also it is worth considering necessary cabling provisions to avoid any further civil work in future, it is a common thing to notice in early 2000 home with a hanging black cable near the TV area, it can be antenna cable or similar type telephone cable. Now for new home people plan it well in advance and plan separate cable and conduit for managing the same. As the Internet speed and availability is affordable now IPTV will take over the current STB and also the cabling required for the 4K/8K television is also different with more fibre infrastructure dependency and this underlines the fact that we need more robust cabling plan for the future to avoid any hanging cable in our newly built tv area. It is always good to get a technology consultation service to avoid all unknowns and plan your cabling before you start your final paint coat for your dream home. If you are planning the Smart home technology features immediately It is also important to consider how this is achieved by the integrator before you start, this may seem to be over-demanding but it is a very mandatory part, just think of building your home without a proper plan? Similarly, home technology features also need to be reviewed initially and understood before your start, the expertise in the neatness of structured cabling is as important as having a well-planned plumbing line, both will be too expensive to correct in future. The pace at which technology evolution happening is becoming the main challenge for realizing your Smart Home. For a homeowner, it is the user experience that matters most and for the architects and interiors designers, it is the aesthetic appeal of the installed products. Some of the most interesting features of today's’ Smart Home are • Integrated Intelligent Lighting /Shutter/Blinds Automation • Any time anywhere in-house Audio Video distribution • Entrance management • Integrated Security System • Home Office Video Conferencing Solution • Integrated Home Theatre Space • Outdoor weatherproof Audio system Properly designed smart home solution adds a luxury touch for houses and dramatically improves the usability of the most accessed features of a house. A basic question for many end-user is how do I proceed with my smart home installation and what are the features available and how much do I need to invest? Today, we see domain experts who are engaged from the beginning stage for structural, interior, electrical etc. who plays a critical role in the project outcome. The importance of these experts is proven over the years. But what we see for Home Automation segment is that end-user settle for a solution without any technology consultation phase, and what he gets is not at all designed for his needs. This is where the role of Smart Home Technology Consultant comes in, he conveys the technology ideas in an easy to understand way and makes the customer aware of the features available. Considering that every project is unique there need to be a perfect blend of products chosen to merge with the house design. Even if you are not planning to implement your favourite features currently because of the budget limitations you can very well plan for the infrastructure readiness which will enable you to deploy this in future without any major civil works. Sreejith Bhaskaran Nair Consultant – Home and Building Technology 09995325348
23 October 2020||Bulandshahr,||For U.P. CM, trademark tough talk in Bulandshahr||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath invoked the Kandhla and Kairana Hindu exodus controversy of 2016 and the killings that allegedly triggered the 2013 Muzaffarnagar riots at an election rally in Bulandshahr on Thursday. Scheduled for November 3, the bypoll to the Bulandshahr Sadar seat has been necessitated because of the demise of sitting BJP MLA Virendra Sirohi in March. The party has fielded his spouse Usha Sirohi in what seems like a triangular contest between the BJP, the Bahujan Samaj Party, and the Samajwadi Party-Rashtriya Lok Dal combine. Mr. Adityanath talked about his government’s commitment to providing protection to “ bahu, beti aur kisan (wife, daughter, farmer)” but didn’t mention the Hathras case where a Dalit girl was allegedly gang-raped and killed by four upper-caste men. He didn’t defend the three Central farm laws either. Instead, he focussed on “bulldozing the property of the mafia” and filling the criminals with fear. In the same vein, he criticised the Congress and SP for allegedly showing sympathy towards the members of Popular Front of India. The audience went into raptures when the Chief Minister mentioned that the PM had finally put a date to the construction of Ram Temple. “ Khush ho (Are you happy),” he asked twice. After that, he reminded of the PM’s “sabka saath, sabka vikas” goal and said unlike previous governments, his government’s recruitment policy was fair and inclusive. For Bulandshahr, he offered a medical college and reminded how the upcoming international airport in the neighbouring Jewar and Film City in Noida would provide opportunities to the youth of the district.  Norms flouted The CM kept reminding the audience of the importance of wearing masks and following “ do gaz ki doori (social distancing)” but the modest exhibition ground was bursting at the seams with audience flouting norms. In fact, the party workers could be heard directing the police not to stop people from entering the venue. Santosh Kumar Singh, the Bulandshahr SSP, said it was impractical to stop supporters once they turned up at the venue. “We could only ensure that police officials wore masks and offered sanitisers to people.”
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Delhi Metro Phase IV tunnelling from Nov.’||The lowering of the first Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) in the Phase IV network began at Vikaspuri on the proposed Janakpuri West-R.K. Ashram Marg corridor. As a part of the tunnelling drive, two tunnels, with a length of 1.4 km will be bored between Vikaspuri and Krishna Extension Park, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation said on Thursday. “The work with the TBM is expected to start next month after the lowering and assembling of the 73 m-long machine is completed. These tunnels will be located between Janakpuri West and Krishna Park Extension stations of the corridor. It will start from Vikaspuri area in continuation of the Magenta Line tunnel that has already been constructed for the currently operational Botanical Garden-Janakpuri West corridor,” DMRC spokesperson Anuj Dayal said. The entire tunnelling work on the stretch is expected to be completed in 15 months. “The alignment of the tunnel will be along the Outer Ring Road. As part of the Phase IV network work approved so far, around 27 km of underground lines will be constructed,” Mr. Dayal said.
23 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||‘Dalits will boycott BJP’s Baroda bypoll candidate’||Congress Dalit MLAs have said that BJP’s Baroda bypoll candidate Yogeshwar Dutt would face a complete boycott by Dalits and backward communities for making a statement against their rights and for his politics of creating social division to polarise the electorate. Former Ministers and Congress Dalit legislators Geeta Bhukkal, Shakuntala Khatak, Balbir Valmiki, Jayveer Valmiki and Varun Mulana addressed a press conference in Gohana on Thursday and strongly objected to a tweet by Mr. Dutt two years ago and the anti-reservation statement made recently. Former Minister Geeta Bhukkal said it was unfortunate that Mr. Dutt, who benefited from the sports category for the DSP post and availed of financial support, pointed a finger at the reservation provided to Dalits and backwards. “Yogeshwar Dutt has expressed his anti-reservation mindset many times. In a tweet two years ago and his statement in an interview two days ago, he spoke about ending the reservation of Dalits and backwards. The entire Dalit society and backward classes condemn and oppose it,” she said. Jaiveer Valmiki, MLA from Kharkhauda, said the RSS often talks of ending reservations and Mr. Dutt wants to pursue the same campaign. “If people of such mindset and views reach the Assembly by mistake, then their mission will not be to serve the people but to advance their agenda,” he said.  Economic criteria Geeta Bhukkal said Mr. Dutt talks about reservation on economic basis, but he does not know that Haryana, under the leadership of Bhupinder Singh Hooda, was the first State in the country to give reservation on economic ground. “The aim of Yogeshwar, BJP or RSS is not to give reservation on economic grounds, but to end the reservation of all classes. Therefore, now every section of society has to decide whether such people should be voted or boycotted,” she added. Mr. Dutt could not be reached for his comments despite repeated attempts.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Not being allowed to step out of cell: Umar Khalid||Former JNU student Umar Khalid, who was arrested under the anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in connection to the north-east Delhi riots case, on Thursday told a court here that he was not allowed to step out of his cell similar to “solitary confinement”. Mr. Khalid made the allegation while he was being produced before Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat through videoconferencing on expiry of his judicial custody in the case. Mr. Khalid said that while there is a recent direction of the court to provide him security cover inside the jail, he was not allowed to talk to anyone. He said that when the jail superintendent visited him recently, he complained about the issue. Mr. Khalid said he was allowed to step out of his cell for 10 minutes, but was put back inside his cell once the official left. Mr. Khalid said he has not been allowed to step out since then. Official summoned Taking note of the issue, Judge Rawat directed Tihar jail superintendent to be present before the court on Friday to hear the matter. The judge also pulled up the jail staff for muting the microphone of Mr. Khalid when the case was going on. Mr. Khalid said that the official told him his microphone will be unmuted if the judge gave the permission for it. The judge said if an undertrial wants to say something, then unmute and let him speak or the jail staff should tell us that he wants to say something. The judge also said that Mr. Khalid should not be punished for putting forward his grievances. During the hearing, special public prosecutor moved an application for extending Mr. Khalid’s judicial custody by 30 days. Earlier this week, a local court had ordered the Delhi police to supply to Mr. Khalid a copy of the FIR, remand application and remand order of the case related to the communal violence in which he was arrested. The court noted that it was a settled proposition of law that no person shall be detained in custody without being informed of the grounds for such arrest.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Small, improvised ceremonies to mark Dussehra celebrations||of After Ramlilas, Dussehra  celebrations have contracted into local affairs due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. While the biggest among such events have been cancelled due to caps on gatherings, limiting attendance to 200, according to organisers, local functions featuring small effigies scheduled to be ‘burnt symbolically’ with the aid of lights or audio visual effects are being planned over the weekend. Restrictions on religious gatherings, up to a maximum of 200 attendees, related to the festive season were lifted till October 31 by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in view of the pandemic. The directive, however, prescribed strict restrictions on activities ranging from setting up food stalls to standing or squatting when attending such events. “Due to the restrictions on the number of attendees being allowed by the administration as well as the problem of air pollution, only small ceremonies with many improvisations are being organised this year,” said Ashok Goel Devraha, general secretary of the Delhi Dharmik Sangh which is an umbrella body that facilitates the organisers of Ramlilas. Over 700 Ramlilas are organised across the city every year. Many events cancelled Ashok Agarwal of Luv Kush Ramlila Committee, one of the oldest Ramlila organisers in the city, said it had decided to cancel Dussehra celebrations and the Raavan dahan this year would be a televised repeat of last year’s festivities. Rajesh Gehlot, chief patron of Dwarka Sri Ram Leela Society, a traditional crowd-puller in Sector 10 where Prime Minister Narendra Modi was in attendance last year, said the pandemic had affected the preparation of effigies as usual. “We have decided to cancel this year,” he said. Among the smaller events, will be a narration-based staging of the traditional 10-day Ramlila crunched into four days leading up to the R aavan dahan aided by lighting in south Delhi, and another being planned as a three-hour gala in east Delhi. Anil Sharma of the R.K. Puram Ramlila Religious Committee said the event would unfold between October 22 and October 25. “There will be no traditional burning of the effigies; we will use lights and sound effects to stage a symbolic effigy burning,” Mr. Sharma said. Satish Aggarwal of East Delhi’s Shri Balaji Ramlila Committee said they would stage the epic, followed by a dahan within three hours on Sunday.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man duped of over Rs. 4 crore on pretext of FCI tender, car agency||Delhi Police Economic Offences Wing (EOW) has arrested a man for allegedly duping people on pretext of getting them Food Corporation of India (FCI) tenders as well as agencies for car manufacturers, said an officer on Thursday. The police said there was a complaint against one Praveen Kumar Singh, who along with his accomplices, cheated the one Sunil Vikram from Punjab. The complainant alleged that he was duped of Rs. 4.62 crore on the pretext of arranging a tender for the FCI and agency contract of Toyota for the Punjab region. He alleged that he paid Rs. 1.62 crores through banking transactions and Rs. 3 crore in cash. An FIR has been registered at the North Avenue police station and the case was later transferred to EOW for further probe. During the investigations, it came to the fore that the accused had introduced himself as a man well-connected with politicians. He told the victim that he resided in MP flats on North Avenue. The victim said that he neither got any FCI tender nor was any agency allotted in his name. The accused confessed to the crime and said he had duped many persons. He used to take huge amounts of money in lieu of jobs, which he never intended to do. The police said,in two more cases in Delhi, Singh duped people on the pretext of providing government jobs.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||HC declines petition on stubble burning||The Delhi High Court on Thursday declined to hear a plea to deal with stubble burning in neighbouring States of Punjab and Haryana, noting that the Supreme Court is already seized of the matter. An HC Bench said the top court on October 16 had constituted a committee headed by its former judge Justice Madan B. Lokur to monitor the steps taken by these States to prevent stubble burning. The court disposed of the application, which was moved by advocate Sudhir Mishra, in his main petition filed in 2015 — seeking directions to the Centre to take immediate steps to control increasing air pollution in the Capital. The application had contended that stubble burning would increase the air pollution drastically in the Capital and could further aggravate the health problems in the city in view of the pandemic. Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma said the sun was not visible on Thursday and it was an emergency-like situation in the Capital due to the “poor” air quality. The ASG referred to a news report, which stated that people who have recovered from COVID-19 were facing respiratory problems as the air quality worsened.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Youth held for cheating||A 20-year-old youth has been arrested for allegedly cheating people on the pretext of making them members of a gigolo club and promising good income, the police said on Thursday. DCP (West) Deepak Purohit said that the accused has been identified as Ankit Kumar, a Class 12 passout. Residing in Uttam Nagar, he is from Bihar. The police said that a complaint was lodged by a resident of Uttam Nagar who alleged that he had been cheated of Rs. 11,000 in the name of joining a gigolo club on a website. “The victim was made to transfer the amount online and later called near Piccadely, Janakpuri. However, when the victim transferred the amount, his number was blocked by the accused,” Mr. Purohit said. Ankit’s Paytm account with Rs. 23 lakh, has been frozen, the police said.
23 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Told authorities many times for judicial panel to probe riots’||Four women’s groups on Thursday said they have written to authorities several times for setting up a judicial panel to probe communal riots, which broke out in February. The groups, including National Federation of Indian Women (Delhi Chapter), Pragatisheel Mahila Sangathan, Centre for Struggling Women and the Swastik Mahila Samiti, said they had also written to Delhi government, which allegedly wanted them to write it as a grievance and not a complaint. “The police and the government have acknowledged our mails and responded neutrally. The government wanted us to file the complaint as a ‘Grievance’, which it is not. We wrote back detailing how the lack of transparency of the investigation is not a subject of grievance but institutional corruption,” they said. The groups said from April till date, they have given 10 reminders to authorities concerned.
23 October 2020||New Delhi,||Jatin- Tahir inset||The Opposition BJP, reacting to the denial of bail to suspended AAP councilor Tahir Hussain by a city court here on Thursday, accused its leadership of being “fully aware of the planned riots.” Delhi BJP spokesperson Naveen Kumar said on the one hand, even after 8 months, the horrific scene of the riots was fresh in the minds of the people of Delhi and on the other Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal “did not say a word about Hussain”. “Kejriwal's silence over Tahir Hussain for so many months also points to the patronage and support for him. He should answer how long he will be silent,” Mr. Kumar said.
