23 November 2020||Srinagar,||Tunnel used by Jaish militants found in J&K||Security forces unearthed a tunnel beneath the International Border (IB) in Jammu’s Samba Sector on Sunday which was used by the Pakistan Army to push in the four Jaish-e-Muhammad (JeM) militants who were killed in an encounter in Nagrota on Thursday. “We were on the lookout to establish the route used by the four JeM terrorists. Each piece of information, including technical details, was put together. They all pointed towards their favourite Samba Sector (in Jammu). After a lot of hard work, the police and the Border Security Forces (BSF) were able to find the tunnel within 76 hours of the encounter. It was coming from Pakistan’s Chakbura post,” Director General of Police Dilbagh Singh told The Hindu . Describing the spotting of the tunnel as a “big success”, Mr. Singh said it was used by the four infiltrators to cross into India during the night of November 18. ‘No scope for lying’ “Everything we recovered [from the slain militants], from phones to shoes to medicine, all bore the imprint of Pakistan. Even the sandbags used to cover the tunnel, in a bid to use it again, were Pakistan-made. There is no scope for Pakistan for lying about the incident,” the officer said. The BSF said the freshly dug tunnel was around 150 metre long and 3 feet wide. The tunnel opened up at Regal village on the Indian side of the border. The infiltrators are believed to have covered 12-14 km on foot to reach the Jammu-Pathankot Highway at Jatwal and were apparently accompanied by a local guide, official sources said.
23 November 2020||Mumbai,||Second wave akin to tsunami: Uddhav||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday said that Maharashtra is likely to face a second wave of COVID-19 and urged the people of the State not to lower their guard and strictly follow all the safety protocols to prevent the imposition of another lockdown. “Today, I am addressing you to keep alert and awake you at this dangerous turn. Many States like Delhi are witnessing a second and third wave of the pandemic. Cities like Ahmedabad have announced a night curfew. The second wave seems like a tsunami,” Mr. Thackeray said, adding that the State government is capable of handling the situation. Mr. Thackeray said he has also been advised to impose a curfew. “But not everything can be done by enacting laws. We did not ban firecrackers for Deepavali and instead we appealed to the people to exercise caution. And they followed. Similarly, I’m appealing to you not to venture out of your homes unnecessarily,” he said. “I don’t want another lockdown, but you should also understand the gravity of the situation,” he added. Over the issue of reopening temples, Mr. Thackeray said he did what he had promised at the right time. “Though we have announced the reopening of schools, it will be done only after assessing the situation,” Mr. Thackeray said. He thanked the north Indian population in Mumbai for following the safety norms laid down for chhath puja and also appealed to the warkaris to exercise restraint while celebrating Kartiki Ekadashi. Mr. Thackeray also emphasised on the lack of certainty over the availability of a vaccine and the need to till then observe the mandatory use of masks, physical distancing and hand sanitising. “Maharashtra will need 25 crore doses as each person would require two doses of the vaccine for immunisation,” the Chief Minister said. (With PTI inputs)
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,||North T.N. to get rain from tomorrow||Various weather models and forecasters have predicted that from Tuesday, the northern parts of Tamil Nadu, including Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and up to Cuddalore and beyond, are likely to receive heavy rain, with the landfall (of a storm) possibly occurring between Karaikal and Mamallapuram in the latter part of Wednesday. There will be rainfall at a few places on Monday. According to the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), isolated, extremely heavy rainfall is likely over most places in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry during Tuesday and Wednesday. This is due to the well-marked low pressure area over the southwest Bay of Bengal that is very likely to concentrate into a depression during the next 24 hours and intensify further into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours. The Regional Meteorological Office in Chennai has forecast that this cyclone is very likely to move northwestwards and cross the coast between Karaikal and Mamallapuram around the noon or afternoon of Wednesday. It predicted squally weather along the coast with wind speeds reaching 45-55 kmph, gusting to 65 kmph, from Monday. The wind speed is expected to touch 80-90 kmph, gusting to 100 kmph, over the southwest Bay of Bengal and along and off the Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coast and the Gulf of Mannar on Wednesday. Senior meteorologist Y.E.A. Raj said that in the past 50 years, 11 systems had developed over the region where the present one was forming and nine of them had crossed the State’s coast. But not all of them became cyclones; some remained deep depressions. None of them developed beyond severe cyclones. “This system is expected to cross the coast and then recurve towards the north. With the rainfall this monsoon being deficient by 23%, this system is likely to bring a decent amount of rainfall and bridge the deficit,” he said. Weather blogger Pradeep John said that Monday would throw more light on the movement of the cyclone and where it would cross the coast. “The city will get rains, we know, but as to how much we will get depends on how close it will cross,” he said. “We can expect rains over the State to begin from Tuesday. The American model says it would be stronger than Thane [cyclone] and shows rainfall of around 200-300 mm a day. We can definitely expect extreme rainfall in some places. It looks like a rain-filled system. Since this is the northeast monsoon, the northern side of the cyclone will bring in more rain bands,” the official said. Meanwhile, quelling the doubts of Chennai residents about reservoirs being opened, official sources in the Public Works Department said they were keeping a close watch on various reservoirs around Chennai and tanks upstream. “Adequate precautionary measures have been taken. We are confident of managing any emergency,” an official said. A former official said reservoirs would not be an issue. “Only if rainfall exceeds 50 cm, might there be a problem,” he said. With the meteorological department predicting very rough seas in these regions, fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea until after Thursday. Sources in the Fisheries Department said that based on the formal advisories issued by the districts, messages have been passed on to the owners of all boats. “Traditional boats and mechanised craft have been advised to stay on shore. Meetings have been held with various associations,” said an official. “All the trawler boats that put out to sea from the Chennai Harbour have returned and a few multi-day fishing boats, especially gillnet boats, that went out of Chennai Harbour are in transit and expected to reach Chennai or harbours close to them soon. They are in the northern waters, and their movement is being monitored,” the official said.
23 November 2020||Kolkata,||Trafficking survivor awarded Rs. 9 lakh||In a significant development that will have a bearing on the rehabilitation of trafficking survivors in West Bengal, the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA), Kolkata has awarded Rs. 9 lakh as compensation to a teenager. According to non-government orgainsations, and different other groups working in the field of human trafficking, this is the highest ever compensation by any DLSA in West Bengal. Sold to brothel The case pertains to a 13-year-old girl who was allegedly trafficked from Odisha and sold to a brothel in Songachi, Kolkata, in 2016. She was rescued on May 7, 2016, by officers of the Anti-Human Trafficking Unit, Kolkata Police. Three perpetrators, one of whom was a minor, were arrested in connection with this case. However, the charge-sheet in the case was submitted without the relevant POCSO Sections. Good precedent “We are hopeful that the precedent set in West Bengal will be followed in other States to benefit survivors of trafficking that includes crimes like sex-trafficking, and bonded labour,” said Saptarshi Biswas, Director of Legal Solutions, International Justice Mission, Kolkata. For youngster’s future The grant of Rs. 9 lakh compensation to the minor survivor was after considering the circumstances, such as the pending POCSO cases, non-grant of interim compensation, since trial is yet to begin, the psychological effects of this crime and victim’s educational pursuits. The girl, who is 17 years old now, is studying in Class VIII and is at a shelter home. In 2018, the Calcutta High Court passed a judgment in favour of granting compensation to victims while also observing that the two requirements of Section 357A of the Code of Criminal Procedure need not be satisfied for grant of compensation to victims. Activists welcome move Tafteesh, a coalition of human rights activists, researchers, lawyers and survivors of human trafficking, also expressed happiness over the development. “The reason for our happiness comes from the fact that this victim compensation order was possible owing to an earlier judgment [passed] by Calcutta High Court in cases of two trafficking survivors that our team had actively pursued,” said Nisha Mehroon, a sociologist and researcher associated with Tafteesh.
23 November 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,||CPI leaders’ bid to visit Polavaram foiled||CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna and other party leaders were placed under house arrest by the police here on Sunday and prevented from going ahead with their scheduled visit to the Polavaram project site. Speaking to The Hindu over phone, Mr. Ramakrishna, who was confined to a resort here, said, “Our party planned to visit the Polavaram project site to inspect the ongoing works, know about the condition of the workers, and see whether any changes have been made in the actual height of the project.” “Meeting the displaced persons to discuss issues pertaining to the Rehabilitation and Resettlement package is one of the tasks. The project authorities have permitted us to visit the site. But we have been placed under house arrest,” he said. Meanwhile, the party leaders and activists from Krishna, West and East Godavari districts, who were on their way to Polavaram, too were arrested and prevented from visiting the project site. Addressing the media later, Mr. Ramakrishna condemned the police act and stated that the party leaders would attempt to visit the project site again in the days to come. “It is widely believed that the State government is attempting to decrease the height of the project. If it does not allow us to inspect the site, it lends credence to such beliefs,” he said. “The police should understand that the CPI leaders and activists are not extremists, and they are entitled to visit the project site,” he asserted. Tight security Earlier, the police arranged tight security at the project site following the CPI’s call for ‘Polavaram Parirakshana Yatra’. With the TDP too extending its support to the yatra, the police threw a security blanket and arranged pickets to prevent political leaders from entering the project site. The CPI alleged that police took the party leaders into custody in Eluru, Kovvur, Jeelugumilli, Jangareddygudem and other places.
23 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Arunachal Pradesh CM pushes for highway along Tibet border||Since the Ladakh stand-off between the Indian and Chinese armies in May, Arunachal Pradesh has been pushing for the ambitious Frontier Highway project along the “India-Tibet border” for facilitating faster movement of troops if a war-like situation arises. In an interview to The Hindu , Chief Minister Pema Khandu said the project has gained momentum after all armed forces, Border Roads Organisation and other stakeholder agencies were brought on the same page for a coordinated approach to build the highway at Himalayan heights along the 1,100-km Line of Actual Control. Insisting on calling it the Tibetan border despite India’s official position of “acknowledging China’s annexation of Tibet”, Mr. Khandu regretted the State’s inability to get “cheaper” foreign funding because of Beijing’s “interference”.
23 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Uproar over Kerala law to curb abusive content||A drastic amendment to the Kerala Police Act, 2011, to give the local law enforcement more teeth to curb defamation has sparked outrage, with Opposition parties, journalists’ bodies and civil rights activists seeing a threat to the freedom of the press and free speech in Kerala. Kerala Governor Arif Muhammad Khan recently signed an ordinance amending the law to give the police more powers to prosecute persons who exploit various communication platforms to slander fellow citizens. The ordinance has introduced a new provision, Section 118-A, to the Act. The amendment proposes three years of imprisonment and a fine of up to Rs. 10,000 for those convicted of producing, publishing or disseminating derogatory content through any means of communication to intimidate, insult or defame any person. ‘Media muzzled’ The Congress has reacted sharply to the move. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the amendment would reverse the course on media freedom, muzzle free speech and jeopardise civil liberties. Former Union Finance Minister P Chidambaram tweeted: “Shocked by the law made by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government of Kerala making a so-called ‘offensive’ post on social media punishable by [three] years in prison.”  B.G. Harindranath, former Law Secretary, Kerala, said the amendment granted the police untrammelled authority to examine published and broadcast content and register cases even in the absence of a specific complaint. The new law has rendered defamation a cognisable offence. The amendment had resurrected the “same legal vices” the Supreme Court had “trashed” by scrapping Section 66 A of the IT Act, he said. “Conferring power on the police to gauge mental injury, loss of reputation and such matters due to dissemination of information would result in widespread abuse. The amendment could curtail the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19 (1) of the Constitution,” Mr. Harindranath said. IUML state general secretary K. P. A. Majeed criticised the move as an attempt to muzzle the press. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, however, said the amendment targeted defamatory social media posts and online content. It did not seek to curb reportage, political satire, opinion, free speech, impartial journalism or commentary.
23 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Uproar over Kerala law to curb abusive content||A drastic amendment to the Kerala Police Act, 2011, to give the local law enforcement more teeth to curb defamation has sparked outrage, with Opposition parties, journalists’ bodies and civil rights activists seeing a threat to the freedom of the press and free speech in the State. Kerala Governor Arif Muhammad Khan recently signed an ordinance amending the law to give the police more powers to prosecute persons who exploit various communication platforms to slander fellow citizens. The ordinance has introduced a new provision, Section 118-A, to the Act. The amendment proposes three years of imprisonment and a fine of up to Rs. 10,000 for those convicted of producing, publishing or disseminating derogatory content through any means of communication to intimidate, insult or defame any person. ‘Media muzzled’ The Congress has reacted sharply to the move. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the amendment would reverse the course on media freedom, muzzle free speech and jeopardise civil liberties. Former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “Shocked by the law made by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government of Kerala making a so-called ‘offensive’ post on social media punishable by [three] years in prison.”  B.G. Harindranath, former Law Secretary, Kerala, said the amendment granted the police untrammelled authority to examine published and broadcast content and register cases even in the absence of a specific complaint. The new law has rendered defamation a cognisable offence. The amendment had resurrected the “same legal vices” the Supreme Court had “trashed” by scrapping Section 66 A of the IT Act, he said. “Conferring power on the police to gauge mental injury, loss of reputation and such matters due to dissemination of information would result in widespread abuse. The amendment could curtail the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19 (1) of the Constitution,” Mr. Harindranath said. IUML state general secretary K. P. A. Majeed criticised the move as an attempt to muzzle the press. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, however, said the amendment targeted defamatory social media posts and online content. It did not seek to curb reportage, political satire, opinion, free speech, impartial journalism or commentary.
23 November 2020||MYSURU,||SII stocking emergency doses||The Pune-based vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India (SII) is expecting the results of the clinical trials of the COVID-19 vaccine candidate Covishield by January. “We have started manufacturing the product,” the SII’s Executive Director, Suresh Jadhav, said. The institute would produce 60 million doses every month from January. “But, till January, we will have about 80 to 100 million doses for supply if we get permission for emergency use by the government.”
23 November 2020||kolkata,||Twin treats with Feluda and Shankhu||Two iconic characters of filmmaker Satyajit Ray — Feluda the detective, and Professor Shanku, the scientist and inventor — will come together and share screen space for the first time in a film directed by the maestro’s son Sandip Ray. The initiative is part of the birth centenary of the legend. Mr. Ray said the project was “untitled” and shooting would start after the situation due to the COVID-19 pandemic normalised. The film will be released by 2021-end.
23 November 2020||new delhi,||Coldest November night in 17 years||Delhi’s minimum temperature dropped to 6.9 degrees Celsius on Sunday, the lowest in November since 2003. The city had recorded a minimum of 7.5 degrees Celsius on Friday, the lowest for the month in 14 years. November has consistently seen below average temperatures due to the absence of cloud cover and icy cold winds blowing in from the Himalayas.
23 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Uproar over Kerala law to curb abusive content||A drastic amendment to the Kerala Police Act, 2011, to give the local law enforcement more teeth to curb defamation has sparked outrage, with Opposition parties, journalists’ bodies and civil rights activists seeing a threat to the freedom of the press and free speech in the State. Kerala Governor Arif Muhammad Khan recently signed an ordinance amending the law to give the police more powers to prosecute persons who exploit various communication platforms to slander fellow citizens. The ordinance has introduced a new provision, Section 118-A, to the Act. The amendment proposes three years of imprisonment and a fine of up to Rs. 10,000 for those convicted of producing, publishing or disseminating derogatory content through any means of communication to intimidate, insult or defame any person. ‘Media muzzled’ The Congress has reacted sharply to the move. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the amendment would reverse the course on media freedom, muzzle free speech and jeopardise civil liberties. Former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “Shocked by the law made by the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government of Kerala making a so-called ‘offensive’ post on social media punishable by [three] years in prison.”  B.G. Harindranath, former Law Secretary, Kerala, said the amendment granted the police untrammelled authority to examine published and broadcast content and register cases even in the absence of a specific complaint. The new law has rendered defamation a cognisable offence. The amendment had resurrected the “same legal vices” the Supreme Court had “trashed” by scrapping Section 66 A of the IT Act, he said. “Conferring power on the police to gauge mental injury, loss of reputation and such matters due to dissemination of information would result in widespread abuse. The amendment could curtail the freedom of speech and expression guaranteed under Article 19 (1) of the Constitution,” Mr. Harindranath said. IUML state general secretary K. P. A. Majeed criticised the move as an attempt to muzzle the press. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, however, said the amendment targeted defamatory social media posts and online content. It did not seek to curb reportage, political satire, opinion, free speech, impartial journalism or commentary.
23 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Gallantry award-winning ASI arrested for extortion||A Delhi Police Assistant Sub-Inspector and gallantry medal winner has been arrested for allegedly planning to extort Rs. 2 crore by conniving with criminals, an officer said on Sunday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said ASI Rajbir Singh, posted with the Police Control Room unit in South-West Zone, had planned and plotted the extortion. A Delhi Police spokesperson said they were examining the possibility of revoking the medal conferred on Singh. “He has been suspended and proceedings for his dismissal are being contemplated,” he added. The police said the matter came to light when an FIR was lodged at the Hauz Khas police station in which the complainant alleged that on June 28 his father received a call from a man who identified himself as gangster Kala. The caller allegedly demanded Rs. 2 crore and threatened to kill the complainant’s entire family if he did not pay up. During investigation, it was revealed that the SIM card and phone used to make the extortion call was allegedly snatched on June 27 in Rohtak, Haryana. The handset was not used to make the call, but the SIM card was put in another phone and then the call was made. The handset was procured by Mukesh from Sawan, both residents of Pankaj Garden, Delhi. Mukesh gave the handset to Parmod alias Kala, a resident of Jhajjar in Haryana, who then made the extortion call from Bhiwadi in Rajasthan. Mukesh and Sawan were then arrested. During inquiry, it came to light that Parmod was using three phones. The numbers were analysed and it was revealed that Singh was in constant touch with Parmod. ASI knew complainant The ASI also knew the complainant and provided information to Parmod. The complainant suspected Singh’s role after the ASI called him and tried to talk to him about the extortion call on July 14, the police said. Meanwhile, Parmod was arrested and he disclosed that Singh had provided the number of the complainant and told him to make the extortion call. “Rajbir was the mastermind and he was arrested on Friday and sent to judicial custody,” the DCP said.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Curfew returns||
23 November 2020||Kolkata,||WB COVID -19 fatalities cross 8,000||West Bengal on Sunday recorded 49 deaths due to COVID-19 infections taking the total fatalities to 8,025, adding 1,000 deaths in less than 20 days. The COVID-19 fatalities in the State had crossed 7,000 on November 3. The percentage of deceased who had co morbidities was 83.6% (6,707), while 16.4% (1,318) people who died had no co-morbidities. Of the total number of deceased 11.64% people were 75 years old or older. This is also the first time in the past few days that the State has recorded less than 50 deaths in a single day. The State added 3,591 new cases taking the total numbers in the State to 4,56,361. The discharge rate increased to 92.72% and the active cases have declined to 25,207. The percentage of positive cases out of samples tested is 8.26%. As many as 44,653 samples were tested in the past 24 hours in the 48 testing labs in the State. Questions about the low number of COVID-19 tests are not only being raised in medical circles but also in political circles. The BJP leadership has alleged that the State government is purposely testing fewert samples so the daily reported infections in the State remains low.
23 November 2020||KALABURAGI,||Kalaburagi Airport completes one year||The fast-growing Kalaburagi Airport has completed one year of service. It all started a year ago when the long-pending dream of the people of Kalyana Karnataka region of having an airport in Kalaburagi was realised on November 22, 2019.
23 November 2020||BELAGAVI,||Rally taken out in support of BJP MLA||Some organisations took out rally in support of MLA and BJP leader Basanagouda Patil Yatnal in Vijayapura on Sunday for his statements supporting Maratha Development Corporation.
23 November 2020||Agartala,||Do not share videos of violence: Tripura CM||Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Sunday warned of action against those circulating graphic videos of Saturday’s violent incidents at Panisagar in north Tripura that left two dead and many injured. He appealed to people to refrain from sharing videos.
23 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Pandemic brings cadaver organ donations to a halt||Although nearly 4,000 patients are waiting for various organ transplants in Karnataka, there have been hardly five cadaveric donations during the pandemic.
23 November 2020||New Delhi,||Capital records 121 more fatalities, 6,746 cases||Delhi recorded 6,746 fresh COVID-19 cases and 121 more fatalities on Sunday, pushing the tally to 5,29,863 and the death toll to 8,391. These fresh cases came out of the 54,893 tests done on Saturday, giving a positivity rate of 12.29%. There are 40,212 active cases in the city, of which 23,301 people are under home isolation.
23 November 2020||new delhi,||Chargesheet filed against ex-JNU students||The Delhi police on Sunday filed a chargesheet before a court here against former JNU students Umar Khalid and Sharjeel Imam in a case related to alleged “conspiracy” behind the February communal violence in north-east Delhi. The FIR was registered under sections of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.
23 November 2020||Ghaziabad,||Man gets life for rape bid on centenarian||A Meerut court has sentenced a man to life imprisonment for attempting to rape a 100-year-old Dalit woman. The incident occurred in 2017 and the woman died of shock during medical examination. A penalty of Rs. 25,000 has also been imposed on him, said the special public prosecutor.
23 November 2020||Mumbai,||Bharti Singh, husband in judicial custody||A Mumbai court on Sunday remanded comedian Bharti Singh and husband Harsh Limbachiya in judicial custody till December 4 after they were arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) following the seizure of drugs from their house. The magistrate’s court will be hearing their bail pleas on Monday. The NCB arrested Ms. Singh on Saturday and her husband early on Sunday morning following the seizure of ganja (cannabis) from their house in Andheri. The couple was produced before a magistrate’s court on Sunday afternoon. The couple filed bail pleas through advocate Ayaz Khan soon after being remanded in custody.PTI
23 November 2020||Nashik,||Nashik schools shut till January 4, says Bhujbal||Schools in Nashik will remain closed till January 4 due to a recent spike in COVID-19 cases, senior NCP leader and district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal said on Sunday. He said schools, even if they open now, would function for 18 days, with batches being divided into half with each set attending classes for just nine days, Bhujbal said. “A decision on reopening schools will be taken after Christmas holidays. Around 40 teachers in the district have tested positive ” Mr. Bhujbal said.PTi
23 November 2020||MANGALURU,||GAIL successfully pumps RLNG to city from Kochi||GAIL India Ltd. on Sunday pumped the first lot of regasified liquefied natural gas (RLNG) from Kochi to Mangaluru through the 438-km Kochi-Koottanad-Mangaluru pipeline thereby heralding the green initiative in the coastal region.
23 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Middlemen still rule in job scheme: KEA study||A five-year evaluation of payment of wages to beneficiaries of the MGNREGS in Karnataka revealed middlemen who get work done through machines but show it to have been carried out by registered MNREGA workers.
23 November 2020||Bengaluru,||School reopening dates likely to be decided today||A decision on reopening of schools is likely to be taken on Monday. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has convened a meeting with Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on the matter.
23 November 2020||COIMBATORE,||BJP: confident of winning seats in Assembly poll||A day after the BJP and the AIADMK announced that their alliance will continue in the 2021 Assembly election in the State, BJP leaders here on Sunday expressed confidence of winning seats in the election. BJP Mahila Morcha national president Vanathi Srinivasan said the workers were toiling hard to realise the party’s dreams.
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Only three districts record over 100 cases||Only three districts in Tamil Nadu recorded more than 100 cases of COVID-19, while nine districts had less than 10 cases each on Sunday. With 1,655 more persons testing positive on Sunday, the State’s tally rose to 7,69,995. In Chennai district, 489 fresh cases were reported.
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Bus service to A.P. to resume on Nov. 25||The State government has issued orders to permit inter-State bus transport between Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh without e-registration from November 25. A G.O. has been issued in this regard by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam.
23 November 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,||Udhayanidhi Stalin arrested again||DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin was arrested yet again on Sunday — the third time in three days — for violating physical distancing norms to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
23 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Colleges may be shut again if COVID-19 cases rise: Minister||Barely six days after degree and engineering colleges were reopened in the State, Karnataka Health Minister K. Sudhakar on Sunday said they may be shut again if COVID-19 cases go up. Degree, engineering and diploma colleges were reopened on November 17 after eight months of closure due to lockdown. Under the circumstances, reports emerged that at least 130 students got infected by COVID-19. “If the cases go up, then, as you have said in your (media) reports, we will have to go for a shutdown once again. There is no alternative,” Dr. Sudhakar told reporters in Dharwad while responding to queries about the rising COVID-19 cases among students. The Minister’s statement came ahead of Karnataka government’s crucial meeting on Monday to decide reopening of schools. Dr. Sudhakar conceded that the schools have not been reopened yet in the State for the fear of COVID-19. Stating that about 120 to 130 students were infected with the virus as per media reports, he said he would gather information from senior officials. Explaining the reason behind reopening of colleges, he said youth have immunity. “I won’t say that the students won’t contract the disease. Youth have more immunity. We have to protect the lives of the students as well as shape their academic future. Since we have a big responsibility, we decided to reopen schools and colleges in a phased manner,” Dr. Sudhakar said. According to officials in the Higher Education Department, the decision to reopen colleges was taken as students were not able to grasp the lessons online due to various reasons such as lack of gadgets, poor connectivity and health issues such as eyesight. Besides, the faculties and the college staff were staring at unemployment.
23 November 2020||Bengaluru,||CBI arrests ex-Karnataka Minister Roshan Baig||After several hours of questioning, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Sunday arrested former Karnataka Minister Roshan Baig in the Rs. 4,000-crore I Monetary Advisory (IMA) investment scam. A team of CBI officials picked up Mr. Baig from his residence around 11 a.m. for questioning. He has been remanded in judicial custody and he will be housed in the quarantine cell at the Central Jail, Parappana Agrahara. Prime accused The prime accused in the case, Mohammed Mansoor Khan, managing director and chief executive officer of the IMA Group of companies, had alleged that he had given Mr. Baig Rs. 400 crore. Before fleeing the country to evade arrest when the scam first broke, Mansoor Khan released an audio clip in which he blamed Mr. Baig for his situation, claiming that the former Shivajinagar MLA who was with the Congress at the time had failed to return the above said amount, which led to IMA defaulting on its payments. The then Revenue Minister R.V. Deshpande had said Mr. Baig had introduced Mansoor Khan to him seeking help. The Revenue department was probing the IMA at the time. However, Mr. Baig has been insisting that he had no role in the scam and he knew Mansoor Khan only as a businessman from his constituency. He alleged that Mansoor Khan was indulging in name-dropping to get away unscathed. In July 2019, a Special Investigation Team probing the scam detained Mr. Baig at the airport for questioning, while he was boarding a chartered flight at the Kempegowda International Airport. He was questioned by the SIT for several hours before being released. The CBI had filed a supplementary chargesheet against a total of 28 accused, including six public servants, in October earlier this year. Mr. Baig, a seven-time MLA, was last associated with the Congress. He was earlier associated with the Janata Parivar. The Congress suspended him from the party in June 2019 after his name cropped up in the IMA scam and he publicly criticised several Congress leaders. A month later, he resigned as a legislator along with other Congress and JD(S) MLAs, though he was not wooed by the BJP. He was disqualified by the then Speaker K.R. Ramesh Kumar, which was later upheld by the Supreme Court. Though he resigned and played a role in toppling the JD(S)-Congress coalition government, the BJP high command blocked his entry into the party over his “tainted image” and his alleged role in supporting the killers of RSS worker Rudresh at Shivajinagar in 2016. However, he continued to support the BJP, praise Prime Minister Narendra Modi and even support the party on the Ram Mandir issue. He did not contest from Shivajinagar in the November 2019 bypolls. Though he claimed to be supporting the BJP during the bypolls, the party explicitly disassociated with him, embarrassing him. The Congress won the seat. Presently, Mr. Baig is not associated with any political party.
23 November 2020||New Delhi/ Riyadh,||PM for integrated fight against climate change||Climate change must be fought not in silos but in an integrated, comprehensive and holistic way, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said at a G20 event on Sunday and asserted that the entire world can progress faster if there is greater support of technology and finance to developing nations. Addressing a G20 summit side event — Safeguarding the Planet: The Circular Carbon Economy Approach — Mr. Modi said India is not only meeting its Paris Agreement targets, but also exceeding them. ‘Traditional ethos’ “Inspired by our traditional ethos of living in harmony with the environment, and the commitment of my government, India has adopted low-carbon and climate-resilient development practices,” he said. The entire world can progress faster if there is greater support of technology and finance to the developing world, Mr. Modi asserted. “For humanity to prosper, every single individual must prosper. Rather than seeing labour as a factor of production alone, the focus must be on the human dignity of every worker,” he said. Such an approach would be the best guarantee for safeguarding the planet, he said. Mr. Modi said that in times of COVID-19, when everyone is focused on saving citizens and economies, it is equally important to focus on fighting climate change. “Climate change must be fought not in silos but in an integrated, comprehensive and holistic way,” he said. India is a signatory to the 2015 Paris Agreement under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. Underlining that India has taken concrete action, Mr. Modi said the country has made LED lights popular, which, he said, saves 38 million tonnes of carbon dioxide emission per year. “We will meet our goal of 175 gigawatts of renewable energy well before the target of 2022. Now, we are taking a big step ahead by seeking to achieve 450 gigawatts by 2030,” he said.  India has adopted low-carbon and climate-resilient development practices Narendra Modi Prime Minister
23 November 2020||MYSURU,||SII stocking emergency doses||The Pune-based vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India (SII) is expecting the results of the clinical trials of the COVID-19 vaccine candidate Covishield by January. “We have started manufacturing the product,” the SII’s Executive Director, Suresh Jadhav, said on Saturday, adding that the institute would produce 50 million to 60 million doses of the vaccine candidate developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University every month from January. “But, till January, we will also have about 80 to 100 million doses in stock for supply if we get permission for emergency use by the government.” At a virtual conference on “COVID-19 vaccine — a global perspective” organised by the JSS Research Foundation, Dr. Jadhav said the trials of Covishield were in the final stages in India. While the Phase 3 trials had been completed in some parts of the world, in India, they were in the final stages with the injections scheduled for completion by November-end. He hoped that the results of the trials would be available by January for submission to the regulator, Drug Controller General of India (DCGI), which had already permitted the SII to start manufacturing the vaccine after the trials entered phase 3. Covishield is one of the five vaccine candidates with which SII was involved in India. Globally, a total of 321 vaccine candidates are in different stages of development, 50 of them in clinical evaluation phase. Dr. Jadhav said the world required 16 billion doses of vaccine with each of the 7.2 billion people on the planet requiring two doses each, besides the 1.5 to 2 billion that were likely to go waste. “It will require years together for several manufacturers to come up with the required quantity,” he said. Pre-booking problem He expressed concern over the pre-booking of COVID-19 vaccines by the developed world. “Most of the developed world has booked more than double the quantity they require from western manufacturers,” he said, adding that about 3.4 billion doses had already been booked by the developed world by giving the manufacturers an advance amount. Pointing out that such a trend was not witnessed in developing countries, Dr. Jadhav raised questions over equal distribution of the vaccine to all parts of the world. Expiry date He sought to highlight the challenge the manufacturers would face when giving an expiry date for the vaccine product. “Unless there is a good stability data for a long period of time for the product, manufacturers cannot determine to what extent the product will remain stable,” he said, adding that availability of stability data was one of the major reasons for vaccines to take a long time for development.
23 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Frontier Highway vital for troops’||Given Beijing’s claim over it, Arunachal Pradesh has been wary of increased activities by the People’s Liberation Army across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) since the Ladakh stand-off in May. With reports that China has started working on a railway up to the State’s border, Chief MinisterPema Khanduhas been pushing for better connectivity to the Himalayan heights, specifically the Frontier Highway along the border, to facilitate faster movement of troops during a war-like situation and give local people more accessibility by default.  Vast stretches of the LAC in Arunachal Pradesh are inaccessible, while China, reports say, is working on railway and military infrastructure up to the border. How does your government view this? If one goes by the history of conflicts since 1962 and unfounded claims over Arunachal Pradesh, it is imperative to protect our homeland. Many stretches of the border are indeed inaccessible. This is why we are pushing for the Frontier Highway along the 1,100-km LAC to facilitate faster movement of troops. Projects for the border areas used to get confused because of multiple agencies. We have changed this through a coordinated approach so that everyone from the Army, the Indo-Tibetan Border Police, the Border Roads Organisation and State agencies plans things out together for quality, speedy execution. A detailed project report (DPR) is being made after meetings with the Ministry of Home Affairs and the Defence Ministry. Isn’t that a literally uphill task in view of the fragile ecology of the eastern Himalayas? This is where the coordination is crucial. We want the best alignment closest to the Tibetan border with minimum impact on the slopes. There will be a lot of tunnels for the Frontier Highway that will touch existing roads and tracks in some areas. Tunnels are already being built for shortening the highway to Tawang from Assam. The railway to Tawang being surveyed also envisages tunnels. You keep referring to the LAC as the India-Tibet border despite the official position... Arunachal Pradesh has always shared its border with Tibet, not with China. This is a historic fact that none can erase. The world knows that China annexed Tibet. Are you looking at foreign investment for the highway projects? The terrain and natural factors such as landslides make our projects expensive. Foreign funding agencies provide loans at cheaper interest rates that benefit many States in India, but China has continuously been blocking such funding for us because of its unfounded claim [over Arunachal Pradesh]. China’s interference has denied us loans from Asian Development Bank and others. Nevertheless, the Centre has been providing assistance to projects such as the ongoing 1,600-km Trans-Arunachal Highway project, which has had cost overruns due to land compensation issues. But we have taken action against officials and agencies for misappropriation of funds, besides letting the people know that if they need roads and other infrastructure, they should give up claiming compensation that takes up a big percentage of a project cost. The East-West Industrial Corridor planned along the foothills bordering Assam is without such claims. What purpose would the Industrial Corridor serve? Ours is a resourceful State but communication is the biggest bottleneck. We are emphasising digital connectivity to the remotest of places. But roads are of utmost importance, particularly in border areas, from where people have been migrating because of accessibility. Tourism, our strength, also needs good roads. We were told a special desk will be created for Arunachal for investment under ‘Invest India’. We are eyeing investments in agriculture and horticulture-based and non-polluting industries. What about hydropower projects that environmentalists are critical of? Tribal societies coexist with nature. The Central Electricity Authority says Arunachal has potential to produce 50,000 MW of hydropower, which is needed for our industrial dream. But at the same time, we know it is important to conserve the nature that sustains us. We have terminated many projects for which agreements were signed years ago because they were not right or not progressing. We are pursuing the feasible ones.  Roads are of utmost importance, particularly in border areas, from where people have been migrating because of accessibility
23 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Middlemen still rule in job scheme: KEA study||A five-year evaluation of payment of wages to beneficiaries of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme through Electronic Fund Management System (eFMS) in Karnataka revealed presence of contractors or “mestris”/middlemen who get work done through machines but show the work to have been carried out by registered MNREGA workers. Evaluation of the functioning of eFMS during 2013-14 and 2018-19 conducted by the Karnataka Evaluation Authority (KEA) found that a majority of ‘not worked’ job cardholders had lent their cards to mestris or contractors who get an assigned work done through machines such as tractors, tippers, JCBs. The payment of wage to beneficiaries through eFMS in eight districts of Chickballapur, Kolar, Dakshina Kannada, Mandya, Uttara Kannada, Dharwad, Kalaburagi, and Yadgir found that 32.3% of job cardholders had never worked even once under MNREGA. “But they were all job cardholders, and claimed to have registered seeking work”. Another 53.8% claimed to have worked just once after having registered and obtained the job card, said the KEA study (2020). Some gram panchayats have informed about a new type of “middleman” emerging in the process of wage disbursal. “These are the outsourced ‘data entry operators’, who too, the study said, “demand a fee for their role of timely data entry operations or facilitating the uploading of funds transfer order and digital signatures of the two signatories.” Since the introduction of eFMS in 2013-14, money has been transferred to beneficiaries’ accounts directly without any cash disbursement. Wages to the labourers are expected to be paid on a weekly basis and not beyond 15 days of the date on which work was done. The State has more than 68 lakh job cardholders in the State. Though the workers preferred eFMS mode of payment, material suppliers such as contractors or mestris were not shown much preference. “It is the mestri, he or she, who collects the wage list, attendance list with the different workers’ names and details of work done by them,” shows study. On the positive side, out of a sample of 4,301 job cardholders, 75% had reported that there was no delay in wage payment since eFMS had been introduced. In 2018-19, Karnataka’s average rate of timely payment of wages stood at 75.76% against the country’s average of 90.52%. Major reasons were not due to technology factors but owing to the absence of signatories in office when required, mismatch between the account particulars and what was stated in the wage bills, the delay in preparation of wage bills by the team leaders (mestris), wrong entry of job card number, and changes in bank account number after job card registration, the KEA study said. In some districts, it was difficult to procure casual workers for agriculture or for any other operations largely due to implementation of the Anna Bhagya scheme, it said.
23 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||132 countries attend global meet on criminal finances||Over 2,000 representatives from 132 countries attended the virtual 4th Global Conference on Criminal Finances and Cryptocurrencies organised by the Interpol, Europol and the Basel Institute on Governance from November 18 to 19. “Representatives from law enforcement and the judiciary, Financial Intelligence Units (FIUs), international organisations and the private sector have met virtually to shape international cross-sector solutions against the criminal use of cryptocurrencies,” said the Interpol. The conference is an initiative of the Working Group on Cryptocurrencies and Money Laundering established in 2016 by the three organisations, launched with an objective of strengthening knowledge, expertise and best practices for investigations into financial crimes and intelligence on virtual assets and cryptocurrencies. “Recent increases in the number and quality of investigations in the field of cryptocurrency-facilitated crime and subsequent money laundering means that law enforcement and other public entities are continuing to enhance their level of knowledge and expertise in this crime area. In this regard, the conference served as an opportunity to underline the need for countries and jurisdictions to increase the exchange of tactical information and best practices,” it said. The conference underlined the need to expand capabilities on ways to probe virtual assets and regulate virtual asset service providers to prevent money laundering. The conference’s agenda included trends and investigations on cryptocurrency related offences, exploring criminal flows and operations in the dark markets, ransomware and sextortion case studies, money laundering involving virtual assets, and the transfer of drug proceeds using cryptocurrencies.
23 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nadda to go on nationwide tour, eyes 2024 election||The BJP on Sunday announced that party president J.P. Nadda would embark on a 120-day nationwide tour to tone up the party’s organisational machinery and improve it in areas where the party has not done well in the past, with an eye on the 2024 Lok Sabha election. The tour is similar to the “Vistarak tour” undertaken by Mr. Nadda’s predecessor and Union Home Minister, Amit Shah, when the latter was party president. Mr. Shah had concentrated on 130 seats where the BJP had come second or never won an election, and in 2019, it was found that the party had won in 80 of those seats. From Uttarakhand BJP general secretary Arun Singh told presspersons that Mr. Nadda would begin his tour from the first week of December, with Uttarakhand being the first State on his itinerary. December 5 is the likely date for the start of his tour. Mr. Singh said Mr. Nadda would visit every State, hold virtual meetings with heads of all booth units, the smallest organisational entity in the party, and meet every MP and MLA of the organisation, besides its senior leaders, including district chiefs, in each State. Mr. Nadda would visit some booths to interact with ground-level workers, he added. During the travel, he would also strategise with party leaders for strengthening the organisation in the Lok Sabha constituencies and regions where the BJP did not win in the 2019 election, he said. Assembly polls With Assembly polls in four States — West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Assam — scheduled for the first half of 2021, Mr. Nadda would review the party’s preparedness for the election, Mr. Singh said. He will spend an average of three days in big States and two in others. The BJP-ruled States will make presentations to Mr. Nadda on various aspects of their work, including implementation of Central government schemes and on how to further raise awareness about them. The party president will also be meeting allies of the BJP and hold public programmes and press conferences, Mr. Singh said.
23 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. structure has collapsed: Azad||The Congress party’s ‘structure’ has collapsed and needs to be rebuilt by having elected leaders from the block to the Congress Working Committee (CWC)-level and enforce accountability in the system, Leader of the Opposition in the Rajya Sabha Ghulam Nabi Azad said on Sunday. Mr. Azad, in an interview to the news agency Asia News International (ANI) ,  however, asserted that there was “no rebellion but a call to reform the Congress and become a national alternative”. He also gave a ‘clean chit’ to the Gandhis as they could not have effected drastic changes during the COVID-19 pandemic, but claimed that they had agreed to their demand of having an elected party chief, CWC members and other levels of leadership. Mr. Azad is part of the group of 23 (G-23) leaders who, in August, sent a letter to Congress president Sonia Gandhi in which they demanded a “visible, effective and full-time leader” and set up an institutional mechanism to provide “collective leadership”. Key panels Last Friday, Ms. Gandhi appointed four of them — Mr. Azad, Anand Sharma, Veerappa Moily and Shashi Tharoor — to key party panels on economy, national security and foreign affairs. “There is no rebellion in the Congress party. Rebellion means replacing someone. There is no other candidate for the post of party president. This is not a rebellion. This is for reforms,” Mr. Azad said, adding “sycophancy in any party leads to its downfall”. “I am giving a clean chit to the Gandhis due to the COVID-19 pandemic as they can’t do much right now. There is no change in our demands. They have agreed to most of our demands. Our leadership should hold elections if they want to become a national alternative and revive the party,” he added.  ANI quoted Mr. Azad as saying “the Congress is on its lowest in the last 72 years” and that it “does not have even the post of Leader of the Opposition in the Lok Sabha during last two terms”. The party’s victory in the nine seats of the Ladakh Hill Council elections was a surprise, he said. Breaking his silence on Bihar election results, Mr. Azad said a five-star culture had seeped into the party and candidates first checked into a luxury hotel after getting party ticket to contest an election. “Our party’s structure has collapsed. We need to rebuild our structure and then if any leader is elected in that structure, it will work. But to say just by changing the leader we will win Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh etc. is wrong. That will happen once we change the system. Until we change our way of functioning at every level, things won’t change,” he said.
23 November 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. exploring ways for emergency authorisation||The Union government is exploring the modalities of emergency authorisation and usage of anti-coronavirus vaccines pending completion of Phase 3 clinical trial and regular licensure. The issue of advance purchase commitment for vaccines, including pricing, was also discussed at a recent meeting attended by NITI Aayog Member (Health) Vinod Paul, Principal Scientific Advisor to the government K VijayRaghavan and Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan. Market commitment “It was decided that the PMO-constituted Vaccine Task Force (VTF) will lay down the principles for emergency use authorisation, while the National Expert Group On Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) should take the lead in setting the principles for advance market commitment, including vaccine pricing,” a source said. These developments assume significance against the backdrop of Pfizer seeking emergency use authorisation of its COVID-19 vaccine from the US regulators. Another U.S.-based biotechnology giant, Moderna, said it also intended to apply for an emergency use authorisation (EUA) with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (USFDA) in the coming weeks. According to the source, an urgent meeting of the vaccine task force (VTF) with experts will be convened to review the scientific status of vaccines globally and how and when should the decision on emergency authorisation of vaccines be taken. Terms of references The terms of references for two major bodies dealing with vaccine introduction — the National Technical Advisory Group on Immunisation (NTAGI) and the Central Drug Standards and Control Organisation (CDSCO) — will be set and their roles clearly defined for authorisation and emergency authorisation. It was also agreed at the meeting that one point of contact would be responsible for examining and responding to authorisations given (or in the pipeline), globally, the source said.
23 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rawat calls for dual-use facilities||The contracting envelope of the defence budget makes it all the more imperative to create dual use infrastructure through civil-military fusion, Chief of the Defence Staff (CDS) Gen. Bipin Rawat said, calling for integrating civil and military ecosystems to optimise resource utilisation. “The existing segregated nature of defence and commercial industry ecosystems restricts our capabilities and capacities in making defence equipment. Integrating civil and military technology efforts is the way forward towards for self-reliance,” Gen. Rawat said speaking at a webinar conducted by the Centre for Joint Warfare Studies. On triservice integration, Gen. Rawat said the joint study groups on integrated air defence command, integrated theatre commands and maritime theatre command have brought out their papers which are “being iterated, deliberated and further refined so that firm steps can be taken to operationalise them in the next 2-3 years.” For this, Gen. Rawat said they have set timelines for the transformation to be effective, and in the first year, they are examining and evolving concepts. “It should be followed by a year dedicated to trails, test bedding and aligning of structures,” he said, adding the next two years would lead to stabilisation of integrated structures and processes. Gen. Rawat said the feasibility of integrating civil, military airports to strengthen aviation safety, air space management and combat support capabilities must be examined. Satellites for remote sensing and reconnaissance, communication, positioning and navigation must also meet armed forces requirements with desired inbuilt encryption, he observed. Stating that railway wagons and civil truck trailers must be manufactured for dual use, capable of transporting heavy military equipment including armoured fighting vehicles, Gen. Rawat said, “Construction of communication towers and electricity infrastructure along with rails, roads, bridges and tunnels in border States must be of specifications that facilitate use by armed forces as well.” He called for looking into civil-military convergence in storage and ware housing facilities for fuel oil lubricants, rations and ordnance supplies. Civil-military integration in infrastructure development holds the key to whole of nation approach towards national security, he stated. Stating that a nation’s aspirations of becoming a regional power cannot rely on borrowed strengths, Gen. Rawat said Indian wars have to be won with Indian solutions. He said cooperation between government and commercial facilities in research and development, manufacturing, maintenance operations, production of similar components and sub-components on same production lines will optimise commercial and defence industrial base, maximize resource utilisation and reduce manufacturing and life cycle costs for defence equipment.
23 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Pandemic brings cadaver organ donations to a halt in Karnataka||Although nearly 4,000 patients are waiting for various organ transplants in Karnataka, there have been hardly five cadaveric donations during the pandemic. This includes one skin donation. Jeevasarthakathe, the State’s nodal agency that facilitates cadaver organ donations, has recorded only four donations since April, retrieving 22 organs, while the State’s only skin bank in Victoria Hospital has got just one donation during these months. During the corresponding period last year, while 105 cadaveric donations were facilitated through Jeevasarthakathe (wherein 511 organs were retrieved) the skin bank had seen 40 donations. This has created a huge demand-supply gap in organ transplantation in the State. Jeevasarthakathe convener Kishore Phadke, who attributed this to the fear of COVID-19, said many families were unwilling to allow a virus test to be conducted on the cadaver. “This is not a phenomena unique to Karnataka as organ donations have decreased globally,” he said. Changed situation With the entire focus on COVID-19, transplants had come to a standstill in several hospitals. However, the scenario has changed now and most hospitals have restarted organ transplants. While Manipal Hospitals’ Old Airport Road branch has conducted 11 live renal transplants and one cadaver renal transplant during the past few months, Aster CMI and Aster RV hospitals have conducted 11 liver transplants, 12 kidney transplants and five bone marrow transplants. Likewise, Apollo Hospitals group in Bengaluru has conducted a total of 16 transplants (nine kidney and seven liver). Sonal Asthana, Senior Consultant, Hepatobilary and Liver Transplant Surgery at Aster CMI Hospital, said many patients waiting for liver and kidney transplants have had serious implications due to low organ donations. “We are currently dependent on live liver transplants for patients who are critically ill and cannot survive. There is also a lot of stress while operating during such times as we not only have to focus on saving the life of patients but also have to take care of our team and have to ensure that all the precautions are undertaken to avoid any contamination,” he said. Sudarshan Ballal, Chairman of Manipal Hospitals, said the hospital had realised that the new normal was to co-exist with the pandemic. “For many patients, transplantation is the only hope. Despite the prevailing pandemic environment, we are putting in efforts to create more awareness about organ donations so that we can provide a better quality of life to our patients,” he said. Vishwanth. S, head of the department of Nephrology, at Manipal Hospitals, said the hospital resumed its transplant programme during the extended lockdown, maintaining an infection-free environment throughout.
23 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||ED opens preliminary inquiry into KIIFB borrowings||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has reportedly opened a preliminary inquiry to examine whether borrowings by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) from overseas markets “to spur development” in Kerala violated the provisions of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA). Official sources said the verification was predicated on the finding of the Comptroller and Auditor-General (CAG) that the KIIFB had raised Rs. 2,150 crore from the international market without the consent of the Central government. The CAG had also pointed out that the KIIFB had overstepped its legal bounds by issuing masala bonds to raise money from foreign markets in violation of Article 293 (1) of the Constitution. Only the Central government could guarantee instruments of debt floated by State-run entities in foreign financial markets. 0The ED has reportedly written to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) seeking details about the no-objection certificate it had supposedly extended to the KIIFB, enabling the agency to take sizeable loans from the foreign financial market. The ED’s bid to forensically examine the KIIFB’s working has arguably shaped up to be the latest battlefront between the State and the Centre. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac on Sunday said the ED’s attempt to investigate the KIIFB could precipitate an extraordinary administrative paralysis. He said the agency had attempted to stop dead the KIIFB-funded development drive at the behest of its political masters at the Centre. With the threat of an ED probe hanging like a sword of Damocles over the KIIFB, investors could shrink away from buying its masala bonds. The investigation could potentially cause the KIIFB’s revenue streams to dry up. The probe comes at a time when the International Finance Corporation (IFC) had expressed willingness to extend loans to the KIIFB. Dr. Isaac disagreed with the CAG’s finding that the KIIFB’s bid to raise loans from foreign financial markets was unconstitutional. The KIIFB was a corporate entity and not the State government. As per FEMA provisions, corporate entities could issue masala bonds to raise funds from foreign markets. The KIIFB was not a statutory body as deemed by the CAG. The KIIFB worked on a market-sensitive annuity model. It ensured that its liabilities never overshot its assets. The government would mobilise public opinion against the political move to undermine the KIIFB. Dr. Isaac said the CAG had unilaterally submitted its audit observation regarding the KIIFB without according the State its right of reply.
23 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Karnataka reports low test positivity||Kerala reported 5,254 new cases of COVID -19 on Sunday, from 48,015 test samples. The test positivity rate was 10.94% although the number of samples represented a drop. Another 27 deaths were added to the official list of COVID-19 deaths. Eight deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, six from Thrissur, five from Alappuzha, three each from Kollam and Malappuram and one each from Ernakulam and Kozhikode. Also, 874 patients were critically ill, 228 requiring ventilator support. Of the 5,254 new cases reported on Sunday, 5,160 were locally acquired infections, with 662 remaining untraced to any known source. The number of healthcare workers who contracted COVID-19 was 53. Telangana recorded 873 more virus cases on Saturday with a testing level of 41,646 samples. Four more COVID-19 patients died. In Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, 152 positive cases were detected. The new cases also included 78 from Medchal Malkajgiri, and 71 from Rangareddy. The lowest of two cases each were recorded in Narayanpet, Kumaram Bheem Asifabad districts. Andhra Pradesh reported 1,121 new infections on Sunday. The positivity rate of 9.5 lakh samples tested over a fortnight was 2.02% and 147 persons succumbed to the disease during the period. Sunday’s toll was 11 deaths. The daily positivity rate of 71,913 samples was 1.56%, the lowest in over five months and overall positivity rate of the 96.15 lakh samples dropped to 8.97%. Chittoor and Krishna reported the maximum deaths at two each and seven districts reported one new death each. Krishna reported the highest number of new infections. Karnataka added 1,704 new cases on Sunday, 1,039 of them from Bengaluru Urban. As many as 1.26 lakh tests were conducted on Saturday. The positivity rate for the day was 1.34%, while the case fatality rate for the day was 0.76%. Also, 13 patients died of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the State’s total death toll to 11,654. Of the total 24,868 active cases in the State, as many as 470 patients were admitted to intensive care units across different hospitals. In the 24 hours before Sunday, only three districts in Tamil Nadu recorded over 100 cases of COVID-19 and nine districts had less than 10 cases each. Chennai continued to have the highest number of persons testing positive. With 1,655 more persons testing positive on Sunday, the total number of positive cases rose to 7,69,995. At the same time 2,010 persons were discharged from various health facilities post-treatment in the past 24 hours, raising the tally to 7,45,848. In a day, as many as 982 men and 673 women had tested positive, according to public health officials.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)
23 November 2020||Mumbai,||Bharti Singh, husband in judicial custody||A Mumbai court on Sunday remanded comedian Bharti Singh and husband Harsh Limbachiya, arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) following seizure of drugs from their house, in judicial custody till December 4. The court will hear their bail pleas on Monday. The NCB arrested Ms. Singh on Saturday and her husband early Sunday morning following seizure of ganja (cannabis) from their house in suburban Andheri. The couple was produced before a magistrates court here Sunday afternoon. “The court has remanded both the accused to judicial custody till December 4,” NCB prosecutor Atul Sarpande told PTI . The couple filed bail pleas soon after being remanded in custody. NCB recovered 86.5 gm ganja during the search. This is considered as ‘small quantity’ under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, an official said. Acting on a tip-off, the NCB on Saturday conducted search at Ms. Singh’s office and residence. Up to 1,000 gm of ganja is considered small quantity, which attracts jail term up to six months and/or fine of Rs. 10,000. Possession of commercial quantity — 20 kg or more — can attract up to 20 years in jail. For the quantity in between, the punishment can be as much as 10 years in jail. “Ms. Singh’s name had cropped up during the interrogation of a drug peddler,” the official said.
23 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, Thailand, Singapore naval exercise concludes||The second edition of the India, Thailand and Singapore trilateral naval exercise, SITMEX-20, concluded in the Andaman Sea on Sunday. The 27th edition of India-Singapore bilateral maritime exercise, SIMBEX-20, is scheduled to be held in the same area from November 23 to 25. “The exercise, being conducted as a ‘non-contact, at sea only’ exercise in view of COVID-19 pandemic, highlights growing synergy, coordination and cooperation in the maritime domain between the three friendly navies and maritime neighbours,” the Navy said in a statement. The Indian Navy deployed indigenous Anti-Submarine Warfare corvette INS Kamorta and missile corvette INS Karmuk for the exercise held on November 21 and 22 and hosted by the Singapore Navy. Singapore deployed a ‘Formidable’ Class frigate Intrepid and ‘Endurance’ Class Landing Ship Tank Endeavour and the Royal Thai Navy deployed a ‘Chao Phraya’ Class frigate Kraburi for the exercise. The first edition of the exercise was hosted by the Indian Navy and was held off Port Blair in the month of September last year.
23 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Air pollution linked to health scares for children, says study||Spike in air pollution levels corresponded to an increase in visits by children to hospital emergency rooms (ER) for treatment of acute respiratory infections, finds a two-year-long study in Delhi. However a rise in fine particulate matter — PM10 and PM2.5 — was least correlative with emergency room visits for treatment of respiratory illnesses. Delhi sees a significant rise in pollution in winter. Though the impact of pollution on health is known, there is a paucity of studies that link specific pollutants, for example, sulphur dioxide or nitrous oxide, with adverse health outcomes. Previous studies have found that children are more susceptible to adverse health effects of air pollution than adults due to immature growth of lungs, making them vulnerable to inflammatory and oxidative damage. Further, due to higher respiration rates and outdoor physical activity, children retain more air pollutants per unit body weight than adults. Nitrous oxide and sulphur dioxide emissions are associated with vehicular and industrial pollution and previous studies have noted an increase in hospital visits when these levels spike, the authors note. Though not peer-reviewed, the study appears in pre-print server ‘medRxiv’. The researchers are from All India Institute of Medical Sciences, CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, Kalawati Saran Children’s Hospital and Vallabbhai Patel Chest Institute. The study analysed hospital visits of 19,120 children over two years, from June 2017 to February 2019. It states that there was a roughly 21%-28% increase in visits by children manifesting symptoms of acute respiratory disease during days of ‘high’ and ‘moderate’ level pollution, compared to days of ‘low pollution’. The researchers compared levels of PM10 and PM 2.5, SO2 (sulphur dioxide), CO (carbon monoxide), NO2 (nitrous oxide) and O3 (ozone) with day-wise data on ER admissions of children. The age of the children studied ranged from 5 months to 3 years. The pollutants most strongly linked with more ER respiratory visits were sulphur dioxide and carbon monoxide. Paradoxically, the pollutants most strongly associated with air pollution — PM 10 and PM 2.5 — showed weak links with an increase in the number of ER visits. In fact, days of elevated PM 2.5 levels, when taken on its own, corresponded to a dip in the number of ER visits. The relative increase in visits was also observed when days preceding pollution spikes were considered, further highlighting the role that pollution plays in exacerbating respiratory illnesses, according to the study. Dr. Rohit Sarin, co-author of the study and director, National Institute of Tuberculosis and Respiratory Diseases, New Delhi said that the lower association of particulate matter was primarily because its effects on respiratory health are not always immediately visible and because the background levels of such matter is usually very high in Delhi.
23 November 2020||Kolkata,||Twin treat with Feluda and Shankhu||Two iconic characters of filmmaker Satyajit Ray — Feluda the detective and Professor Shanku the scientist and inventor — will come together and share screen space for the first time in a film directed by the maestro’s son Sandip Ray. The initiative is part of the birth centenary of the legend. Speaking to The Hindu , Sandip Ray said he had done half-a-dozen films and television shows on Feluda, and one on Professor Shanku — Professor Shanku and El Dorado — in 2019. “Till date, I have made Feluda and Shanku as different contents. But bringing them together in one film is challenging and exciting at the same time. I hope this film will remain memorable for a long time among the audience,” the filmmaker said. Mr. Ray said the project was “untitled” and shooting would start after the situation due to the COVID-19 pandemic normalised. The film will be produced by SVF and is expected to release by 2021-end. “The film will be in Bengali and we are in the process of selecting the best of stories Feluda and Professor Sankhu,” he said. While Feluda is the iconic Bengali sleuth, whose cerebral capabilities in solving complex crime dominated the imagination of Bengalis for decades, Professor Shankhu is an inventor and scientist who wants to use his inventions for the welfare of humankind. Decades of nostalgia Feluda and Professor Shankhu and all characters related to them have quintessentially been a part of every Bengali’s nostalgia for decades. The filmmakers have released the first look of the film’s poster, giving a clear idea of the action and fine elements that will be infused in the film. “Getting to see Feluda and Professor Shanku on screen in the same film is a big thing for the Bengali audience. I have immense faith in the filmmaking of Sandip Ray and believe he can create wonders with his father’s work,” Mahendra Soni, co-founder and director of SVF said. Feluda’s action combined with Shanku’s inventions wrapped in a single film will undoubtedly be slated as a remarkable gift to the people of West Bengal.
23 November 2020||Kochi,||Trial of actor rape case in troubled waters||Uncertainty looms large over the trial in the actor rape case, with the prosecution unlikely to resume its arguments before the Special Judge after the Kerala High Court rejecting its plea for a change of court. The crisis has deepened with the trial court initiating steps to restart the trial from Monday. The trial, which was being held before Honey M. Varghese, the Special Judge, had been put on hold for over a fortnight after the prosecution and the survivor approached the High Court against the trial court. “There is no change in the stand of the prosecution as the issues raised against the court were not addressed in the order passed by the single judge of the High Court. Options of filing an appeal in the Division Bench or the Supreme Court against the single judge’s order remain open and a decision will be taken shortly,” prosecution sources indicated. It will be suicidal for the prosecution to conduct the trial before the Special Judge as the key legal issues raised against the court remain unattended, sources said. Actor Dileep is the eighth accused in the case in which a woman actor was abducted and sexually molested in a moving car. Dileep has been accused of conspiracy in the case.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Uproar over Kerala law to curb abusive content||The government had repeatedly received complaints against the rampant misuse of social media, especially by specific online channels, to launch “inhuman and vile cyberattacks” against individuals and their families under the guise of journalism. However, the ordinance did not specifically mention social media posts. The Chief Minister said such attacks smacked of personal vendetta and have resulted in tragic consequences for victims, including suicide. The government has the responsibility to uphold the freedom and dignity of citizens. Mr. Vijayan said the “traditional media” functioned mostly within the bounds of the law. However, “certain” online channels had scant regard for law and violated the rights of others with impunity. Such outlets have “created an atmosphere of anarchy that could alter the social order, which cannot be allowed”, he said. The government was open to “creative opinions and suggestions” regarding the amendment, he added.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Tunnel used by Jaish militants found in J&K||The nearest Pakistan posts, which were involved in pushing the terrorists, included the Rajab Sahid and Asif Sahib border outposts, the BSF said. “It appears that proper engineering effort has gone in making the tunnel, which shows the hand of the establishment,” a BSF spokesman said. The four militants were killed in an encounter at the Ban Toll Plaza in Nagrota on November 19 when they were travelling in a truck which was headed for Kashmir. The driver, however, managed to escape. Official sources said the authorities running the toll plaza were planning a instal a full body scanner for trucks to avert any such incident in the future. Meanwhile, security forces on Sunday launched a cordon and search operation in several villages of the Mendhar sub-division in Poonch district, following the sighting of a drone by the security forces on Saturday evening.  Ceasefire violation Several areas of the Mendhar Sector and Tain-Mankote were searched, but security forces could not spot the drone or recover any weapons in the area, officials said. The Pakistan Army also resorted to “unprovoked ceasefire violation” by firing small arms and shelling mortars along the Line of Control in Nowshera Sector, Rajouri, around 11:15 a.m., an Army spokesman said. The Indian Army gave a befitting reply, the spokesman added.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Back on track||
23 November 2020||KOCHI,||Jacobite group observes protest day||Leaders and members of the Jacobite faction of the Malankara Church observed a day of protest on Sunday across Kerala in the face of what they claimed was an attack on the church in the form of seizure of churches. The protest was observed on Sunday as per a decision of the working committee of the Jacobite Church, which met at Kolencherry on Saturday. The Jacobite faction had earlier said that it would end all protests in view of the peace talks being convened by the State government between the two factions of the Malankara Church. The protest is against the “denial of justice” and supports a demand for legislation to end the seizure of Jacobite churches, said the working committee. The protest comes in the wake of the State government seizing the St. George’s Church, Mudavoor, near Muvattupuzha, last week. It was later handed over to the Orthodox group of the Malankara Church.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Unfamiliar ambience||
23 November 2020||Ghaziabad,||Life term for rape bid on centenarian||A Meerut court on Friday sentenced a man to life imprisonment for attempting to rape a 100-year-old Dalit woman. The incident occurred in 2017. “A penalty of Rs. 25,000 has also been imposed on him,” said Nishant Kumar Garg, the special public prosecutor who represented the State in the court. According to the order, passed by Mohd. Ghulam Ul Madar, Special Judge (SC/ST Act), Meerut, the incident happened on the night of October 29, 2017 in Raghunathpur village under Jani police station, when the convict, Ankit Punia, a neighbour of the victim, trespassed into her residence in a state of drunken stupor and tried to sexually assault her. The victim was taken to a government hospital, where she passed away the next day during the medical check-up because of the shock caused by the assault, said Mr. Garg.
23 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Anticipatory bail: SC issues clarification||An accused cannot move for anticipatory bail once his regular bail has been cancelled by court, the Supreme Court has held in a recent order. The accused is in the “constructive custody of law” even while out on bail, a Bench led by Justice Navin Sinha said. The case concerns a plea for anticipatory bail by Manish Jain. The train of events began when Mr. Jain was granted regular bail for violation of the Environment Protection Act. But he did not appear for subsequent proceedings. The court cancelled his regular bail on the ground of non-appearance under Section 174-A of the IPC. He was again arrested and released on bail. Mr. Jain, apprehending he may be arrested again, then sought anticipatory bail.   The court rejected Jain's plea for anticipatory bail and asked him to surrender and seek regular bail.
23 November 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. needs a team dedicated to polls: Karti||Elections are now a 24x7/365-day phenomena and the Congress party needs to have an election preparedness committee with a general secretary, whose sole task is to be election-ready, Lok Sabha member from Sivaganga Karti Chidambaram said on Sunday. The MP said the party should put in place a plan to tackle “BJP’s well-oiled election machine”. “There is this new terminology called strike rate that has come into electoral politics. Our strike rate seems to be lower than that of our allies in elections. So, these factors are being used now by our potential allies in the upcoming elections to browbeat us into contesting lesser or a limited number of seats. That is not necessarily true because each State election is different,” he told The Hindu .
23 November 2020||New Delhi,||India set to launch deep sea mission||India will soon launch an ambitious ‘Deep Ocean Mission’ that envisages exploration of minerals, energy and marine diversity of the underwater world, a vast part of which still remains unexplored, a top official of the Ministry of Earth Sciences said. The Ministry’s Secretary, M. Rajeevan, said required approvals are being obtained for the “futuristic and game-changing” mission, and it is likely to be launched in the next three to four months. The mission, which is expected to cost over Rs. 4,000 crore, will give a boost to efforts to explore India’s vast Exclusive Economic Zone and Continental Shelf, another senior official of the MoES said. Mr. Rajeevan said the mission will also involve developing technologies for different deep ocean initiatives. The multi-disciplinary work will be piloted by the MoES and other government departments like the Defence Research and Development Organisation, Department of Biotechnology, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) will be stakeholders in this mission, Mr. Rajeevan added.
23 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||2 key leaders from BPF join BJP in Assam||The shaky alliance between the BJP and the Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) took a hit on Sunday with two influential leaders of the latter joining the saffron party ahead of the elections to a tribal council in Assam. Biswajit Daimary, who resigned as a Rajya Sabha member on Saturday, and Emmanuel Mushahary, MLA, joined the BJP at Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal’s official residence in Guwahati. Mr. Daimary was the founder general secretary of the BPF and said to have been the regional party’s thinktank. Mr. Mushahary represents Tamulpur, one of the 12 Assembly seats that the BPF won in the 2016 State election. The joining of the duo is expected to boost the BJP’s chances of capturing power in the Bodoland Territorial Council, where elections are scheduled on December 7 and 10.
23 November 2020||New Delhi,||RBI Twitter handle joins million followers club||With one million Twitter followers, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has become the first Central bank in the world to reach this milestone. The RBI has beaten the U.S. Federal Reserve and European Central Bank on Twitter by emerging as the most popular central bank on the microblogging site. As per information available on its twitter handle ‘@RBI’, the number of followers increased from 9.66 lakh to 10 lakh on September 27.PTI
23 November 2020||New Delhi,||PM Modi to hold meetings with States over COVID-19 situation||Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to hold virtual meetings with Chief Ministers and other representatives of States and Union Territories on Tuesday to review the COVID-19 situation and discuss vaccine distribution strategy. He is expected to hold two meetings, one with eight States with the highest case load and another to discuss the vaccine distribution strategy.pti
23 November 2020||Guwahati,||Slight improvement in Tarun Gogoi’s health||The health of former Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi, undergoing treatment for post-COVID-19 complications, has improved slightly, doctors at the Gauhati Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) said on Sunday. The 86-year-old Congress veteran was put on invasive ventilation on Saturday after suffering multiple organ failure. “His health has improved slightly and he is maintaining an oxygen saturation of 95-97%. The next 24 hours are very critical,” Abhijit Sarma, GMCH superintendent, said.
23 November 2020||Bhubaneswar,||CPI (Maoist) camp traced in Odisha’s Nuapada district||Security forces detected a camp occupied by the CPI (Maoist) and recovered arms and ammunitions in Odisha’s Nuapada district. The camp was found near Bhaisimundi village under Bhaisadani gram panchayat on Saturday. Upon being tipped off about the movement of CPI (Maoist) cadres in Bhaisadani area, a team of the Central Reserve Police Force had launched a combing operation. One pistol, five rifles, detonators and cookeries were recovered from the spot.
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hiccups in transition to new system of city’s upkeep||This monsoon marks the transition from the old “tonnage” system of solid waste management to a new “performance-based” system of conservancy in Chennai. While residents of a few areas like Adyar have reported an improvement in services, many locations have started reporting civic issues because of inadequate infrastructure for implementing the new system. For instance, the infrastructure to charge electric vehicles has not been installed in locations like Kodambakkam ahead of the launch. Zones like Teynampet are yet to get infrastructure for charging all the battery-operated vehicles. Private conservancy operators will take over 11 out of 15 zones of the city by the time this northeast monsoon season ends. Residents have demanded that the civic body develop all infrastructure for smooth functioning of the system. Private conservancy operations, as per the performance-based indicators, have started in Adyar and Teynampet. The private conservancy operator will start operations in Kodambakkam on November 30. Work is expected to begin in Alandur, Valasaravakkam, Perungudi and Sholinganallur this December. Work order for Tiruvottiyur, Manali, Madhavaram and Ambattur has been issued last week. Over 11,000 conservancy workers are expected to be hired by Urbaser Sumeet, the private conservancy operator for the Teynampet, Kodambakkam, Adyar, Sholinganallur, Alandur, Valasaravakkam and Perungudi zones. At least 4,500 workers have been hired till date. Bright spots The improvement in solid waste management has been significant in some parts of Adyar after the new private conservancy operator took over 30 days ago. “Conservancy operations are fairly good in Adyar. I won’t say the system has improved 100%. Previously, they never used to clean the road. Day-to-day collection was not regular. They have improved in the past few days,” said S. Thiruvengadam, secretary of Adyar Citizens Welfare Association. “Residents have requested officials to respect their sentiments. Door-to-door pick-up should be regular on Sundays. Dumping of waste by illegal hostels should stop after relaxation of the COVID-19 restrictions,” said Mr. Thiruvengadam. Following the launch of private conservancy operations in Adyar 30 days ago, the civic body launched operations in the Teynampet zone 10 days ago. But conservancy operations have not improved in many parts of the zone. A large number of new compactors, battery-operated vehicles and modern equipment have been used to clean the area for the past few days. The number of vehicles has increased in the past few days. But services have been inadequate because of lack of coordination between private workers and civic officials. Most new drivers of compactors are inexperienced, affecting conservancy operations in areas like Teynampet. The new drivers require guidance from corporation workers but they have not received any support at the field level. Sweeping of streets is inadequate. Some stretches like Anna Salai and Pattulos Road remain dirty. Sweeping has not been done for more than 15 days in some parts of the Teynampet zone. According to the data compiled by the Corporation, the number of complaints received from residents has come down from 15 every day to zero in most of the wards in the Adyar zone after the launch of the new system. Officials attribute the reduction in the complaints to the increase in the number of equipment and mechanisation of operations. But the number of workers has reduced in zones such as Adyar and Teynampet. For instance, just 30 sweepers have been deployed in a ward in Adyar to clean 160 streets. As a result, a sweeper has been asked to clean 1,100 metres of streets. New supervisors have been harsh in dealing with inexperienced conservancy workers. Each sweeper was asked to clean just 500 metres of road by the old conservancy operator. Representatives of conservancy employees said the risk of attrition among employees was expected to be high after the COVID-19 restrictions were relaxed. Many new conservancy workers have joined the private conservancy operator owing to loss of livelihood during the lockdown. They would leave their jobs after they get their original source of livelihood. Transport issues The issues relating to direct transport of waste from streets to the dumpyard at Perungudi has affected conservancy operations. After civic issues were reported because of the closure of transfer stations at Mylapore, small vehicles have been permitted to dump waste in the transfer station. Ahead of the launch in the Kodambakkam zone this month, conservancy operations have been disrupted in many parts of the zone. N. Thiyagarajan, a resident of Kodambakkam, said the number of conservancy workers had come down in the vicinity of Anna Main Road. “Garbage is dumped on Anna Main Road from the interior roads. Clearance is not done at regular intervals. Once a resident complains on the 1913 helpline, the worker is removed from the job, and the situation turns worse,” he said. Residents are waiting for the new conservancy operator to start full-fledged operations in Kodambakkam this month. Some parts of Kodambakkam have already received the services of the private conservancy operator. Former councillor S. Mangala Raj said the quality of conservancy work in areas like Bazaar Road in Mylapore had worsened in the past few days. The performance of the private operator would be evaluated by the Assistant Executive Engineer of the Corporation before payment. In the event of a poor score, the payment would be reduced significantly. Corporation Chief Engineer N. Mahesan said they were creating awareness among bulk waste generators who generate more than 100 kg a day to prevent dumping of waste near residential areas. “We held a meeting of 2,000 bulk waste generators, including malls and hotels, last week. We have advised them to stop dumping waste on the road. As per the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, the bulk waste generators have to do on-site composting and recycling. Just 25% of the bulk waste generators have done it. We will start collecting fine for violations,” he said. “We will focus on night conservancy. Overflowing of bins will reduce. Seven zones will stabilise by January. Decentralised facilities such as bio-gas plants and resource recovery will start next month. Our awareness-creation activities for creating a cleaner Chennai among the shops in areas like Triplicane have helped to improve the conditions. Our focus is on waste segregation at source. Residents are requested to hand over the segregated waste only to the BOV operator. Waste management services by Urbaser Sumeet is free of cost. Residents are requested not to pay cash or in kind to any Urbaser Sumeet staff member,” he said.
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Revolving fund came too late for these students||For quite a few government school students, the State’s announcement that it would constitute a revolving fund to absorb the fees component in self-financing medical colleges came too late. These students had been allotted seats in self-financing medical colleges and since they could not afford the fees, they opted out. S. Subathra of Nengavalli, a village in Salem district, said she chose to be wait-listed for a seat in a government medical college. The visually-impaired student had scored 170 marks in the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET). ‘Conduct re-counselling’ Her father is a painter and her mother, a weaver. “We would not have been able to handle the huge fees demanded by private colleges. Hence, I requested for the waiting list quota in a government college. If the State government’s announcement had come earlier, I would have confidently chosen a self-financing college. The State government should consider conducting re-counselling for candidates like me,” she said. The 7.5% reservation in undergraduate medical admissions for NEET-qualified government school students was a boon for M. Arunpandi, who had secured 190 marks in the examination. The son of a manual labourer in a remote village in the arid Tiruchuli taluk, he appeared for counselling on Wednesday and was allotted a seat in a self-financing college. “But when we heard that the annual fees was Rs. 4.5 lakh, apart from the commitment for food and accommodation at the hostel, we gave it up,” he said. Another student of a government school in Tiruchuli has joined a science course in Madurai. “I had to opt out as paying the tuition fees for a private medical college is beyond my family’s capacity. Had the government made this announcement earlier, I would have joined MBBS. Now, I can only wait and prepare better for next year’s NEET,” he said. The father of an SC candidate, who had been allotted a seat in a self-financing college in Coimbatore, said, “When the college authorities told us that the annual fees would be around Rs. 10 lakh, we were shocked. I earn a paltry sum”. He pins his hopes on assistance from voluntary organisations to sponsor his son’s education. S. Thangapetchi, a student from Panamoopanpatti village in Usilampatti block who belongs to a de-notified community, chose to be wait-listed for a government medical college seat for want of sufficient funds. A student of a government school in Vikkiramangalam, Madurai, she had scored 155 in NEET. Her uncle, V. Alagarsamy, who had accompanied her for the counselling, said she had qualified for the medical seats in a few self-financing colleges. “But we were unable to pay Rs. 25,000 immediately to secure the allotment letter,” he said. Moreover, the college’s annual fees of around Rs. 6 lakh was too steep. “Both my parents are agricultural labourers. We cannot afford to pay such a hefty sum for the tuition fees every year. My name is currently on the waiting list,” said Ms. Thangapetchi, who is the eldest of four daughters. Selection Secretary G. Selvarajan said the issue of candidates opting out of counselling had not come to his attention. “If such a thing has happened, we will collect the data about these students and bring it to the government’s knowledge. After discussions, we will provide a solution for them,” he said.  (With inputs from Vignesh Vijayakumar in Salem; S. Sundar in Virudhunagar; and P.A. Narayani in Madurai)
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Reservation counters at major stations to come under CCTV||To prevent touts and other unauthorised activities in the two most important railway stations of Puraitchi Thalaivar Dr. M.G.R. Chennai Central and Egmore railway stations — have installed closed circuit television (CCTV) surveillance system. R. Baskaran, Principal Chief Signal and Telecommunication Engineer, Southern Railway, inaugurated the facility on Saturday. In a press release issued here on Sunday, the Southern Railway said the CCTV surveillance facility had been commissioned in the passenger ticket reservation sections of the two railway stations to improve safety and security of the passengers. While 10 CCTV cameras had been fitted at the Central station, the Egmore reservation counters would have eight CCTV cameras. Footage of up to one month can be retrieved. Chennai Central is supposed to be the sixth most populous city station averaging around 2,700 tickets being booked per day with 10 lakh tickets booked per year. The Egmore station registers 1,020 tickets a day totalling to 3,75,000 tickets annually. The Southern Railway has now commissioned CCTV surveillance in passenger reservation counters at nine locations such as Chennai Central, Egmore, Madurai, Coimbatore, and Tiruchi stations in Tamil Nadu and Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulum, Kozhikode, and Thrissur stations in Kerala. Work on installing CCTV cameras in reservation counters is on at 34 railway stations.
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only 3 districts record over 100 cases||In the last 24 hours, only three districts in Tamil Nadu recorded over 100 cases of COVID-19 and nine districts had less than 10 cases each. Chennai continued to have the highest number of persons testing positive. With 1,655 more persons testing positive on Sunday, the total number of cases in the State rose to 7,69,995. In the past 24 hours, 2,010 persons were discharged from various health facilities after treatment. The total number of patients discharged rose to 7,45,848. A total of 12, 542 persons are under treatment at healthcare facilities and home. As many as 19 persons lost their life. Of them, 11 died at private hospitals and eight at government facilities. So far, 11,605 persons have died of the infection. Chennai, followed by Coimbatore and Chengalpattu, recorded the most number of cases. In Chennai district, 489 fresh cases were identified, 575 persons were discharged and eight deaths were recorded. The total number of positive cases stands at 2,12,014, while 2,03,824 persons have been discharged. As many as 4,374 persons are undergoing treatment either at home or hospitals. So far, 3,816 persons have died in the district. The daily bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health has recorded 108 fresh cases in Chengalpattu and 154 cases and two deaths in Coimbatore district. In nine districts, the number of persons who tested positive was in a single digit. Among those who lost their life in the past 24 hours, one person who had no chronic conditions died of the infection. A 54-year-old man from Chennai, who was admitted to a private hospital on November 3 with complaints of fever, cough and nausea for three days, tested positive on November 12, on November 17 and again on November 21. He died on Saturday, and the hospital recorded multiple organ dysfunction and COVID-19 pneumonia as the cause of death. A 43-year-old diabetic man from Chennai was admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Saturday evening but died a few hours later. He tested positive on November 15. The hospital cited traumatic brain injury, clavicle and scapula fracture, COVID-19 pneumonia, respiratory failure and type-2 diabetes mellitus as the causes of death.  Chennai recorded the most number of cases, followed by Coimbatore and Chengalpattu
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tipplers ignore COVID-19 precautionary measures||Consumption of alcohol in the open, despite restrictions, continues to be a menace near the Thirumayilai MRTS station. People continue to gather in large numbers by the side of the Canal Bank Road throwing personal distancing norms to the winds and consuming alcohol in groups in the open. The police and local administration turn a blind eye to this problem despite several complaints, say local residents. There are three Tasmac liquor outlets adjacent to one another on Canal Bank Road near the Thirumayilai MRTS station. Every day, hundreds gather here to buy alcohol and most of them drink standing near the parapet of the Buckingham Canal. “This is one of the routes for residents of Pallaku Managar to reach the R.K. Mutt Road. For years, women and children have found it hard to walk past the people who stand on the road, for close to 200 metres and consume alcohol. They even stand in front of a doctor’s clinic and drink. Patients are put to hardship,” said S. Vinoth, a resident. Residents said the danger had become manifold during COVID-19. “People drink, spit on the road and have turned the stretch into a urinal. For the first few days, tokens were issued in the shops and personal distancing was ensured for purchasing liquor. Now no such system is followed,” he said. Women from Pallaku Managar said the area remained peaceful during complete lockdown. “It was neat as the shops were closed. Outside the shops, people sell plastic glasses and water packets. Everything is finally dumped into the Buckingham Canal,” said K. Jaya, a resident. Residents complained that policemen do not patrol this locality. “We are surprised as the beaches are still closed, but such Tasmac shops are open despite flouting personal distancing. The Greater Chennai Corporation should fine them,” she added. Staff from Tasmac said that earlier there were six more shops in Mylapore. “But only these three remain now. Hence people from other parts of the locality come here and drink. We cannot force them to go elsewhere and drink as it will endanger our lives. Already people quarrel outside the shop,” said a salesman.
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work on Chennai peripheral ring road phase 2 to begin in February||Work on phase 2 of the Chennai Peripheral Ring Road (CPRR) is likely to commence in three months. Tenders are under process for two packages for this 25.50-km stretch from Thatchur Kootu Road to Tiruvallur Bypass currently. “We expect the work to commence by February 2021. It will be through engineering-procurement-construction mode. The tenders for phase 3 will be called sometime next month,” said an official source in the Tamil Nadu Road Infrastructure Development Company, which is implementing the project from Thatchur Kootu Road to Poonjeri near Mamallapuram. The road on this stretch would have six lanes in the main carriageway and two service lanes on either side. Since a 100-member strong team of Revenue officials was working to complete the land acquisition for the road that would take three years to build, they hoped that they would hand over the land to the contractor as per schedule. “The alignment for the project was frozen in 2014 when the DPR was approved. It remains the same,” the official added. The total cost for phases 2, 3 (Tiruvallur bypass to Sriperumbudur) and 5 (Singaperumalkoil to Poonjeri) including land acquisition would be Rs. 7,500 crore. The State government has sanctioned Rs. 2,603 crore towards land acquisition for these phases. The stretch from Sriperumbudur to Singaperumalkoil had been widened as part of another project. The agency is at present looking for funds for the final phase, which would be four lanes wide. “The width of the road has been decided based upon the projected traffic flow,” another source said.
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Section of government employees not happy with pay revision process||Earlier this month, the State government issued 24 orders, revising the pay scales of a section of its employees as per the recommendations of the Pay Grievance Redressal Committee (PGRC), 2019. While one section stood to gain with more pay, another alleged lack of transparency and lopsidedness in the process. However, Finance Department officials denied any bias and said all representations were taken into account. Overlooked The ones that gained the most are those in the Revenue and Police Departments, as they get a special pay of about Rs. 2,600, while employees in many other categories claim their rightful representations were overlooked. “All the G.O.s were issued based on the recommendations of the PGRC headed by retired High Court judge Justice D. Murugesan. But, why has the PGRC report not been made public as yet?” asked an employee. The PGRC, constituted by the State government following a Supreme Court order in December, was supposed to look into the anomalies in only 52 categories. However, the committee went beyond the terms of reference, alleged an employee. Since the PGRC called all associations irrespective of whether they were part of the litigation in the Supreme Court, naturally there was more expectations, he said. Tamil Nadu Government Employees’ Association general secretary M. Anbarasu claimed the G.O.s would result in further anomalies since the recommendations of the one-man commission by IAS officer M.A. Siddique are yet to be made public and implemented. “What if these recommendations [Justice Murugesan] are contrary to one-man commission’s?” he asked. The pay scales of those in posts such as Inspector of Survey & Land Records and Deputy Inspector of Survey & Land Records were earlier on a par with that of those in Revenue, Rural Development and Police Departments, but not so now. These posts have been downgraded and the PGRC too did not look into this issue, claimed another. The ‘Number Statement’ containing the total number of postings along with pay scales in all departments are not being made public by the Finance Department any more and it leads to a lack of transparency, he pointed out. “At the most, there should be just 10 levels when there was only about that many educational qualifications,” he said. Tamil Nadu Secretariat Association (TANSA) president S. Peter Antonysamy said: “We are hopeful that our demand to revise the pay scale of Assistant Section Officers and Deputy Secretaries would be solved at the earliest by the Chief Minister.” When contacted, a senior official in the Finance Department said: “There has to be an end to all their representations. It was only based on their pleas, the issue went to the Supreme Court and the State government constituted the PGRC. Only based on the committee’s recommendations, we have issued G.O.s. Now, they can’t keep on giving representations. There has to be a finality to all these.”  We are hopeful that our demand would be met at the earliest by the Chief Minister
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Baalu challenges Home Minister||DMK treasurer and Parliamentary Party leader T.R. Baalu on Sunday said his party could organise a face-to-face meeting with Union Home Minister Amit Shah in every street to explain the development schemes secured by the DMK for Tamil Nadu when it was part of the Congress-led government at the Centre. Reacting to Mr. Shah’s accusation that the DMK had not done anything for Tamil Nadu, Mr. Baalu said while the DMK achieved a lot during its presence in the Union government, the BJP had deprived Tamil Nadu of its share from the GST while instigating communalism. Mr. Baalu said when the DMK was part of the government led by V.P. Singh, it had succeeded in implementing the Mandal Commission recommendation, providing 27% reservation for OBCs in education and jobs. “When we supported A.B. Vajpayee, we could ensure the constitution of the Cauvery Management Board and Manimandapam for Kamaraj. We cancelled the POTA and stopped the privatisation of Salem Steel Plant when we supported Manmohan Singh,” he said. Mr. Baalu, who had released a long list of schemes implemented through the Centre, said a desalination plant at a cost of Rs. 908 crore was set up for fulfilling the drinking water requirements of Chennai. “Even the Metro Rail project for which Mr. Shah laid the foundation stone was actually brought to the State by the DMK government and 75% of the work was completed during our time,” he said. The BJP which had an alliance with the AIADMK had destroyed social justice, he added.
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rural Development assistant engineers upset at panel’s recommendations||Dissatisfied with the revision of their pay scale based on the recommendations of the Pay Grievance Redressal Committee, the Rural Development Assistant Engineers Welfare Association has submitted a representation to the Chief Minister seeking to set right the salary anomaly and allow them to migrate to the Seventh Pay Commission. In its representation, the association said there was a misconception between CPWD engineers (with a diploma qualification) and State service assistant engineers (recruited through the TNPSC with an engineering qualification). “Even after submitting relevant documents explaining the difference between the two posts, now the salary of Assistant Engineer [with BE qualification] of the State service is fixed on a par with a CPWD engineer with diploma qualification,” they said. Educational qualifications, job requirements, duties and responsibilities, risks involved in the job, the method of recruitment and promotional avenues were to be considered for the determination of the pay structure. “On the contrary, a horizontal and vertical pay parity logic has been applied to different categories/cadres instead of within similar cadres/categories,” the association said. The association said the salary of an assistant engineer would come down by Rs. 10,000-Rs. 15,000 because of the revision. “We once again humbly submit our prayer to the Chief Minister to fix the salary structure and allow us to migrate to the Seventh Pay Commission and provide justice,” it said.  A horizontal and vertical pay parity logic has been applied to different categories/cadres instead of within similar cadres/categories
23 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||A handful of eligible students fret they may have lost a medical seat||For quite a few government school students, MBBS aspirants, the State government’s announcement that it would constitute a revolving fund to absorb the fee component in self-financing medical colleges came too late. Re-counselling These students had been allotted seats in self-financing medical colleges and since they could not afford the fees they opted out. S. Subathra of Nengavalli, a village in Salem district, said she chose to be wait listed for a seat in a government medical college. The visually impaired girl had scored 170 marks in NEET. Her father is a painter and mother, a weaver. “We would not be able to handle the huge fees demanded by private colleges. Hence, I requested for waiting list quota in a government college. If the State government’s announcement had come earlier, I would have confidently chosen a self-financing college. The State government should consider conducting re-counselling for candidates like me,” she said. The reservation was a boon for M. Arunpandi, who secured 190 marks in NEET. Son of a manual labourer in a remote village in the arid Tiruchuli Taluk, he appeared for counseling on Wednesday and was allotted a seat in self-financing college. “When we heard that the annual fees was Rs. 4.5 lakh, apart from the commitment for food and accommodation at the hostel, we gave it up,” he said. The student of a government school in Tiruchuli has joined a science course in Madurai. “I had to opt out as paying tuition fee for a private medical college is beyond my family’s capacity. Had the government made this announcement much earlier, I would have joined MBBS. Now I can only wait for one more year, prepare better for next year’s NEET,” he said. The father of an SC candidate who had been allotted a seat in a self-financing college in Coimbatore, said, “When the college authorities told us that the annual fee would be around Rs. 10 lakh, we were shocked as I earn a paltry sum.” He pins his hopes on assistance from voluntary organisations to sponsor his son’s education. A student from Panamoopanpatti village of Usilampatti block, S. Thangapetchi, who belongs to a denotified community chose to be waitlisted for a government medical college seat for want of sufficient funds. This student of a government school in Vikkiramangalam in Madurai had scored 155 in NEET. Her uncle V. Alagarsamy, who had accompanied her for the counselling, said she qualified for medical seats in a few self-financing colleges. “But we were unable to pay Rs. 25,000 immediately for securing the allotment letter,” he said. Moreover, the colleges’ annual fee of around Rs. 6 lakh was too steep. “Both my parents are agricultural labourers and we cannot afford to pay such a hefty sum as tuition fee every year. My name is currently on the waiting list,” said Ms. Thangapetchi, the eldest of four daughters. Similarly, V. Muthukumar, a student of Melakottai government school, with a score of 161 in NEET, could choose from four private medical colleges on the second day of counselling. K.Lingeswaran, with a score of 128, also from Melakottai school said he would have chosen from any self-financing dental college on the last day of counselling. Selection secretary G. Selvarajan said such an issue of candidates opting out of counselling had not come to his knowledge. “If such a thing has happened we will collect the data about such students and bring it to the government’s knowledge. After discussing we will provide a solution to them,” he said.  (With inputs from Vignesh Vijayakumar in Salem; S. Sundar in Virudhunagar; and P.A. Narayani in Madurai)
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Segregation at source remains a challenge||Enforcing segregation of solid waste at source continues to remain a challenge for the Greater Chennai Corporation. Representatives of conservancy workers point to the need for additional workers to manage source segregation initiatives in the city. “We need 100% additional workers to implement source segregation. It has failed in Chennai because of inadequate manpower. We need modern equipment for source segregation to prevent infection to workers,” said a representative. Owing to the failure to enforce source segregation, the civic body has not been able to achieve the goal of stopping dumping of waste in Perungudi and Kodungaiyur by December 2020. After CES Onyx started work in March 2000 in areas such as Triplicane, Kodambakkam and Adyar, the civic body initiated source segregation without much success. Similarly, Neel Metal Fanalca started work in August 2007 in Ice House, Kodambakkam, Adyar, and Pulianthope. But the initiative ran out of fizz. Ramky Enviro Engineers and the Corporation formed a special purpose vehicle, Chennai Municipal Solid Waste Ltd. in January 2012 to remove garbage from Adyar, Kodambakkam and Teynampet. But Ramky could not enforce source segregation. Urbaser Sumeet, which has been roped for conservancy work, has to do source segregation as part of its fulfilment of its key performance indicators. But the operator is yet to carry out source segregation in Adyar and Teynampet. Representatives of conservancy workers said Ramky had been asking at least 50% of the conservancy workers in each ward to go home to avoid payment of salary during COVID-19. Many conservancy workers lost their source of livelihood during COVID-19, sources said. Time frame fixed Corporation Chief Engineer Mahesan said the new private conservancy operators will get six months to achieve the target of source segregation because of COVID-19 pandemic. “COVID-19 has led to a reduction in source segregation. The amount of garbage recycled has reduced from 700 tonnes to 300 tonnes. We will increase the quantity of waste segregated,” Mr. Mahesan added.  The amount of garbage recycled has reduced from 700 tonnes to 300 tonnes Mahesan GCC Chief Engineer
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Birds throng Vaduvur, Udhayamarthandam and Point Calimere||After a two-year lull in the wake of Cyclone Gaja that ravaged the Cauvery delta districts, birds have, in good numbers, visited the Vaduvur, Udhayamarthandam and Point Calimere sanctuaries in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts. “This time the season started well in advance, and we have a lot of birds in Vaduvur, Udhayamarthandam and Point Calimere. The climate is ideal for the birds to congregate for nesting and breeding,” said K. Arivoli, District Forest Officer, Tiruvarur. He said the district witnessed a sharp decrease in the arrival of birds in 2018 and 2019; now the situation had become somewhat normal with the arrival of migratory — from the country and abroad — and local birds. Mr. Arivoli said 11 species of migratory birds — including Eurasian coot, Eurasian spoonbill, Greater flamingo, Eurasian wigeon, White ibis, Glossy Ibis, Pheasant-tailed jacana, Asian openbill stork, Bar-headed goose and Lesser flamingo — were spotted in these sanctuaries. Besides, there are 33 local species. “The Forest Department is regularly patrolling the areas to prevent poaching. We have also ensured that the birds get adequate prey as it is important for raising their chicks,” he explained. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director, Bombay Natural History Society, said that unlike Vaduvur and Udhyamarthandam, 90% of the birds that had arrived at Point Calimere were foreign species. “Vaduvur is the place where local birds, including Intermediate egret, White Ibis and Darters, nest in good numbers. Ducks such as Garganey and Northern shoveller, which migrate from the Arctic and subarctic regions, have started arriving at Vaduvur,” he said. Two waves The ornithologist, who has been staying at Point Calimere, said there would be two waves of migration; the first wave would normally begin in early October. “But only 25% of the birds of the first wave will stay back, while the rest will leave for other places. For the second wave, Point Calimere is the final destination. But again their stay will depend on the water level in the sanctuary,” Mr. Balachandran said. About 40 types of shovellers, two types of flamingos, gulls, terns and ducks have arrived at Point Calimere. Mr. Balachandran said that since there was rain, the mixing of seawater and freshwater would result in a proliferation of prey, and it was an ideal condition for the birds. Recalling the days when the sky was covered with migratory birds, he said local conditions brought on by climatic changes contributed to the decline in the number. “When other natural habitats dried up after January, the only habitat for the birds will be a reservoir of salt industry. We must find some way, maybe diverting seawater to the other parts of the swamp, to make it wet throughout the year,” Mr. Balachandran said. “Swamps dried up because they are at the end of the Cauvery delta. We should also revive the old tributaries that brought water to the Vedaranyam swamp. It will be very helpful to restore the habitat,” he said.
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Central-Airport Metro services hit||Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) suspended direct trains from Chennai Central to airport for several hours on Sunday owing to track maintenance, causing inconvenience to a large number of commuters. On Saturday, CMRL had announced that the direct train services between Central and airport would not run and that commuters had to change trains at Alandur to travel to the airport due to maintenance work carried out on the tracks. This was set right around 11 a.m. on Sunday and subsequently, regular services resumed. This work had to be executed as a few days ago, a small section of the track near Airport Metro station suffered a crack, sources said. Probe sought “We were seriously concerned when it was noticed. This is definitely not a minor issue and needs to be investigated,” a source said. The quality of rails were excellent and the officials suspect that this might have occurred due to the problems with welding or other execution issues. “So much money has been spent on purchasing the rails and carrying out the work. In a ballastless track, such problems should not emerge within 5 to 6 years of operation. If this was regular maintenance work as claimed, it could be carried out at night and not during the train operation timings causing inconvenience to passengers,” another source said. ‘Tracks are safe’ According to officials of CMRL, this was regular maintenance work and that there was no cause for concern. They refuted the claims that this was a serious issue. “The tracks are checked every night and during one such inspection, we found the fault and rectified it immediately,” an official said. Sources said some minor issues persist in the stretch between AG-DMS and Washermanpet opened early last year.  The tracks are checked every night and during one such inspection, we found the fault CMRL official
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 more categories of people permitted on travel by Chennai suburban trains||Southern Railway, since the launch of the workmen special suburban train services from October 5, has been gradually scaling up train services for different sections of commuters. In the latest relaxation announced by the Chennai division, students, women selling perishable items and sportspersons can travel by suburban trains from Monday. A few more categories of commuters have been added to be permitted in the essential travel services and would be allowed to use it throughout the day. According to officials of the Southern Railway, students or candidates attending examinations/admission tests/interviews are allowed to travel on production of hall tickets and permission letters. Sportspersons engaged in practice sessions and women carrying perishables can commute by suburban trains. Season tickets Women should compulsorily produce vendor season tickets which are issued by the booking office. The relaxations would come into effect from Monday. The Southern Railway has increased the number of train services to 244 from 204 to accommodate more passengers.
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Court ruling raises hopes of parents with children suffering from LSD||Parents of children with lysosomal storage disorders (LSD), a group of more than 50 genetically inherited and potentially fatal disorders that results in those affected requiring a lifetime of enzyme support, are awaiting word from the State Health Department on the arrival of medicines. Last week, the Supreme Court upheld a verdict given by the Madras High Court in March urging the State government to allocate funds for the treatment of children with LSD. The Court had further advised the State and the Union Health Ministry to discuss and arrive at a decision that would enable the children to get the life-sustaining treatment. The Madras High Court had directed the Union Health Ministry to provide for a one-time aid of Rs. 4.4 crore for at least 11 patients as an interim measure. The State and Central government were supposed to provide funds for the treatment, wherein the State would bear 40% of the cost and the Centre, 60%. Since the discussion between the State and Centre remained inconclusive, it was the children who suffered, parents said. ‘Procuring medicine’ S. Suresh, managing trustee, Fetal Research Care Foundation, welcomed the Supreme Court verdict and said a charitable organisation constituted for the benefit of children 15 years ago now had a significant number of children under its care. “The process [of providing aid for treatment] had started and eventually got stuck. The Tamil Nadu government has set aside Rs. 5 crore,” he said. M. Raja, the father of one of the children who is undergoing the treatment, said the State Health Department was procuring the medicine through the Tamil Nadu Health Services Corporation. “They told us they will let us know two days before the medicines are due to arrive. My son is getting free medication,” he said. Sujatha Jagadeesh, a geneticist associated with the foundation that also runs a multi-speciality clinic for the children, recalled that in 2017 an expert committee was set up to study the needs of the children with rare diseases and to further set up a dedicated a centre of excellence for rare disorders in the Institute of Child Health. A screening was also done for the same. Moreover, eleven of the 25 children were found to be eligible for treatment two years ago. ‘Update dashboard’ Not only identification, but the dashboard should also be periodically updated, added Dr. Suresh. “The alternative is to create a national fund so that CSR [Corporate social responsibility] can be also brought in. This will help to improve the quality of life of these children. A child undergoing treatment requires Rs. 40,000 to Rs. 1 lakh per month. We are talking about LSD. There are many more who remain undiagnosed and several more rare diseases,” he said. Apart from medication, the children also require periodic medical investigation. “It is an eternal expense for the parents. Many don’t live in Chennai, and this means travel expenses and a loss of wages too,” Dr. Sujatha added.
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Amit Shah’s criticism of dynasty rule a good joke’||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday joined issue with Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who vowed to put an end to dynastic rule, saying that it was a good joke. “The Delhi Chanakya, flanked by the twins who had looted the State coffers with the support of their family members as benamis, has criticised dynasty rule. It is akin to standing in front of a mirror and bargaining for a teddy bear,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement, referring to a Tamil expression. He said the ruler had realised that the people were already aware of the DMK’s victory and was indulging in a vicious campaign to divert people’s attention. “Let us destroy the web of conspiracy spun by them. Let us harvest the crop and feed the hungry mouths. Those who come in the way of our efforts will be exposed,” he said. Mr. Stalin said people were clear and they would hand over a defeat to the AIADMK-BJP combine in the manner they had delivered the blow during the 2010 Lok Sabha polls. Accusing Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami of using the government machinery to cover up the faults of his regime, Mr. Stalin said he had used the police to deny permission to the tour of DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin. “Is the government afraid of just one Udhayanidhi Stalin? There are hundreds of them in the party and they will snowball into lakhs and fill the streets,” he said.  The Delhi Chanakya, flanked by the twins who had looted the State coffers with the support of their family members as benamis, has criticised dynasty rule
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ramadoss to launch ‘intense’ protest from December 1||Pattali Makkal Katchi founder S. Ramadoss on Sunday announced a first round of protest from December 1 demanding 20% separate reservation for the Vanniyar community in education and jobs in Tamil Nadu. The second round of protests will begin from January. It was one of the three resolutions passed at the general body meeting jointly held with Vanniyar Sangam. The resolution further said that protest committees have been formed and urged the cadres to place banners explaining the reasons for the protests in villages. Speaking at the meeting, Dr. Ramadoss appealed to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to implement 20% reservation for Vanniyars unlike former DMK president M. Karunanidhi. “Kalaignar gave us rotten mangoes. You give nice Salem mangoes. It is in your hands to end this protest,” he said. Dr. Ramadoss warned the State government that the protests will be as intense as the Patel agitation in Gujarat and Gujjar agitations in Rajasthan for reservations if the demands are not accepted. “The protests should be so intense that the government should say that they are accepting our demands in four days. We are prepared to face any consequences. Vanniyars in other parties should also participate in these protests as your children will also benefit,” he said. Providing a historical context, Dr. Ramadoss accused the past and present leaders in Tamil Nadu of actively working to deny their rightful share in education and jobs. “During Kamarajar’s administration, 38 castes were clubbed and the Most Backward Classes category was created. However, no reservations were provided for this category. In 1972, Kalaignar removed the MBC as a category. Later on, during MGR’s administration, he set up Ambashankar Commission, which recommended that the 34 communities in Backward Classes should be removed as they have enjoyed the reservations. However, MGR added 29 upper castes into the Backward Classes category,” he said. “Kalaignar added 15 upper castes and MGR added 29 upper castes to the backward caste category. Vanniyars cannot compete with them. This is why we are asking for separate 20% reservation for them,” he said. When he met Mr. Palaniswami personally and raised the party’s demands, the Chief Minister was not receptive, Dr. Ramadoss alleged. “Though we are in alliance with AIADMK, there is no use. The reason for this is that they want Vanniyars to be the community that works for others,” he said. Pointing to the examples in Andhra Pradesh and Kerala where proportional representation is being implemented, he said, “In Kerala, there was a time when Nairs and Namboodhiris would look at Ezhavas only when they were 32 feet apart. But, today they are holding State and Central government jobs. The reason is that separate reservations were provided for Ezhavas.” PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss said the demand for separate reservations should not be seen merely as a caste issue. “It is not a caste issue but a developmental issue. This issue has to be resolved if Tamil Nadu has to grow. If we divide Tamil Nadu into four parts -- north, south, west and Chennai, we can see that north Tamil Nadu has fallen behind in terms of education when compared to others. So, we see it as a developmental issue. If Vanniars grow, Tamil Nadu will also grow,” said Mr. Anbumani. “All political parties and communities will accept this demand. There are no hurdles in agreeing to our demands,” he said.  Kalaignar added 15 upper castes and MGR added 29 upper castes to the backward caste category. Vanniyars cannot compete with them
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police help recover funds transferred fraudulently||The Cyber Crime unit of the Ambattur police district helped secure refund for a complainant after money was fraudulently transferred from his savings bank account, within an hour of giving a complaint on Saturday night. An amount of Rs. 25,000 was refunded by the public sector bank after action by the Cyber Crime unit which was inaugurated recently by Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal. A senior official of the city police said Ganesh, a resident of Mugalivakkam, had given a complaint to the Cyber Crime unit that Rs. 25,000 was debited without his knowledge from his savings bank account on Saturday evening. Based on the complaint, the police found the money was debited through a Mobikwik account after the victim had downloaded a food delivery app through a link sent by a stranger. On inquiry, the police found the app to be a phishing account through the One Time Password (OTP) of the victim got automatically transferred to another mobile number and through which the amount was illegally transferred. Citing the fraudulent app account, the police recovered the money and refunded it to the complainant, he added.
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu seeks 15% share capital for Chennai Metro phase II project||Tamil Nadu has urged the Centre for 15% of share capital for the Metro Rail phase II project, for which Union Home Minister Amit Shah laid the foundation on Saturday, sources said. It was a rather challenging time for Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) with exchanges between the Centre and the State requesting funds, sources said. On Saturday, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said the project was estimated to cost Rs. 61,843 crore and the State had already sought funds from the Centre for executing it. While the State requested 15% share capital, the Centre said 10% would be given as grant. “Since the contribution of the Government of India as grant will affect the present share holding pattern and such a grant is also revenue expenditure, we have been requesting it to consider the support as share capital, which is taken as capital expenditure with a sharing pattern of 50:50 between the Centre and the State,” Mr. Palaniswami said in a letter to Mr. Shah. The original cost of the phase II project had run up to nearly Rs. 88,000 crore; later, it was trimmed to nearly Rs. 80,000 crore. But sources said the Centre had asked to cut down the cost drastically as the investment seemed massive. After making a host of changes, the estimate was brought down to nearly Rs. 69,000 crore. However, the Centre insisted that the cost be cut even further. “It was an extremely difficult task but we managed to lower it even further to Rs. 61,843 crore. We are now only hoping at least this gets sanctioned,” a source said. This apart, CMRL has also sought loans from the Japan International Cooperation Agency, the Asian Development Bank, the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank and the New Development Bank. With a length of 118.9 km, the phase II project will comprise three corridors — Madhavaram to SIPCOT, Madhavaram to Shollinganallur and Light House to Poonamallee.
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man held for assaulting minor||The All-Women Police, Anna Nagar, has arrested a 62-year-old man on charges of sexually assaulting a minor girl at his house. According to the police, the offender, G. Ramanujam, sexually assaulted his 16-year-old relative. The girl had come from the U.K. and stayed in the same house as him. Based on a complaint from the victim, he was arrested.
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Patient ends life||A 54-year-old COVID-19 patient ended his life on Sunday. A resident of Alapakkam, the patient was admitted to the Omandurar Government Medical College Hospital on November 17. Counselling services for those with suicidal tendencies are available on health helpline 104 and Sneha’s helpline 044-24640050.
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chandrasekhar backtracks, writes to EC||Film director and father of actor Vijay, S.A. Chandrasekar, has reportedly asked the Election Commission of India (EC) not to register All India Thalabathy Makkal Iyakkam as a political party. A few weeks ago, Mr. Chandrasekar had attempted to register his fan club as a political party. Subsequently, Mr. Vijay came out strongly against his father and urged his fans to not join and work for the party. “I would like to categorically tell my fans and the people that I have no connection with this political outfit started by my father, directly or indirectly,” he had said. Mr. Vijay had further said that he would not be affected by the political decisions of his father. “I request my fans not to join the outfit simply because it is my father who started it,” he had said.
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TFPC poll results to be out today||The Tamil Film Producers Council (TFPC) election was held at the MGR Janaki College on Sunday and saw nearly 1,050 members cast their votes to elect the council’s office bearers. Around 112 members of the council contested for the various posts. Voting commenced on Sunday morning and wrapped up by 4.30 p.m. Owing to the restrictions due to COVID-19, the counting of votes and announcement of results is scheduled to be held on Monday. Producers T. Rajendar, Murali Ramasamy and P.L. Thenappan had contested for the post of president. After polling, Mr. Rajendar addressed mediapersons and said 1,050 members had cast their votes and that they were happy with the turnout. “Around 1,303 members were eligible to vote. If elected, our team will work with small producers and address their concerns,” he said. Mr. Murali said many producers who lived outside the State had come here to cast their votes. “Our manifesto has spoken about how there are many films that are yet to be released due to COVID-19 and if we are elected, we will work with the producers who have been affected,” he said. Kamal Haasan, Khushbu, Santhanam, S.J. Suryah and S.Ve Sekar were among those who cast their votes.
23 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Amit Shah leaves for New Delhi||Union Home Minister Amit Shah, who had arrived in the city on Saturday, left for Delhi on Sunday morning. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and other Ministers went to the air terminus to see him off.
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Trio sent to judicial remand||A special team of police brought three suspects, including the prime accused, in the Sowcarpet triple murder case and remanded them in judicial custody on Saturday.  On November 11, Dileep Thalil Chand, 74, who ran a finance firm, his wife Pushpa Bai, 68, and their son, Shithal Kumar, 42, were found dead in their home.
23 November 2020||CHENNAI/chittoor,TAMIL NADU||Nod for bus services between T.N. and A.P.||The State government has issued orders to permit inter-State bus transport between Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh without e-registration from November 25. A G.O. issued in this regard by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam said both private and government bus operators would be allowed. The Tamil Nadu government had earlier allowed inter-State bus services to Karnataka and Puducherry.  APSRTC’s move The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) will resume its inter-State services to Tamil Nadu from various depots of Chittoor district from November 25, after a gap of eight months since the start of the COVID-19 lockdown. Regional Manager (Tirupati) T. Changal Reddy told The Hindu that prior to the lockdown, APSRTC used to operate 202 buses to various parts of Tamil Nadu, including Chennai, Vellore, Kancheepuram, Krishnagiri and a few other important destinations. “As against 202 buses prior to the lockdown, we want to begin with minimum services initially. We expect that the occupancy rate will be at least 50% once operations resume. Depending on demand, services will gradually be increased,” he said. The official said APSRTC was taking into consideration the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams’ restrictions on granting darshan tickets to pilgrims.
23 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Skeletal remains of elephant calf found at Ettimadai||The Forest Department has found the skeletal remains of an elephant calf in a forest area at Ettimadai in Coimbatore district. According to officials with the Forest Department, the field staff found the carcass of an elephant calf in a decomposed state during a patrol conducted at the Navakkarai section of Madukkarai forest range on Saturday afternoon. Parts of legs, bones and skin of the elephant were found scattered on the ground close to rocky terrain. Officials visit spot The District Forest Officer and the Forest Veterinary Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division, visited the place. The veterinary officer, who examined the skeletal remains, said that it could have been a stillborn calf. The officer further said that wild boars could have scavenged the carcass, due to which the skeletal remains were scattered on the ground. Excluding the calf, 21 elephants have died of various reasons, including electrocution, shooting and diseases, in Coimbatore Forest Division this year.
23 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Elephant tramples woman to death in Coimbatore dist.||A 72-year-old woman was trampled to death by a wild elephant at Kuppepalayam village in Coimbatore district early on Sunday. Another woman aged 65 from the same village was also attacked by the same elephant. She managed to escape with a minor injury. The Forest Department has identified the deceased as K. Pappammal. She was attacked by a lone tusker that had strayed into the village from the nearby forest area around 6.15 a.m. on Sunday. According to District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh, the same tusker later attacked another woman named B. Raniammal from the village. She was taken to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH). The doctors who examined her found that she was lucky to have suffered only a minor knee injury after being pushed down by the elephant. She was sent back home. The Forest Department informed the police about the elephant attacks and Pappammal’s body was shifted to CMCH for post-mortem. Pappammal is the fifteenth person to have been killed in an elephant attack in Coimbatore Forest Division this year. Kuppepalayam village falls under the limit of Devarayapuram beat of Pooluvapatti forest range of Coimbatore Forest Division. Mild tension prevailed at the village after the death of the woman.
23 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Confident of winning seats in Assembly poll, says BJP||A day after the BJP and the AIADMK announced that their alliance will continue in the 2021 Assembly election in the State, BJP leaders here on Sunday expressed confidence of winning seats in the election. At the ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ led by State president L. Murugan here, the BJP’s Mahila Morcha national president, Vanathi Srinivasan, said the workers of the party are toiling hard to realise the dream of the party winning seats in the Assembly election. Claiming that the ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ was having a ripple effect across the country, C.N. Ashwanth Narayan, the Deputy Chief Minister of Karnataka, urged people to support the BJP to bring more development to Tamil Nadu. “The ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ is to unite the people of Tamil Nadu. It has revived the enthusiasm of young BJP workers and, at the same time, given sleepless nights to those who are opposing it,” said Mr. Murugan. Alleging that DMK president M.K. Stalin was behind Karuppar Koottam, he accused the DMK legal wing of extending help to the leaders of the movement. “Corruption and the DMK are siblings. The DMK is forgetting about its history of corruption while accusing others of it. The people of Tamil Nadu are waiting to give a fitting reply to the DMK in the Assembly poll,” he said. Mr. Murugan urged the State government to announce a government holiday in the State for Thai Poosam. He will head to Palani on Monday. In Tiruppur, actor-politician Kushboo Sundar and BJP senior leader Pon. Radhakrishnan courted arrest for participating in the ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ public meeting held on Sunday.
23 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Boycott RSS-BJP, allies in Assembly polls: PFI||Popular Front of India (PFI) State president M. Muhammed Sheik Ansari said here on Sunday that people of the State will never accept the RSS and its political wing BJP. Speaking at a State-level meeting of PFI held here, Mr. Ansari urged people to boycott the allies of BJP and Sangh Parivar organisations, including the AIADMK, in the Assembly election. “The AIADMK was defeated after it faced the last parliamentary election along with the BJP. Similarly, people should ignore the BJP and the AIADMK in the Assembly election,” he said. Mr. Ansari said that secular parties and movements should unite in the fight against the alliance. He said that the positions and policies of the AIADMK, which was founded by C.N. Annadurai and brought up by M.G. Ramachandran, are now constantly being questioned as it is getting closer to the BJP. Alleging that the Central Government and the Tamil Nadu Governor were causing delay regarding the release of the seven convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, he said that Tamil Nadu Government should put pressure for their release and also for the release of Muslim prisoners, who have spent more than 20 years of conviction.
23 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Only Cong. stood with common people, farmers: TNCC chief||Launching the ‘Plough Rally’ against the recent farm laws introduced by the Central government, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri said here on Sunday that only his party stood with the common people and farmers. “There are two chapters for the Congress. One is that of the legendary leaders who founded the party grew it. That was needed. Now, it is the common people that are running the party. This is also needed. This will also survive and see succeed,” he said. Speaking at the Farmers Protection Conference at Karumathampatti here, he said that the congregation was a glimpse of deep roots of the party in Tamil Nadu. Projecting Rahul Gandhi as the leader who can defeat Narendra Modi, Mr. Alagiri said that Mr. Gandhi was taking the Congress through a new path. Comparing Mr. Modi’s talks with those of Hitler and Mussolini, Mr. Alagiri said that dictators are known to talk well, but their rhetoric will be proven false later. He also hit out against the Vel Yatra that is being led by BJP State president L. Murugan, terming it as a divisive act. Speaking about the DMK-Congress alliance in the upcoming Assembly election, he said that his party will seek what it deserves. The TNCC president urged party functionaries and workers to take forward the Plough Rally across the State to fight against the farm laws and unite farmers. Dinesh Gundu Rao, AICC in-charge of Tamil Nadu, said that the meeting held on Sunday will be a turning point in the history of Tamil Nadu politics. He asserted that the Congress-DMK alliance would win the Assembly election with a majority. After the conference, Mr. Alagiri, Mr. Rao, AICC secretaries in-charge of Tamil Nadu Sanjay Dutt and Sirivella Prasad and other senior leaders of the party took out the Plough Rally towards Somanur which the Coimbatore District (Rural) Police blocked around 500 metres away from the venue.
23 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Logistics challenges hit exports, imports||Uncertainty over schedule of feeder vessels that come to Thoothukudi and Kochi ports for the last few weeks has hit exports and imports from Coimbatore region. From garments and food items, a wide range of products are exported and imported from this region and these are mostly through the Kochi and Thoothukudi ports. Coimbatore Custom House and Steamer Agents Association president P. Subramaniam told The Hindu that the problem started last month because of second wave of COVID-19 spread in Sri Lanka. Several handling workers at the Colombo port were affected by the disease. Further, there was a labour strike, too, at the port. Only earlier this week, Sri Lanka brought port service under Essential Services so that its operations are not affected. “A vessel that left India on November 13 is yet to get berth in Colombo port,” he said. This has led to uncertainty over arrival and departure schedules of Colombo feeder vessels at Thoothukudi, Chennai, and Kochi ports. Exported goods are lying in containers and imported products are yet to reach the Indian shores. Transhipment to the European countries and the US are also affected. Further, there is shortage in availability of empty containers. “Last week, about 6,000 containers that should have come to Thoothukudi were not available,” he said. With problems at Colombo, shipping lines are diverting vessels to other ports. This has led to congestion at Singapore port, resulting in delays there too. Vessel operators and shipping lines are revising their rates. The situation may return to normal only after a few days and this is resulting in higher logistics cost for exporters and importers, he said.  The problem started last month because of second wave of COVID-19 spread in Sri Lanka P. Subramaniam President, Coimbatore Custom House and Steamer Agents Association
23 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Alagiri launches ‘plough rally’ in Coimbatore||Launching the ‘plough rally’ against the recent farm laws introduced by the Central government, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee (TNCC) president K.S. Alagiri said here on Sunday that only his party stood with the common people and farmers. “There are two chapters for the Congress. One is that of the legendary leaders who founded the party and nurtured it. That was needed. Now, it is the common people who are running the party. This is also needed. This will also survive and succeed,” he said. Speaking at the farmers’ protection conference at Karumathampatti here, he said the congregation was a glimpse of the deep roots of the party in Tamil Nadu. Projecting Rahul Gandhi as the leader who can defeat Mr. Modi, he said Mr. Gandhi was taking the Congress through a new path. Comparing Mr. Modi’s talks with those of Hitler and Mussolini, Mr. Alagiri said dictators were known to talk well, but their rhetoric would be proven false later. He also hit out against the ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ that is being led by BJP State president L. Murugan, terming it a divisive act. Speaking about the DMK-Congress alliance in the upcoming Assembly election, he said his party would seek what it deserved. The TNCC president urged party functionaries and workers to take forward the plough rally across the State to fight against the farm laws and unite farmers. Dinesh Gundu Rao, AICC in-charge of Tamil Nadu, said the meeting held on Sunday would be a turning point in the history of the State politics. He asserted that the Congress-DMK alliance would win the election with a majority. After the conference, Mr. Alagiri, Mr. Rao, AICC secretaries in-charge of Tamil Nadu Sanjay Dutt, Sirivella Prasad and other senior leaders of the party took out the rally towards Somanur, which the Coimbatore district (rural) police blocked around 500 metres away from the venue.
23 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Youth held on charge of stealing chain of woman||The Podanur police arrested a youth on charges of stealing the chain of a woman by threatening her with scissors. The police said that N. Sankar, a resident of Alanganallur in Madurai, was arrested based on a complaint lodged by A. Veeramanikodi from Pillayarpuram. The accused and his friend trespassed into the house of the woman around 1 a.m. on Saturday. The duo threatened the woman with scissors and snatched her chain. However, it was a gold-plated chain. The police arrested Sankar, who was remanded in judicial custody. They were on the lookout for his friend.
23 November 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||Police stop funeral of SSI’s wife||The Dharmapuri police on Sunday stopped the funeral of a special sub-inspector’s wife after suspicions were raised about the nature of her death. According to police, Baby (53), wife of SSI Karmegham, was found unconscious in her house on Saturday and was rushed to a private hospital. Doctors at the hospital pronounced her dead. According to police, Karmegham arranged for funeral without informing the police about the unnatural death. Police stopped the funeral and recovered the body. It was sent to Dharmapuri government hospital for autopsy. Dharmapuri police are inquiring.
23 November 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Tourists want bathing ban at Kodiveri anicut lifted||With Kodiveri anicut remaining closed to tourists for over eight months, people in the district and tourists from other districts wanted the ban on bathing lifted at the earliest. The anicut is located 15 km from Gobichettipalayam on the Sathyamangalam Road. It is constructed across River Bhavani and the availability of water throughout the year makes it a favourite spot for tourists from the State, as well as from the nearby Karnataka. The anicut, maintained by the Public Works Department, has remained closed to visitors since March due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Development works to the tune of Rs. 2.69 crore, including concrete flooring at the bathing area and providing safety railings works, were completed recently. Works to lay approach roads to the anicut and construction of a wall are in progress. With the State government opening Hogenakkal and other tourism spots across the State with COVID-19 preventive measures, tourists wanted restriction on bathing to be lifted here. People who visit Bannari Amman Temple, make it a point to visit the anicut without fail. Small traders selling fish fries, snacks, and beverages at the anicut have lost their livelihood and wanted it opened to visitors at the earliest. Many traders said that in the absence of income, they had borrowed money at high interest rates, and only regular business would enable them recover from debts.
23 November 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Right wing outfit leader hacked to death||Tamil Nadu Hindu Mahasabha State Secretary Nagaraj was hacked to death near his residence in Hosur on Sunday. According to the police, 45-year-old Nagaraj was asked to come out of his house and was hacked to death near his residence at Anumandha Nagar by an unidentified gang around 8 a.m. on Sunday. The police were alerted and they rushed to the spot. Krishnagiri police have registered a case and are investigating. Superintendent of Police Bandi Gangadhar said the deceased was into real estate business. He added that based on preliminary investigation, the motive behind the murder was found to be personal enmity and there were no other communal or political reasons involved. The police said that a three to five-member gang is suspected to be behind the murder.
23 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Fire in garments unit||Furniture and machinery kept in three floors of a garments unit in Vilakkuthoon here were destroyed in a fire that broke out in the early hours of Sunday. Firemen from various stations had to fight for more than five hours to put out the flames. Deputy Director of Southern Region P. Saravanakumar and District Officer of Fire and Rescue Services S. Kalyanakumar supervised the exercise. With the recent death of two firemen while fighting fire in a textile shop just a few metres away from Sunday’s fire accident spot still fresh in memory, the senior officials did not allow their men to enter the shops in their attempt to extinguish the flames. The firemen were killed due to roof collapse on Deepavali day. After getting the alert at around 4.30 a.m., fire tenders from Madurai, Meenakshi Temple and Anuppanadi fire stations rushed to the spot. Since the building on different floors were kept under lock and key, the firemen struggled to break the walls to spray water. While the office was functioning on the first floor of the rented building, cloth cutting machinery and materials were kept in the second and third floors. Though the fire was brought under control at around 8.30 a.m., the firemen kept spraying water till 10 a.m. to ensure that the flames do not spread to adjacent buildings. Mr. Kalyanakumar said since the building was very old, the officials did not want to take a chance with the life of their men. After the Deepavali day accident, the officials have inspected over 100 shops and issued notices on stability of the building, and lack of fire-fighting systems. They also had either only one or narrow staircase. Advice to shops “We advised them to go for good house-keeping practices. Many of them had dumped the textile bundles on the staircases that allows expeditious spreading of fire from one floor to another. This also hinders free movement of people during emergency,” he said.
23 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘It is important to protect heritage sites’||On the one hand people were disregarding the antiquity of Tamil language and on the other hand ancient sites in Madurai were facing the threat of destruction owing to public apathy. It is important to protect the heritage spots and restore them to their original state, said Madras High Court judge N. Kirubakaran here on Sunday. He was speaking at World Tamil Sangam after inaugurating a photo exhibition along with Madras High Court judge B. Pugalendhi. The event was organised by Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) as part of World Heritage Week celebrations. Justice Kirubakaran said that while it was essential to learn English language, it was more important to learn one’s mother tongue. Tamil-Brahmi script found on potsherds, which were around 2,500 years old, showed that the ancient Tamil society was literate. “Carbon dating indicates that Tamil is among the most ancient languages. But we must also recognise and accept if some other language is found to be older than Tamil,” he said. Justice Kirubakaran urged the ASI officials to erect boards at convergence spots such as railway stations and bus stops to indicate the location of heritage spots. This will help in raising the tourist footfall even while increasing revenue generated through tourism, he said. Justice Pugalendhi asked the ASI officials to employ technology at major archaeological sites to explain the importance of those sites to the visitors. Earlier, the judges inaugurated a photo exhibition of important archaeological excavation sites across the country. V. Vedachalam, former senior epigraphist of Tamil Nadu Archaeology Department, said Madurai was an ancient city with several hills having Tamil-Brahmi inscriptions. Those sites must be declared as World Heritage Sites so that quarrying could be prevented at these hills. Several ancient heritage spots were facing the onslaught of urbanisation and hence it was all the more important to declare them as heritage villages or towns or cities, Mr. Vedachalam said. S. Rajavelu, adjunct professor at Alagappa University, urged the ASI to take steps to protect ancient temples and heritage spots across the State. There were several evidences that indicate that Madurai had been continuously inhabited for the past 2,500 years, said K.T. Gandhirajan, a resource person at Tamil Virtual Academy. K.P. Bharathi, an advisor at DHAN Foundation, said it was also the responsibility of the public to protect ancient heritage spots. G. Maheshwari, Regional Director (Southern Region), ASI, and T. Arun Raj, Superintending Archaeologist, Tiruchi circle, were present.  To do list  Erect boards at convergence spots to indicate the location of heritage sites  Employ technology at major archaeological sites to explain their importance  Declare hills with Tamil-Brahmi inscriptions as heritage sites to prevent quarrying
23 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Passengers cry foul as airline bars them from flight||Eleven passengers from different districts in the State were not allowed to board a Dubai-bound flight by SpiceJet employees, who claimed that they did not have a “valid” COVID-19 negative report, at the Madurai airport on Sunday. Five of them lodged a complaint with the Perungudi police station, for which they were issued a community service register receipt. An airport official said it was mandatory for international passengers to have a valid COVID-19 negative report to fly out of the country. “Otherwise, the destination country will not allow them to enter,” he added. ‘Different reasons’ When the passengers turned up at the airport, 11 of them were “off-loaded” due to the lack of a “valid” medical report. “They gave different reasons for different passengers. They said the lab technician’s signature was missing in the report of one of the passengers. For another, they said the lab was not among the list of approved labs,” said C. Antony Selvanathan Devera, 47. He said his medical report from a government hospital in Thoothukudi district was not accepted as it was not in the format prescribed by the airline. “Government hospitals have their own format when it comes to medical reports,” he said. A consultant in Dubai, Mr. Antony said he has travelled to multiple countries in the last 20 years. He asked whether the private airlines’ employees had tried to prevent genuine passengers from boarding the flight as they had overbooked the seats. “Five of us have decided to take the airline to the consumer forum,” he said. When contacted, a SpiceJet official refused to comment.  An airport official said it was mandatory for international passengers to have a valid COVID-19 negative report to fly out of the country
23 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Minister honours students who secured seats under 7.5% quota||Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar here on Sunday felicitated government school students from Madurai district who had secured medical and dental seats under the 7.5% horizontal reservation. Thirteen students from the district have secured medical and dental seats under the 7.5% reservation. Among them, four students have secured seats in government colleges and the rest in private colleges. S. Thangapetchi, a student of Government Kallar Higher Secondary School, Vickramangalam, who had attended the medical counselling, was not able to join a private college due to financial constraints. He said 405 seats - 313 medical seats and 92 dental seats - had been secured by government school students under the 7.5% reservation. “This is a boon for government school students, as last year only six government school students were able to obtain seats in medical colleges,” he said. He said the Chief Minister’s announcement of creating a revolving fund to financially help NEET-qualified State government school students, who have been allotted seats in private medical and dental colleges under the 7.5% reservation, would hugely benefit those students. He said that several parts of the State were likely to receive rain in the next couple of days. A total of 4,213 relief camps had been kept ready to accommodate people during emergency. Collector T. Anbalagan and Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan were present. Tirunelveli The State government has taken all precautionary measures in the wake of the northeast monsoon intensifying across many parts of Tamil Nadu, said Revenue, Information Technology and Disaster Management Minister R.B. Udhayakumar here on Sunday. Speaking to reporters, he said that special control rooms were monitoring the situation round the clock. Apart from the 36 districts, 15 zones in Chennai were closely observing the rainfall situation. The government machinery was fully geared and prepared with relief measures. Senior officials and special officers in the rank of IAS were already entrusted with the task of taking follow-up actions, Mr. Udayakumar said. Going by the past incidents of low-lying areas and others, there were 4,133 pockets/stretches across Tamil Nadu, which were prone to rain, he said and added that 47 % of the north-east monsoon rainfall would be taken for drinking and irrigation purposes. He said that the government had completed kudimaramathu works. Dams, tanks and ponds, which were filling up fast or reached the maximum levels, were being watched and measures were taken then and there by multi-department officials. After giving away the government doles to needy people, Mr. Udayakumar and Minister V.M. Rajalakshmi gave away Rs. one lakh each to seven students from Tirunelveli district, who had bagged a medical seat in government medical colleges in Tamil Nadu through the 7.5 % horizontal reservation. Thanking the Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for giving the benefit to the students from government schools, the Ministers said that the government would take care of the fee and other incidental expenses of the students for successfully completing medical course.
23 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Fire at garment unit in Madurai||Furniture and machineries kept in three floors of a ready-made garment unit in Vilakkuthoon were gutted in a fire that broke out in the early hours of Sunday. Firemen from various stations had to fight for more than five hours to put out the flames. Deputy Director (Southern Region), P. Saravanakumar, and District Officer (Fire and Rescue), S. Kalyanakumar, supervised the fire-fighting. With the recent death of two firemen while fighting fire in a textile shop due to a roof collapse just a few metres away from Sunday’s fire accident spot still fresh in memory, senior officials from the Department of Fire and Rescue Services did not allow their men to enter the shops in their attempt to douse the inferno. After getting the alert at around 4.30 a.m., firemen and tenders from Madurai, Meenakshi Temple and Anupanadi fire stations rushed to the spot and started to put out the flames.
23 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Webinars held||With a view to motivating students and instilling entrepreneurial skills in them, a webinar was organised by the Department of Commerce of Lady Doak College. Women entrepreneurs were invited for an interactive session with the students. The students were urged to acquire knowledge, have a positive attitude and learn new skills with passion. Similarly, a webinar enlightening teachers and students on new educational software applications to teach mathematics in an interesting and effective way was organised by Thiagarajar College of Preceptors.
23 November 2020||MADURAI/TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Slight increase in Madurai’s daily case count||Madurai reported 33 new COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday, which took the district’s overall case tally to 19,509. A total of 30 persons were discharged from hospitals, and the number of active cases in the district rose to 264. The district had added 25 cases to its tally on Saturday. Tenkasi recorded the addition of 23 cases and the discharge of 11 persons. The total number of positive cases in the district stands at 7,996, including 59 active cases. Death toll of the district remains at 155. Virudhunagar registered 20 fresh positive cases that took the total number of positive cases in the district to 15,782. However, after 19 patients were discharged, the number of active cases stands at 80. The district has lost 225 lives to the viral attack. Kanniyakumari’s tally went up to 15,533 with the addition of 17 fresh cases. With the discharge of 31 patients, the number of active cases stands at 135. The district has marked a death toll of 251. Fourteen persons tested positive in Sivaganga district, taking the district’s total case count to 6,220. The district has 71 active cases, after the discharge of 12 persons from hospitals. In Thoothukudi district, the number of patients discharged was 23 even as 10 fresh positive cases were reported. The total number of positive cases stands at 15,554. The district, which has 117 active cases, has registered a death toll of 135. Dindigul district too recorded 10 fresh cases to have a total case count of 10,124, including 70 active cases. Seventeen persons were discharged. The total number of positive cases in Tirunelveli district rose to 14,693 after nine new cases were reported on Sunday. As 15 persons were discharged, the number of active cases dropped to 142. Death toll of the district stands at 209. Eight new cases were recorded in Theni, which has registered a total of 16,508 positive cases. After nine persons were discharged, the district has 29 active cases. One death was recorded, taking the district’s death toll to 195. Ramanathapuram reported seven fresh cases to have a tally of 6,170. Four persons were discharged from hospitals, leaving 48 active cases in the district.
23 November 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Udhayanidhi arrested for third time||DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin was arrested yet again on Sunday — the third time in as many days — for violating physical distancing norms to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Mr. Udayanidhi was first arrested when he began his public outreach programme at Thirukuvalai — the ancestral village of DMK patriarch M. Karunanidhi — in Nagapattinam district on Friday. On Saturday morning, the police detained him at the Akkarapettai fishing harbour and took him to a marriage hall. Mr. Udhayanidhi, who drove to Mayiladuthurai from Nagapattinam on Saturday, visited Thiruvenkadu and attended a meeting with youth wing office-bearers. On Sunday morning, he was arrested at Kuthalam where he had arrived to address a gathering.
23 November 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Cane crushing operations begin||The sugarcane crushing activities for 2020-2021 commenced at the Salem Cooperative Sugar Mills Limited at Mohanur on Saturday. Vijay Babu, Managing Director of the sugar mill, and farmers launched the crushing activities.  Target According to a release, the plant plans to crush one lakh tonnes of sugarcane this year. Produce from 2,939 acres of land registered with the mill would be crushed at the plant, it said. Last year, 1.08 lakh tonnes of sugarcane was crushed at the plant.
23 November 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Retired guard’s tryst with Ranjankudi Fort continues||Neither age nor disability has diminished the enthusiasm of this retired guard of Ranjankudi Fort for exploration, excavation and promotion of the historic site. Now 75 years old, A. Hasim lives in the vicinity of the fort. During decades of service with Archaeological Survey of India (ASI), he has walked its precincts innumerable times. Post-retirement, he has unearthed a lot more historical evidence about the site. A devastating accident in 1991 left his left foot paralysed. Nevertheless, Mr. Hasim continues to spend most of his days at the fort. After his retirement in 2006, he took to exploration with greater gusto. The fort, which is said to have been built by a Jagirdar under the Nawab of Carnatic in the 17th Century, was the site of a battle between the English and the French in 1751. “I found British, Chera, Chola, Pandya and even Mughal coins in various parts of the fort. I also came upon canon balls, pieces of pottery, some depicting French rulers,” he says. “There are inscriptions mentioning rulers from various parts of the country and rock-cut images showcasing the length and breadth of the culture of the time,” he claims. “If I can spot these things in plain sight, imagine what experts can uncover.” However, despite its rich history, he feels the fort has not been accorded the importance it deserves. “After the creation of the Tiruchi Circle of ASI, Perambalur, which is only 50 km from the city, remains under the Chennai circle. By shifting it to Tiruchi circle, not only the fort, but also Valikandapuram Shiva Temple and other important historical sites in Perambalur can be improved and highlighted,” he points out. Further, Mr. Hasim notes that lack of awareness has led to its misuse. “Not many visit the site, and the place is mainly frequented by anti-socials. It is due to lack of promotion by ASI. They should at least distribute booklets or brochures to increase footfall.” He says he will donate his collections to authorities if a museum is set up. “I want people to understand the glorious past this land has seen. We were not always a sleepy old town; it was a vibrant landmark once. Exploration here will lead to many amazing discoveries.”
23 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||In search of innovative ways to handle the pandemic||The Covid Innovation Challenge hosted by the Atal Incubation Centre - Pondicherry Engineering College Foundation featured a range of interesting designs for a variety of contact-less settings. At the end of the grand finale which was held on a virtual platform, the three winning entries were CATS EYE (Contactless Authentication & Temperature Screening System), Angadi - Buy Local on Demand application and an on-site generation of electrochemically activated water disinfectant. According to R. Sundaramurthy, Executive Director – AIC-PECF, a series of innovation challenges were organised to empower a broader community engagement in fighting the pandemic. The objective of the event was to identify potential innovative products/projects in the prototype, proof of concept or minimum viable product stage, and to convert them into a commercial grade product by providing the necessary technology support through AIC-PECF’s incubation programme. The final event was opened by the chief guest P. Priyatarshny, Director, Department of Industries & Commerce. The jury comprised of R. Sridar, associate professor, B. Hemakumar, assistant professor and N. Sivakumar, assistant professor Puducherry Technological University. The winners will receive a seed prize amount along with incubation support at AIC-PECF incubation centre to scale and commercialize their innovative idea. Out of close to 100 applications received from a wide gamut of applicant’s like social entrepreneurs, Ph.D scholars, senior faculty members and school innovators, after several rounds of screening the top seven ideas presented their innovation during the final pitching competition. “We hope these ideas will inspire others to follow their passion, continue to innovate and make a difference,” said Mr. Sundaramurthy.
23 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Measures afoot to tackle dengue threat in U.T.||Though the dengue incidence has been relatively low this season, the administration is alert to the lurking threat posed by the mosquito-borne disease, going by the pattern of outbreaks over the previous years. A slew of measures, some of them generic to the preparedness of the northeast monsoon such as the de-clogging of canals/drain systems and others specifically targeting localised breeding grounds of the vector Aedes aegypti mosquitoes, are being undertaken across Puducherry as Health authorities anxiously look to offset another seasonal bout of dengue cases that could cut into vital resources deployed for managing the COVID-19 pandemic. Though dengue cases are sporadically reported through the year, the months between August and November are when the number of cases peak. Over the years, the dengue strike pattern has usually begun with a few cases in August, infection levels peaking in September and October before starting to taper off by November-January. So far this year, 564 patients have tested positive for dengue and between October and November only about 20 cases have been reported. Puducherry has reported one death this year so far. From 4,568 dengue cases and seven deaths in 2017 to 2038 cases and two deaths the previous year, there has been a turnaround from the high morbidity-low-mortality situation that prevailed in Puducherry for the last few years. High alert “With the Health Department already on high alert and inter-department coordination primed to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic, dengue prevention was a component of COVID reviews virtually every day,” said T. Arun, Health Secretary and District Collector. There have also been one inter-department consultative meeting convened at the level of the Chief Minister and two rounds at the ministerial review to address the clogging of canals and blockages in the drainage system before the onset of the northeast monsoon. Daily briefings called for by Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi on the COVID-19 situation have also focused on inter-linking departments such as Health, PWD and Municipalities for dengue prevention measures. The traditional dengue hotspots in the city include Lawspet, Maduvapet, Krishna Nagar, Lambert Saravanan Nagar, Rainbow Nagar, Kumaraguru Pallam, Vaithikuppam, Kurussukuppam and Dubrayapet. This year, the Health Department has flagged at least 21 vulnerable areas falling under eight PHC jurisdictions in Puducherry for intensive prevention drives. These places include low lying residential neighbourhoods such as Ramalinga Nagar, Vaithikkuppam and Ganeshnagar (Muthialpet PHC), Krishna Nagar, Samipillaithottam (Lawspet), Lambert Saravanan Nagar and Bommianpet (Reddiarpalayam), Rainbow Nagar, Thirumudisethuram Nagar (Odiansalai), Nonakuppam, Sivalingapuram (Thavalakuppam), Nadaraj Nagar, Samiyarthoppu (Villianur) and Thidir Nagar and Mariamman Koil Street (Kalapet). Apart from source reduction initiatives and awareness campaigns in the form of rallies, video messaging, posters and pamphlets, the administration has also been cracking the whip on establishments that fail to maintain hygiene at premises, Mr. Arun said.
23 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Number of fresh cases falls below 50 in Puducherry||Fresh COVID-19 cases fell below 50 on Sunday, while no death was reported in the Union Territory of Puducherry in the last 24 hours. With 88 patients discharged on recovery, the active cases came down to 559, after one case was transferred to Tamil Nadu. There are only 227 patients in hospital care (91 at JIPMER and 92 at IGMCRI), against 332 patients in home quarantine. According to a Health Department bulletin, the fresh cases were detected during the testing of 3,586 samples. Puducherry accounted for 22 of the fresh cases, Karaikal 10, Mahe 13 and Yanam one case. The test positivity rate was 1.28%, the case fatality rate 1.66% and the recovery rate 96.82%. The overall tally stands at 609 deaths, 559 active cases, a total of 36,693 cases and 35,525 patients recovered. The number of samples tested so far by the Health Department was 3,80,831, of which 3,39,854 returned negative.  With 88 patients discharged on recovery, the active cases came down to 559
23 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Anganwadi workers protest||Anganwadi workers staged a demonstration in the city recently to protest non-payment of bonus and arrears. DMK convener and MLA R. Siva addressed the protesters outside the Office of the Women and Child Development Department. He said the government which had commended the work by the Anganwadi workers during the pandemic should immediately disburse pay arrears. While public sector employees are being given pay rise based on the Sixth Pay Commission recommendation, the same has not been implemented for Anganwadi workers. He extended the party’s full support to their cause until their demands are met.
23 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen advised not go to sea||The Fisheries Department has cautioned fishermen from venturing into the seas after a warning of an approaching cyclonic storm from the Indian Meteorological Department. In a bulletin, the IMD advised fishermen not to venture into the Equatorial Indian Ocean and adjoining central parts of South Bay of Bengal Gulf of Mannar and along Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and south Andhra Pradesh coasts between November 22-25. Fishermen were also advised to return immediately. The forecast is for rough sea conditions along and off the Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coast on Monday and very rough to high on the subsequent two days. The forecast is for fairly widespread to widespread rainfall/thunderstorm activity over Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal from Monday. Squally weather with wind speed snowballing to 100 kmph over southwest Bay of Bengal, and along and off Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts around the region of landfall on November 25 is also forecast.
23 November 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Special camp to track missing persons||The police would take all-out measures to track missing persons, said Superintendent of Police E Karthik on Sunday. He said a team would be exclusively formed to handle such cases. The police organised a special camp to examine how many cases were pending and how to proceed with them. They informed the complainants that there were possibilities of tracking missing persons with the help of technology and urged them to share their input. N. M. Mylvaganan, DIG of Police (Ramanathapuram Range), commended the initiative and exhorted the people to cooperate with the police in sharing information. The district has 159 missing cases and 122 petitioners among them participated in the camp. While it was decided to pursue 96 cases immediately as the police had updated information, they planned to keep 26 cases in abeyance, an officer said.
23 November 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Carcass of whale washed ashore||The carcass of a sub-adult whale washed ashore at Aatrankarai seashore on Sunday. Forest Range Officer S. Sathish said that the carcass was nine metre long with a circumference of six metres. It is suspected to be a male dwarf sperm whale aged between seven to nine years. ‘Since the carcass is extremely decayed, it is difficult to ascertain the species,’ he said. The local fishermen informed the forest department officials about the carcass on Saturday evening. Usually, an adult dwarf sperm whale would weigh up to 16 tonne. ‘But, the decayed carcass weighed around three tonne and it looks like a sub-adult whale,’ he added. It could have died around a week back due to rough climatic conditions, he said. Valantharavai veterinary doctor M. Nijamudeen performed the autopsy in the presence of S. Ganesalingam, Assistant Conservator of Forest, J. Chandru Raju, forester. and R. Gunasekaran, forest guard. The decayed carcass was buried.
23 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Yercaud chocolates find good patronage||The fresh chocolates manufactured by the Horticulture Department at Yercaud here are receiving good patronage. The integrated chocolate manufacturing facility set up recently near the Government Botanical Garden- I manufactures chocolates in smaller quantities, which get sold within a week. The chocolates are marketed through the Tamil Nadu Horticulture Development Agency and sold at the department’s outlets at Anna Park and Botanical Garden. Deputy Director of Horticulture Department Sathya said, “At present 15 kg chocolate is manufactured a week. A 50 gm bar of milk chocolate is sold at Rs. 60 and dark chocolate at Rs. 50.” Cocoa is procured from various places across the State including Anamalai in Coimbatore and Bethanaikenpalayam in Salem. Officials said that the unit was set up at an approximate cost of Rs. 10 lakh. Plans are on to take bulk orders and introduce new products in the production line. With Yercaud receiving good footfall after COVID-19 lockdown relaxation, the department has added new amenities to the parks. A fountain was set up at Anna park and a lawn at the Government Botanical Garden-II. The department has also started preparing flower pots for next season. Weekend collection During the Deepavali weekend, the six parks under the department saw a footfall of 7,571 people and the entry fee collection was Rs. 1.53 lakh. On Saturday, 2,014 people visited the park and the entry fee collection was Rs. 45,690.
23 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Special camps held in districts to trace missing persons||Special camps to resolve complaints of missing persons were organised by the police departments in Salem, Erode, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri districts on Sunday. According to police officials, as per the instructions of Special DGP (Law and Order) Rajesh Das, ‘missing person’ complaints registered from 2010 were reviewed at the camps, in the presence of the complainants . The Salem District Police took up 174 complaints registered from 2010 at the drive held at the Armed Reserve grounds at Linemedu here. Superintendent of Police S.Deepa Ganiger, DIG Pradip Kumar visited the camp. According to police, the details of the missing persons were matched with the photographs of unidentified bodies in the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network and Systems portal and with the photographs of persons at different Homes here. The Salem City Police reviewed 210 complaints registered from 2010 at the special drive. City Police Commissioner T. Senthil Kumar, Deputy Police Commissioners M.Chandrashekaran and S.Senthil took part in the camp held at a private wedding hall here. Police found probable matches in four cases. In Erode, Superintendent of Police P.Thangadurai said that of the 259 missing person complaints registered in the district from 2010, 40 cases were resolved during a special drive conducted from November 16. At the drive conducted on Sunday, the whereabouts of an unidentified body was traced. In Dharmapuri, Superintendent of Police Pravesh Kumar launched the programme at the District Armed Reserve grounds and 102 cases were reviewed. In Krishnagiri, ADSP Raju launched the programme and over 137 cases were taken up for review.
23 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexually assaulting minor girls||The Salem City Police on Saturday arrested a man for sexually assaulting two minor girls. According to police, the accused, Ravindran from Vazhapadi here, sexually assaulted the siblings aged 15 and 13. Based on a complaint lodged by the girls’ parents, Ammapet All Women police registered a case under the POCSO Act and arrested the accused.
23 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Rain, a big relief for farmers||While the farmers have welcomed the north east monsoon, the civic authorities have been finding it tough as the rains have exposed the poor upkeep of underground drainage system and many low-lying areas were inundated here on Sunday. Though the actual normal annual rainfall in October was only 34.92 mm against 150.7 mm, November came as a big relief for the farmers as the rainfall already was at 243.76 mm against 184.7 mm, agriculture department officials said and added that the district’s annual normal rainfall was429.mm. With the rain predicted during the next few days, the sowing activity is under way in full swing and has been completed in many areas, including Karungulam, Srivaikundam, Alwarthirunagari, Tiruchendur and Sattankulam blocks. The water for irrigation for the ‘pisanam’ crop was released from November 1. Agriculture department officials said that a total of 1.15 lakh hectares were under coverage of crops which include corn, maize, millets, green gram, black gram, groundnut, barnyard millet, paddy and sunflower. Though the farmers would have commenced the activities in October, the deficit rain in that month forced them to keep their fingers crossed. With heavy rainfall experienced in the last one week, the news came as a double delight for the farmers as they have completed the primary activity. Joint Director Mohideen said that they had stocked high quality seeds for the farmers in all blocks and hoped that the yield might be higher this season in the district. The district topped with black gram at 43,500 ha coverage, followed by green gram in 24,000 ha, corn in 30,000 ha, pearl millet 4,500 ha, paddy in 305 ha, cotton in 2,800 ha and oil varieties in 600 hectares respectively. The farmers can approach the respective block level/field officers in the department for any query.
23 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘12,000 applications received for inclusion of names in voter list in single day’||The two-day special camp for registering eligible voters in the draft electoral rolls had drawn a good response in the district, said Collector K. Senthil Raj here on Sunday. The Election Commission of India (ECI) had announced conduct of special campaigns to enrol, delete and modify among others in the voter list. In this connection, the district administration had organised special camps on November 21 and 22 across the polling stations and at the designated locations. On the first day of the two-day camp, the officials had received 15,000 applications under different forms, including 6,7,8 and 8 A. For inclusion in the voter list alone, 12,000 applications have been received, Dr Senthil Raj said and added that they would be properly enumerated and included in the voter list. The Collector appealed all the eligible voters (completing 18 years as on 1.1.2021) enrol in the voter list. The ECI has made elaborate arrangements and urged all the voters to cast their votes. Apart from physical submission of forms in the designated locations, public can also access through ECI website (www.nvsp.in) and approach the voters’ helpline. The Collector visited Holy Cross Anglo Indian School and Subbiah Vidyalayam Girls Higher Secondary School, where the campaign was under way. Thoothukudi has six Assembly Constituencies, including Tiruchendur and Srivaikundam, and the draft electoral roll for the district was released on November 16. As per the ECI's guidelines, a similar camp for two days would be held on December 11 and 12. Later, the Collector told reporters that the rainfall experienced in the district over the last two days had resulted in a few inundation at some wards. The civic authorities have been fully attentive and in at least seven wards, pumping of rainwater into the channels was under way with the help of 90 electric motors, he added. The district administration was fully geared to face the challenges that may arise due to the northeast monsoon, the Collector said and added that 36 locations were under close surveillance by multi-department officials. Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jeyaseelan who was also present said that they had identified 20 relief centres within the city limits for shifting people in the event of heavy rainfall. All the ration shops in the city and district had been instructed to keep sufficient stocks of essential commodities., they added.
23 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Bonsai, a craft for the soul||Looking at the perfectly shaped miniature banyan tree thriving in its concrete flat-bottomed tub, it is hard to believe that the plant may be over 40 years old. “Fifteen years ago, the banyan was actually growing in a crack between the walls of an old building in Bengaluru, and the owners wanted to uproot it. I removed the sapling and replanted it first in the ground, and then in containers of incrementally small sizes, pruning the roots each time to make it a bonsai version of the original,” G. Lakshmanasamy, a Tiruchi-born software professional who has recently launched a nursery and display area for his collection of mini plants in the city, told The Hindu . Bonsai is an ancient Chinese horticultural technique (later refined by the Japanese) of cultivating miniature versions of plants and trees in an aesthetic manner. While the Chinese cultivated entire landscapes in bonsai, the Japanese concentrated on individual trees. Mr. Lakshmanasamy has been sharing his passion for the art with his cousin G. Ramasamy, an elementary school teacher in Tiruchi. They have collaborated to set up Bodhi Nursery and Aquarium at Dhanaratnam Nagar in Old Paal Pannai, and a major part of the display area is taken up by their collection of around 25 bonsai projects featuring banyan, adenia, cacti and crassula (Jade plant). Visitors may also see a mini religiosa (Peepul) tree that has been transplanted from an open well seven years ago. “Twenty years ago, as a newcomer to Bengaluru, I was struck by a 70-year-old bonsai banyan sample that was displayed at the flower show in Lal Bagh, and immediately wanted to know how I could grow something similar,” recalled Mr. Lakshmanasamy. Unable to afford that bonsai tree, he repeatedly visited the gardener, a veteran municipal worker who used to create dwarf versions from the plants that were cut down during road clearing work in Bengaluru. “I realised that this is a craft not just for the hands, but also for the soul,” he said. Working in Bengaluru first in a tissue culture firm, and later in IT, Mr. Lakshmanasamy would bring back plant cuttings to Tiruchi that he and Mr. Ramasamy would tend to on the terrace of their family home in Old Paal Pannai. “We decided to set up a nursery together after friends suggested that more people would enjoy learning about this ancient horticultural craft. And one can start with existing saplings rather than seeds,” said Mr. Ramasamy. The nursery has a website and WhatsApp number to reach out to those interested in developing this hobby locally. It also offers regular plant saplings for home gardens. While samples start from Rs. 500, the cousins admit they would not have the heart to sell some of their older bonsai plants because of their sentimental value. “People are amused by our obsessive love for bonsai, but we consider these are our most valuable possessions … they will be our legacy for our children,” said Mr. Lakshmanasamy.
23 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Slight increase in positive cases, one death in Tiruchi||The central districts on Sunday recorded a slight spike in fresh COVID-19 cases, with 155 patients testing positive. One death was reported in Tiruchi, according to data released by the State Health Department. A 53-year-old woman with a history of acute respiratory distress syndrome and diabetes succumbed to the infection at a private hospital in Tiruchi. Among the central districts, Nagapattinam has reported the highest number of cases over the last few days. A spike was registered on Sunday with 44 patients testing positive. Among them were local cases with no contact history and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses. Thanjavur and Karur recorded equal number of cases — 25 — on Sunday. Karur reported a spike in cases too, with residents from Vadivel Nagar, Govindapalayam, Kulithalai, and Rayanur testing positive. Meanwhile, six patients who were undergoing treatment at Government Medical College Hospital in Karur were discharged after recovering from the viral infection. Sixteen active cases — 11 men and five women — continue to undergo treatment at the hospital. Tiruvarur reported 24 fresh cases, while Tiruchi reported 21. Patients who tested positive in both districts were primary contacts, or local cases with no travel or contact history. Some patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses and asymptomatic patients also tested positive. Four patients were discharged from Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital on Sunday after recovery from the viral infection. A total of eight patients tested positive for COVID-19 in Pudukottai, reflecting a significant decline over the last few days. Meanwhile, seven patients tested positive in Ariyalur, while one tested positive in Perambalur. Patients with a history of severe acute respiratory illnesses and Influenza-Like Illnesses, local cases and interdistrict travellers tested positive for COVID-19 in both districts.
23 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Delay raises stench||Almost a week has passed since the domestic garbage generated from apartments and individual households in SBI Officers’ Colony was collected by sanitary workers of Tiruchi Corporation. The residents, struggling to put up with the stench emanating from the piled up domestic waste, expected the visit of sanitary workers at least on Sunday. But, the wait for handing over the waste still continues.  The issue was not confined just to residents of SBI Officers’ Colony. Several residents of Srirangam, Woraiyur and Thennur and extension areas also alleged irregular collection of garbage by sanitary workers. After abolition of road side garbage bins in the city about four years ago in favour of door-to-door collection of domestic waste, the residents were asked to segregate the waste into bio-degradable and non-degradable and keep them in two separate baskets. To habituate residents to the new practice, the Corporation distributed baskets through sponsors. After teething trouble, the system gradually became a regular practice. By deploying a light motor vehicle for each ward, the sanitary workers visited the households regularly to collect domestic waste. At one point of time, the Corporation even introduced a QR code-enabled garbage collection and tracking system to improve the efficacy of the door-to door collection. Though there were complaints of poor coverage here and there, the system had started gaining momentum. Now, the residents of several localities alleged that that the system had frittered away gradually due to irregular collection of domestic waste and the inefficient monitoring mechanism. Though the daily collection of waste was still in force, many alleged that it was only on paper. There were areas where daily collection of waste was being undertaken. In several other areas, the sanitary workers visited once in three to four days to collect garbage.
23 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Bio-fertilizer quality control laboratory shifted to Rs. 2.77-crore new building in Tiruchi||A new building has been constructed to house the Bio-Fertilizer Quality Control Laboratory in Tiruchi. The project, with Rs. 2.77 crore Central Assistance, was implemented under National Agriculture Development Programme/Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana for analyses of azospirillum, rhizobium, phosphobacteria, potash mobilising bacteria, zinc solubilising bacteria and consortium of micro organism, vesicular arbuscular mycorrhizae and other bio-fertilizers. The new premises of the laboratory, where 1,040 biofertilizer samples are analysed every year, was inspected earlier this month by the scheme consultant, Ajaykumar Singh, in the presence of S. Santhi, Deputy Director of Agriculture - GOI schemes, and A. Gomathi, Assistant Director of Agriculture, Manikandam.
23 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Minister presents Rs. 1 lakh each to seven govt. school students||The State government has taken all precautionary measures in the wake of the northeast monsoon intensifying across many parts of Tamil Nadu, said State Revenue, Information Technology and Disaster Management Minister R.B. Udhayakumar here on Sunday. Speaking to reporters, he said that special control rooms were monitoring the situation round the clock. Apart from the 36 districts, 15 zones in Chennai were closely observing the rainfall situation. The government machinery was fully geared and prepared with relief measures. Senior officials and special officers in the rank of IAS were already entrusted with the task of taking follow-up actions, Mr. Udayakumar said. Going by the past incidents of low-lying areas and others, there were 4,133 pockets/stretches across Tamil Nadu, which were prone to rains, he said and added that 47 % of the northeast monsoon rainfall would be taken for drinking and irrigation purposes. He said that the government had completed kudimaramathu works, which were receiving copious water. Dams, tanks and ponds, which too, were filling up fast, or had reached the maximum levels, were being watched and measures were taken then and there by multi-department officials. After giving away the government doles to needy people, Mr. Udayakumar and Minister V.M. Rajalakshmi gave away Rs. one lakh each to seven students from Tirunelveli district, who had bagged a medical seat in government medical colleges in Tamil Nadu through the 7.5 % horizontal reservation. Thanking the Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami for giving the benefit to the students from government schools, the Ministers said that the government would take care of the fee and other incidental expenses of the students for successfully completing medical course.
23 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||BJP and AIADMK misusing official machinery: CPI leader||Condemning the BJP and the AIADMK for “misusing” the official machinery, CPI State secretary R. Mutharasan said on Sunday that it was unfortunate that Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced the “electoral alliance” at a government function held in Kalaivanar Arangam, Chennai, on Saturday. Speaking to presspersons, he said the BJP leader had arrived here from New Delhi on a special aircraft to finalise the electoral alliance with the AIADMK. However, they utilised the government function for this purpose. It was unfortunate, he added.  ‘Violated norms’ The CPI, he said, would condemn this as the BJP and the AIADMK, had violated norms. “Will the government give the Kalaivanar Arangam to the CPI for any political meeting?” he asked. Accusing Mr. Palaniswami of misusing his official capacity, the CPI leader said the Chief Minister, under the guise of reviewing the COVID-19 situation in the districts, was playing politics by giving press meets on political issues. The AIADMK bent the rules and justified such mistakes, but directed the police to arrest opposition leaders, he said. What was wrong with Udhayanidhi Stalin’s campaigning in Nagapattinam district, he asked, and demanded the police to drop the charges. The AIADMK, even before the election was announced, had apprehended defeat in the hands of the DMK. In a bid to cover up its wrongs, the ruling party functionaries had started to threaten the opposition parties and its leaders. “We will not be cowed down by such threats,” Mr. Mutharasan said. The CPI leader was here to participate in the inaugural function of a new building for the party office in Tirunelveli.  Will the government give the Kalaivanar Arangam to the CPI for any political meeting?
23 November 2020||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruvannamalai Collector honours Children’s Climate Prize winner||Tiruvannamalai Collector Sandeep Nanduri on Sunday honoured 14-year-old Vinisha Umashankar from the district, who recently won the Children’s Climate Prize conferred by the Children’s Climate Foundation from Sweden, for her innovation — solar ironing cart. A class 9 student of SKP Vanitha International School in Tiruvannamalai, Vinisha was announced as winner on November 2 and presented with the award online on November 18. “In 2019, Vinisha won the Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam IGNITE Award after submitting a technical paper on the solar ironing cart. Later, the National Innovation Foundation designed a prototype and they have applied for a patent in my name and it will be transferred to Vinisha's name once she is 18,” said the girl’s father Umashankar . Vinisha has been shortlisted for the Rashtriya Bal Shakti Puraskar 2021. “The cart will charge in five hours and can be used for six hours. We are planning to approach a German company to make customised solar panels that can charge the batteries in two hours,” he added. He said that it was just casual talk about coal production and cutting down of trees that prompted Vinisha to embark on this project. “I have always told her to come up with innovations that can help the underprivileged and something that can have a positive impact on the environment. It is a way of giving back to society,” he said. Vinisha had made a sensor-based smart ceiling fan. “It will stop when no one is around and resume once movement is detected by the sensor. This will help conserve electricity,” added Mr. Umashankar. On Sunday, Mr. Nanduri met her in the Collectorate and honoured her. “He asked her what she wanted to become and Vinisha immediately replied that she wanted to become a research scientist and invent a single cold vaccine,” said Mr. Umashankar.
23 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Rescued male tiger cubs to be taken to Vandalur Zoo||The two tiger cubs that were rescued on Saturday in the Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) after their mother died will be taken to the Arignar Anna Zoological Park (AAZP), or Vandalur Zoo, in Chennai. Meeting held K.K. Kaushal, Field Director of MTR, said it was decided to do so to ensure the well-being and safety of the cubs. On Sunday, a meeting was held between officials from the tiger reserve, veterinarians, and wildlife experts. The Field Director said the cubs were healthy and were fed a special diet based on National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) guidelines. “The veterinarians felt that the cubs are highly vulnerable at this stage and need special care and infrastructure. We have neo-natal care facilities for wild animals in Chennai only. They will be there for the next four months," said Mr. Kaushal. "The cubs will be taken there on Monday. There has been no decision taken on whether the two cubs can be brought back to MTR for in-situ rearing," he said. The cubs will be taken care of by K. Sridhar, veterinary surgeon, AAZP and K. Rajeshkumar, forest veterinarian, MTR, during the transit too. Meanwhile, conservationists have called for the test samples taken from the adult tigress that was found dead in Singara Range to be analysed fast. Probe sought “Though it is premature to speculate the cause of the animal’s death, it seems possible that the animal might have been poisoned. There needs to be a thorough investigation as to why the five Asiatic wild dogs (which died a few months ago) were poisoned. If indeed it is proved that the tiger was killed by poisoning, these incidents could set a dangerous precedent for wildlife crimes in the region,” said a conservationist. N. Mohanraj, another conservationist, said there should be a change in policy that will slowly allow for locals, who are primarily graziers, to shift to more sustainable livelihoods that does not bring them into having problematic interactions with wildlife. “Due to cattle being grazed in the buffer zone of the reserve, it often happens that there are many incidents of cattle-lifting by tigers and leopards. This causes retaliation in the form of poisoning events, like the one which led to the death of the five wild dogs,” said Mr. Mohanraj.
23 November 2020||VEDARANYAM,TAMIL NADU||Salt pan workers urge DMK MPs to highlight their plight in Parliament||The Vedaranyam Salt Workers' Association has sought the intervention of DMK MPs in highlighting their plight in Parliament and extricating them from the financial setback caused by Gaja cyclone two years ago. Salt being a central subject, the Union government regulates the sector through its commissionerate based in Jaipur. No relief has been provided to the workers as yet, association president P.V. Rajendran said in a petition submitted to DMK Youth Wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin. The Central government’s intervention is required to hand over the management of 2,450 acres of salt land to the management of Sri Vedaraniyeswarar Devasthanam. As lessee, the salt department of Government of India pays less than Rs. 4,500 per annum for the entire 2,450 acres and sub-leases it to 70 small-scale producers by levying Rs. 15 lakh per annum. The DMK MPs must prevail upon the Centre to give back the 2,450-acre land to the temple, so that the small-scale producers can sort out matters regarding land use, lease and renewal, Mr. Rajendran said in his petition. The MPs must also secure infrastructure, particularly roads, in the salt producing areas. Establishment of a chlor alkali plant at Vedaranyam will pave way for salt producers to get fair price, the association president added.
23 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||39 test positive in Vellore, tally at 19,062||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 19,062 with a total of 39 new cases reported on November 22. While 18,506 patients have been discharged, the active cases in the district stood at 229. The district’s toll is 327. In Ranipet district, nine cases were reported positive taking the total to 15,489. In Tirupathur district, three persons tested positive on Sunday, taking the total to 7,146. In Tiruvannamalai district, 16 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 18,466. Out of this, 18,027 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 168.
23 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore reports 39 new infections||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 19,062, with 39 fresh cases reported on Sunday. A total of 18,506 patients have been discharged, and the active cases stands at 229. The death toll is 327. In Ranipet district, the detection of 9 fresh cases took the tally to 15,489. In Tirupathur district, the total number of positive cases reached 7,146, with 3 fresh cases. Tiruvannamalai district reported 16 fresh cases. The case tally stands at 18,466, including 18,027 persons discharged. The number of active cases stands at 168.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports two deaths, 154 cases||Salem district reported 67 fresh COVID-19 cases on Sunday. According to health officials, of the total cases, 66 were indigenous, including 46 in Salem Corporation limits. One patient had returned from Tiruchi. In Namakkal, 41 cases were reported. Four patients had returned from other districts. A 58-year-old man succumbed to the disease. Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri districts reported 16 and 14 indigenous cases respectively. A total of 58 persons tested positive in Erode. As per medical bulletin, a 76-year-old woman died. Coimbatore district reported two deaths and 154 fresh cases on Sunday, which took the overall tally to 47,535 cases. Two women, aged 63 and 76, died during treatment at a private hospital in Coimbatore and at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital respectively. Of the 47,535 cases, 46,216 have recovered and 720 were active. Coimbatore district has so far reported 599 deaths. On Sunday, 181 patients from the district were discharged upon recovery from COVID-19. 72 cases in Tiruppur Tiruppur district reported one death and 72 fresh cases. The overall tally touched 14,835 cases. A 60-year-old man died at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Friday. Out of the 14,835 cases, 13,994 have recovered and 634 were active. The district has so far reported 207 deaths. As many as 87 patients from the district were discharged upon recovery on Sunday. 31 cases in The Nilgiris In the Nilgiris, 31 people tested positive. The total number of confirmed COVID-19 cases in the Nilgiris stood at 7,233. The toll in the district stood at 40 on Saturday, while the district administration said that 152 people were under treatment.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Brace for showers as storm is brewing||Weather blogger Pradeep John said that Monday would throw more light on the movement of the cyclone and where it would cross the coast. “The city will get rains, we know, but as to how much we will get depends on how close it will cross,” he said. “We can expect rains over the State to begin from Tuesday. The American model says it would be stronger than Thane [cyclone] and shows rainfall of around 200-300 mm a day. We can definitely expect extreme rainfall in some places. It looks like a rain-filled system. Since this is the northeast monsoon, the northern side of the cyclone will bring in more rain bands,” the official said. Meanwhile, quelling the doubts of Chennai residents about reservoirs being opened, official sources in the Public Works Department said they were keeping a close watch on various reservoirs around Chennai and tanks upstream. “Adequate precautionary measures have been taken. We are confident of managing any emergency,” an official said. A former official said reservoirs would not be an issue. “Only if rainfall exceeds 50 cm, might there be a problem,” he said. With the meteorological department predicting very rough seas in these regions, fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea until after Thursday. Sources in the Fisheries Department said that based on the formal advisories issued by the districts, messages have been passed on to the owners of all boats. “Traditional boats and mechanised craft have been advised to stay on shore. Meetings have been held with various associations,” said an official. “All the trawler boats that put out to sea from the Chennai Harbour have returned and a few multi-day fishing boats, especially gillnet boats, that went out of Chennai Harbour are in transit and expected to reach Chennai or harbours close to them soon. They are in the northern waters, and their movement is being monitored,” the official said.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||North T.N. to get rain from tomorrow||“We can expect rains over the State to begin from Tuesday. The American model says it would be stronger than Thane [cyclone] and shows rainfall of around 200-300 mm a day. We can definitely expect extreme rainfall in some places. It looks like a rain-filled system. Since this is the northeast monsoon, the northern side of the cyclone will bring in more rain bands,” he said. Meanwhile, quelling the doubts of Chennai residents about reservoirs being opened, official sources in the Public Works Department said they were keeping a close watch on various reservoirs around Chennai and tanks upstream. “Precautionary measures have been taken,” an official said. A former official said reservoirs would not be an issue. “Only if rainfall exceeds 50 cm, might there be a problem,” he said. With the meteorological department predicting very rough seas, fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea until after Thursday. Sources in the Fisheries Department said that based on the formal advisories issued by the districts, messages have been passed on to the owners of all boats.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Washed ashore||
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||The report titled ‘Women allowed to travel in suburban trains’, published on Saturday, erroneously mentioned that children over the age of 12 accompanying lady passengers are permitted to travel during non-peak hours. The Southern Railway said children up to the age of 12 accompanied by women commuters are allowed to travel. The error is regretted.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bitter harvest||
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Service break||
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ready for market||
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail||It is unfortunate that two firefighters lost their lives while putting out a fire that broke out in a textile outlet which functioned in an old building in Madurai. The main reason for such fire accidents are due to electrical leakages. The Electricity Board and Fire and Rescue Service officials should conduct periodical inspections to prevent such incidents. M. Sainithii, Madurai    Most of the customers of BSNL are senior citizens owing to their loyalty to the government-owned public sector company. The sons and daughters of these aged and retired persons are living in other States and abroad. Due to poor connectivity and slow internet connection, they find it difficult to communicate with their children. The subscribers face frequent disruption of 4G services and call drop problems. If the landline connection is disrupted due to mechanical and other reasons, the restoration of the service is done only after one or two days after repeated phone calls. Sometimes one has to even personally visit the BSNL exchange to remind them of the issue. If such a situation continues, the customer base will further erode. The authorities must take steps to improve the services to ensure quality network connectivity. S. Nallasivan, Tirunelveli
23 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Rally taken out in support of Basanagouda Patil Yatnal||Some organisations took out rally in support of MLA and BJP leader Basanagouda Patil Yatnal in Vijayapura on Sunday for his statements supporting the establishment of the Karnataka Maratha Development Corporation. Members of the Swami Vivekananda Sene, the Basanagouda Yatnal Abhimani Balaga and the Dalit Sangharsh Samiti took out a rally in the city opposing the bandh call given by some Kannada organisations on December 5. They gathered at the Siddeshwar Swami Mutt and took out a march through the city. They raised slogans in favour of Shivaji Maharaj and Kannada deity Bhuvaneshwari. They raised slogans against Kannada activist Vatal Nagaraj and T.A Narayana Gowda, and said that they were only creating confusion in the State to destabilise the government led by B.S. Yediyurappa. Swami Vivekananda Sene leader Raghu Annigeri said that the bandh was unconstitutional and would disrupt life. “We will strongly oppose any attempt to organise a bandh on December 5,” he said. He suspected that there were some unseen forces behind Mr. Nagaraj and other Kannada activists who were planning a political conspiracy against the BJP government. “This should be investigated. The government should also investigate the source of funds for these institutions. We have information that earlier governments have given money to Mr. Nagaraj. He has taken Rs. 60 lakh every year from the government. What has he done with that money? He is demanding Rs. 2 crore from the Kannada and Culture Department now. The government should not yield to such demands,” he said. They submitted a memorandum to the government not to allow the bandh on December 5.
23 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Activists hold protest rallies in Belagavi against BJP leader||Kannada organisations took out protest rallies against the alleged insulting remarks made by MLA and BJP leader Basanagouda Patil Yatnal against Kannada activists a few days ago. In Belagavi, members of the Karnataka Rakshana Vedike took out a mock funeral procession for Mr. Yatnal. They carried a an effigy on their shoulders and kept it at the Rani Channamma Circle for some time. They set fire to it, despite the police asking them not to do so. Another group of protesters had loud arguments with the police when the latter stopped them from draping a sari around an effigy resembling Mr. Yatnal and tried to beat it with slippers. The police took away the effigy with the sari. Vedike members and followers of Vatal Nagaraj, Kannada activist, staged a protest against the former Minister. Mr. Nagaraj and a group of Kannada association members walked from the Rani Channamma Circle to the Deputy Commissioner’s Office. They shouted slogans against the MLA and said that he was making false allegations against Kannada activists. Vedike leader Deepak Gudanatti said that Mr. Yatnal was making baseless allegations against Kannada activists saying that they were working for financial considerations. “He has called us roll-call activists. He has lost his balance of mind. He is desperate as he has not been made a Minister,” he said. Another vedike leader Mahadev Talwar challenged Mr. Yatnal to stop the bandh in Vijayapura on December 5. Kannada activists Kasturi Bavi and Vajid Hirekodi demanded that President’s rule be imposed in the State, as it was taking steps to silence the voice of Kannada protagonists.
23 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Plan to set up cardiac care, cancer and kidney treatment centre in Hubballi||The State government plans to set up a hospital specialising in cardiac care, cancer and kidney treatment in Hubballi, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar has said. Public health care institutions such as Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research and Kidwai Memorial Institute of Oncology will set up and run more such tertiary health care centres, the Minister said. He was speaking at the inauguration of new facilities at Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences there on Saturday. He inaugurated a new administrative building for KIMS, a cardiology centre, a mortuary, a skill laboratory and a retina clinic. The administrative building has been constructed at a cost of Rs. 19 crore, the skill lab at Rs. 2.8 crore, cardiac care centre at Rs. 6.88 crore, mortuary at Rs. 1 crore and the retina clinic at Rs. 1 crore. He said that COVID-19 was under control in the State. “The government has spent around Rs. 300 crore on COVID-19 management and conducted over one crore tests till now. Beds with oxygen supply were increased to 31,000 from 6,000. The rate of death in the State is among the lowest in the country. We are on the watch about a possible rise of cases in a second wave of the epidemic on the lines of Europe, Delhi and Ahmedabad,’’ he said. The State has 185 RTPCR labs. The 60 medical colleges in the State are also setting up such labs, according to him. “As many as 1.15 lakh families, including those above poverty line, have been included in the Arogya Karnataka Ayushman Bharat scheme. The government will introduce a comprehensive health policy that includes human resource management training for doctors and also increasing salaries and allowances of all health care professionals,” he said. In Belagavi, Dr. Sudhakar said on Saturday that by January next, all government hospitals will be converted into 24 x 7 health care facilities. “We also have plans to make sure that all diagnostic tests and medicines are available free to all. The government will also set up more primary health centres, depending on the population in villages,” he added. He asked doctors, nurses and staff to introspect why the poor don’t get good treatment and facilities at government hospitals, despite the government spending large amounts of money on infrastructure and salaries.
23 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bypolls: Cong. starts early preparations while JD(S) hints at not contesting||Smarting under the recent debacle in Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar byelections, the Congress has started early preparations for the bypolls in Maski and Basavakalyan Assembly constituencies even as the Janata Dal (Secular) on Sunday hinted at not contesting the elections for which the dates are yet to be announced. Bypoll in Maski has been necessitated by the resignation of Prathapgouda Patil, who was elected on the Congress ticket in 2018 but shifted loyalties to the BJP with others, resulting in the fall of 14-month-old H.D. Kumaraswamy-led JD(S)–Congress coalition in July 2019. The Basavakalyan legislator, B. Narayan Rao of the Congress, died recently. Fierce contest likely The two bypolls — similar to the ones held in Sira and R.R. Nagar — will not have any consequence on the stability of the government but are expected to be contested fiercely by both the Congress, which is looking to retain both the seats, and the BJP, which wants to wrest them. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s son and BJP vice-president B.Y. Vijayendra, who has been credited to the victories in the byelections in K.R. Pet and Sira, where the BJP hardly had a presence, has already been working in Basavakalyan. Meanwhile, Congress sources said the party would put up a firm fight in both the segments following the defeats in Sira and R.R. Nagar. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar on Sunday started his tour of Kalyana Karnataka region, and he, along with Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah, is expected to shortlist the candidates before sending the names to Delhi for approval.  BJP’s Basangouda Turvihal, who lost to Mr. Patil by a slender margin of 213 votes in 2018, is expected to be join the Congress on Monday, and an announcement to this effect was made by Mr. Shivakumar. Party sources said Mr. Turvihal was likely to get the ticket. Sources said, “Congress leaders’ tour of the region even before the announcement of the election dates comes in the light of earlier defeats and they do not want to delay poll preparations.” Addressing a meeting of party workers and leaders at Hosapete in Ballari district on Sunday, Mr. Shivakumar urged the leaders to unite to secure wins for the Congress. “There is no misunderstanding between leaders in the Congress. Many JD(S) and BJP workers have met me to join the Congress. They will be taken into the party fold after holding discussions with district leaders,” he added. He also accused the Yediyurappa-led BJP government of meting out “discriminatory treatment” to constituencies represented by Congress legislators. On Sunday, Mr. Kumaraswamy told presspersons here that contesting the bypolls was of no significance, indicating that the party would not field candidates. He said the BJP had changed the format of the byelections, hinting at misuse of official machinery and money power. He, however, said the party would take a call after deliberations. Incidentally, senior JD(S) leader and former Minister P.G.R. Sindhia had lost the 2018 election in Basavakalyan, which has a sizeable Maratha electors.  Many JD(S) and BJP workers have met me to join the Congress. They will be taken into the party fold after holding discussions with district leaders. D.K. Shivakumar, KPCC president   Contesting the bypolls is of no significance. The party will, however, take a call after deliberations. H.D. Kumaraswamy,JD(S) leader
23 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM’s inner circle under a churn?||The recent exit of two advisers to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa — while political adviser M.B. Maramkal was sacked, media adviser Mahadeva Prakash resigned; both of them are said to have played a role in bringing him to power — seem to be only the latest in a series of exits from the Chief Minister’s inner circle ever since he took charge in July 2019. “The first noticeable departure was of Shobha Karandlaje, MP, who dominated the inner circle of Mr. Yediyurappa during his last stint as Chief Minister, but was nowhere to be seen from day one of this stint. From then on many seem to have fallen out — N.R. Santosh, V. Somanna, C.P. Yogeshwar, and M.P. Renukacharya, to name a few,” said a senior BJP leader. While some of them like Mr. Santosh and Mr. Renukacharya continue to hang on, they seem to have lost their prominence in the scheme of things, he added. A new order brought in after the ascent of Chief Minister’ son B.Y. Vijayendra, who presently dominates the inner circle, seems to have paved the way for many of these exits, sources said. Many who have not been able to keep pace with Mr. Vijayendra, or those who have expressed concerns with the Chief Minister over his style of functioning have been edged out, sources close to Mr. Yediyurappa conceded. ‘Bridging the gap’ However, those close to Mr. Vijayendra allege he is a soft target for pinning blame and he was only helping to “bridge the generation gap between young MLAs, party leaders, and the septuagenarian Chief Minister” and was concentrating on party affairs. A senior leader, sympathetic to Mr. Yediyurappa, said it was natural of the Chief Minister to be relying on his son to help him as he was delivering results. “Such churnings are bound to happen around any political leader today. Many of those who have exited failed to deliver,” he said. A cross-section of party leaders, including those who have fallen out of the Chief Minister’s inner circle, have raised concern that Mr. Yediyurappa was not getting varied inputs as he should ideally be, both with respect to politics and administration. “For instance, the decision to appoint 24 MLAs to boards and corporations in July and the formation of the Maratha Development Corporation and the Veerashaiva-Lingayat Development Corporation, which have opened a can of worms, seem to have come out of the blue for both the party and the Cabinet. There was no consultation,” a senior Minister said. Several political leaders who were considered close to the Chief Minister, including Ministers and Ministerial aspirants, also seem to be no longer so. Multiple Ministers, mostly Lingayats, who were seen with Mr. Yediyurappa almost every day, are now sticking to their ministerial brief, unhappy at how they have been sidelined, sources said. “Meanwhile, many among the defectors, who essentially came into the party through Mr. Yediyurappa, and some of the Ministerial aspirants are today directly lobbying with the party high command, especially with national general secretary (organisation) B.L. Santhosh,” a party leader pointed out. A strategist close to Mr. Yediyurappa said this was the result of how the high command has repeatedly snubbed him over flood relief, not giving the green signal for Cabinet expansion, and selection of Rajya Sabha nominees. Coming amid speculations of a leadership change, these developments have caused concern among those close to the Chief Minister.
23 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||TKM workers allege they are not being let in||Days after the Labour Department prohibited both a lockout and a sit-in strike, an impasse continues at two Toyota Kirloskar Motors (TKM) plants in Bidadi. Nearly 3,500 employees participated in a sit-in protest outside the plants on Saturday, the twelfth day of the protest that started on November 9. The management and the workers blame each other for the impasse. Workers allege they are not being let in, essentially continuing an illegal lockout, while the management has claimed they have lifted the lockout, but the workers have continued their strike. Gangadhar, joint secretary of Toyota Kirloskar Motors Employees’ Union, said workers were ready to rejoin work after the government prohibited a strike and the lockout. “On Friday and Saturday, the management stopped workers from joining the shift on the ground that they were late. However, there has been a settlement in the factory to allow for a delay, given the factory premises is on the outskirts of the city,” he said, arguing that this forced workers to continue their strike. Moreover, he said, though the State government had prohibited a lockout, they had given no relief to the employees. “It is wrongly being portrayed that the strike is over the suspension of an office-bearer of the union. Post-lockdown, the management decided to increase productivity and stipulated we finish a process on the production line that took three minutes earlier in two-and-a-half minutes. This was overworking us, which we protested against,” Mr. Gangadhar said. The union’s secretary, Umesh, was suspended when he questioned this, which precipitated the strike, the protesting employees said. The management has suspended 40 employees, mostly office-bearers of the union, they claim. “There has neither been any relief on the working conditions, nor over the unfair suspension of employees who fought for rights of others,” Mr. Gangadhar said. ‘Additional burden’ In a statement on Saturday, the TKM management said they had withdrawn the lockout effective November 19. “However, only few team members have reported to work as on date, as per their shift schedule. A majority of the team members are continuing their illegal strike. Moreover, a few members are instigating the illegal strike and disrespecting other members who want to return to work or those who are already working and taking on additional burden caused by the strike,” according to the statement. “TKM would like to find a quick resolution to this ongoing situation through mutual trust and respect, and with thorough communication with the members,” it said.  TKM would like to find a quick resolution to this ongoing situation through mutual trust and respect, and with thorough communication with the members. Toyota Kirloskar Motors management
23 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Renukacharya attacks Vatal over bandh call||A day after BJP legislator Basanagouda Patil Yatnal’s appeal to the Chief Minister not to go back on the decision to form the Maratha Development Corporation, Chief Minister’s political secretary M.P. Renukacharya on Sunday defended the Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s decision to set up the corporation and attacked the former legislator and Kannada leader Vatal Nagaraj for his opposition. Warning Mr. Vatal not to use harsh language against the Chief Minister on this issue, he said they would also be forced to use the same language to retort. He also defended the statements made by Mr. Yatnal on pro-Kannada leaders. “The stand taken by the Kannada Chaluvali leaders on the Maratha corporation issue is not right and there is no need to call for a bandh, especially during the COVID-19 situation. Instead of calling for a bandh, they should respect the Chief Minister’s invitation for discussion,” he added. He also pointed out that the government announcement was for the Maratha community and not for Marathi language. “Mr. Yediyurappa’s stand on Kannada is unquestionable. He was responsible for Kannada getting the classical language status and he had organised Kannada sammelan in Belagavi during his earlier stint. The Kannada activists will be held responsible for any untoward incident during the bandh,” he added. However, the Kannada activists, led by Mr. Nagaraj, continued with their protest in Bengaluru on Sunday by waving black flag. Mr. Nagaraj also reiterated their plan to go ahead with Karnataka bandh on December 5.
23 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ex-Mayor Sampath Raj complains of chest pain||The former Mayor R. Sampath Raj, who is in judicial custody for his alleged role in the violence at D.J. Halli and K.G. Halli on August 11, was taken to Jayadeva hospital for a medical check-up after he complained of uneasiness on Sunday. “He was experiencing chest pain and demanded a medical check-up. Prison officials took him to Jayadeva where the doctors examined him,” said a senior police officer. “They said he was fine and issued a fitness certificate after which he was escorted back to Parappana Agrahara Central Jail,” said the official. Sampath Raj, who was shifted to the prison on Friday, is under quarantine. Sources claimed that the former Mayor was hoping to be admitted to a hospital till his application for bail came up for hearing.
23 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Student knocks down two neighbours||A 21-year-old student caused panic among residents of his building in Yelahanka after allegedly knocking down two people on Saturday afternoon while driving his car in a rash and negligent manner. “The accused, Ayush, and the two victims are neighbours. While reversing his car, he banged into another car that was parked nearby. When he tried to drive away, a woman who had witnessed the incident attempted to stop him. Ayush knocked her down and tried to flee,” said a police officer. Another neighbour, Suraj, tried to stop him. But Ayush tried to run over him. “According to eyewitness accounts, Suraj, in a bid to stop the car, climbed onto the bonnet and held onto the wipers. But Ayush did not stop. Suraj lost his balance and fell on the road,” the officer added. The woman and Suraj sustained minor injuries. The entire incident was recorded on CCTV cameras. Ayush was arrested and released on station bail. Police confiscated his driving licence.
23 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Vokkaligas should have got priority: HDK||As the controversy over the establishment of the Maratha Development Corporation rages, Janata Dal (Secular) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Sunday said that if at all boards and corporations were set up for communities, Vokkaligas should have been the first to get it. “Bengaluru has a large number of Vokkaliga population who are dependent on land for their livelihood. A large number of them have sacrificed their land for setting up of factories. Contribution of Vokkaligas for the development of the State is huge,” he told presspersons here during a preparatory meeting of the party for the anticipated BBMP council elections. The demand for a corporation for development of Vokkaligas is the latest after Jains put forth a similar request recently. This comes in the light of announcement of the formation of development corporations for Kadugollas, Marathas, and Veerashaiva-Lingayat communities in the last couple of months.
23 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||More trouble for Roshan Baig?||There seems to be more trouble brewing for former Minister R. Roshan Baig, as there are efforts under way to consider him a promoter of IMA, attach his properties, auction them and recover money to repay those who had been cheated. The Special Officer and Competent Authority (IMA scam) tasked with recovery of money to repay cheated investors, has written to the Principal Secretary, Revenue, seeking further action to attach assets of Mr. Baig, considering him a promoter of IMA. The letter, dated November 19, has cited a case wherein a premises from where IMA was running a supermarket was leased in the name of Mr. Baig. The premises was used by both Mansoor Khan and Mr. Baig. The letter further noted that given that the CBI was also probing the case, it may like to seek a report regarding his alleged role in the scam.
23 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Exam fraud: 6 constables held||Six police personnel serving across the State were arrested for allegedly impersonating candidates during the KSRP/IRB Special Constable examination, which was held on Sunday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (West) Sanjeev Patil said that constables Nagappa Pavedeppa and Mallikarjuna Babalannavar were caught at two different centres in the West division. “They had applied for leave from their posts to come to Bengaluru for the examination. The candidates they were impersonating had booked rooms for them in a hotel at Gandhinagar,” he said. The other four constables were caught at centres in the South and East divisions. The impersonators were arrested following a scrutiny by invigilators. “We have taken the accused into custody,” said a senior police officer. The written examination was held in 36 centres across the State on Sunday to fill 17,940 posts of constables.
23 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Bala Janaagraha’s portal launch||Janaagraha’s civic learning programme Bala Janaagraha will be launching ‘Our city, our challenge’ portal on November 23 at 4 p.m. For details, visithttps://challenge.balajanaagraha.org/ guidelines.
23 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||JNV selection test for admission to class 6||Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya selection test (JNVST) 2021 for admission to class 6 for the academic year 2021-22 in Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas will be held on April 10 at 11.15 a.m. Students who are studying in class 5 in this academic year in Bangalore Urban district are eligible to appear for the examination. Those interested have to enrol themselves online. According to an official release, the last date to submit an application form online is December 15. For details, visit www.navodaya.gov.in
23 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Joshi seeks clarification from Congress on its support for Gupkar Declaration||Terming the People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) as Gupkar Gang and that it is involved in anti-national acts, Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi has asked the Congress to make its stand clear on the declaration. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Saturday, Mr. Joshi said that the Congress had earlier said that joining the group was left to Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee and now, with the latest signatory to the group being Jammu and Kashmir Pradesh Congress Committee, it had now emerged that the grant old party of India was too part of the Gupkar Gang. “The NC, the PDP, the CPI(M), the HNC are already in the group and the Congress has it joined now. NPC president Farooq Abdullah has openly said that he would seek support from China to reinstate Article 370 and PDP president Mehbooba Mufti has talked of not accepting the tricolour and bringing back the Jammu and Kashmir flag. These two leaders are provoking anti-nationals to revolt and fight against the Indian Army and are indirectly funding terror activities. Now, the Congress has shown its true colours by joining hands with them,” he said. Mr. Joshi said that people who were arrested for throwing stones on Indian Army were given amnesty when Mehbooba Mufti was the Chief Minister. He asked Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who is in Goa with his mother and AICC president Sonia Gandhi, to immediately convene a meeting of party leaders and clarify the party’s stand on supporting the Gupkar Gang as the issue pertained to integrity of the nation. “The Congress which claims to be the guardian of the country should clarify whether it is with China and Pakistan or with India,” he said. Mr. Joshi also took a dig at West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and said that during her rule, the TMC has been involved in political murders with over 100 BJP workers being killed. But the BJP would end her political game in the forthcoming Assembly elections and provide good governance to the people of West Bengal, he said. Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, MLA Amrut Desai and others were present.
23 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Develop the habit of receiving phone calls from farmers, Minister tells officials||Minister for Animal Husbandry, Wakf and Haj Prabhu Chavan has urged the officials of his department to develop the habit of receiving phone calls from farmers and attending to issues raised by them. Chairing a department review meeting at KMF Training Centre at Rayapur near Hubballi, Mr. Chavan asked veterinary doctors to visit villages to attend to the problems of the those engaged in animal husbandry. “You should send daily updates to me via WhatsApp. I am ready to hear the grievances of veterinary doctors and staff. If you have any problem, convey it to me and I will attend to it. But you should develop the habit of responding to the problems of the farmers by receiving their phone calls,” he said. The Minister said that there was a lot of potential in the field of animal husbandry in the State and those in the department should work towards increasing milk production and farm supplementary activities. Mr. Chavan said that he had received several complaints regarding the neglect by veterinary staff in providing vaccines and he would not tolerate such attitude in his staff. Providing proper healthcare facilities to livestock should be the priority of the department, he said. Lauding the officials for their work during COVID-19, the Minister sought details on how the Pashu Sanjeevini Scheme is being implemented. He also sought details on various other programmes of the department. Deputy Director of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Services Parameshwar Nayak spoke about the progress in various programmes and said that foot and mouth vaccine had been administered to 1,19,441 head of cattle.
23 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Horatti sees illegalities in allotment of CA sites||Janata Dal(Secular) leader and former Minister Basavaraj Horatti has said that there had been a lot of illegalities in the allotment of CA (civic amenities) sites in the twin cities and he had asked the officials concerned to provide details within a month about all CA sites allotted in the last 10 years. Addressing presspersons here, Mr. Horatti said that there had been several complaints regarding ineligible individuals and organisations being allotted CA sites, which subsequently had either been sold or used for a different purpose. “I raised this issue during the recent meeting of Hubballi Dharwad Urban Development Authority and directed Commissioners of both Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation and Hubballi Dharwad Urban Development Corporation to provide a detailed list of all such allotments in the last decade,” he said. The former Minister said that the authorities had come with the pretext of old records not being available. “But I have asked them to provide the details within a month. If they fail to provide the details within a month or so, then we will be forced to take the path of agitation,” he said. Mr. Horatti said that he had asked the officials to take back such CA sites that were not being used for the purpose for which they were allotted.
23 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi Airport completes one year||The fast-growing Kalaburagi Airport has completed one year of service. It all started a year ago when the long-pending dream of the people of Kalyana Karnataka region of having an airport in Kalaburagi was realised with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa inaugurating the service with full capacity operation at the Greenfield airport on the outskirts of the city on November 22, 2019. Assistant General Manager (CNS), Airports Authority of India, Kalaburagi, Karnataka, K.J. Vinod, speaking to The Hindu said that as many as 1,042 flight schedules ferried 42,076 passengers from Kalaburagi airport during the year (till November 21). The highest number of passengers flew out of the airport in October (5,828), followed by September (5,541) and August (5,128). Domestic flights were suspended from the month of April to May 25. Mr. Vinod said that after domestic flights resumed services on May 25, 391 passengers flew out of the airport in the first five days (May 25–May 30). Of the total 42,076 passengers who flew out of the airport, 25,000 travellers (60 %) benefited under the Centre’s ambitious UDAN (Ude Desh Ka Aam Naagrik)-Regional Connectivity Scheme (RCS). Under the UDAN scheme, the travel fare is capped to Rs. 2,500 with an effort to facilitate the common man to fly. At present, two airlines, Star Air and Alliance Air, operate between Kalaburagi and Bengaluru every day. Last week, Star Air also started its new Kalaburagi-Delhi flight, which operates three days a week. Replying to a query, Mr. Vinod said that to-and-fro flights between Kalaburagi and Tirupati and Kalaburagi and Mumbai are expected to start operations by January 2021. “Initially, the occupancy rate was sparse with just 30 %-40 % passengers using the services. However, it gradually increased and now the occupancy rate on both flights is 80 %. The response from passengers has been remarkable and flights have been booked in advance,” says Assistant Manage (AAI), Kalaburagi Airport, Piyush Chakravarthy. President of the Kalyana Karnataka Ghruhakara Vedike Sunil Kulkarni has said that the airport has proved to be one of the fastest growing airports. In less than a year, the airport has shown how tier-2 cities can achieve growth if such facilities are provided.
23 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Cong. plan will not work in Basavakalyan bypolls’||Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi has said that the Bharatiya Janata Party will leave no stone unturned to ensure that the party candidate emerges victorious in the Basavakalyan Assembly bypolls, the date of which is yet to be announced. Addressing a meeting of the executive body and party workers in Basavakalyan on Saturday, Mr. Savadi exuded the confidence in the party winning the Basavakalyan seat by a comfortable margin. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s popularity graph had risen much higher than the 2014 wave, which would also raise the vote share of the BJP in the Basavakalyan segment, he added.  “The Congress will lose in Basavakalyan constituency. Its game plan will not work,” Mr. Savadi asserted.
23 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||GAIL successfully pumps RLNG to city||GAIL India Ltd. on Sunday pumped the first lot of regasified liquefied natural gas (RLNG) from Kochi to Mangaluru through the 438-km Kochi-Koottanad-Mangaluru pipeline thereby heralding the green initiative in the coastal region. Laying of the pipeline was completed last week after GAIL successfully laid the line under the Chandragiri riverbed in Kasargod district of neighbouring Kerala that had posed a great challenge. With hills on both the banks of the river with human habitation, GAIL had initially found it difficult to pass the pipeline crossing the Chandragiri. The line crossing the Netravathi at Arkula near Mangaluru was completed before the monsoon under challenging conditions. GAIL’s General Manager in Kochi Tony Mathew told The Hindu that RLNG was successfully pumped to Mangaluru on Sunday evening. RLNG would land at the receiving station of Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilizers Ltd. from Monday, he said. The company would pump 72,000 cubic metres (CUM) of RLNG per day for the first five days and will escalate pumping to 6 lakh CUM, 8 lakh CUM and 1 Million CUM thereafter in a phased manner. Mangalore Chemicals and Fertilizers would utilise the LNG as stock feed to manufacture fertilizers, to fire its captive power plant and other requirements. The latest deadline to commission the new line was March this year; it, however, could not be achieved for various reasons, including the COVID-19 situation. The earlier deadline of September 2018 could not be achieved following difficulties in crossing the Chandragiri and the Netravathi riverbeds. The 111-km pipeline from North Kerala to Mangaluru was laid at an estimated cost of Rs. 160 crore. Kochi was already reaping the benefits of clean fuel with a majority of autorickshaws and taxis getting converted to use compressed natural gas as alternative fuel. However, city gas distribution in Mangaluru along with supply of CNG as auto fuel could take a little more time as supply pipelines have to be laid across the city. The Kochi-Koottanad-Mangaluru RLNG pipeline is designed to transport 16 million CUM per day with Kochi’s demand for 5 million CUM per day and 4 million CUM per day assured demand from industries in Mangaluru.
23 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Remember the lesson the pandemic has taught, MAHE graduates told||Graduates of medicine have to remember the lesson the pandemic has taught to mankind and that science was fundamental to the practice of medicine, said Peter J. Katsufrakis, president and CEO of National Board of Medical Examiners, U.S., on Sunday. Speaking at the e-convocation of Manipal Academy of Higher Education (MAHE) on the concluding day, Dr. Katsufrakis said that though graduates might have completed their medical education, the reality was that they would continue to be students of medicine and science for the reminder of their career. It is an opportunity, and not a burden, to participate in the advance of human race in the field of medicine, he said. MAHE Vice-Chancellor Lt. Gen (Retd) M.D. Venkatesh said that the deemed to be university’s recent recognition as an Institution of Eminence that it received from the Union Ministry of Education spoke of its glory and numerous international collaborations. MAHE’s consistent efforts to become one of the largest private universities in the country was forward-looking and addresses the challenge of providing access and opportunities to more young students. The Dr. TMA Pai Gold Medal winners on the third day were Manoj M. Wagle, Manipal College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, and Sunanda S. Rao, Manipal School of Information Sciences, both in Manipal. During the second day of the e-convocation on Saturday, Nestle India’s Chairman and Managing Director Suresh Narayanan told graduating students, “It is your life and you must lead it on your terms.” Addressing the virtual convocation, Mr. Narayanan said that many students might be thinking that the pandemic was the worst time for the economy, society and for the entire mankind, as it has posed acute pain, distress, anxiety and uncertainty. “However, this is the time when we can, when you can, come together and do the things that we want to do as well as you want to,” he added. The Dr. TMA Pai Gold medal winners on the second day were Sahil Garg, Manipal Institute of Technology, Gitanjali Jha, Manipal Institute of Communication, Gollapudi Sai Spandana, KMC, Manipal, and Silas Stefna, Manipal School of Life Sciences. MAHE trustee Vasanthi R. Pai, Pro Chancellor H.S. Ballal and others were present on the two days.
23 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||A web platform that helps nurture creativity||To give a platform for children to display their creative talent, a group of teachers from government schools in Dakshina Kannada have launched an e-portal calledwww.makkalajagali.com. Jagali in Kannada means the courtyard in old houses where children and other family members spent their time together. “We found this name apt for the portal where poems, short stories, drawings and articles on children are featured,” said Taranath Kairangala, art teacher from the Government Secondary School, Manchi, in Bantwal taluk, who is among those responsible for the creation of the portal. The portal was the outcome of week-end tasks given to secondary school students of Manchi school since August. After writing stories, poems or bringing out their art forms, students had to send short videos of their work. “It was really amazing to see the talent. This made me think of providing a medium to showcase this talent,” Mr. Kairangala said. Mr. Kairangala joined other government teachers, including Premnath Marne, a Government Secondary School in Chelairu, on the outskirts of Mangaluru, and Arvind Kudla, headmaster of Government Higher Primary School in Moodambial near Vitla, to come up with the portal. A journalist with a Kannada news portal helped the team in designing it. The creative art forms of students are featured under “poems”, “stories”, “paintings”, “articles”, “talented children” and “articles related to children” categories on the portal. Since its launch on November 14, the works of 37 students have been featured on it. Among the interesting posts include a poem called “Shaale” by Class 8 student from Manchi, Bantwal, Druti, in which she expresses her desire to go to school. Among the other posts include a painting of a battle field and a story “Sahukara mattu Manga” (A wealthy person and a monkey) by Tanmay Krishna, Class 8 student from Government Higher Primary School, Anantady, Bantwal, and a story “Sullu Heelabaaradu” (Do not tell lies) by Class 10 student Bifatima K.M. from Government Secondary School, Narsha, Bantwal. “Jagali is the place where we have nurtured our creativity. It is good to see teachers reviving it through through this portal,” said theatre person Jeevanram Sullia.
23 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Thokkottu resident duped of gold chain, cash||A 35-year-old man posing as a bank official duped a Thokkottu resident of his gold chain and Rs. 20,000 in cash on Friday. According to a complaint filed with Ullal Police, the 35-year-old man, who called himself Rakesh, met the complainant on Friday morning and asked him to come to the KS Hegde Hospital and get a non-refundable amount of Rs. 2 lakh for COVID-19 treatment. When the complainant reached the hospital, Rakesh said that an amount needs to be paid to a doctor to get Rs. 2 lakh immediately. The complainant gave Rakesh Rs. 20,000. The latter said that it was not sufficient and asked the former to give his gold chain too. As the complainant was diffident, Rakesh offered his chain stating that it was a gold chain that belonged to his mother. The complainant then handed over his gold chain to Rakesh, who, however, was not seen in the hospital later. Loses money In another case, a resident from the city lost Rs. 14.91 lakh in cash to conmen who made the former pay the amount after convincing him that it was towards a gift that he was receiving. According to the complainant, he received a friend request from a man named Reanordo Neil stating that he has sent a gift. Later, he received several calls asking him to deposit money for the gift and thus cheated of Rs. 14,91,840.
23 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power supply to be affected tomorrow||Some parts of Mangaluru and surrounding areas and Udupi will go without power supply on Tuesday. Power supply will be affected between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. in areas fed by 11 kV Moodbidri, Kotebagilu, Kadandale, Niddodi, Thodar, Shirthadi, Beluvai, Takode, Iruvail, Puchchemogaru, Howdal, Gantalkatte and Gandhinagar feeders in Moodbidri region. Between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m., power supply will be affected in areas served by 11 kV Car Street feeder, including New Field Street, Car Street, Mahammayi Temple Road, Gayathri Temple Road and surrounding areas. In Udupi Power supply will be affected between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. in entire Udupi taluk, including Udupi city and Manipal, Brahmavar taluk and Kaup taluk in view of the maintenance works being taken up by Karnataka Power Corporation Ltd. at the Varahi Hydel Power Project. Areas fed by 11 kV Kundapur, Industrial Area, Koteshwar, Thekkatte, Kumbhasi, Amparu, Balkuru, Kodi, Gurukula, Water Supply and Japthi feeders will go without power supply between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. Power supply will be affected between 9 a.m. and 6 p.m. in areas fed by 11 kV Shirur, Uppunda, Ganganadu, Byndoor, Toodalli and Kollur feeders. Ppower supply will be disrupted between 9.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. in areas covered by 11 kV Kolalagiri, Kokkarne and Cherkadi feeders.
23 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Gold chain snatched from elderly woman||A 72-year-old woman lost her gold chain to a man who had come to her house in Shirva village of Udupi district on Saturday evening. According to the police, the man wearing a striped blue shirt and black trousers came to the house of Vasanti (72) in Bantkal of Shirva village at around 6.30 p.m. and asked for drinking water. After drinking water, the accused entered the house even as Vasanti was going inside. The accused snatched the gold chain Vasanti was wearing and went away on his motorcycle towards Shirva. The gold chain was worth Rs. 1.6 lakh. The Shirva Police said that efforts are on to trace the accused.
23 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Campus Front of India booked||The Manipal Police registered a case against Campus Front of India (CFI) for unauthorisedly taking out a protest march on Saturday. According to the police, CFI activists staged a protest at Upendra Pai (Coin) Circle demanding the release of scholarship for students of minority community. The protesters then took out a march towards the office of the Deputy Commissioner, for which permission had not been granted. A case under Section 107 of the Karnataka Police Act was registered against the office-bearers of Campus Front of India.
23 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Fisherwoman dies of burns||A 56-year-old fisherwoman died of burns that she suffered when setting fire to trash accumulated near her house in Manur of Kota in Brahmavar taluk of Udupi district on Saturday night. The police gave the name of the deceased as Bagi Marakanti. The police said that she was living alone. In the evening, she set fire to the trash that had accumulated near her house. Her sari caught fire accidentally. Neighbours who rushed to rescue her put off the fire. They took her to a hospital and then shifted her to another in Udupi where she died, the police said. Body found The body of a fisherman, Chandrakanth Mendon (38), who had gone missing in the sea in Malpe on Saturday, was found on Sunday. Mendon accidentally slipped from a boat and fell into the sea. The body was found near an estuary at around 8.30 a.m., the Malpe Police said.
23 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Set up corpn. for youth development’||The All India Youth Federation, Mangaluru taluk unit, has asked the State government to set up a corporation for youth development. In a memorandum submitted to Additional Deputy Commissioner M.J. Roopa, AIYF Mangaluru Taluk Unit secretary Jagatpal Kodikal said the corporations and the authorities being formed by the State government on caste lines only serve the creamy layer among these castes and they do not serve the youth. Hence, a youth development corporation should be set up. Mr. Kodikal said that there are about 1.8 crore youth in the State and their development was important for the progress of the State and the nation. Though the BJP Government in 2013 announced the setting up of the Swami Vivekananda Youth Empowerment Corporation, action has not been taken yet, he said.
23 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Industries keen on return of migrant workers||Local industrialists are feeling the absence of migrant workers who left the city when the lockdown was announced and are now scouting for talent and labour. However, some of the industrial units that maintained contact with their trained workforce, have brought some of their former employees back. Almost eight months after the lockdown came into effect on March 25, 2020, to curb the spread of COVID-19, the manufacturing sector is gaining steam but is far from reaching normalcy. Suresh Kumar Jain, Secretary, Mysore Industries’ Association, said that the workforce is one of the issues while the lack of adequate orders is another. However, most factories are functioning at 60% to 70% of their installed capacity and are bracing for new orders as the economy gains traction. He said there were at least a few industrial units that maintained contact with their employees who left the city during the lockdown, and brought them back to Mysuru. “I know of a few industrial units whose management paid flight charges to get some of their key workers back to Mysuru from the hinterlands of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar,” said Mr. Jain.  The bulk of the manufacturing units in Mysuru revolves around the automobile sector and the city has emerged as a hub for ancillary units. With the automobile sector witnessing a steady growth owing to robust sales, the ancillary units too have gathered steam. The MIA said though most units are still maintaining a two-shift operation due to lack of workforce and orders, many of the medium and large scale units have reintroduced three shifts which is a sign of recovery. Hence, there is a general consensus that the Railways should start operating passenger services with adequate precautionary measures so that the migrant workers can travel. “Though the battle against the pandemic is far from over, livelihood issues too cannot be compromised and workers will feel the economic pinch to overcome which employment was a must. But their job opportunities are being hampered due to lack of mobility in the absence of transportation,” said Mr. Jain. Additional train services Meanwhile, senior officials in the South Western Railway said on conditions of anonymity that the SWR has proposed to reintroduce additional 26 trains connecting different parts of the State with the rest of the country as part of the graded unlocking. The Railway Board recently sounded off all the zonal headquarters seeking a list of trains that they wished to re-introduce following which 26 trains were identified. The date of commencement of services will be announced in due course, the officials added.  I know of a few industrial units whose management paid flight charges to get some of their key workers back to Mysuru from the hinterlands of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Suresh Kumar Jain Secretary, Mysore Industries’ Association
23 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Much-awaited Mysuru-Mangaluru flight from Dec. 10||The long-pending demand for air connectivity linking Mysuru with the coastal region is set to become a reality from December 10. Alliance Air, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Air India Ltd. is commencing direct flight operations between the two cities. The flight will operate on Wednesdays, Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays to start with, and if originating passenger traffic is encouraging, it could be a daily flight in the days ahead. Flight 9I 532 will depart from Mysuru at 11.15 a.m. and reach Mangaluru at 12.15 p.m. In the return direction, Flight 9I 533 will depart from Mangaluru at 12.40 p.m. to arrive in Mysuru at 1.40 p.m. To cater to the upcoming festivities, the airline has introduced this new flight on the route to add to the convenience of flyers who will be travelling to meet their family and friends in the festive season, said the airline authorities. Bookings are open and there are various promotional offers. To check these out, log on to www.airindia.in or contact any of the travel agents, the authorities added. Government guidelines The airline is adhering to all government guidelines and is following prescribed standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the Ministry of Civil Aviation. Required precautionary measures are being taken within the aircraft as well at the time of check-in, boarding and arrival at the destination. The aircraft are being rigorously disinfected after each flight to eliminate any risk of contagion, said the airline in a release. Mysuru airport director R. Manjunath said the flights were originally scheduled to commence during October but had to be put off due to technical and operational issues that have been sorted out now. He expressed confidence that the originating air passenger traffic from Mysuru to Mangaluru would be high and it could be a daily flight in due course. There was tremendous demand and constant follow-up by the members of the Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI), Mysore Industries Association (MIA) and others, many of whose members have coastal Karnataka links.  Surface transport At present the surface transport from Mysuru to Mangaluru was by train or bus and is an excruciating journey lasting around 6 to 8 hours. Also, it is out of bounds during rainy season due to landslips in Kodagu. Sudhakar Shetty of the FKCCI said there are nearly 12,000 families of coastal Karnataka origin residing in Mysuru apart from 2,000 entrepreneurs hailing from that region. “The flight connectivity will not only give a thrust to industrial development but will also promote tourism,” he added. Other routes Mr. Manjunath said with the introduction of the Mangaluru flight, Mysuru airport will have 14 movements with to and fro connectivity to Bengaluru, Kochi, Goa, Chennai, Belagavi and Hyderabad. The other potential routes being explored include flights to Coimbatore, Tirupati and Shirdi
23 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Vaccine hesitancy could grip large populations across world: Expert||Even though nations across the globe are looking forward to the early availability of an effective vaccine to fight COVID-19, experts believe a large percentage of the world’s population is gripped by vaccine hesitancy. Vaccine hesitancy, which is defined as reluctance or refusal to vaccinate despite availability of vaccines, is feared to grip up to 40 to 50% of the world’s population, according to Ronald T. Peirvincenzi, CEO, United States Pharmacopeia. Delivering the keynote address at a virtual conference on ‘COVID-19 Vaccine – A Global Perspective’ organised by JSS Research Foundation on Saturday, Dr. Peirincenzi feared that trust issues were likely to affect the vaccination process against COVID-19. “It worries many of us you look forward to vaccine distribution when upto 40 to 50% of the world population is hesitant or even saying they will avoid taking the vaccine,” he said. He said it was ‘deeply unfortunate’ that there were trust issues all around the world including in healthcare. The challenges of equitable distribution of quality vaccine across the world are expected to further erode trust at a time when multiple vaccines will be available, but will not be equal in their effectiveness, he said. Echoing Dr. Peirvincenzi’s fears was Executive President of Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) Suresh Jadhav, who said the introduction of a vaccine against Meningitis A faced a severe vaccine hesitancy problem in sub-Saharan Africa. Though a vaccine was needed and available, there was severe hesitancy. A local religious group had to be tackled and taken onboard before immunization could be taken up. A lot of people had seen the devastation caused by Meningitis A and the whole sub-Saharan belt has now been completely immunised after the local religious group propagated in favour of using the vaccine. “I hope we can emulate such examples to tackle the situation globally,” he said. Misleading information Dr. Jadhav also cautioned against misleading information in print and digital media. Such misleading information can lead to a negative influence on the common man. He said people need to the particularly wary about rumours presented as facts by the ‘WhatsApp University’. Unfortunately, a lot of people tend to believe such rumours more than technical knowledge shared authentic sources. Dr. Jadhav also emphasised on the need for the authorities to ensure that the right people get the right vaccine at the right time while referring to the initial efforts made by the government to prioritise vaccine distribution among different sections. “Initial high demand of vaccine might develop risk of theft and corruption,” he said, before pointing to the possibility of the emergence of ‘counterfeit vaccines’. The virtual conference, which aimed to provide a global update on the ongoing efforts towards developing COVID-19 vaccine, was also addressed among others by Executive Vic- President and Chief Science Officer of United States Pharmacopeia Jaap Venema; Chairman and Managing Director of Bharat Biotech International Limited Krishna Ella; Joint Drugs Controller, Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation, India, S. Eswara Reddy; Pro Chancellor of JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research B. Suresh; and Vice Chancellor of JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research Surinder Singh.
23 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Discovery of copper plate inscriptions at Halebelagola excites scholars||A slew of copper plate inscriptions dated to the 8th and 9th century CE have been discovered in and around Halebelagola in Channarayapatna taluk of Hassan district in the recent months. The discovery has been described as significant by scholars as it adds to the corpus of information pertaining to the age and provides additional material evidence for the understanding of the social and economic conditions of the region. The former Director of the Epigraphy Branch Ravishankar who shared some of these discoveries said many such set of copper plates have also been discovered during renovation exercise at Srisailam in Andhra Pradesh and belong to the period of the Vijayanagar rulers and Gajapati kings of Odisha. He said 17 sets of copper plates with 122 leaves were found while taking up the earth work for conservation of a Jain basadi at Halebelagola. This is reckoned to belong to the period of the Western Ganga king Sripurusha and is written in Sanskrit and Kananda and has Kannada characters of the 8th century CE. It records the gift of a village Sokanevadi as “Brahmamdeya” to a brahmin Sokanebhatta of Koushika gotra by Sripurusha. Another inscription belonged to the Western Ganga king Rajamalla II and is dated to 879 CE. This also registers the gift of a village Agalivolal by the king for renovation and conducting of festivities in Satyavaka Jinalaya. It also states that the gift was entrusted to the preceptor Gunasenadeva of Mulasamgha. Similarly, another village Jayavur was gifted for renovation and conducting worship in Sivayya Jinalaya of Kabappu Teertha at the request of the king’s minister Sivayya. “These discoveries are significant and some of the copper plates dates range from 6th century CE to the medieval and late medieval period, including Vijayanagar period and other dynasties who ruled in southern India,” said Mr. Ravishankar. He said these copper plates are generally discovered accidentally in the course of field work and digging to restore or renovate a temple or a monument. “New kings and new dates have come to light and such discoveries add many new pages to history of the region which has already been documented,” said Mr. Ravishankar. Further study K. Munirathnam Reddy, the present Director of the Epigraphy Branch, confirmed the recent discoveries but said further study and analysis to ascertain the context and other details in which the copper plates may been issued and their publication will take time.  New kings and new dates have come to light and such discoveries add many new pages to history of the region, which has already been documented.RavishankarFormer Director of the Epigraphy Branch
23 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||SDG Centre at National Institute of Engineering||The National Institute of Engineering (NIE) in the city, in coordination with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), has established a centre to integrate the outreach programmes of the institute with sustainable development goals. The SDG Centre for Youth Engagement was inaugurated on Saturday by B.J. Puttaswamy, Deputy Chairman, Karnataka State Planning Board, who spoke about the initiatives of the State government in contributing to India’s vision of achieving the SDG by 2030. He stressed that sustainable development would not be possible unless all stakeholders including the government, public sector, private sector, academic, civil society organisations, international agencies, etc., work with greater coordination. Mr. Puttaswamy also spoke on mandatory outreach activities stipulated by the AICTE and expressed confidence the centre will be a role model for all institutions of higher learning to integrate their outreach programmes with sustainable development goals. The centre will provide ample opportunities to the faculty and students of NIE to interact with the government departments and also connect with to grassroot areas of India. A release stated that as an initial part of this engagement, students of NIE in coordination with SDGCC will create an online platform to map youth engagement.
23 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Call for streamlining budgetary expenditure||The Karnataka State Planning Board and the State Decentralised Planning and Development Committee have together resolved to urged the State government to constitute the District Planning Committees (DPC) from the next financial year to consolidate and integrate all development projects of urban and rural local bodies under their purview. The State Planning Board and the State Decentralised Planning and Development Committee, which held a two-day brain-storming session at Abdul Nazir Sab State Institute for Rural Development and Panchayat in Mysuru on Friday and Saturday, will together urge Chief Minister B.S. Yeddiyurappa to establish DPCs in all districts to streamline budgetary expenditure. The draft development plans sent by DPCs to be headed by Ministers in charge will be vetted by the committee and board before they are sent for consideration in the State Budget. Briefing reporters after the session, Vice-Chairman of the committee Pramod Hegde said the establishment of DPCs has been mandated by the 74th Constitutional Amendment Act and Section 310 of Karnataka Panchayat Raj Act of 1993. Instead of adopting the top-down approach to implementation of projects, the plans should be conceived on the basis of demands from the ground-level. The demands coming from the gram panchayats, taluk panchayats and other ULBs like town panchayats, CMCs and city corporations should be accommodated in the plans conceived at the district level, Mr. Hegde said. While the TPDC headed by the local MLA will consolidate projects and budgets of all the local bodies of urban and rural areas before sending the same to the DPC, which will in turn consolidate all the projects and budgets of the urban and rural local bodies under its purview. The plans will include the revenue to be collected by local bodies as well as the grants to be sanctioned by State and Centre. Deputy Chairman of the Planning Board B.J. Puttaswamy said DPCs will include the grants sanctioned by the MLAs, MLC’s and MPs for different development projects. Hitherto, the grants were sanctioned by DCs based on the recommendations of the MLAs, MLCs or MPs. “But, by bringing them under the ambit of the DPC, there will be more transparency and honesty,” Mr. Puttaswamy said.
23 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Field trials of Rajamudi rice to resume soon||The second set of field trials to prove the unique characteristic features of Rajamudi, Karnataka’s premium variety of rice, will be resumed in due course as a precursor to seeking Geographical Indication (GI) status for it. The results of the first set of trials — which was said to be encouraging — was published some time ago in the international rice journal Oryza and scientists involved in the exercise are confident of securing the coveted GI tag for Rajamudi within the next two years. The process is lengthy and entails scientifically proving that the characteristic features of Rajamudi cannot be replicated when cultivated in other areas. “It is in this connection that we intend to take up its cultivation in different parts of Karnataka, including Shivamogga, Davangere, Bidar etc. this year,” said M.P. Rajanna, a research scientist at VC Farm in Mandya, who is involved in the project. Once successful, it will be the first paddy variety of Karnataka to share the honours with Gobindobhog of Bengal, Kalanamak of Uttar Pradesh, and Ajara Ghansal of Maharashtra, which have received the GI tag. The State government is keen to secure the GI tag for Rajamudi, which was the preferred rice variety of the Wadiyars of Mysuru who chose to receive it from the farmers of the region in lieu of tax. This was due to its unique taste and the perceived higher nutritional value which was proved scientifically in recent years, said Krishnaprasad of Sahaja Samruddha, an NGO spearheading the movement to save and popularize the indigenous variety of rice in the State. He said cultivation of Rajamudi variety of rice is currently restricted to parts of Holenarsipur, Arkalgud, Channarayapatna, Hassan, and Mysuru taluks in south Karnataka region. However, the acreage or area under cultivation is only around 25,000 acres to 30,000 acres and was on a decline raising concern that it could be on the brink of extinction as it is being supplanted by hybrid variety. Explaining the rationale for securing the GI status, Mr. Krishnaprasad said it will not only help conserve the paddy variety but will prevent other variety of rice cultivated elsewhere in the State from being foisted on consumers as the genuine Rajamudi product. The initiative to secure GI tag for Rajamudi was announced almost two years ago by the Karnataka Agricultural Price Commission and the Department of Agriculture. Besides Rajamudi, there are plans to seek GI status for other varieties of rice, including Gandhasale and Ratnachudi.
23 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Elephant calf rescued in Mysuru||An elephant calf which was trapped in a cement water tank in Manigaranakatte forest area in Malavalli taluk of Mandya district, was rescued and saved by Forest Department personnel on Sunday. It is suspected that the calf elephant was part of a herd strolling the region in search of fodder, and accidentally fell into the tank. Though the tank was shallow, the calf could not come out and struggled even as the other members of the herd stood guard and kept a watch. On learning of the incident, the Forest Department personnel reached the spot and diverted the adult elephants from there before rescuing the calf. It later rejoined the herd and scampered back into the jungle.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Two constables accused of robbery||Two constables attached to Kadugodi police station were part of a nine-member gang that allegedly took 240 gm of gold from an unauthorised jewellery store under the guise of a police raid. While one of the constables and seven members of the gang were arrested, the second constable, Choude Gowda, is on the run, said the police on Sunday. According to the Halasuru Gate police, the prime accused in the case are Jeethu Adak and his son Sooraj, jewellers from West Bengal who own a building in Nagrathpet where they ran a jewellery store. “The had rented out a part of the premises to another jeweller Karthik, who was operating without a licence. Karthik’s store had recently started seeing brisk business and was doing better than the one run by Jeethu and Sooraj,” said a police officer. The father and son decided to rob Karthik, assuming that he would not approach the police as he did not have a licence and was running his business illegally. Jeethu approached his friend Nadeen Pasha who roped in constables Ashok and Choude Gowda. “Nadeen offered them a share if they helped raid the shop,” the police officer added. The duo agreed. On November 11, seven people disguised as policemen, along with the two constables, raided Karthik’s jewelry store. They were led by Nadeem. They took 240 grams of gold. Jeethu and Sooraj arrived at the scene and pretended to help Karthik in view of the ‘police raid’. The victim did not approach the police at first as he did not have the required licence, but followed up with them on November 13, only to learn that the raid was fake. Based on his complaint, the police verified CCTV footage and identified the registration number of the car that the gang had used. The police traced the car and zeroed in on Mohammed Sheikh from Annasandrapalya, who was part of the gang. Based on information that he gave, the police arrested the others, including Ashok. The police recovered the 240 gram of gold, which the accused had sold for Rs. 9 lakh. “Efforts are on track down the absconding constable,” said the police.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Waste management: Showcause notice to 30 junior health inspectors||As many as 30 junior health inspectors (JHIs) have been served show cause notices for failing to ensure segregation of waste at source and not levying fines on violators in their respective wards. Though the new garbage contracts have been put in place in a fraction of the 198 wards, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has been closely monitoring segregation levels as well as fines levied and collected from citizens.  Apart from coming out with a monthly report card on the level of segregation and fines levied, civic officials are also keeping tabs on the waste sent to processing plants and the quantum of mixed waste being sent to the landfills. “Every month, segregation of waste at source is reviewed. Junior health inspectors of each ward have been directed to identify households that fail to segregate waste. “However, it was found that health officials of 21 wards failed to collect any fine from violators. That apart, segregation levels in these wards are less than 20%,” said BBMP Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) D. Randeep. Most of the badly performing wards are in the East zone (12), followed by West zone (8). Seven wards with less than optimal segregation levels were identified in South zone and three in Bommanahalli. Performance ranking For October, according to performance ranking, Bommanahalli has topped the eight zones with regards to wet waste segregation. The second place was bagged by Dasarahalli zone and third by Rajarajeshwarinagar zone. For the assessment, the BBMP has taken into account the quantum of segregated wet waste collected and transported to waste processing plants, frequency of secondary transportation vehicles transporting wet waste to the plants, quantum of mixed waste going to the landfill and frequency of secondary transportation to the landfills. Best of the lot The top five wards that have been segregating waste at source, with more waste sent to processing plants than landfills, are Singasandra (191), H.S.R. Layout (174), Mangammanapalya (190), K.R. Market (139) and Kadu Malleshwara (65).  Every month, segregation of waste at source is reviewed. Junior health inspectors of each ward have been directed to identify households that fail to segregate waste D. Randeep, Special Commissioner (SWM), BBMP
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP makes another attempt at biomining||Thousands of tonnes of waste festering in Mandur on the city’s outskirts are likely to be processed through biomining, six years after the dumping of mixed waste was stopped. After a few unsuccessful attempts, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has once again floated a tender for biomining in one of the two dump yards in Mandur. According to senior BBMP officials, biomining will be taken up first in Mandur South dump yard, measuring 80 acres. It is estimated that around 10 lakh tonnes of legacy waste lies in this dump yard. It will be taken up at a cost of Rs. 80 crore, earmarked under Shubhra Bengaluru scheme. Since 2007, thousands of tonnes of waste has been dumped in two yards in Mandur by the BBMP. Officials estimate that 20 lakh tonnes of legacy waste lie in huge mounds in these two dump yards. Following opposition by local communities to the growing mounds of garbage in the village, dumping was stopped in December 2014. Senior officials said through biomining, the recyclables will be extracted first. Refuse derived fuel (RDF) will either be used to fill up low-lying areas, quarry pits or sent to cement factories. The ‘bioearth’, or fertilised earth, will be used to convert a portion of the land into a biodiversity park. “The BBMP may, at a later point, also decide to establish a waste processing unit there,” an official said. Biomining, the official explained, may be taken up wherever municipal solid waste is dumped above the ground, such as in Mandur and Mavallipura. The Solid Waste Management Rules mandate reclaiming of the land where garbage has been dumped by taking up biomining. In this regard, several directions have been issued to the BBMP by the National Green Tribunal.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Medical college to bear name of ex-PM Vajpayee||The Government of Karnataka has renamed the Government Medical College and Research Centre on the premises of Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital in Bengaluru after former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The medical college will now be called ‘Sri Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical College and Research Centre’. The medical college is an autonomous institute of the government of Karnataka.  Established in 1867 According to the website of the institute, the Bowring Civil Hospital for men was established in the year 1867. The institute was named after Lewis Bentham Bowring, who was the Chief Commissioner of Mysuru and Coorg between 1862 and 1870. The Lady Curzon Hospital was established in the late 1890s for women and children. Before it became an autonomous institute, it was part of the Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute. In the year 2019, the Medical Council of India granted 150 seats to this centre.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||1,704 new cases in State||A total of 1,704 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the State on Sunday. With this, the total number of positive cases in the State stands at 8.73 lakh. Of the total 1,704 cases, 1,039 were reported from Bengaluru Urban district. The number of patients discharged on Sunday was 1,537 taking the total number of discharges to 8.36 lakh. As many as 13 patients died of COVID-19 on Sunday, taking the total toll in the State due to COVID-19 to 11,654. The cumulative tests conducted in the State crossed one crore on Saturday. Of the total 24,868 active cases in the State, as many as 470 patients are admitted in intensive care units across different hospitals in the State. As many as 1.26 lakh tests were conducted on Saturday. The positivity rate for the day was 1.34% while the case fatality rate for the day was 0.76%.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Voter enrolment||
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||Colleges reopened in Karnataka with a lot of fanfare amid the pandemic on November 17. On day one, the principals, lecturers, and Higher Education Department officials left no stone unturned to protect students’ health. However, despite all these measures — such as sanitising and ensuring social distancing — very few students turned up on the first day. Deputy Chief Minister and Higher Education Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan(in picture)had planned a visit to a college on the first day where classes were supposed to be held for final year students. As no final year student had turned up, the college authorities were extremely flustered when they heard of the Minister’s visit. They finally decided to ask all the first year students who had come to the college to gather in a classroom so that the Minister would not miss out on a photo opportunity. The smiling Minister, of course, got a great picture.   Though the State successfully conducted byelections in two Legislative Assembly segments and elections to four Legislative Council seats, it has not been showing the same interest when it comes to conducting elections to 6,025 gram panchayats (GPs), whose term ended a few months ago. As the Centre started granting more funds directly to rural local bodies, generally, legislators/Ministers have been opposing devolution of powers to the GPs. Postponement of elections, in a way, helps Ministers/legislators to extend their authority in rural areas. Now, despite the Karnataka High Court’s order to the State Election Commission to announce the dates within three weeks, RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa(in picture)spoke against conducting the elections in the present scenario. The Minister cited prevalence of COVID-19 pandemic and chances of rising cases in case the elections are held in the next few days — a concern conspicuous by its absence during the bypolls. He even claimed that someone might go to the Supreme Court challenging the High Court order on conducting the elections. Was he giving a cue?   Senior BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal, a known and constant critic of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s style of functioning, took people by surprise by backing his decision on establishment of the Maratha Development Corporation. He urged the Chief Minister not to roll back the decision, as demanded by a section of Kannada activists, and said one should not be afraid of “roll-call” protesters. In the name of Kannada and culture, some Kannada groups received funds from the government, he alleged, and questioned their contribution towards promoting the language. Terming protesters as “fake”, the MLA, who had demanded replacement of Mr. Yediyurapa not so long ago, asked the Chief Minister to grant funds to the corporation for the welfare of Marathas. Is that an indication of his induction into the Cabinet? That is the question on everyone’s mind. Kannada activists are outraged by the comments of Mr. Yatnal and have held several protests against his “uncharitable” remarks. Tanu Kulkarni Nagesh Prabhu
23 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Alappuzha logs 433 more cases||The district witnessed a slight increase in daily COVID-19 cases with 433 people testing positive for the disease on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 409 patients contracted the virus through local contact. The source of infection of another 21 people remains unknown, while two persons who came from other States and one from abroad also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district also recorded five COVID-19-related deaths, taking the official toll to 145. The 433 cases include 95 logged from Alappuzha, 29 from Chennam Pallippuram, 22 from Kadakkarappally and 21 from Mannancherry. 383 recover Meanwhile, 383 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 7,311. The police on Sunday registered 30 cases and arrested 14 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was also taken against 167 people for not wearing facemasks and 556 for not maintaining physical distance.
23 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Going green and clean with electioneering||Putting up banners and posters as part of electioneering is seen as a sign of competitive politics. Though digital campaign materials dominate the local body poll scene because of the restrictions in place because of the COVID-19 situation, poll advertisements in the form of printed materials have popped up across places seeking votes. But here is a candidate of a mainstream political party who carries out his campaign sans printed banners, posters, or cut-outs. K.V. Meghanadhan, the United Democratic Front (UDF) candidate for Ponnad ward (ward 4) of the Mannancherry grama panchayat, says that meeting voters in person and digital campaign will help him win the election. “In the 2015 elections, I had used a minimal number of posters. This time I decided to totally abandon posters, banners, and flex while my name is inscribed only on three walls along with the names of UDF candidates for the district panchayat and block panchayat. Although we are doing online campaigns using digital posters and materials, our focus is on visiting houses and meeting voters in accordance with COVID-19 protocols where we give voters a small leaflet urging them to vote for me,” Mr. Meghanadhan says. Saving money, nature A resident of the same ward, he says that his decision helped him save money and prevented a litter problem. “My aim is to conduct the poll campaign clean and green as much as possible. Not using posters, banners, or any such campaign materials means less harm to the environment. People of Ponnad know me well and I am hopeful of a thumping victory in the elections,” he exudes confidence.
23 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||At Edamalakkudy, HAMs have a role||It has been four decades since HAM radio came to Idukki, where other forms of communication often fail due to adverse climatic and topographical conditions. It was the main mode of communication after the Pettimudy landslips and had played a key role in mitigating the impact of similar disasters. At Edamalakkudy, the remotest grama panchayat in the State, HAM radio has played a pivotal role in conveying information to the district headquarters at Painavu during elections. In this local body elections too, HAMs will be there to convey poll percentage and other information to the world outside. “We have given a proposal to the District Collector and are preparing to move to Edamalakkudy,” says Manoj Galaxy, president, Idukki Ham Radio Disaster Management Communication Society. Mr. Manoj says during the last election, they reached Edamalakkudy with equipment a day before and a radio station was set up at Societykudy. Their main role was to pass on timely information on voting percentage to the district headquarters. Before HAMs were assigned the job, the voting percentage from Edamalakkudy was available only a day after polling officials reached Painavu. At Edamalakkudy, Muthuvan tribespeople live in 22 tribal settlements scattered over a wide area with Societykudy hosting the grama panchayat office. Road connectivity, electricity, and mobile communication are not there in the majority of settlements. Indispensable service The service of HAM radio is indispensable during elections in remote areas, says P.L. Nizamudeen, vice president of the society.
23 November 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki posts 220 cases||As many as 220 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Sunday. The number of positive cases had exceeded 200 last week also, after remaining at a low for long. Thodupuzha municipal area reported the highest number of cases, 65, on the day. An official of the Health Department said that the number of positive cases was highest in Thodupuzha last week also. The grama panchayats with large number of cases are Adimali, Edavetty, Karimannur, Kumili and Nedumkandam. Of the 220 cases, the source of 16 could not be traced. One of the new patients had a travel history outside the State and two persons came from abroad.
23 November 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Kannur has highest number of NQAS-approved hospitals||With two more health centres in the district obtaining the National Quality Assurance Standard (NQAS) certification, Kannur has become the first district in the State with the maximum number of hospitals with the national approval. Mattool Primary Health Centre with a score of 95.8% and Munderi Family Health Centre with 92.1% score are the new NQAS-certified facilities in the district. So far, 18 institutions in the district have received NQAS accreditation. The annual incentive will be Rs. 2 lakh for NQAS-accredited PHCs and Rs. 10,000 per bed for other hospitals. The NQAS approval is for three years. Parameters The accreditation is given based on parameters including general administration and OP lab, patient services, staff efficiency, drug availability and distribution, clinical services, patient-friendly services, infectious disease control, maternal and child health, lifestyle disease control. and immunisation services.
23 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Polls a ray of hope for weary artists||M.R. Rajan has been in the field of graffiti works for about 30 years now. However, the CPI(M) South Panangad branch secretary says that he has never gone through such lean times, describing the lockdown and the lack of work brought about by the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. However, hundreds of artists like him have been given a lifeline by the declaration of elections to local bodies, scheduled for December 10. The ban on plastic-based materials from the campaign scene and restrictions due to the COVID-19 protocol have forced candidates of all political parties to resort to the time-tested wall graffiti to reach out to voters and convey their messages. He said that most of the candidates of major fronts had seen their graffiti campaigns completed while Independent candidates were awaiting the allocation of symbols for the work to begin. He added that the elections to local bodies had given some relief to artists like him because there was sufficient work now available to them. The COVID-19 lockdown saw businesses grind to a halt and most of the business establishments and retailers had virtually ended publicising their products and services. This resulted in work orders drying up, he added. Revathi Alex, the CPI(M) candidate from Thuthiyoor in Thrikkakara Municipality, is an art teacher. She is an art graduate from RLV College, Thripunithura. She is using her talents for her campaign and does graffiti. She said that she had been doing some art work on her own from home when she decided to join the contest to the municipal council. With graffiti artists getting too busy with the election work, Revathi Alex decided to do her own publicity graffiti. The work has attracted the attention of other candidates too in the municipal elections.
23 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||SHRC clarifies on Aluva forum||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has said that it has no connection with the Aluva-based organisation, International Human Rights Commission. In a statement, the commission made it clear that the SHRC constituted under the Protection of Human Rights Act did not have any subsidiary organisations under it. It said the functioning of the so-called private organisation masquerading as the human rights commission was illegal. Police alerted The commission learnt that the organisation was holding sittings, receiving complaints and visiting institutions. In fact, no organisations had been authorised to receive complaints of rights violations on behalf of the SHRC. The commission had already brought the functioning of such illegal organisations to the notice of the police. It cautioned the people that they should not allow themselves to be deceived by such organisations.
23 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Concept plan for integrated coaching terminal ready||Kerala Rail Development Corporation Limited (KRDCL) has readied a concept plan for the integrated coaching terminal (ICT) proposed on 110 acres in the Ponnurunni-Kathrikadavu area. The plan, which speaks of a railway terminal having five platforms and allied amenities, was discussed with senior Railway officials recently. Establishing connectivity to the NH Bypass, probably through the Thammanam-Pullepady road which the PWD is slated to widen into four-lane, too was discussed. All this was taken up as part of KRDCL readying the project’s feasibility report in another two weeks and handing it over to the Southern Railway, said sources in the agency. Further discussions will be held with Railway officials on making optimal use of space on the premises. The consensus is that there is no need to construct 10 or 12 platforms as envisaged earlier. The terminal can begin functioning with two or three platforms, and the number of platforms can be augmented based on demand, they added. A detailed project report (DPR) can be readied in three months if the feasibility report is accepted, following which stakeholders can be entrusted with developing the premises. Emphasis will be laid on having platforms which can accommodate trains having 24 coaches. This is because only a couple of platforms at Ernakulam Junction have this much length. This often results in full-length trains having to wait in the outer of the station for long, until there is vacancy of platforms. Apart from causing time loss, this holds up trains coming from behind.
23 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||LDF hoping for another win in Elamakkara North||The Left Democratic Front (LDF) is anticipating another victory in Elamakkara North, Division 33 of the Kochi Corporation, which they have firmly held for years, while the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) are both hoping for a first-time win from the division. “It’s a division we have never lost,” said M. Anil Kumar, who is leading the CPI(M) campaign for the elections to the corporation and is a probable candidate for the post of Mayor if votes swing in the LDF’s direction this time. Mr. Kumar is contesting from the division for a second time, having won from Elamakkara North in 2010, and subsequently becoming the chairperson of the works standing committee for two years. For 10 years, from 2000 to 2010, he represented nearby Puthukkalavattam. For another win, he was banking on the work he did when he represented the division, including constructing a motorable road, two anganwadis, a homoeopathy hospital and a small auditorium, said Mr. Kumar. The UDF’s candidate from the division, K.V. Antony, said he was counting on dissatisfaction among voters since little was done to improve the area’s waterlogging issue, which had inconvenienced several residents. In 2000, Mr. Antony had contested from Puthukalavattam and lost. Jeevan Lal Ravi, the BJP candidate from the area, who is contesting for the first time, said that cleaning of the Perandoor canal and Changadampokkuthodu were on the agenda. The BJP had around 978 votes in the division in 2015 and was targeting more in the upcoming polls, he said.
23 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||494 more test positive in Ernakulam||As many as 494 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Sunday, and 12 health workers were among them. The district recorded 953 recoveries and the active caseload is 8,922. Around 25 cases were reported from Thrikkakara, with over 15 each from Thripunithura, Fort Kochi and Muvattupuzha. A total of 4,394 samples were sent for testing on Sunday. Around 26,859 people remain in quarantine in the district. While 106 patients have been admitted at the Government Medical College Hospital, 48 patients are at the PVS Hospital and 20 are at the Fort Kochi Taluk Hospital. As many as 6,916 people are recovering at home and 662 are at first-line treatment centres.
23 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||In Koothattukulam, rival fronts on equal footing||If the U.S. Presidential election parlance were to be adopted, the 25-member Koothattukulam municipality would qualify as a ‘swing’ civic body with the mandate fluctuating between the two major fronts. In the last local body polls, the first since Koothattukulam was elevated to a municipality, none had a decisive majority and the two Congress rebels who won as Independents pretty much made both the United Democratic Front (UDF) that managed 12 seats and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) with 11 seats dance to their tunes. The five-year term witnessed four different chairpersons as the UDF hung on to power for the first three-and-a-years and the LDF for the rest by keeping both the Independents in good humour. The UDF lost the house after one of its leaders decamped and one of the Independents, Roy Abraham, switched over to the LDF, which promptly made him the chairman. While the LDF had hit the campaign trail running at least a month ago on finalising their candidates, the UDF managed it only after the submission of nominations began. The Congress is contesting in 21 wards and Kerala Congress (Jacob) in three and the Joseph faction of Kerala Congress in one division. “In a local body poll, premature campaigning does no good as it fizzles out by the time it really matters. Besides, the LDF rule could not make any progress in major projects like the construction of a new stadium and the proposed ring road initiated by us,” said P.C. Jose, Congress president of Koothattukulam Assembly constituency. The LDF has fielded 17 CPI(M) candidates, five CPI candidates, and one each from NCP, Jose K. Mani faction of Kerala Congress, and Janadhipathya Kerala Congress. The front remains confident of wresting power on the perceived popularity of the State government’s welfare policies such as LIFE Mission, under which an apartment complex is being built in Koothattukulam. The BJP, which never had a representative in the civic body, remains hopeful of opening its account this time.
23 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Protest staged against GIFT City project||A large gathering of people from Ayampuzha staged a protest in Angamaly against the proposed Global Industrial Finance and Trade (GIFT) City on Saturday, claiming that the project would result in the eviction of farmers and local people from their homes and that the government must back away from a project posing a threat to the environment. A communication from the Janakiya Munnettam (People’s Front), which is leading the protests, said that hundreds participated in a rally from the Angamaly block panchayat office on Saturday. The protesters said their demand should be considered by the government. Bijoy Cherian, convenor of the protest action council, said the people’s demand should be heeded by the government.
23 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ahead of polls, focus on Kochi’s roads||The shoddy condition of many arterial and side roads in the city and the increasing public resentment have resulted in political formations highlighting it as a major issue ahead of the local body polls. It was shocking that many roads developed potholes within weeks of being resurfaced in an age when advanced technologies abounded, said Leo John Simon, a marketing executive who lives near Chakkaraparambu. He cited the deplorable condition of Puthiya Road in his neighbourhood, maintained by the Kochi Corporation, as an example. “Repair works were done over a month ago after blocking traffic on the stretch for two days. The situation turned worse within weeks and nothing has been done despite the upcoming elections. It is high time that civic agencies and stakeholders responsible were pulled up, before enforcement agencies levy penalties on motorists for minor offences,” he said. Councillors should ensure that all roads in their divisions were safe and free of potholes, said Nevil Jacob Paul, a mechanical engineer. The recently launched V4Kochi is among the political formations that have sought probity in construction of roads and allied infrastructure. “We have a clear stand on development issues, especially the quality of roads,” said Nipun Cherian, campaign controller of the movement launched with the aim to hold councillors and others accountable. “Corrupt practices reign supreme while constructing roads and many key components in the work order are omitted,” he said. “We have made it clear that all works will be done as per mandated specifications and that data will be available in the public domain if our representatives are elected,” said Mr. Cherian. ‘In good condition’ P.M. Harris, the chairman of the outgoing works standing committee, said most arterial roads maintained by the Corporation were in reasonably good condition. “Division councillors must ensure that roads in their areas are well maintained. This year, many repair works suffered due to the pandemic and the protracted strike by contractors,” he added.
23 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||‘Drugs bought using bitcoin’||The three youths who were arrested from Perumbavoor on Saturday on the charge of peddling LSD stamps used to purchase narcotic drugs using bitcoin, the police said. They used to provide such drugs to youth attending parties and contacted them through online portals. One of the arrested is a college student. Meanwhile, the City police arrested a youth on Sunday in connection with the seizure of MDMA from three persons at Panagad, last week.
23 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Pact for research on decarbonising fishing industry||ICAR-CIFT (Central Institute of Fisheries Technology) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Kochi-based Yesen Sustain Company for collaborative research on decarbonising fishing Industry by introducing clean and sustainable technologies and solutions. According to the MoU, the collaborative research will be done for developing hybrid propulsion systems for fishing vessels and sustainable cold chain solutions for distribution. The proposed products are to be branded as Net to Plate and Harbour to Plate, said a press release here. The MoU was signed at a function held at CIFT headquarters here by Yesen Sustain Company chief executive officer George Mathew and M.M. Prasad, director in-charge, CIFT. Manoj P. Samuel, head of engineering division, CIFT; George Ninan, principal scientist; Baiju M.V., senior scientist, and Govind S. Menon of Yesen Company were present. Fishing industry is facing two major challenges — huge emissions into the eco system and lack of cold chain with traceability for distribution. Approximately 0.59 to 2.4 tons of Co2 is emitted per tonne of fish catch, and another one tonne of CO2 per tonne for various distribution channels makes the fishing industry one of the largest consumers of petroleum-based fuel and emitter of greenhouse gases. In addition, over 20% of the catch is lost due to lack of efficient cold chain facilities, the communication pointed out. Yesen Sustain has been established with the mandate of providing unique clean technology and sustainable products and solutions.
23 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Strays to be collared to avert accidents||With the increasing number of stray dogs in the district posing a serious threat to the motorists, the authorities have started strapping reflective collars around the neck of canines to prevent accidents. Despite the efforts of Kollam district panchayat and the Corporation to address the issue, instances of accidents involving strays are on the rise. There have been several complaints regarding stray dog menace during the past few months, with aggressive packs ruling many parts of the district after nightfall. ABC scheme revived The Kollam district panchayat had recently revived its stray dog birth control programme and now the dogs sterilised under the ABC (Animal Birth Control) programme will be fitted with green reflective collars. “The collars will alert the motorists to the presence of strays on the road. The collars will be visible from a distance of 500 m and 400 dogs will be tagged in the initial phase,” said D. Shine Kumar, ABC coordinator, Kollam.  Collar Up, a Kochi-based organisation, will be providing the reflective straps. Stray dogs will sterilised and vaccinated against rabies at the facility in Kottiyam and later released in the same area they are picked up with the collars. “This will effectively bring down accidents and also help dog handlers. More dogs will be tagged in coming days,” he added. The district panchayat and Animal Husbandry Department had appointed eight veterinary surgeons and 32 dog handlers for the revived ABC project. According to officials, increase in waste dumping during the pandemic along with the gap in birth control programme has caused the current situation. Kollam currently has 74,416 strays and the project will be implemented at Oachira, Panmana, Piravanthur, Karavaloor, Pathanapuram, Kareepra, Chithara, Poothakulam, Adichanallur, Elampallor, and Ummannur panchayats in the first phase. In 2017, Kollam Corporation had entered a contract with Sai Trust in Thriuvananthapuram to set up emergency camps in different divisions in a bid to address the issue. Though the integrated rabies and birth control project was expected to lower the canine population, it had failed to achieve the target.
23 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam adds 314 cases to its tally||The district reported 314 new COVID-19 cases, three deaths and 526 recoveries on Sunday. Those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 include 308 contact cases, four persons without any known source and two health workers. Three deaths The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 77-year-old Kollam resident, 73-year-old Thodiyoor resident and a 65-year-old Kollam resident are due to COVID-19. A 63-year-old Karunagapplly resident and a 51-year-old Kulakkada resident are the heath workers who contracted the infection. Patients with no known source include two cases from Kottarakara, an 82-year-old Yeroor resident and a 60-year-old person from Thiruvananthapuram. The district currently has 20,312 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 4,33,131. While 1,121 persons completed home quarantine on Sunday, the Health Department has traced 1,08,881 primary and 8,923 secondary contacts of the positive cases. At present, the district has 4,028 active cases.
23 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Youth Congress protest against Act amendment||Youth Congress workers organised a gagged protest against the Kerala Police Act Amendment Ordinance on Sunday. Youth Congress State secretary Vishnu Sunil Pandalam inaugurated the protest while Kollam Assembly president Sarath Mohan presided over the function. O.B. Rajesh, Kaushik M. Das, Harshad Muthiraparambil, Sachu Prathapan, and Mahesh Manu spoke on the occasion.
23 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Passengers’ forum seminar on Nov. 25||The Southern Railway Passengers Association will organise a seminar on November 25 in connection with the Statewide protests demanding the restoration and rescheduling of trains. Former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy will inaugurate the seminar and people’s representatives, including MPs, will speak on the occasion, said association president Sajeev Parisavila and general secretary Kannanallur Nissam. The seminar will be held at 1.30 p.m. at Kollam Press Club.
23 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam’s case burden goes up by 355||As many as 355 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Sunday Of the fresh cases, all but two contracted the virus through local contact. The fresh cases also include 48 children and 58 persons aged above 60. With 35 cases, Changanassery municipality reported the highest number of patients, followed by Kottayam (30). Erattupetta reported 22 cases while Erumeli 21. 530 recoveries With 530 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 3,670 active cases while 20,474 people are in home isolation.
23 November 2020||Kottayam,KERALA||Legends of Pala on postal stamps||The Postal Department, in association with the Mahatma Gandhi National Foundation, has brought out a postage stamp series ‘Legends of Pala’ to commemorate the key personalities who played crucial roles in the growth of Pala. Pala Bishop Mar Joseph Kallarangad unveiled the stamps at a function organised to mark the 34th death anniversary of Mar Sebastian Vayalil, the first Bishop of the Diocese of Pala. Pala MLA Mani C. Kappan received the first stamp from the Bishop. The Bishop called on to follow the footsteps of the older generation who had set an example. Personalities Besides the first Pala Bishop, the stamp series features former President K.R. Narayanan, former Minister K.M. Mani, poet Pala Narayanan Nair, freedom fighters Cherian J. Kappan and R.V. Thomas, former governors K.M. Chandy and M.M. Jacob, and former MP George Thomas Kottukappally. Eby J. Jose, chairman of the Foundation, said plans were afoot to bring out a book on the legends of Pala.
23 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Ripples of Sabarimala restrictions reach Erumeli||Scenes of pilgrims clad in black dancing to drum beats, decorated vehicles moving in and out without a break, and seasonal shops bustling with visitors... Erumeli becomes a beehive of activity when the annual pilgrimage season at Sabarimala takes off. But not this year. The temple town, the key base station to the hill shrine, seems deserted, with fewer that 700 pilgrims reaching here over the first week of the season. This is a stark contrast to the estimated 25,000-odd pilgrims who passed through the town daily the previous season. “The closure of the forest routes to Sabarimala, the daily limit in the number of pilgrims, and the condition that they should produce a COVID-19-negative certificate done 24 hours prior to reaching Nilackal have prompted the devotees to bypass Erumeli and head directly to the hill shrine,” said a senior official with the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB). The decline in number of visitors to the two Ayyappa temples and the Nainar mosque have left the streets here, which usually throb in the spiritual frenzy of Petta Thullal, desolate. It also appears to have a considerable impact on the local business with most restaurants, shops, parking grounds and even toilet complexes, which operate only during the two-month season, remaining shut. For instance, the TDB could lease out only 15 of the 74 items listed for auctioning this season while the income from auction, which crossed Rs. 3 crore last time, has not touched even Rs. 10 lakh. “After the e-auction and open auctions evoked a near-zero response, we had to give out some of the essential items such as the parking ground, toilet complex, coconuts and the drum sets at a very nominal price. A couple of seasonal shops too have been opened which are being run more as an offering to Lord Ayyappa than for profits,” said Krishnakumar Warrier, Deputy Commissioner, TDB. Jamaat too hit The Erumeli Jamaat that owns parking ground and toilet complexes, and the household units which eke out a living by making articles for the pilgrims have also suffered losses. The KSRTC, which clocked around Rs. 3.5 crore from its Sabarimala special services via Erumeli last year, too faces a crisis . As against the 80 schedules operated with 35 buses in the previous season, the KSRTC has run only a handful of services in the Kottayam-Erumeli-Pampa sector so far this season.
23 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Young talents set to prove their mettle in electoral politics||Among the multitude of new candidates to various local bodies in the district, there are a few who excelled in other spheres before stepping into electoral politics. Rekha C., the CPI(M) candidate from Eranhipalam, Hashim Kadakkalakam, the LDF Independent from Kuttichira, and Vijith V., the BJP candidate in Moorikkara North ward of Kakkodi grama panchayat have already made their mark in other fields. At 22, Rekha is the youngest candidate to the Kozhikode Corporation council. She is a national-level hockey player. She has been playing hockey since her childhood and was a player for the Kerala school team and the Calicut University team. She had also played in the All India Inter-University Championship held in Chennai in January this year before the outbreak of the pandemic. Hashim Kadakkalakam is known for his love for kites. He is a national trainer for One India Kite team, Kerala’s first kite team. With his team, he has represented India in kite festivals held in 12 different countries over the past 10 years. Hashim is the Kozhikode taluk committee president of the Muslim Education Society. He is also part of the Calicut Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Kerala Vyapari Vyavasayi Ekopana Samithi. However, his ‘greatest achievement’ is his involvement with the Leprosy Poor Home in the city where he, along with a few like-minded individuals, takes care of the needs of people who have been cured of leprosy, yet are social pariahs. Vijith V. is a journalist. He is already well known as a candidate who designs his own posters and paints his own graffiti. Designing posters and writing graffiti is what Vijith has been trained in for years, by his late father who ran Suran’s Arts in Nadakkavu. Besides designing hoardings and advertisements for private firms, Vijith used to design them for candidates during elections. However, this time, he has chosen to utilise his talents for his election work.
23 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Elderly voters run into digital firewall||Scouring the social media to sense the real heat of virtual campaigns is easy for most tech-savvy young voters, but their elderly counterparts are seemingly struggling to sign up with the evolving trend. With the yet-to-be accustomed social media world and its jargons, many of them are literally remaining off-line with no direct connect with the spirited virtual electioneering. Biggest challenge “This comes as the biggest challenge as the digital divide creates a lot of hurdles for both the candidates and the voters. What we are planning to do is to connect such elderly population with their tech-savvy children or grand-children to make some changes,” says a professional social media campaigner working for various political fronts in Kozhikode district. Many are yet to be familiar with smartphones and social media applications for infotainment, but cannot ignore such segments as their voice too matters, he points out. As most of the senior citizens now try to stay back at home as part of the reverse quarantine process, their chances of direct interaction with their friends for political discussions are also minimal now. Many of them say they have been missing such social connections for several months, unable to substitute them with the virtual options. A call centre exclusively functioning for senior citizens in Kozhikode district itself is evident that only very few out of the 2.70 lakh registered persons make use of the services using just phone calls. “For personal communications, I make use of Whatsapp, but I am yet to be active on Facebook, where a lot of election-related discussions take place this time. For people like us, this is quite a strange experience where the traditional mode of campaigning takes the backseat,” says K. Damodharan, a senior citizen from Karaparamba. He feels that the real thrill of electioneering can be experienced only through face-to-face interactions and outdoor campaigns. e-literate K. Francis, a functionary of the Kerala Senior Citizens’ Forum, says there has been effort on their part to make their members e-literate during the functioning of ‘Pakalveedu’, but such sessions are now impossible with the COVID-19 threat. “There are people who make use of smartphones, but only for some basic personal communications. We don’t know how many of them will be able to capture the real feel of electioneering with that basic knowledge,” he says.
23 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Farmers cultivate online learning skills||The entry of a number of user-friendly videoconference applications and interactive social media groups following the pandemic outbreak has come as a boon for many farmers to stay connected with their trainers from research institutes. Many of those who used to travel a lot for attending face-to-face sessions are now enjoying online training programmes and taking forward their ventures. “Over 25 exclusive online sessions on diverse topics have already been conducted by our team and farmers have been found adapting to the new normal. Each session had more or less 200 participants, making it live and interactive,” says P.S. Manoj, Subject Matter Specialist, Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Kozhikode. He adds that farmers connected to the KVK are now members of official social media groups to quickly access information on special online training programmes. WhatsApp groups In Kozhikode district alone, there are over 30 active WhatsApp groups to share information on agriculture-related activities and scientific training sessions being hosted by the Agriculture Department and prominent institutes. Hundreds of participants, irrespective of their location, access the URLs for trainings. “Because of the COVID-19 protocol, there are limitations to conduct direct training programmes. But farmers are seemingly enjoying the new shift as they can have it from their own homes. Only some of the elderly farmers are finding it difficult to adapt to the new trend,” says Mr. Manoj. The majority are now comfortable with the use of communication platforms such as Google Meet, Webex, Zoom, and Facebook Live, he adds. Officials at the Indian Institute of Spices Research, Kozhikode, say online training sessions and webinars conducted by them have been found very helpful for farmers in Kerala and other States for updating their knowledge on high-yield crops, farming techniques and pest control. A session on successful farming technologies in nutmeg cultivation and it had drawn the participation of 100 farmers, they add. T.D. Meena, Deputy Director of Agriculture, Kozhikode, says online training has also come to the help of many entrepreneurs to familiarise themselves with more profitable agri-ventures like ornamental farming to survive the financial crisis.
23 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||How COVID-19 hit a small panchayat in Kozhikode||The loss of income suffered by daily wage labourers from one small grama panchayat in Kozhikode district during the pandemic-induced lockdown was around Rs. 17 crore. This was revealed by a study undertaken by the Perambra unit of the Kerala Sasthra Sahitya Parishad (KSSP) in Nochad grama panchayat in the district. According to the study, the workdays lost between March last week and May third week in the informal sector would be over 2 lakh. Findings of the study, titled ‘Covidum jeevithavum: Nochadinte nerkkazhchakal’, was published recently. T.P. Kunhikkannan, KSSP functionary, who was the convener of the study team, pointed out that people who depend on informal jobs for a living mostly derive their income for the whole year between February and May. The savings from these four months sustain their lives for the later part of the year. Percussion artistes and others who become active during temple festivals, cooks, people who rent out utensils for feasts, beauticians, etc. belong to these groups. They also borrow money in advance expecting a return during these months. The informal economy too becomes active during this time. Many people depend on ‘panam payattu’, a traditional form of crowd funding popular in the Malabar region, for their needs, including for conducting weddings. The pandemic put a full stop to it and many events were put off for lack of funds, Mr. Kunhikkannan said. Dip in remittances Another important change was the dip in remittances from the Gulf region. According to the data collected by Accredited Social Health Activists, 19% of houses in the panchayat have at least one person working in the Gulf countries. Even a small decline in the flow of money from abroad had a major impact on transactions taking place here, the study said.
23 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Govt. urged to relax travel norms for businessmen||Stringent quarantine measures that they have to deal with every time they travel out of the State is causing a concern for businessmen. The Calicut Chamber of Commerce and Industry has requested the State government to allow relaxations to businessmen who need to travel across the country several times, and will not be able to undergo week-long quarantine every time. “There are no such restrictions in other States. They are causing much problems to businessmen here,” Subair Kolakkadan, president of the Chamber, said. “Businessmen need to go to other States for meetings, collecting raw materials and other related activities. When they return, they need to register in the COVID Jagratha portal and show the pass procured at the airport. Then they have to complete seven days of quarantine before being allowed to go out of their homes. This is very impractical for them,” Mr. Kolakkadan said. The chamber pointed out that people going to foreign countries just had to wait for a day to get a COVID test done. “Those coming from other States to Kerala do not have to undergo test or quarantine if they do not show any symptoms and are returning in a week. Also, people travelling by road have no restrictions in our system,” it said. The Chamber demanded that such contradictions be avoided and that all travellers, including businessmen, be allowed to travel and move about if their tests turn negative.
23 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Test positivity rate 13% in Kozhikode district||Test positivity rate for COVID-19 in Kozhikode district on Sunday was 13%, higher than the State figure of 10.94%. A total of 4,707 samples were sent for lab tests here. According to a release by the District Medical Officer, 612 fresh cases were reported from the district, of which 570 were locally acquired infections. The source of infection of 30 people was not known. With 828 people recovering, the number of active cases reached 7,510. As many as 148 cases were reported from within Kozhikode corporation, 23 from Puthuppady, 22 from Cheruvannur, and 21 each from Unnikulam and Vadakara. In Malappuram As many as 796 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Sunday. However, 785 infected people recovered from the disease on the same day. While 762 of the new cases contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons, there were 19 cases without an identifiable source of infection. (With inputs from Malappuram bureau)
23 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Fishers to go on strike against ordinance||A section of fishers and boat owners will go on a district-wide token strike on Monday protesting against the proposed Kerala Fish Auctioning, Marketing and Quality Control Ordinance. The protesters will also stage a dharna in front of the Fisheries Department office at Beypore. Fishermen’s organisations and boat owners from Beypore claimed that the State government wanted to implement the ordinance as such without holding any public hearing. “If it is implemented, the government will be able to claim 5% of the auction amount as commission, which will double the loss of stakeholders in the sector,” they argued. A functionary of the Kerala Boat Owners Association said the proposed ordinance was equal to open extortion in the name of supporting other ailing segments. “Those who came to power with a promise to do away with middlemen in the sector are now trying to emerge as middlemen,” he alleged. A joint coordination committee of fishers and boat owners said the token strike would be organised in front of all district-level offices in the State. The committee also made it clear that it would never cooperate with the implementation of the proposed ordinance, as it would double the financial burden on the struggling community.
23 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||IUML opposes Police Act amendment||The recent amendment to the Kerala Police Act is part of the Left Democratic Front government’s majoritarian tendencies and fascist approach, the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) has alleged. IUML State general secretary K.P.A. Majeed said in a release on Sunday that the addition of Section 118A to the Act gave powers to the police to register suo moto cases even without any formal complaint. And, the offence has been made cognizable too. This could be used against the media and political rivals who oppose the government. Mr. Majeed said laws were already there to counter defamation attempts.
23 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad has 468 cases||As many as 468 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad district on Sunday. However, 426 infected people recovered from the disease on the same day. When 275 persons contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons, there were 186 cases without an identifiable source of origin. Among the new cases were three health workers and four persons who came from across the borders. District officials said that 5,028 people were currently under treatment across Palakkad. Besides them, 189 persons from Palakkad were being treated elsewhere in the State.
23 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||169 positive in Pathanamthitta||As many as 169 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 146 persons contracted the virus through local contact. Of this, the contact source of 29 persons was yet to be identified. With 15 cases, Thiruvalla reported the highest number of patients, followed by Kodumon (13). 1,859 active cases With 218 recoveries, the district currently has 1,859 active cases while 3,451 contacts are under observation.
23 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||383 new cases in capital||The COVID-19 case graph in Thiruvananthapuram went up by 383 on Sunday even as 546 people recovered from the disease. The number of active cases stood at 5,138. Death toll rises The death toll rose to 528 with eight more deaths being attributed to the disease, a pressnote said. The deceased were a 52-year old man who hailed from Chirayinkeezhu, a 60-year old man who hailed from Kallara, a 70-year old man who hailed from Kallambalam, a 76-year old woman who hailed from Nanthencode, an 89-year old woman who hailed from Sasthavattom, a 67-year old man who hailed from Perumathura, a 68-year old woman who hailed from Arattukuzhy and an 84-year old man who hailed from Vizhinjam. Ten health workers are among those who tested positive for the infection during the last 24 hours. The district administration quarantined 1,696 people on the day, taking the number of people placed under observation for COVID-19-related symptoms to 26,511. The Thiruvananthapuram City police initiated action against 56 people for allegedly violating the COVID-19 precautionary measures., the pressnote added. 16 booked Sixteen people were booked under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020. A cumulative fine of Rs. 15,000 was slapped on 24 people who failed to wear masks outdoor and six people who violated social distancing norms.
23 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State targets reopening of colleges on Jan. 1||Targeting the reopening of colleges in the State in a phased manner, the government has commenced deliberations on resuming academic activities from January 1. While holding classes for undergraduate (UG) course could present challenges in adhering to COVID-19 norms, the government is actively pursuing the resumption of classes for the postgraduate (PG) batches, especially in the teaching departments of State universities, most of which have fewer than 30 students. Karnataka partially opened its colleges and universities for final-year UG and PG classes last week and other States are going ahead with plans to follow suit.  Following a suggestion made by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the Higher Education Department had moved a file in the first week of November. However, a high-power committee chaired by the Chief Minister is yet to deliberate on the matter, official sources said. While the final decision hinged on the possibility of an anticipated surge in COVID-19 cases following the local body elections, other factors such as discontinuing COVID-19 first-line treatment centres in colleges will also be considered. Trimester system Meanwhile, the government is also eyeing steps to make up for the slow progress in covering topics through online learning. The Kerala State Higher Education Council has asked to study the possibility of reorienting the academic year by introducing a trimester pattern in place of the usual two semesters per academic year. While premier institutions, including IIT-Madras, have adopted the reform, the State would require the approval of the University Grants Commission and the All India Council for Technical Education to ensure the degrees thus issued are deemed equivalent to those provided for courses under the conventional pattern. The government will also take a call on trimming vacations and possibly providing additional compensation for the faculty in lieu of the semester breaks.
23 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Doctors hint at another post-COVID threat||The 23-year-old youth, when he was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram (MCH), appeared to be a case of septic shock. All the inflammatory markers in blood were elevated. He was negative for COVID-19 rapid antigen as well as PCR test. The possibilities were several, for it could have been leptospirosis or dengue shock syndrome, septic shock, ... But the turning point was when he tested positive for the IgG antibody test for COVID-19. “We are aware of the multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) in the post-COVID period. Though rare, we are now seeing MIS in adults (MIS-A). In two months, we had five cases, all of whom had a similar clinical course. But unlike in children, the outcomes were not all good,” says R. Aravind, Head of Infectious Diseases, MCH. Even medical literature documents very few cases of MIS-A. The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) had recently published a case series of 27 cases of MIS-A. The CDC report says that adult patients with current or previous SARS-CoV-2 infection can develop a hyper inflammatory syndrome resembling MIS-C. Adults with severe COVID-19 also have the same hyper inflammatory syndrome but these patients generally have respiratory failure also. In contrast, most MIS-A patients do not have respiratory failure, says Dr. Aravind. The patients in the CDC report had cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, dermatologic, and neurologic symptoms without severe respiratory illness. They also had either a positive PCR test (current infection) or positive antibody assay (recent infection) for COVID-19. Occurrence “It is easy to miss a diagnosis of MIS-A because it can masquerade as septic shock. It can occur as a continuum of severe COVID-19 or can be a post-COVID affair. MIS-A cases have come from areas about a month after the epidemic peaked and usually happen 20-25 days after the initial infection,” Dr. Aravind says. Clinicians must maintain a high index of suspicion of MIS-A when patients come with fever, multisystem involvement, high inflammatory markers, and evidence of exposure to SARS-CoV-2 in recent weeks. Most MIS-A cases will require a COVID antibody assay for confirmation. At present antibody assays are not done in many laboratories. Early administration of immunomodulatory drugs can prevent MIS-A cases from becoming fatal but MIS-A outcomes can often be complicated as most adults would have some underlying issues. The CDC notes that while the interval between infection and development of MIS-A is unclear, in patients who reported typical COVID-19 symptoms before MIS-A onset, MIS-A was experienced 2-5 weeks late. Doctors suggest that those who had COVID-19 should be very careful during the convalescent phase.
23 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CB begins probe into audio clip leak||The State Police Crime Branch (CB) has opened a preliminary inquiry to verify the authenticity of a voice recording purportedly belonging to COFEPOSA detainee and gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh. The stated aim of the inquiry was to find out if the leak to the media of the audio clip revealed a plot to discredit the Enforcement Directorate (ED). The ED is investigating a few cases involving government agencies such as the Life Mission and the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). The Crime Branch would also examine whether the ‘intentional disclosure’ of the audio clip to the media and its subsequent dissemination revealed a cognisable offence or a violation of the rules that govern the Prisons and Correctional Services Department. The widely circulated voice clipping had triggered a controversy with the narrator implying that ‘investigators’ had ‘coerced’ her into giving evidence against Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The ED had pointed out the narrator did not name any agency. Confiscating phone Investigators said they would need to confiscate the cell phone or device on which the voice was recorded to verify its genuineness. Moreover, Swapna was allowed to make monitored calls to her relatives from prison. The ED had perceived that the appearance of the voice clipping heralded by digital captions in a website with a marked political slant pointed to a plot to blacken its investigations. ED’s request The ED had requested the Prisons Department to share its findings with the agency. A preliminary inquiry by the department suggested the voice might belong to Swapna. However, officials said it was unlikely that it was recorded in the Attakulangara Women’s Prison here. Swapna had served time in the sub-jail in Kakkanad following her arrest by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) from Bengaluru in August. Prisons officials had said Swapna was under tight watch at the prison. She is permitted to meet close relatives once a week on Wednesday. Applications to meet Swapna are sent to the Customs Department for vetting. So far, the Jail Department has allowed only her mother, children and husband to meet her. Customs and jail officials are invariably present at the meetings.
23 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Outsourcing of work fails to improve BSNL service||Maintenance and other external works of the Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) have been experiencing delays ever since the public sector telecom company outsourced such works earlier this year. Even requests for upgrading of internet connections are at times delayed, leading to customers switching to connections provided by private players. “I have been using a BSNL broadband connection for the past two years. Ever since the lockdown began, my work has been dependent on the internet connection at home. But over the past few months, frequent disruptions are affecting my work. Though I had registered the complaint, no action was taken. Later, I registered for an upgrade to the BSNL Bharat Fiber plan, but even after weeks, there was no response. When I visited the local BSNL office, I was told that now the work is done by private contractors and that there is shortage of cables. Now I have shifted to a connection by a private company,” says Jesin Varkey, an IT employee staying near Karyavattom in Thiruvananthapuram. According to BSNL trade union leaders, they had received complaints about delay in fault rectification in recent times. The arrangement “Those in the field inform us that there is more delay in rectifying cable faults and in getting new equipment. Under the arrangement, the contracted company has to purchase the equipment and much of the low-end cables. We informed the management, and they told us that instructions will be issued to clear these issues,” says says C. Santosh Kumar, Kerala Circle Secretary of BSNL Employees’ Union. The BSNL had rolled out its outsourcing policy early in January, after a large number of employees involved in provisioning and maintenance of the copper cable network opted for the Voluntary Retirement Scheme. The new policy allows all telecom circles to outsource maintenance work and provision of landline and broadband connections. Services outsourced Among the services outsourced include attending to all types of network faults, provision of new landline and broadband connections and shifting of connections. The running of some of the customer service counters were also outsourced. Union leaders see these moves as the management’s way of testing the waters for its eventual privatisation. The delay on the Union government’s part in allowing the BSNL to go ahead with 4G services has also compounded its woes, especially when it could have had a quantum jump in new users as education and work have shifted online during the COVID-19 pandemic.  Maintenance works, outsourced to private contractors, fail to keep up with customer requirements
23 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||In Varkala, all fronts face rebel threat||An interesting battle is shaping up in the Varkala municipality where the Left Democratic Front (LDF) is hoping to retain its grip on the 33-ward local body by parading its achievements on the development front. While the United Democratic Front (UDF) is looking to upset the LDF cart and recover lost ground, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which pocketed three seats in 2015 is expecting a noteworthy improvement in its electoral fortunes in Varkala. State-level political issues aside, development - or the pitiful lack of it, as the Congress and the BJP see it - will be the key poll plank as this picturesque coastal municipality prepares to vote. In 2015, the CPI(M)-LDF had wrested the municipality from the UDF by winning 18 of 33 seats. The CPI(M) in fact won the majority - 17 seats - on its own in 2015, while ally CPI added one seat to the LDF tally. The UDF, which had seized Varkala with 18 seats in 2010, had to settle for 12 last time. In 2010, the BJP had won only the Perumkulam ward. Though it lost the ward to CPI(M) in 2015, it managed to corner the Punnamoodu, Temple and Chaluvila wards. The BJP is quite confident of increasing the tally this time. The rebel menace plagues the three fronts in varying degrees. The UDF has to contend with unrest within its camp. Ally IUML, annoyed over the denial of seats by the Congress, is fielding candidates independently in seven coastal wards. Bindu Haridas, the CPI(M) chairperson in the 2015-2020 council, is contesting from the Pullanikode ward this time. Statistics-wise, the Varkala municipality has 33 wards. As per the final voters' list published by the State Election Commission, the municipality has 32,985 voters including 17,985 women and 15,000 men. Development The LDF hopes to continue in power on the strength of the development activities undertaken by LDF at the State-level and in Varkala, said Sathyadevan V., the CPI(M) campaign manager. “The CPI(M) is contesting from 28 seats and the CPI in five seats. The situation is favourable for the LDF,” he said. The UDF hopes to win over voters by highlighting a lack of development initiatives in the municipality. “The LDF cannot claim to have undertaken any developmental activities whatsoever in the past five years. The municipality was more or less orphaned during the LDF rule,” says former MLA Varkala Kahar, who is helming the campaign. Efforts are continuing to sort out issues with the IUML leadership, he said. “This time, our focus is not just on increasing the tally, but capturing the municipality itself,” says Ajulal A., the BJP campaign manager. BJP in 31 seats The BJP is contesting in 31 seats, while NDA ally BDJS has been allocated two seats. The BJP had performed exceedingly well in Varkala when senior party leader Sobha Surendran contested from Attingal in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, he said.
23 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||ICAR develops improved tuber crop varieties||The ICAR-Central Tuber Crops Research Institute (CTCRI) in association with the State Agriculture Department, is popularising climate-resilient, improved varieties of tuber crops developed by it among tribal communities in the State. Organised under the auspices of the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) to ensure food and livelihood security for tribal populations and marginal farmers, the programme has been rolled out in Thiruvananthapuram district. In due course, it will be extended to other, selected districts, CTCRI officials said. The three-year programme will see the propagation of cassava (tapioca), sweet potato and yam varieties, Dr. K. Sunilkumar, principal scientist and coordinator of the project at CTCRI, said. In Thiruvananthapuram district, it is being implemented in Peringamala, Nanniyode, Kuttichal, Amboori, Vithura and Tholicode panchayats. Cassava and sweet potato planting materials were distributed to farmers from tribal populations in Peringammala and Nanniyode panchayats the other day at a meeting chaired by Dr. C. A. Jayaprakas, Head, Crop Protection Division, CTCRI. Two varieties of cassava (Sree Raksha and Sree Pavithra) and four varieties of sweet potato (Sree Kanaka, Sree Arun, Bhu Krishna and Gouri) were supplied to the farmers. Sree Raksha, a high-yielding variety, is resistant to the Cassava mosaic virus. Of the four sweet potato varieties CTCRI supplied, Sree Kanaka and Gouri are orange flesh types which are rich in carotene content. Bhu Krishna, which has a purple colour, is rich in anthocyanin content. “We plan to extend the project to Idukki and Kottayam districts. Cultivation expenses and cost of planting material will be borne under the project for up to 50 cents per farmer,” Dr. Sunilkumar said.
23 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||After 25 years at the helm, LDF faces tough fight in its bastion||The stage is set for a stiff electoral battle in the Nedumangad municipality where the Left Democratic Front (LDF) will look to fend off challenges posed by rival coalitions to extend its 25-year-long rule. While a cursory glance of results during the last few decades might suggest the Left held sway in the local body, a closer scrutiny would highlight several hard-fought contests that they had with the United Democratic Front (UDF) when the outcomes hinged on the political stance of rebel-turned-independents. Barring the 2015 local body elections when the LDF had won comfortably by winning 22 out of 39 seats, none of the other contests have been as lopsided. While the UDF failed to wrest power by one seat in at least two occasions, the rebel menace among the Congress ranks bogged them down in others. The local body, which had 48,264 registered voters in 2015, has a 55,966-strong electorate this time. Those eligible to cast votes include 30,086 women, 25,879 men and one transgender. Even while the municipality has its chairperson seat reserved for Scheduled Castes (SC) Women for the first time, the dominant presence of the Nair community in the region has considerably influenced the selection of candidates. While it hoped to counter anti-incumbency by projecting its achievements, the LDF has been beset by problems during the seat-sharing process. While the CPI (M) offered to allot a seat each to the LDF constituents Congress (S) and Janata Dal much to the opposition raised by CPI, the coalition finally decided against the move. The CPI (M) will now contest in 31 seats, while the CPI will field their candidates in the rest. The LDF has three chairperson frontrunners – Rajika S. in Mannoorkonam, Sreekala B.K. in Valiyamala and Sreeja T. in Paramuttom. CPI (M) Nedumangad area committee secretary R. Jayadevan expressed optimism that the LDF will better its best-ever performance in 2015 to win over 25 seats. Having suffered defeats due to infighting in the past, the UDF has projected a confident image this time thanks to the rather smooth allocation of seats. Congress Nedumangad block committee president S. Arun Kumar, who attributed their last defeat to the presence of rebels in six seats which they lost by slender margins, said the coalition is certain to win between 19 and 23 seats. While the Congress will contest in 30 seats, a Muslim League-backed Independent will contest in Perumala ward where the UDF had lost by six votes last time. Keeping their cards close to their chest, the UDF has projected a veteran – three-time councillor J. Geetha from Paramuttom – and a political novice – M.R. Meera from Netta – as their chairperson-hopefuls. Despite being dismissed as pushovers by the other coalitions, the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) has set their sights on nothing less than capturing power or playing kingmaker in the next council. While the BJP decided to contest in 38 seats and spare one for Kamaraj Congress, the BDJS has been left high and dry. BJP to benefit Palippuram Vijayakumar, the BJP’s Nedumangad constituency president, said the NDA is bound to benefit immensely from rifts within other coalitions that prompted many workers to switch loyalties.
23 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Election in 2 wards cancelled||The State Election Commission has decided to cancel the elections scheduled to two grama panchayat wards, one in Kollam district and the other in Kozhikode, following the death of candidates. The election in Parambimukku ward of Panmana grama panchayat, Kollam, was cancelled following the death of candidate Viswanathan Nelliparamabil on November 21. Likewise, the election to Thathoorpoyyil ward in Mavoor panchayat, Kozhikode, has been put off following the death of candidate Anil Kumar on November 20. The elections to these wards were to he held on December 8 and December 14, in the first and third phases. The Commission has directed the returning officers concerned to cancel the scheduled elections and report it to the Commission, an order issued on Sunday said. Election procedures in the two wards will be started afresh. The elections to the two wards are being cancelled as required by Section 68 of the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act, the Commission said. If a candidate whose nomination has cleared the scrutiny passes away before the final list of candidates is published or before the voting begins, the elections have to be put off. The elections to the wards will be held at a later date, a Commission official said.
23 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||An election and a forest between them||V. Ramesh has not met his wife M.R. Deepika for the past three days. With both contesting the upcoming local body elections, they have been busy with their respective election campaigns. On Saturday, their 8-year-old son, free from online classes in the weekend, accompanied his father on the campaign trail. While Mr. Ramesh is a CPI(M) candidate in the Pezhumoodu division of the Vellanad block panchayat, Ms. Deepika is contesting for the CPI(M) in the Chonampara ward of the Kuttichal panchayat, in the rural outskirts of the capital district, where her husband is the sitting councillor. “Chonampara is a ward with a large tribal population. Many areas in the ward are deep inside the forest. So she has been camping there for the past two days. Though most of the areas are now connected by road, there are still houses inside the forest, where you have to walk kilometres to reach. We keep in touch over phone during campaigning. Today, she might come home. Our son came with me today. On most days, he stays with our relatives,” says Mr. Ramesh. Ms. Deepika’s phone remained unreachable all through Saturday. They met more than a decade ago, while working as Scheduled Tribe promoters. Ms. Deepika has been active in the Kudumbashree. Though Mr. Ramesh is the sitting councillor in Chonampara ward, he has been unable to accompany her in the electioneering, as he is busy with his own campaign. “She herself has a good connect with the people in the region due to her work with the Kudumbashree,” says Mr. Ramesh. Incidentally, an achievement being highlighted in her campaign is the total electrification work done in some of the tribal settlements.
23 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NQAS certification for six health-care centres||Six more public sector health-care institutions in the State have secured the prized National Quality Assurance Standards (NQAS) certification. With this, 80 such institutions in the State, including 62 family health centres (FHCs), six urban primary health centres (PHCs), five community health centres (CHCs), four taluk hospitals and three district hospitals, have secured the certification In a statement here on Saturday, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja said the NQAS certification secured by the State’s public health institutions, even in the thick of the pandemic, was a credit to the hard work being put in by the health workers. The six institutions are the Mattool PHC in Kannur; FHC at Chathannur, Kollam; Panangad FHC in Kozhikode; Vazhoor FHC in Kottayam; Munderi FHC in Kannur and Vazhikkadavu FHC in Malappuram. The first 12 best PHCs in the country with NQAS certification also belong to Kerala. These include the Poozhanad FHC at Ottasekharamangalam, Thiruvananthapuram, and the Kayyoor Memorial FHC in Kasaragod, both of which have been acclaimed as the top public sector health institutions in the country with a score over 99%. Among district hospitals, the W&C Hospital in Kozhikode and among taluk hospitals, the taluk hospital at Chalakudy are also the top-rated institutions in the country.
23 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State reports 5,254 new cases, 27 deaths||Kerala reported 5,254 new cases of COVID -19 on Sunday when 48,015 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the State’s cumulative case burden to 5,62,695 cases. The test positivity rate was 10.94% even though the samples tested had dipped to 48,015. For the 15th consecutive day, more recoveries were reported than new cases, with 6,227 COVID patients testing negative. The active case load of the State declined by another 1,000 cases to touch 65,856. Another 27 deaths were added to the official list on Sunday, taking the State’s COVID-19 toll to 2,049. Eight of these deaths were reported from Thiruvananthapuram, six from Thrissur, five from Alappuzha, three each from Kollam and Malappuram and one each from Ernakulam and Kozhikode. Of the 5,254 new cases on Sunday, 5,160 are locally acquired infections, with sources of 662 cases remaining untraced. The number of healthcare workers who contracted COVID-19 is 53. Malappuram reported the highest number of cases at 796, Kozhikode 612, Thrissur 543, Ernakulam 494, Palakkad 468, Alapuzha 433, Thiruvananthapuram 383, Kottayam 355, Kollam 314, Kannur 233, Idukki 220, Pathanamthitta 169, Wayanad 153 and Kasaragod 81 cases.
23 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||IMA condemns surgery sanction for Ayurveda||The Indian Medical Association has condemned the Central Council of Indian Medicine’s notification giving legal authorisation to post-graduate doctors of Ayurveda in two specific disciplines to perform dental procedures and surgeries in general surgery, orthopaedics, ophthalmology, and ENT, after formal training. In a statement here, IMA said that it will resist this ‘retrograde step of mixing the systems’ at all costs and demanded that the order be withdrawn . It said that ‘corrupting modern medicine by mixing with other systems and poaching the disciplines of modern medicine through the back door’ was ‘foul play of the first order.’ IMA demanded that the National Medical Commission, which has the responsibility to protect the ‘purity’of modern medicine, assert itself . Notification IMA’s strong statement follows a notification by the CCIM, which regulates Ayurveda education and practice, amending the Post Graduate Ayurveda Education Regulations, 2016 and allowing PG students of Shalya (general surgery) and Shalakya (ENT, eye, dentistry) to practice 58 surgical procedures after obtaining formal training. It said that the CCIM should develop its own surgical disciplines from its own ancient texts and that it should not claim the surgical disciplines of modern medicine as its own. Deviant practice Such a deviant practice is unbecoming of a statutory body, IMA’s statement said. IMA questioned the sanctity of NEET exam if the Centre had no qualms about ‘devising lateral entry shortcuts” into the stream of modern medicine. It said that no member of the IMA or the fraternity of modern medicine will be made available to teach the discipline of modern medicine to students of other systems. Every system of medicine should grow on the strength of its purity, IMA said in the statement. No posting The government should refrain from posting any modern medicine doctor in the colleges of Indian Medicine, it said.  It said that the CCIM should develop its own surgical disciplines from its own ancient texts
23 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Four arrested for robbery||The Fort police on Sunday arrested four habitual offenders for allegedly attacking a passerby and robbing him. The police identified the accused as Binu alias Vattan Binu, 47, of Nedumbara, Suresh alias Vulathi Suresh, 48, of Karimadom Colony, Shaji alias Jawan Shaji, 45, of Pallichal, and Santhosh alias Thalakolli Santhosh, 44, of Kannettumukku. They have been accused of attacking a passerby near the Government Homeo Hospital in Pazhavangadi few days ago. After injuring the victim using a blade, the gang allegedly fled with his belongings. They were tracked down by an investigation team formed by Assistant Commissioner, Fort, R. Prathapan Nair. The accused, who were remanded to judicial custody, have been involved in cases of dacoity and others in the Fort police station limits.
23 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Bumper lottery launched||The first prize of State Lotteries Department’s Christmas-New Year bumper lottery will be Rs. 12 crore. The Director, State Lotteries Department, officially launched the tickets in the capital.
23 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Repeal amendments: journalists’ union||The Kerala Union of Working Journalists has demanded that the State government repeal the latest amendments to the Kerala Police Act, which the union said would give the government and the police unlimited power to clamp down on opposing voices and frame them in various cases. In a press release issued here on Sunday, the KUWJ condemned the move, terming it an attempt at curtailing media freedom in the name of preventing cyberbullying. The fact that police would now be able to register cases even without complaints would lead to journalists being forced to frequent police stations and courts over news reports, the union said.
23 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Certificate attestation at NoRKA centre||Certificate attestation will be done at the NoRKA centre here on November 23, 24 and 25. The date and time of appointment can be fixed in advance through the NoRKA website.
23 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Train diverted||Shalimar–Thiruvananthapuram Central (02642) bi-weekly special that left Shalimar station on Sunday has been diverted between Renigunta Junction and Katpadi Junction due to traffic block in Chennai-Gudur section for track and signal modification works at Attipattu Pudu Nagar and Attipattu stations. The train will skip its scheduled stoppage at Perambur and temporary stoppage has been provided at Tiruttani railway station in the diverted route, a railway release said.
23 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||543 new cases in Thrissur||There are 534 COVID-19 cases in Thrissur on Sunday while 417 people recovered from the diseas in the district. There are 7,381 active cases in the district and 80 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment at hospitals in various other districts. Total caseload So far, 55,076 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district and 47,295 people recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 522 people, including four health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Sunday. They include 71 people above the age of 60 and 43 below the age of 10. Source of infection in nine persons is not known. In all, 5,039 people are currently under home care in the district. As many as 195 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment on Sunday and 5,816 samples were collected for tests.
23 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||CPI(M), Congress on ventilator support: Kummanam||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Congress in the State are on the verge of collapse and are on ventilator support, Bharatiya Janata Party former State president Kummanam Rajasekharan has said. He was addressing a National Democratic Alliance (NDA) election convention at Mattummal in Amballur division on Sunday. “The CPI(M), which was claiming to be the party of the poor people, has become a party of gold smugglers, drug mafia, and hawala groups. The party cheated the poor and the marginalised, who worked hard for them so far. Those who conducted widespread protest against sexual violence in North India are silent about the gruesome molestation happened at Walayar,” he said. The Congress party was disappearing from the country. He said the Modi government stood for the poor and had led the country to progress. Mr. Rajasekharan said the NDA would win a huge victory in the State in the local body elections. NDA candidate for the district panchatyat’s Amballur division Shajumon Vattekkad and other leaders were present.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||No light issue||
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Candidate’s spouse attacked||A Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate’s wife was allegedly attacked by an unidentified person at a private medical lab near Mukkom in Kozhikode on Sunday morning. Shanida, wife of Noufal, said the attacker who had expressed displeasure over her husband’s candidature in the local body elections had attempted to choke her in anger. Following a complaint, the Thiruvambady police registered a case and collected CCTV footage for detailed investigation. According to the police, some campaigners from the rival front who recently locked horns with Noufal during the screening of nomination papers were under scanner. Shanida was admitted to a private hospital at Omassery.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Battle against virus||
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||At two ends||
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||On the campaign route||
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Peaceful co-existence||
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In remembrance||
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Unfamiliar ambience||
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Linguistic equality||
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In good hands||
23 November 2020||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bus services to resume between Chittoor and T.N. from Nov. 25||The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) will resume its inter-State services to Tamil Nadu from various depots of Chittoor district from November 25, following a nod from the Tamil Nadu government, after a gap of eight months since the COVID-19 lockdown. Regional Manager (Tirupati) T. Changal Reddy told The Hindu that prior to the lockdown, APSRTC used to operate 202 buses to various parts of Tamil Nadu, including Chennai, Vellore, Kancheepuram, Krishnagiri and a few other important destinations. “As against the 202 buses prior to the lockdown, we want to begin with minimum services initially. We expect that the occupancy rate will be at least 50% once the operations are resumed. Depending on the demand, the number will be gradually increased,” he said. The official said the APSRTC was taking into consideration the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams restrictions on granting darshan tickets to the pilgrims. “As of now, the number of pilgrims remains at about 27,000 per day. As majority of the passengers from Tamil Nadu are bound for Tirumala, we plan to request the TTD to enhance the daily quota of pilgrims,” he said. Operations limited At present, both the APSRTC and the Tamil Nadu State services are limiting their operations up to the borders of their respective States, providing the link to passengers for their destinations. This situation has led to the exploitation by private vehicles, including cabs and autos, to ferry the passengers across the border by charging exorbitant fares. Meanwhile, the buses meant for the inter-State operations to Tamil Nadu from the depots of Tirupati, Tirumala and Chittoor town in the district are getting spruced up.
23 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Polavaram project issues likely to dominate proceedings of DRC meet||The Polavaram project Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) package, inordinate delay in construction of the rehabilitation colonies for the displaced, and pending package for those affected by the Godavari floods are likely to dominate the proceedings of the first District Review Committee (DRC) meeting to be held in Kakinada on Monday. The DRC meeting was held last time on December 6, 2019. District In-Charge and Revenue Minister Dharmana Krishna Das, Irrigation Minister Kurasala Kannababu, B.C.Welfare Minister Ch. Venu Gopala Krishna and Social Welfare Minister P. Viswaroop will attend the meeting. It is learnt that thousands of families affected by the Godavari floods in the Rampa and Chintoor Agencies are yet to get compensation offered by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during his aerial survey. A majority of them were affected during the floods due to pending works of the Polavaram project cofferdam in and around the Devipatnam mandal in East Godavari district. This is one of the prime issues that would be highlighted by the public representatives at the meeting. Former Home Minister Nimmakayala China Rajappa said: “Rehabilitation and Resettlement issues of the Polavaram project, modernisation of Yeleru irrigation system are a few points that are needed to be discussed at the meeting.
23 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three held on extortion charge||The East Godavari police on Sunday arrested three persons for allegedly extorting money from a person from Mulugu district in Telangana while he was travelling by a car on November 6. According to an official release issued by East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi, the three -- Sk. Waseem Akram from Khammam district in Telangana, Janata Debanth from Malkangiri district in Odisha, and Thota Kuldip Anil Rao from Nanded in Maharastra State -- were members of an eight-member gang that reportedly took away Thotapalli Pavan Kumar of Mulugu district in Telananga. The incident occurred while the man was proceeding towards Visakhapatnam. The gang allegedly shifted Mr. Pavan Kumar into their car, in which they took him into the nearby forest where they forced him to transfer Rs. 40,000 to their account through an online application. They also took a gold ring and freed him. The police are investigating the case and search is on to nab the other accused.
23 November 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rush rises at Tungabhadra pushkar ghats||The footfall at the Tungabhadra pushkar ghats saw a spike on Sunday with people thronging the place before dawn and at many places people did not give two hoots to the ban on ‘holy dip’ and found their way into the river water from places where there was no police patrolling. Bharatiya Janata Party activists tried to defy the State government ban on entering the Tungabhadra waters by giving a ‘Chalo Tungabhadra’ call, but were stopped by the police and some of them who entered water at the pushkar ghats in the city, were pulled out and arrested. Panchalingala was one place on the Andhra Pradesh-Telangana border where people crossed the river and took a holy dip and came to the ghats to offer prayers lighting lamps and decorating material offered as ‘Pitra tharpana’ with flowers. Majority of people, however, stick to the ban and had a shower bath on the specially built ghats. Vishwa Hindu Parishad Kurnool leader Khaggolu Harish Babu alleged that the State government had spent too much of money on ghats and was interfering with the sentiments of devotees by not allowing them to have a dip in the river. “People in Karnataka and Telangana were taking bath in the same water and when it flows down to Andhra Pradesh, or the water that flows into river after a shower bath also can contain COVID virus and people can get infected, if one goes by the government’s logic,” he alleged. VHP threat The Bajarang Dal and Vishwa Hindu Parishad activists have threatened to enter the Tungabhadra river water again on Monday as a protest if the State government did not change its decision. “If the government did not want devotees to have a holy dip in the Tungabhadra, why did it spend Rs. 230 crore on ghat works,” he questioned. Meanwhile, the Visakhapatnam-based Sri Sharada Peetham nominated successor peetadhipathi Swami Swatmanandendra had a holy dip in the Tungabhadra at Bichale in Karnataka, which is very close to Mantralayam on the other bank of the river. He performed ‘japam’ and did ‘danda tarpanam’ by performing puja. The Kurnool police personnel along with fire services personnel, kept a vigil on the movement of devotees at all the ghats and none was allowed to enter the water or come together in large groups.
23 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 of marriage party killed in accident||Two persons were killed and eight others were injured when the van in which they were travelling was hit by a truck on the Chennai-Kolkata national highway here on Sunday. ‘Poor visibility’ According to the police, the persons belonging to a marriage party were returning to Tenali in Guntur district from Tirupati when the accident occurred close to Sanghamitra Ramesh Hospital here. Poor visibility due to foggy weather condition is suspected to have caused the mishap. The deceased were identified as Kasi Annapurnamamba (55) and Ch. Satyanarayana Murthy (61). The injured, some of them in a serious condition, were rushed to the Government General Hospital here for treatment, police said.
23 November 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases come down below 1,000 in Nellore||South Coastal Andhra Pradesh recorded zero deaths for the second successive day, while fresh cases continue to decline in the last 24 hours. The toll remained static at 577 in Prakasam and 493 in Nellore district, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Sunday night. The death rate came down to 0.86% as more patients got cured in the last 24 hours when compared to fresh admissions in the region. With 90 new cases, the cumulative confirmed cases edged up to 1,23,972. The caseload declined further to 1,547 as 149 patients were recuperated during the period. So far, 1,21,848 patients have returned home on recovery. For the first time in the recent past, Nellore district recorded a very low 26 new cases, taking the total number of positive cases to 62,707. For the first time, the active cases dipped below the 1,000 mark. With 76 patients getting cured of the disease during the period, the caseload declined to 973. In Prakasam district, the cumulative confirmed cases increased marginally to 61,265 as 64 persons contracted the disease in the last 24 hours. With 73 patients recovering from the illness, the caseload declined further to 574 in the district. So far, 60,114 patients have recovered from the disease.
23 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Political scene hots up in temple town||Even before the Election Commission of India announced the model code for the by-election to the Tirupati (SC) Lok Sabha constituency, the political heat is quite palpable in all the camps. While the regional parties — the YSRCP and the TDP — have tentatively announced their candidates, the national parties are adopting a wait-and-watch policy. The election was necessitated following the demise of the YSRC MP Balli Durgaprasad. A surprise pick But instead of pitting his kin to ride on the ‘sympathy wave’, the party has almost finalised the name of Guru Murthy, a native of Yerpedu mandal in Srikalahasti Assembly segment and a physiotherapist by profession. An alumnus of SVIMS University, Dr. Guru Murthy practised in a local private hospital before accompanying YSRCP president Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during his State-wide padayatra and extended him continuous physiotherapy support. TDP strategy The TDP has named former Union Minister Panabaka Lakshmi, who had contested in vain in the 2019 general elections. The party, apart from forming a parliamentary-level committee, is busy identifying 89 observers for the 50 divisions in the Tirupati corporation and 39 mandals spread across the LS constituency. “We are opening an office shortly and will also name observers in charge of the seven Assembly segments soon,” the TDP’s Tirupati parliamentary constituency in-charge G. Narasimha Yadav told The Hindu . Though Ms. Lakshmi has not reached Tirupati yet, she is learnt to be renting a house to stay locally. Keen on making an impact, the BJP hopes to replicate the 1998 example when its candidate N. Venkataswamy, a retired IAS officer, won the seat, albeit in alliance with the TDP. This time too, the name of a retired bureaucrat with RSS background is doing the rounds in the party circles as the likely candidate. The Congress keeps its cards close to the chest, but the previous incumbent and CWC member Chinta Mohan appears to be the natural choice. COVID fear However, all the parties are wary of the COVID-19 situation, and the candidates are fearing to travel to the countryside. The other major factor that is being widely discussed among the probables is the huge amount of money that was required in less than two years of spending a fortune in the 2019 elections.
23 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Private budget schools seek financial assistance from govt.||CPI(M) leader P. Madhu on Sunday urged the State government to provide financial assistance to budget private schools, saying that the institutions were in dire straits due to the lockdown imposed in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. Addressing a meeting jointly organised by Andhra Pradesh Private Schools’ Association and Vijayawada Children’s Schools and Tutorials’ Association, Mr. Madhu urged the government to extend a monthly financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 to each staff member of private budget schools for the last six months. “The pandemic has delivered a blow on the private schools and it is time the government should bailed them out,” he said. Pointing out that no new government schools has been established in the last 10 years, despite the increase in the population, the CPI(M) leader said if the government did not cater to the educational needs of the children, it should, at least, allow the private sector to do the same. Unlike corporate educational institutions, Mr. Madhu said, these budget schools worked hard to impart education for a nominal fee and it was responsibility of the government to come to their rescue at this crucial juncture. Former MLC and honorary chairman of the Vijayawada Schools and Tutorials’ Association Chigurupati Rajendra Prasad said many owners of these budget schools were finding it difficult to run the institutions in the aftermath of lockdown and that only concessions from the government and other assistance would help them revive the schools.
23 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu slams ‘suppression’ of Opposition in State||Telugu Desam Party national president and former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu on Friday accused the State Government of not only destroying development in the State but also suppressing the democratic rights of the Opposition leaders to protest against its “anti-people” activities. Mr. Naidu deplored that when the Opposition leaders were agitating on behalf of the people and for the protection of their rights, the ruling party was using “oppressive” methods to suppress them. The arrest of the CPI leaders to prevent them from protesting at Polavaram was highly condemnable, he said. In a statement on Sunday, the TDP chief said that it was time all sections of society unitedly condemned and confronted the “misdeeds” of the YSRCP government. It was the duty of the Opposition leaders to protest and agitate for the cause of the people. Polavaram dam was not a prohibited area. The government had no right to arrest the Opposition leaders just for trying to take part in the protest, he said. ‘Undemocratic move’ Mr. Naidu called for condemnation of the “undemocratic activities” of the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy regime. It was unfortunate that in the last one year, there was undue delay in the Polaravam works. The resettlement packages for the project evacuees were thrown to the winds. Now, plans on reduction of the dam height had came to the fore, he said. Stating that the CPI leaders were only going to the project site to protest about the dam height, Mr. Naidu said the ruling party was becoming impatient even at the slightest protest. Mr. Naidu recalled that the TDP completed 72 per cent works during its regime. Now, the YSRCP had totally neglected Polavaram works. He demanded immediate release of the CPI leaders from “illegal detention”. False cases on the Opposition leaders should be lifted. Those wanting to visit Polavaram should be permitted, he added.
23 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Green energy corporation to float tenders for 10,000 MW solar project||With the Judicial Preview Committee giving green signal to issue tenders for the 10,000 MW solar energy project, the Andhra Pradesh Green Energy Corporation Limited (APGECL) is about to set the ball rolling. The project will be implemented in phases on Build-Operate-Transfer (BoT) basis in different locations across the State to ensure free power supply to agriculture sector for the next 30 years. The scheme is expected to yield significant economic benefits as the cost of solar power discovered in the recent tenders is lesser than the average power purchase cost incurred by the DISCOMs. As the State is economy is primarily based on agriculture, effective implementation of the 9-hour free power scheme will help in improve farm productivity, thereby giving a boost to the rural economy, an official release said. The government has planned to set up the mega solar project considering the growth in total demand from agriculture sector. APGECL Chairman G. Sai Prasad said agriculture consumption accounts for nearly 30% of total power consumed in the State. “There is a need to provide assurance to the farmers on reliable and quality free power supply to agriculture during day time for the next three decades. Solar energy has the potential to fulfil these objectives as solar generation happens during day and the cost of production is less than the average power purchase cost of DISCOMs,” said Mr. Sai Prasad. “If the solar project comes up, the net value of savings for the State is estimated to be over Rs. 48,800 crore over the 30-year PPA tenure, after accounting for costs associated with backing down of thermal plants, balancing costs and revenue earned from sale of RECs,” said a senior official of APGECL.
23 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BSNL pensioners decry DA freeze||Members of the All-India BSNL Pensioners’ Welfare Association’s Andhra Circle have condemned the Centre’s decision to freeze Dearness Allowance (DA) due for payment from October 2020 to the employees of the Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs). In a statement on Sunday, its secretary V. Vara Prasad said an order issued by the Department of Public Enterprises cited COVID-19 as the reason and announced the freezing of DA up to June 2021. Mr. Vara Prasad said the order would affect nearly 10 lakh CPSE employees and two lakh BSNL and MTNL pensioners. He said it was unfair on the part of the government to give concessions to the corporates even under COVID-19 situation and deny DA to the employees, especially when prices of almost all essential commodities had increased. The move would badly affect the purchasing power of the employees, and thus on the economy as well, he said. He said the decision was unfair and uncalled for, and the government should reconsider it.
23 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers lend support to trade union strike||The AP United Teachers' Federation (UTF) leaders on Sunday declared their support to the nation-wide strike call given by the Central trade unions on November 26, in protest against the ‘anti-worker and anti-people policies’ of the Centre and the State governments. In a statement, UTF State president Shaik Sabji said the government was robbing workers of their fundamental rights by amending to the trade laws. “The National Education Policy was approved without holding discussions in the Parliament. The public sector units built are being given away to corporate entities,” said Mr. Sabji, while opposing to the move to privatise the LIC, the Railways, BSNL, airports and merger of banks. UTF general secretary P. Babu Reddy said the Centre had frozen the DA to employees and the State government had followed the suit. The government had rejected the demand to scrap the Comprehensive Pension Scheme (CPS), which was detrimental to the interests of employees.
23 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Compensation sought for land acquired from farmers||Andhra Pradesh Vyavasaya Karmika Sangham (APVKS) demanded that the government officials should attend a meeting being held under the aegis of the High Court on November 24 regarding the compensation to be paid to the farmers whose lands were acquired during the last five years in the name of development. APVKS president D. Subba Rao and general secretary V. Venkateswarlu said nearly 4.50 lakh acres had been acquired since 2015, but compensation mandated by the Land Acquisition Act of 2013 was not paid and the R&R package was also not implemented. PIL filed The APVKS filed a PIL in the High Court in 2016. The court ordered in 2018 that compensation be paid according to the LAA, but to no avail as the successive governments had been dodging the issue. Following a contempt petition, the High Court called for a meeting of the government officials and farmers in May this year. But, the deliberations did not take place as the government officials stayed away from it. Another such meeting is scheduled for November 24 to sort out the issues.
23 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP urges SC to consider Jagan’s letter to CJI as contempt of court||The TDP has urged the Supreme Court to take a serious view of the letter written by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to the Chief Justice of India (CJI) and consider it as contempt of court. “The judges are requested to rally together, and condemn the Chief Minister’s letter and attack on the judiciary,” the party said in a statement on Sunday. TDP leader Yanamala Ramakrishnudu termed as “alarming and frightening” that those accused in serious cases of money laundering and corruption were targeting the judiciary . “It should not become a routine for the accused to intimidate the judiciary. As many as 31 cases are pending against Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy in the courts. The comments against the judges tantamount to contempt of court,” Mr. Ramakrishnudu said and asked, “Why should not the bail granted to Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy be cancelled?” “Article 211 of the Constitution says that the legislature should not discuss the judges. Even in Parliament, a discussion can be initiated only if the President gives his assent as per Article 121. The aggrieved can make an appeal for transfer of the case to another Bench if they feel that the Bench hearing the case is not impartial,” he said.
23 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cong. condemns house arrest of CPI leaders||APCC Coordination Committee member Sunkara Padmasri on Sunday condemned the house arrest of the CPI leaders while they were on their way to the Polavaram site. In a statement, she called the act undemocratic, and said it only reflected the government’s insecurity on the project issue. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, as an Opposition leader in the past, had said that Polavaram was his father and former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy’s dream, and that he would complete it, the Congress leader said, and added that he did not seem to be showing interest in the early completion of the project now. She said that Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was not able to mount pressure on the Centre as the corruption cases against him had weakened his position. She said the YSRCP government had unleashed an autocratic rule in the State where nobody had the freedom to speak their mind or stage peaceful protests. She said instead of whiling away time, the government should focus on achievement of the Special Category Status (SCS) for the state, completion of Polavaram project and construction of a new capital in Amaravati.
23 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Senior IAS, IRS, IRTS officers transferred||The State government on Sunday announced transfers and new postings of several IAS, IRTS, IRS officers. M.V.Seshagiri Babu has been posted as the Inspector General of Stamps and Registrations in the place of Siddharth Jain, who has been posted as the Commissioner of Survey and Settlement. IRTS officer K. Raveen Kumar Reddy has been posted as the Vice-Chairman and MD of Andhra Pradesh Industrial Infrastructure Corporation. IRS officer M. Ramana Reddy has been posted as the CEO of the A.P. Towers Limited and given full additional charge as the CEO of Concept Cities. IRS officer Ch. Raieswara Reddy has been posted as the MD of the A.P. Education and Welfare Infrastructure Development Corporation in the place of Sura Balakrishna. Mr. Sura Balakrishna has been repatriated to his parent cadre with immediate effect. IRS officer S.B.R Kumar has been posted as the Director of Insurance Medical Services.
23 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Forum for migrants inaugurated||District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz inaugurated ‘Forum for migrants’, an organisation to help migrant labourers sustain in the city. The forum was an initiative of Navajeevan Balabhavan, an NGO of the city. Mr. Imtiaz said that several issues being faced by the migrants could be addressed through the forum.  Government schemes Forum organisers said that the main objective would be to help migrants get documents like Aadhar and ration cards that give access to the government schemes and also education to their children. Navajeevan Balabhavan executive director N. Ratna Kumar and others were present.
23 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pawan flays ‘attack’ on house of party leader||Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan has condemned the alleged attack on the residence of party’s in-charge of Srikalahasti constituency Vinutha Kota. Instead of taking action against the accused, the police filed a case against the family of Ms. Vinutha under pressure from the YSRCP leaders, he stated in a release on Sunday. Dig at YSRCP If the police act at the behest of the ruling party leaders, how would justice be meted out to the victim, the JSP chief questioned, wondering if democracy was alive in the State. Mr. Pawan further alleged that the YSRCP leaders had caused lot of inconvenience to the JSP cadres during the process of nominations for the local body elections.
23 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Positivity rate declining in Krishna: DMHO||The test positivity rate of COVID in the district has come down to 2.6% in the past week during which period 49,425 samples were tested, according to District Medical and Health Officer M. Suhasini. Dr. Suhasini, in a release, stated that the positivity rate of tests has been coming down gradually every week. She said positivity rate was 8.3% during October 8 and October 24 and it came down to 6.6% the next week. Dr. Suhasini said that so far 7,41,646 samples were tested in the district. Over 7,000 samples were being tested everyday, she said. Meanwhile, the district tally increased to 44,477 and the active cases to 1,978. The district continues to report more deaths and has a death rate of 1.4%. The district recorded 622 deaths so far.
23 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Buzz is back in tourist spots across the district||Despite the COVID-19 situation, a large number of visitors thronged the tourist places in the city and Agency areas on Sunday. A majority of the tourists were local people and there were some tourists from surrounding districts and Odisha. For the first time since the pandemic struck, Borra Caves attracted around 5,000 visitors, the biggest single-day rush. All the rooms in Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) guest houses in the Agency areas had 100 % occupancy. The Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) was packed with families. Officials said that 4,400 people visited the zoo on Sunday. The family groups played various games and had lunch together. Youth took selfies and uploaded them on social media. Children had a good time watching animals in their enclosures. Similarly, Kailasagiri and Thotlakonda also witnessed huge turnout this Sunday. There were long queues for the ropeway, toy train, game points and view points. The beaches at Bheemili, Rushikonda, Yarada and S Rayavaram drew hundreds of visitors throughout the day. “We were in a quandary on going for a picnic. But since the cases are coming down, we came for an outing this weekend. We are all wearing masks, carrying sanitisers, water bottles and maintaining safe distance from others,” said M. Satyanarayana, who came for a picnic along with his family at Kailasagiri. Borra Caves, Chaparai, Ananthagiri coffee plantations, waterfalls including Katika, Kothapalle and other places were also full of visitors. Lambasingi, which is renowned for recording low temperatures during winter, witnessed a steady stream of visitors since the early hours of Sunday. Vanajangi view point in Paderu mandal also had good visitors, after pictures of the view point went viral on social media. According to APTDC Divisional Manager T.G. Prasada Reddy, for the first time, after COVID-19, Borra Caves had received 5,000 visitors on a single day. “All the rooms in APTDC hotels in Agency area reported 100 % occupancy,” he said. No safety protocol A number of people were seen flouting basic safety norms at the picnic spots. Many were moving without face masks and ignoring physical distancing norms at the tourist spots. “Some people are spitting,” said V. Sudheer Babu, a resident of MVP Colony who went for a picnic at Rushikonda Beach. A few visitors said that the officials should impose fines on those violating COVID-19 norms.
23 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Low pressure likely to gain strength||The well-marked low pressure area over southwest and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal is likely to concentrate into a depression over southwest Bay of Bengal during the next 24 hours and intensify further into a cyclonic storm during the subsequent 24 hours, according to the Cyclone Warning Centre(CWC), Visakhapatnam. It is very likely to move northwestwards and cross Tamil Nadu and Puducherry coasts between Karaikal and Mahabalipuram around noon/afternoon of November 25. Under the influence of the system, rain or thundershower is likely to occur at a few places over coastal A.P. on November 23 and 24 with heavy rain at isolated places in Nellore district of south coastal A.P. Rain or thundershower is likely at most places, with isolated heavy rainfall over north coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam on November 25 and 26. Heavy to very heavy rainfall in isolated places of south coastal A.P., with extremely heavy rainfall at isolated places in Nellore district on November 25 and at isolated places in Guntur and Prakasam districts of south coastal A.P. on November 26, according to a special bulletin issued by the CWC on Sunday evening.  Squally weather Squally weather, with wind speed reaching 45-55 km/hr gusting to 65 km/hr, is likely over southwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal and along and off Tamil Nadu and south Andhra Pradesh coasts on November 23. Squally weather, with wind speed reaching 55-65 km/hr gusting to 75 km/hr is likely over southwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal and along and off Tamil Nadu and south Andhra Pradesh coasts on November 24. Squally weather, with wind speed reaching 55-65 km/hr gusting to 75 km/hr is likely to prevail over Andhra Pradesh coast on November 25. Sea condition The sea condition will be rough to very rough over southwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal and along and off Tamil Nadu and south Andhra Pradesh coasts on November 23 and very rough to high over southwest and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal and along and off Tamil Nadu and south Andhra Pradesh coasts on November 24 and 25. The CWC has advised fishermen against venturing into the sea in above areas till November 25. Fishermen, who are out at sea, are advised to return to the coast immediately.
23 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five youth arrested for ‘drug peddling’||The special team of city police on Sunday arrested five youngsters, including a BBA graduate and an engineering student, who were allegedly involved in drug trade. The police seized 27 blots of Lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) from them. The arrested were identified as Arvind Agarwal (21), K. Sahil, a B. Tech. student, (20), B. Chandra Sekhar (28), Michel Welcom (22) and M. Muralidhar (20), all residents of various areas in the city. Another accused Y. Ashok, is yet to be arrested. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said that the police was focussing on drug trade in a bid to control the menace. A special team was formed with PM Palem Police Station CI Ravi Kumar and others. Based on credible information, the racket was busted, he said. The prime accused, Arvind Agarwal, son of a businessman, recently completed BBA at Bengaluru. During his college days, Arvind Agarwal reportedly came to know about LSD through his friends. He reportedly hatched a plan to earn easy money through drug trade. He reportedly approached his former schoolmates K. Sahil and M. Muralidhar, and decided to sell LSD blots with their assistance. The Police Commissioner said that Arvind had ordered the LSD blots through online and purchased each one at Rs. 400. While Aravind allegedly sold each LSD blot for Rs. 1,000 to his friends, Sahil and Muralidhar used to sell the same at Rs. 2,000 to the students and youngsters in the city. The Police Commissioner appealed to parents to monitor activities of their children. He also released a video message appealing to the youth not to involve in drug cases and ruin their careers.
23 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Joint venture with POSCO will push steel plant into the red’||The Central government’s move of handing over land belonging to Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) to POSCO, the South Korean steel company, as part of the joint venture will push the PSU into red, said the speakers during the release of the book ‘POSCO- Boon or Bane’ here on Sunday. The book, authored by CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao, was released by G.S.N. Raju, former Vice-Chancellor of Centurion University, Visakhapatnam, ahead of the proposed one-day nationwide strike on November 26 called by trade unions against the new labour and farm laws introduced by the Centre. The speakers said the Centre entered into an agreement on August 23 with the POSCO to run it as a joint venture company with Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP). The joint venture (JV) company is scheduled to commence production with a capacity of 5 million tonnes. The government has allotted the VSP land to the POSCO for this JV company, which requires an investment of Rs. 30,000 crore, of which at least Rs. 10,000 crore would have to be paid by the VSP, despite the fact that the PSU is already running a loss of Rs. 3,000 crore. “This joint venture will push the VSP into further losses. The government intends to hand over the VSP to the POSCO,” they said. “Even as other steel plants across the country have been allotted iron ore mines, the NDA and the previous UPA governments have failed to allocate captive mines to the VSP, with the intention of handing it over to private players. This has resulted in the VSP incurring an additional expenditure of Rs. 2000 crore per annum, which is the primary cause of the VSP incurring losses,” said Mr. Narasinga Rao, adding that CITU Visakha Committee had organised a 'Steel March' on April 5, 2018, demanding captive mines for the VSP. The book ‘POSCO-Boon or Bane’ explains the attempts of successive governments to privatise the VSP, and how the workers had struggled and defeated these attempts. The book is priced at Rs. 100.
23 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Food, essential items distributed to the needy||Distribution of food and essential items to the needy marked the Service Day, observed by various samithis of Sri Sathya Sai Seva Organisation, Visakhapatnam, on the eve of the 95th birth anniversary celebrations of Sri Sathya Sai Baba, on Sunday. The Ukkunagaram samithi distributed ‘pulihora’ packets, blankets, saris, towels, ‘lungis’, jackets and dresses to construction workers and the destitute at Islampet, Madina Bagh, Devada, Desapatrunipalem, Narapaka, Duvvada, Narava, Mangalapalem, Paravada and Sathyasai Palem.
23 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fake input tax racket busted, one held||A major fake input tax credit (ITC) racket was busted by the Director General of GST Intelligence (DGGI), Visakhapatnam Zonal Unit, in the gold bullion market, which led to the identification of dummy/non-operating firms created with fictitious addresses in and around Guntur. Simultaneous searches carried out at various places in and around Guntur revealed that the racketeers behind the creation of these firms had passed on fake credit of Rs. 8 crore to various bullion trading firms in Andhra Pradesh. The kingpin behind this racket, a 25-year-old resident of Guntur, was arrested, according to Mayank Sharma, Joint Director, DGGI, Visakhapatnam Zonal Unit.
23 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizag reports 77 new COVID cases, one death||The district reported 77 fresh COVID-19 infections and one death in the last 24 hours. The tally climbed to 58,214 and the death toll to 501. Number of daily cases remained below 100 for the 14th day in a row. 80 recovered Eighty persons, who were undergoing treatment, have recovered from the coronavirus. After a brief gap, very active clusters surfaced once again and stand at one as on Sunday. Active clusters reduced from six to four, while dormant clusters increased from 318 to 325. Officials said that many clusters will be de-notified very soon.  1,253 active cases As on Sunday, the number of active cases and discharges stands at 1,253 and 56,464 respectively.
23 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Robbers assault inmates of house, decamp with gold, cash||A gang of six unidentified persons allegedly decamped with around 10 tolas of gold, Rs. 80,000 cash and a few other valuables by assaulting the inmates of a house, at Chodapalle village of Atchutapuram mandal in the district, in the early hours of Sunday. The robbers reportedly tied the inmates with ropes and threatened to kill them if they retaliate. Two of the three injured inmates have been shifted to hospital for treatment. According to reports, the accused gained entry into the house of Sita Ramayya at Chodapalle after 1 a.m. on Sunday. Sita Ramayya’s wife Kumari, who was in the verandah of the house, was tied with ropes and gagged to prevent her from raising alarm. The robbers have allegedly snatched the gold ornaments from her. Later, they entered the house and allegedly assaulted Sita Ramayya and his son Satyanarayana with iron rods. Threatening them at knife-point, the accused had also allegedly made good with cash and other valuables. After the accused left, Satyanarayana came out of the house and raised an alarm. The police said that a case has been registered and efforts are on to nab the accused.
23 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Muttamsetti inaugurates paddy procurement centre||Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao inaugurated a paddy procurement centre in Padmanabham mandal in Bheemunipatnam constituency on Sunday. He also inaugurated the YSR Jala Kala Scheme at Venkatapuram. A borewell was laid in the agricultural field of K. Sanyasappadu free of cost. Later, he distributed cheques amounting to Rs. 16 lakh to 927 farmers and inaugurated a 33 KV interlinking line from Maharajupeta Junction to Revidi Sub Station.
23 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Awareness programme on lung cancer organised||HCG Cancer Centre, a unit of Health Care Global Enterprises Limited, organised an awareness programme on lung cancer at YMCA Beach Road here on Sunday. The organisers set up huge structure of lungs with green plants. District Medical and Health Officer Suryanarayana inaugurated the programme along with COO, Regional head of HCG, Shailesh Guntu. Vijaya Aditya, Radiation Oncologist of HCG, Visakhapatnam, was present.
23 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||State govt. urged to focus on pending issues of employees||Andhra Pradesh Government Employees’ Association (APGEA) State general secretary G. Askara Rao has urged the government to hold Joint Staff Council meeting immediately to discuss all pending issues of the employees working in various departments. Addressing the media here on Sunday, Mr. Askara Rao alleged that senior officials have been ‘misguiding’ Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on the pending issues of employees. Earlier, the government used to hold Joint Staff Council meetings to resolve the pending issues and pay revision demands, he pointed out. Dearness allowance “Dearness allowance is the basic right of the staff, but it is not being paid for the last few years. The DA is almost 15% of the salary. The payment of DA is necessary to meet the expenses which have been skyrocketing due to inflation,” said Mr. Askara Rao. He urged Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy to fulfil his promises with regard to scrapping of Contributory Pension System (CPS) and regularisation of contract and outsourcing employees who joined the service almost two decades ago. He also expressed concern over delay in issuing health cards to the retired employees. Mr. Askara Rao alleged that APNGOs’ Association failed to protect the interests of employees. He urged the government to issue guidelines to control staff of the village secretariats by the respective departments since the secretariats were under the control of Panchayat Raj Department. Earlier, APGEA State secretary Y. Vinay Mohan, Vizianagaram district president P. Rammohana Rao and general secretary V.V.S.R. Prasad brought the issues of north Andhra region employees to the notice of Mr. Askara Rao. He said that the State president K.R. Suryanarayana and other office-bearers would meet the heads of the departments to find out solution to the individual grievances. APGEA Retired Employees’ Association president Ramachandra Panda, AP Drivers’ Association president Ch. Srinivasa Rao and others were present.
23 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Call for public participation in maintenance of parks||District Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal has urged people to come forward to maintain parks which enhance the beauty of colonies while providing much-needed pure oxygen. Along with Vizianagaram Municipal Commissioner S.S. Varma and District Forest Officer (social forestry) S. Janaki Rao, he launched plantation drive in newly constructed Pradeep Nagar Park located on the outskirts of Vizianagaram. Speaking on the occasion, the Collector said the corporation could develop 44 parks within two years with the active support of the non-governmental organisations and representatives of colonies. He congratulated former Councillor and Rotary Club past president Meka Kasiviswesarudu and his wife Ananta Lakshmi on developing the park and library in the municipal site with their own funds. Mr. Varma said that development of greenery, protection of tanks and conservation of water were given top priority. Vizianagaram Harita team members M. Rammohan, M. Venkateswara Rao and others were present.
23 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Employees to hold rally in Vizianagaram||Vizianagaram District Employees, Teachers, Workers and Pensioners Coordination Committee will hold a rally here on November 25 to step up pressure on the government to resolve their pending issues. Addressing a media conference here, the convener of the committee, V.Rajagopal, said the rally would begin at the Fort Junction and culminate at Kanyakaparameswari temple. He said the government was dilly dallying over appointment of Pay Revision Commission. Coordination committee leader A. Sadashiva Rao, A.Suresh, K.Seshagiri, M.Ganga Prasad and others were present in the meeting.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Downward trend of cases continues||The State has continuously reported fewer than 2,000 daily COVID-19 infections and an average of 1,300 cases per day in the last fortnight, with 1,121 new infections reported in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. The positivity rate of the 9.5 lakh samples tested in the fortnight was only 2.02% and 147 persons succumbed to the disease. In the past day, 11 persons died of the virus. In continuation of the downward trend of new infections, the last fortnight (November 9 to 22) reported 19,246 infections, while the previous fortnight (October 26 to November 8) saw 35,944 infections and 204 deaths with a positivity rate of 3.28% of 10.93 lakh samples tested. The overall tally has increased to 8,62,213  and the toll went up to 6,938  registering a death rate of 0.80%. Recovery rate The number of recoveries crossed 8.40 lakh and reached 8,41,026 as 1,631 patients were discharged in the past day. The recovery rate slightly increased to 97.54%. There are 14,249 active cases at present. Meanwhile, the positivity rate of the 71,913 samples tested in the past day at 1.56% was the lowest in five months and the overall positivity rate of the 96.15 lakh samples came down to 8.97%. The tests per million ratio crossed 1.80 lakh, highest among the States. Chittoor and Krishna again reported the highest number of deaths at two each, while Kurnool, Nellore, Prakasam and Srikakulam reported no new deaths. The remaining seven districts reported one new death each. Krishna district again reported the highest number of new infections, while eight other districts in the State reported less than 100 new cases. The district-wise new infections are as follows: Krishna (167), Guntur (164), West Godavari (142), East Godavari (134), Chittoor (130), Visakhapatnam (77), Srikakulam (67), Prakasam (64), Kadapa (60), Anantapur (46), Nellore (26), Vizianagaram (23) and Kurnool (21). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,21,624), West Godavari (91,575), Chittoor (83,094), Guntur (72,061), Anantapur (66,474),Prakasam (61,265), Nellore (61,141), Kurnool (60,075), Visakhapatnam (57,706), Kadapa (54,046), Srikakulam (45,307), Krishna (44,477) and Vizianagaram (40,473).
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special attraction||
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Splash time||
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fun and frolic||
23 November 2020||ATMAKUR (SANGAREDDY DISTRICT),TELANGANA||For migrant workers, the day starts at 3 a.m.||Veeresh and Gangamma are natives of Malapally near Mantralayam mandal of Kunrool district, about 400 kilometers from here, who migrated to this village about two weeks back to pluck cotton balls. As the parents move regularly in search of work, their 13-year-old son Srinivas had to forgo education. He has never gone to school and probably may never attend school in future as well. Sadashivapet is one of the mandals in the district where cotton crop was grown in thousands of acres and to pluck cotton balls workers are being engaged from outside the State every year and this year as well. More than 80 such families have taken shelter in temporary huts erected in an open area on the outskirts. These huts are covered with black tarpaulin sheets. For every three houses there is a bulb outside which is the source of lighting for them during the night. Thethreat of being bitten by snakes looms large, but life has to go on. For them, the day starts at 3 a.m. After getting up and attending nature's call in the adjacent open places, they prepare food for the day. Packing them in boxes, the workers take the food to their work place, the cotton fields. “The day starts for us at 3 a.m. We have to be ready, make our children wake up and get them ready, prepare food and go to field before 6 a.m. After working for three hours or so have breakfast and then continue work till afternoon. There will be rest for an hour or so after lunch and work continues till late in the evening. Dinner will be at about 8 p.m. It will be jowar roti with some curry or pickle,” said Venkata Lakshmi, another woman from Kurnool district while preparing roti on Saturday night. They are preparing food from the firewood available in the neighbourhood. In the past they used to pluck about 70 kgs of cotton and now it has come down to half the quantity. “We are able to pluck only 30 or 35 kgs after toiling for so many hours as the cotton is not good,” said Gangamma, another migrant. Learning of the plight of migrant children, District Cooperative Marketing Society (DCMS) Chairman M. Shivakumar gave away blankets to them.
23 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||A vote for TRS is a vote for AIMIM: Javadekar||Union Minister for Information & Broadcasting and Environment Prakash Javadekar on Sunday said the TRS government should give an account of what it had done for the twin cities in the past six years. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao should explain why the city has become ‘flood capital’. Why has his government not been able to fulfil promises made in the last elections on water, sewerage, housing for the poor, jobs for unemployed and public health,” he asked. ‘Corrupt administration’ Releasing a ‘chargesheet’ on the TRS governance which highlighted “60 failures in six years”, the Union Minister questioned if the formation of separate Telangana, in which the BJP had played a major role, was meant to “benefit a single family which has amassed disproportionate assets and is overseeing a corrupt administration”. He was flanked by his Cabinet colleague and Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy, BJP State president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, national OBC president K. Laxman, Nizamabad MP D. Arvind, vice president D.K. Aruna and former MP Vivek Venkataswamy. Mr. Venkataswamy claimed the ‘chargesheet’ was based on feedback from the people. “A vote for TRS is a vote for AIMIM party (All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen). They will come together again after the elections. A vote for Congress too is a vote for TRS as the candidates will anyway join the ruling party as witnessed in the last Assembly elections. Single family rule, whether KCR or Owaisi, is only interested in looting. Their assets increase while State debts rise,” Mr Javadekar said. BJP vs MIM GHMC polls will be fought between the BJP and the Majlis Party and the people have decided to end the family rule in Telangana as was witnessed in Dubbak. “Now, people have to decide between BJP mayor or MIM mayor,” he said. “Instead of mentioning about disinvestment of LIC or Railways and spreading misinformation, KCR should talk of what he had done for the city as we have seen cars floating in this tech city because of neglect of the drainage system,” he added. He also took the opportunity to talk about the achievements of BJP-ruled States. “There has not been a single riot in Ahmedabad or in any of the 100 cities in BJP-ruled States in the last 15 years because we believe in doing justice to all sections of the society and seek votes for development,” said Mr. Javadekar. With reference to the recent floods, the Union Minister questioned the manner in which distribution of Rs. 10,000 compensation to each affected family was taken up, “which only ended up lining the pockets of the ruling party men”. “Why couldn’t the government make direct transfers to the bank accounts as the Modi government did,” he asked. Mr Javadekar took a dig at the KCR-led government for ‘poor management’ of COVID-19 pandemic, leaving people to their fate and not improving the healthcare delivery mechanism in government hospitals due to which people were forced to pay Rs. 10-20 lakh for treatment in corporate hospitals. COVID management “Even the MIM hospital did not treat a single poor Muslim. The Chief Minister did not allow Aarogyasri for COVID-19 treatment and refused to allow ‘Ayushman Bharat’, the Centre’s health insurance scheme of up to Rs. 5 lakh. With the help of Prime Minister’s Awas Yojana, lakhs of houses have been built across the country but here, the construction of 2-bedroom houses has been tardy. He does not want to give the Centre any credit and so, stops such schemes here,” charged the I&B Minister. The ‘chargesheet’ included questions on the 100-day action plan getting shelved and lack of action on removing encroachments on water bodies among others. It also asked the government to furnish accounts of the Rs. 67,000 crore spent on the city’s development.  Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao should explain why the city has become a ‘flood capital’. Prakash Javadekar, Union Minister for I&B and Environment
23 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS hits back at BJP over chargesheet||Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) has hit back strongly at the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for releasing a chargesheet against it by Union Minister for Information & Broadcasting and Environment Prakash Javadekar stating that it should be filed against the latter instead “for not fulfilling its promises for the last six years”. “Why should a chargesheet be filed against TRS? Is it for ensuring uninterrupted power supply, problem-free drinking water supply, improving a host of other civic amenities, making Hyderabad the safest city in the country by maintaining law and order or getting investments into the State?” TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao asked Mr. Javadekar and other BJP leaders on Sunday. “If one has to file a chargesheet, it should be done against the BJP by 132 crore people for not giving 2 crore jobs every year for the last six years as promised by the party and not depositing Rs. 15 lakh in the bank accounts of every poor family,” Mr. Rama Rao said. Addressing road shows at Zaheeranagar Chowrasta in Banjara Hills, Library Chowrasta in Khairatabad and Sriramnagar Chowrasta in Jubilee Hills on Sunday evening as part of canvassing for TRS candidates contesting GHMC polls, Mr. Rama Rao alleged that BJP was trying to disturb peace in Hyderabad by fanning communal passions only for some electoral gains. “Otherwise, why would they remember Bhagyalaxmi temple only during elections. Their plan is to create communal divide with hate speeches and get some votes and in the process divide people living peacefully,” Mr. KTR said. He recounted how curfews and bandhs used to keep people on the tenterhooks and said that the TRS government had ensured peace and stability in the last six years. Criticising the BJP for creating a hurdle in the disbursement of flood relief of Rs. 10,000 each to every flood-hit family in GHMC, the TRS working president assured people that every eligible family would get the assistance after December 4. Mentioning the promise of Rs. 25,000 each to flood-hit families by BJP, he asked Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy to get it done by the Centre now and then, TRS too, would join people in hailing the BJP. He alleged that BJP would pursue politics only in the name of religion by dividing people and TRS would seek votes by uniting people and in the name of development and welfare. Mr. Rama Rao said the TRS had narrowly missed the century in GHMC elections last time but with the blessings of people, it would score a century this time as TRS leaders were the ones with people in times of need and not those of other parties.
23 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MIM can dethrone TRS, claims MLA||All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) Legislator representing Charminar Mumtaz Khan on Sunday claimed that if the party thinks it fit, it can remove the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) from power within a short span of time. Mr. Khan was speaking to the media after convening a meeting with AIMIM primary unit presidents and general secretaries of Shalibanda, Ghansibazar and Puranapul division. Launching a salvo at Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K. T. Ramarao, Mr. Khan accused him of being a parrot and claimed that the AIMIM has witnessed a lot of such people who are in power. “To quote Salar-e-Millat (late parliamentarian Sultan Salahuddin Owaisi), he used to say that we know how to put people on the seat, and remove them as well. This is not a new thing for us. If the Majlis wishes, then not just in the civic polls, but if required, we can remove them even from the government, God willing. If the Majlis thinks fit, then in two months, the TRS could be removed from power,” he said. Meanwhile, AIMIM president Asaduddin Owaisi, at a public meeting on Sunday night, criticised TRS legislator and Power Minister for his reported comments whether Mr. Owaisi had met Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “The Power Minister should have done his work in his department. You should have found a solution for inflated power bills during the lockdown,” he said. Mr. Owaisi also criticised the rumour doing the rounds that there are 35 lakh Rohingya voters in the city. He sought to know that if this were true, then was Union Home Minister Amit Shah ‘sleeping’. He also criticised the rhetoric of linking terrorism and hatred with the upcoming civic polls. Earlier in the day, Mr. Owaisi spoke to the media even as he confirmed that his party has no alliance with the TRS in the civic polls. “Here (Erragadda division), where we have done a padayatra, we are fighting against the TRS. Indeed, there will be a fight in the polls against the TRS,” he said. He said that instead of helping Hyderabad after it was hit by the floods, the Bharatiya Janata Party is trying to communalise the atmosphere.
23 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kishan urges people to question government on status of 2BHK houses||Union Minister of State for Home and senior BJP leader G. Kishan Reddy has urged the people to question the TRS government about the status of the two-bedroom housing project in the twin cities. “That was the single major issue on which the TRS was voted to power in the GHMC elections last time. It assured 2-bedroom homes to the poor and private sector employees. There are about 30 lakh applications and people should ponder if the housing programme will materialise during KCR’s lifetime,” Mr Kishan Reddy said, asking people to seek answers about how many units have been built, the locations and the number of beneficiaries.  “With what face are they seeking another mandate now after failing to construct two-bedroom houses and destroying the brand image of the capital during the recent floods,” he asked, during the ‘Meet the Press’ programme organised by the Press Club here on Sunday. “Citizens got excited when KCR promised to transform Old City into Istanbul and new city into Dallas, but even now this government has been unable to stop flooding of Raj Bhavan road and elsewhere. So where did the Rs. 67,000 crore go,” he said, referring to TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao’s statement that Rs. Rs. 67,000 crore had been spent on Hyderabad’s development in the past six years. “About five lakh houses and 15 lakh people were affected in the recent floods while 40 lives were lost. This has happened because the entire sewage system has become defunct, silt removal has been ignored and encroachments on water bodies were not removed,” he charged. While the government did not bother to take up construction of four new public hospitals, the Centre has opened ESI Hospital and AIIMS, although the Telangana government was yet to hand over the building, the Union Minister charged. Metro rail Stating that he was only going to point out the glaring infrastructural deficiencies in last five years of TRS-MIM rule, Mr. Reddy wondered how the government could claim credit for Metro Rail project when it had delayed the construction and commissioning and had also prevented it from being taken into the Old City, causing a loss of up to Rs. 3,500 crore. “MMTS Phase-II could have been operational by now if not for the government not releasing assured funds from its side to extend affordable transport to the suburbs and even to Yadadri,” he pointed out. The Musi riverfront and rejuvenation project has not taken off and it is difficult to fathom how a ‘rich Telangana State’ could not complete all these projects, he added. GHMC itself has become bankrupt due to wasteful expenditure and corruption but the situation can be salvaged if the people of Hyderabad take a step forward like people of Dubbak did in electing BJP candidates, he observed. “Our party has a special bond with the city and its people. I promise a corruption-free and accountable local body striving to enhance the civic infrastructure using its own revenue and taking funds from the Centre and State under various schemes with no scope for dynastic rule. We will take all sections along and not discriminate against any caste, region or religion,” Mr Kishan Reddy promised. ‘TRS-MIM a team’ The BJP does not see Majlis as the sole representatives of the Muslims as it has been harassing many members from the minority community for land grabbing, resorting to rowdiness, offering support to anti-social elements and so on, he claimed and added: “For us, TRS and MIM are one and the same as they have been working together on election strategies,” the Union Minister said. The senior BJP leader also advised Chief Minister and TRS supremo K. Chandrasekhar Rao to withdraw his comments on party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on the alleged letter to State Election Commission on ex-gratia to the flood-affected families and tender an apology in this regard. Mr. Reddy said BJP is in power at the Centre and in 17 States, therefore, questioning the party credentials has no meaning. “We have been running corruption-free and dynastic-free governments, with every rupee of the tax payers being spent judiciously with no law and order issues,” he added.  I promise a corruption-free and accountable local body striving to enhance the civic infrastructure... with no scope for dynastic rule. G. Kishan Reddy, Union Minister and senior BJP leader
23 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Ruckus at BJP party office over ticket denial||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) activists went on a rampage at the party office at Nampally on Sunday at the denial of ticket to their leader from Gunfoundry division. They landed body blows and tore the shirt of Omprakash, husband of official candidate Surekha, when the couple arrived to collect their B-form. They also broke the glass panes of windows and ransacked furniture, eye witnesses said. Raja Singh supporters The attackers were supporters of Goshamahal MLA T. Raja Singh, who recommended the candidature of Anitha but the ticket went to Dr. Surekha. Anitha’s husband, Shailender Yadav (Ramu), stormed the party office with his supporters to question the injustice to them. Spotting Omprakash and Surekha, the mob attacked the former and tried to snatch the B-form from his hands but he had already despatched the paper to the returning officer with his supporters by then. The mob raised slogans against Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy and national president for BJP’s OBC Morcha Dr. K. Laxman. Mr. Yadav accused Mr. Reddy and Mr. Laxman of acting by vengeance against his supporters. “How can they give the ticket to Surekha, a Telugu Desam Party supporter, who recently joined the BJP, by ignoring their old cadre?” Mr. Yadav asked. Meanwhile at Mailardevpally, unidentified persons damaged the windscreen of a car belonging to BJP activist Saidam Venkatarammana. Police said that the incident took place on Saturday night. “It was done by some individuals, and has nothing to do with political rivalry,” Mailardevpally Inspector K. Narsimha said.  How can they give the ticket to Surekha, a Telugu Desam Party supporter, who recently joined the BJP, by ignoring their old cadre? Shailender Yadav Candidate Anitha’s husband
23 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Woman, daughter killed as car hits another vehicle||A woman and her 11-month-old daughter died and three from their family suffered injuries when the car they were travelling in allegedly crashed into an unidentified vehicle on Nehru Outer Ring Road under Abdullapurmet police station limits here on Sunday morning. The victims were going to the temple town of Yadadri from Bengaluru when the accident took place. When the car reached Koheda, between Bonguloor and Peddaamberpet, around 6.45 a.m., Ravi, who was behind the wheel, lost control and ran into the vehicle moving in the same direction. As a result, Triveni (26) and her daughter Trishika died on the spot, Inspector V. Swamy said. Ravi and other passengers Ramadevi (62) and Narsimha Murty (64) suffered injuries and were rushed to the nearby hospital. A case was registered and police are analysing the video footage of surveillance cameras on the stretch to identify the vehicle. Youngster dies In another incident at Bowenpally, a youngster was killed and two of his friends are battling for life at Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad after the scooter they were triple riding on hit a median at Tadban on Sunday. Victim Dharmender (24) worked at a tiles shop in Medchal. Deepak (23) and Rahul (23) were workers of an electric shop in Ameerpet and petrol pump respectively, and they hail from Madhya Pradesh. Bowenpally Sub-Inspector Sudhakar Reddy said that the trio was going at a high speed when the accident took place around 4.30 p.m. near the graveyard at Tadban. Dharmender, who was riding the two-wheeler, lost control and hit the road median, and they fell on the road and suffered serious injuries, he said. “Soon, they were rushed to Gandhi Hospital, where Dharmender succumbed to injuries,” Mr. Reddy said.
23 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Disturbing communal harmony for polls a sin’||Elections will come and go, but the culture that a party promotes is what matters, said TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao on Sunday. He was addressing a session on ‘Brand Hyderabad Future Ready’ at HICC here. “Trying to disturb the communal harmony for an election is a cardinal sin. To stall the growth trajectory of the city is idiocy,” he added. “TRS government treats everyone equally,” KTR said at the programme where he shared his thoughts on Hyderabad’s global image, inclusive growth, IT ecosystem and plans for the city with Bharani Aroll, president of Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (HYSEA). “All that matters is whether we make a difference to society or not. Unless you do things with passion, you will not be able to deliver. That’s what I believe in,” he said. Mr. Rama Rao highlighted that top five most valued companies like Apple, Google, Amazon, Facebook and Microsoft have made Hyderabad their second home. “The government has been an enabler and facilitator. Also, credit goes to the young talent pool available here,” he said. Link roads and Comprehensive Road Management Programme, along with the city’s road infrastructure and others projects found a mention at the programme as Mr Rama Rao touched upon various development works in the city.
23 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TIMS rules out one-week ‘quarantine leave’ after work||A day after senior resident doctors at Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) boycotted services demanding one-week quarantine after a week of work to be restored, the institute’s officials on Sunday said that quarantine leave was not advised by Government of India. TIMS Director Dr Vimala Thomas said the leave was provided earlier, during the lockdown. However, with unlock leading to new normalcy, provision of the leave was removed as it was not advised. Around 120 Senior resident doctors have boycotted the duties from Saturday. They said that despite maintaining precautions such as wearing Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and one week quarantine, around 10 of them and their family members contracted the infection. Senior resident doctors at the District Hospital in King Koti too are waiting to know if the leaves will be discontinued there too. Only COVID-19 patients are admitted at the two health facilities. Citing an advisory issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on June 18, 2020, Dr Vimala Thomas said that quarantine leave has not been advised. Under the ‘SOP to be followed in case HCW reports exposure or breach of PPE’, procedure for identifying Health Care Workers (HCW) who were at high and low risk. It further details who should be allowed to go into quarantine, and the time period. “In TIMS, all precautions to prevent infection among health care workers have been taken. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kits, N-95 masks, surgical gloves and sanitizer are being provided to all the staff doing COVID duty.
23 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS manifesto to include film industry woes||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has assured the TRS manifesto for GHMC polls to be released on Monday will include issues concerning the film industry. He gave the assurance when a delegation of the industry comprising stars Chiranjeevi and Nagarjuna and leaders of film chambers and producers’ association called on him to request the government to bail out the industry from losses suffered on account of COVID. While responding positively, Mr. Rao promised certain concessions and relief to help the industry tide over losses suffered on account of suspension of shoots and closure of theatres. The government was taking several steps to invite setting up of industries in the State. In such a scenario, how could the government afford not protecting an existing industry, said Mr Rao. Hyderabad was among top centres along with Mumbai and Chennai where the industry flourished. It generated employment for lakhs of workers. But, it ran into problems due to COVID. A joint effort by the government and industry veterans was needed, he said. After the meeting where Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar was also present, it was decided to have another meeting at Mr. Chiranjeevi’s house for elaborate discussions on the growth path of the industry.
23 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS sees 873 COVID cases||Telangana recorded 873 COVID-19 cases on Saturday taking the total to 2,63,526. While 41,646 samples were put to test, results of 604 were awaited. Four more COVID-19 patients died. In Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, around 150 to 160 cases are being recorded in a day since the past seven days. On Saturday, 152 positive cases were detected. The 873 cases also include 78 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 71 from Rangareddy. The lowest of two cases each were recorded in Narayanpet, Kumaram Bheem Asifabad districts. Of the 41,646 people who got tested, 38,903 opted government labs and 2,743 got examined at private labs. From March 2 to November 21, a total of 51,34,335 samples were put to test and 2,63,526 people were detected with coronavirus. According to the media bulletin issued by the State Health department, of the total cases, 11,643 were active cases, 2,50,453 have recovered and 1,430 people died. In the 61 State government hospitals, 4,829 oxygen beds and 1,473 ICU beds were available on Saturday.
23 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS and AIMIM are like Siamese twins: Vijayashanti||TRS and AIMIM are like ‘Siamese twins’ and allegations they are making against each other during oncoming GHMC elections is part of their match-fixing to dupe the voters, said Congress star campaigner Vijayashanti. In a press statement issued here on Sunday, the Congress leader said that in Bihar both TRS and AIMIM together worked to rout out the RJD and Congress alliance to make the minorities believe that Congress will never come back to power. “In the same way, they are spreading their activities in all other States to local alliances. It is rumoured that TRS funded AIMIM to contest in Bihar elections,” she said.
23 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Loudspeakers for campaigning allowed from 6 am to 10 pm||High-decibel electioneering has begun for the GHMC polls on December 1 with candidates making every attempt to register themselves in the minds of voters. The State Election Commission (SEC) has stated loudspeakers and mics can be used during road shows and public meetings between 6 a.m. and 10 p.m. for which prior permission has to be sought from police. Loudspeakers and mics, however, should not be used within 100 metres of religious places, hospitals, education institutes and courts. The commission issued instructions on Sunday about the due process for permissions to use the public address systems and vehicles during campaigning and on the day of polling, for the use of posters and pamphlets. According to the instructions, other forms of campaigning can be resorted to between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. Hoardings and flexi posters related to the elections should carry the name and address of publisher, the SEC said. Candidates have to seek permission from the municipal deputy commissioner concerned before using vehicles for campaigning. If a vehicle is used for campaigning without permission, it can be seized. There is restriction on using government vehicles for election purposes.
23 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Dr PV Chalapathi Rao no more||Professor P.V. Chalapathi Rao, a Dr. B.C. Roy national awardee, died on Sunday. He was 92 years old. One of the renowned surgeons of India, he served as head of the department of surgery at Osmania Medical College. He was the first surgeon from Telugu states to be elected as president of Association of Surgeons of India in 1994. Noted oncologist Dr. P. Raghu Ram is his son.
23 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Harish mocks visit of ‘Delhi party leaders’||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said urged people to question the ‘Delhi party leaders’, who are coming to gullies to seek votes for the BJP, about their contributions to Telangana. “We have to prepare a chargesheet against BJP which is questioning the existence of Telangana. The BJP government at the Centre did not respond when floods hit Hyderabad. Why must the people vote for that party,” asked Mr. Harish Rao while addressing a press conference at the residence of Patancheru MLA G. Mahipal Reddy on Sunday. BJP has been responding differently to different States. While assistance was extended to Karnataka ruled by BJP, there was no response even after Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao wrote to the Centre seeking aid. “The Union government has cancelled the ITIR sanctioned for the State. Despite repeated appeals, the Centre is not responding,” said Mr. Harish Rao, adding that the State’s Aarogyasri health scheme is better than the Centre’s Ayushman Bharat. Meanwhile, at a meeting held with residents of HIG Colony at Bharathi Nagar division on Sunday, Mr. Harish Rao appealed to people to vote for TRS in the municipal elections, promising to address their problems. He said sitting corporator Sindhu Aadarsh Reddy has addressed several problems in the past and the remaining problems would be resolved in a systematic manner once the elections were over. MLAs Mahipal Reddy, Ch. Kranthi Kiran and MLC V. Bhoopal Reddy also participated in the programme.
23 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Make bandh grand success: CITU||Centre of Indian Trade Unions ( CITU) state president Chukka Ramulu called upon the workers to make all India bandh on November 26 a grand success. Participating in an online meeting held on Sunday, Mr. Ramulu said the bandh is being observed against the anti -farmer anti-labour policies of the BJP government at the Centre. He alleged that work hours has been increased from eight hours to 12 hours and injustice is being meted out to skilled workers.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||COVID norms take back seat as campaign hots up||The political parties having high stakes in the GHMC elections appear to have given a go-by to the COVID-19 guidelines/norms, particularly in the wake of second wave of virus spread being reported from different parts of the country. They have become carefree practically as the campaigning for the December 1 GHMC polls is intensified with the completion of withdrawals on Sunday. The election meetings including road shows, street corner meetings and community gatherings being organised by the political parties have become free-for-all events with no social distancing and wearing of masks both by the political class and the electorate alike. “When the State government has not allowed re-opening of cinema halls fearing spread of Covid cases, how can it allow political events without following any guidelines. The TRS has higher responsibility in this aspect as it would be held accountable in case the positive cases increase rapidly in the coming weeks, provided the testing goes up as wished by the High Court,” a CPI leader said after meeting State Election Commission officials on Saturday requesting the authority to ban political meetings in GHMC polls.    An intense political slanging match has taken-off the between the ruling TRS and Opposition BJP and Congress as the State Election Commission has issued directions to the Municipal Administration and Urban Development Department on Wednesday to “put on hold the registration and distribution of relief to the flood-affected families in GHMC limits till declaration of results” as it attracts model code of conduct and would influence voters. From the word go, the TRS rank and file started blaming BJP of becoming a stumbling block in the disbursement of flood relief by lodging a complaint with poll authorities. However, a new angle was unveiled in the episode on Thursday when State president of BJP Bandi Sanjay Kumar lodged a complaint with the cyber cell of the police alleging that a fake document with his forged signature was being circulated in the social media as a complaint made to the Election Commission of India. He wondered why he would complain to ECI when it had got nothing to do with the GHMC poll. On the other hand, the Congress too has joined the issue accusing the TRS of getting the distribution of relief stopped wilfully to blackmail voters.    Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao was quite candid in confessing that no party nor government could be credited with enhancing the brand image of Hyderabad as a happening city. At a meeting on brand Hyderabad on Sunday, he said the city had a hoary history of 400 years. So, there was no place for any one party or government to take credit. Telugu Desam in the past claimed that it was solely responsible for the development of the city, the Congress claimed its share on the ground that it was responsible for metro rail project. Later, TRS went overboard on its development agenda for the city but Mr. Rao somehow played down the rhetoric today.  (B. Chandrashekhar   and N. Rahul)
23 November 2020||FARIDABAD,||COVID-19 kills 1 more doctor in Gurugram||A woman gynaecologist and obstetrician, running a private clinic at NIT-3 here, died due to COVID-19 on Saturday. She was the fourth woman doctor to succumb to the infection in the district, which has seen the highest number of COVID-19 deaths in Haryana. Dr. Santosh Grover practised at Ashok Nursing Home with her family and had contracted the virus during her job. She died on November 21. Dr. Grover is the second doctor to die due to COVID-19 infection in the district within a week. Earlier, Dr. Archana Bhatia had died of the virus. Dr. Renu Gambhir and Dr. Abha Sabharwal had also contracted the infection earlier and died. Faridabad Indian Medical Association president Punita Hasija expressed condolences. “We were yet to come to terms with the shocking death of Dr. Bhatia when the news of Dr. Grover’s death dealt us another blow in less than a week,” said Dr. Hasija. Faridabad has recorded 297 COVID-19 deaths, the highest in the State. It includes 229 deaths of patients with co-morbidities. The district has recorded 36,841 cases till November 22, the second highest in the State following Gurugram. The recovery rate, at 86.05%, is less than the State’s average of 89.63%. The district has also recorded the highest positivity rate in the State in both rounds of seroprevalence survey. It recorded the positivity rate of 25.8% and 31.2% during the first and second survey respectively against the State’s average of 8% and 14%.
23 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram battles third wave||With the third wave of novel coronavirus hitting the Millennium City a couple of weeks ago amid festive rush, the district administration has responded to the situation by increasing testing and augmenting the number of hospital beds. Several police teams have been constituted to ensure adherence to COVID-19 Standard Operating Procedures at banquet and wedding halls, and health teams are conducting random testing at crowded places. Almost five months after the second wave hit in May-end, Gurugram — the worst-hit district in Haryana in terms of total COVID-19 cases — saw a sudden surge in daily infections ahead of Dusshera. The trend has continued. Sharp spike The district recorded an average of 250-300 cases for the first 20 days in October, but the number jumped to 300-400 per day between October 21 and 30. On October 31, Gurugram recorded 498 cases, followed by 529 on November 1. On November 21, the city reported 939 fresh cases — the highest single-day spike since the pandemic began. Chief Medical Officer (Gurugram) Virender Yadav said cases spiked across the country due to the festive rush. “It was expected. The country witnessed a second wave soon after lockdown restrictions were eased and markets, public transport and offices began to open. The people have also lowered their guard. No one seems to be interested in adhering to the three basic principles of fighting the virus: social distancing, wearing a mask and washing hands,” said Mr. Yadav. In a bid to ensure sufficient beds for treatment of the infected, the district recently ordered public and private hospitals in Gurugram to reserve 50% of all beds in the general category and 75% of all beds in the ICU/ventilator category for COVID-19 patients. While bed availability is fast shrinking in neighbouring Delhi, Gurugram remains comfortably placed with 1,380 isolation beds, 168 ICU beds and 85 ventilators vacant in various city hospitals as on November 22, according to the Haryana government portal. A total of 2,680 beds, including 575 in critical care, are reserved for COVID-19 patients. Mr. Yadav added that availability of beds was not a concern since only around 5% of patients required hospitalisation and 2% needed critical care. Of the 5,693 active cases in the city, 5,264 are in home isolation, as per the November 22 health bulletin. Increased testing The district has also managed to double the number of RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) to around 6,000 a day, up from 3,000 a month ago. “Gurugram tested 10,200 samples on November 21, a new high in per day testing in Haryana. The district health department conducted 5,700 RT-PCR and 4,500 random mass Rapid Antigen Tests. Gurugram has the highest testing in Haryana with a total of 4,52,860 tests. At present, we are concentrating on increasing testing in Gurugram, Faridabad, Hisar and Rohtak, where the cases are much higher. With these levels of testing as being done in Gurugram, we will quickly isolate the positive cases and bring down the positivity rate. We have set a target of 30,000 tests for the State everyday,” Additional Chief Secretary, Health and Family Welfare, Rajeev Arora told The Hindu . The health department plans to conduct random RAT at crowded places such as metro stations, shopping malls, vegetable markets and toll plazas. To make testing more affordable, Haryana on October 29 reduced charges for RT-PCR from Rs. 1,200 to Rs. 900, and RAT from Rs. 650 to Rs. 500. Mr. Yadav said the price caps were only applicable to Haryana-based labs. Director of Department of Transfusion Medicine (Medanta Hospital) Aseem Kumar Tiwari said the demand for plasma at the hospital has nearly doubled in the past one week. “So far, 1,372 units of blood plasma have been collected at Medanta, catering to 759 patients,” Dr. Tiwari said. He added that the hospital charged Rs. 5,500 per unit for blood plasma and insisted on a donor, but was not very adamant about it. Plasma donation District Administration Plasma Donation Core Group member Lovleen Kumar Satija said the response to plasma donation was lukewarm as donors were reluctant, fearing weakness and contraction of infection. “I have a list of patients who have recovered from the virus. I send them bulk messages everyday requesting plasma donation, but few people respond. Only 250 people have donated plasma since the bank was set up by the administration in collaboration with the Rotary Club on July 29. The price per unit of blood plasma is Rs. 8,500 at the Rotary Club,” said Mr. Satija .  Mr. Yadav, however, said the Indian Council of Medical Research had on November 17 advised against “indiscriminate use of Convalescent Plasma Therapy”, stating that trials across 39 public and private hospitals in the country and similar studies in China and Netherlands had not documented any significant benefit of the therapy. Gurugram Police has also intensified its drive against those not wearing masks in public places and has issued fines to 22,817 people since October 20. So far, 89,582 people have been penalised for not wearing masks. “The owners of the banquet and wedding halls need to inform the local police station about upcoming events. Legal action, including sealing of premises, will be taken in case of any violation,” said Gurugram Police spokesperson Subhash Boken.
23 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||With 6,746 new cases, Delhi’s COVID-19 tally reaches 5,29,863||The Capital recorded 121 deaths and 6,746 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 5,29,863 and fatalities to 8,391. The number of recoveries recorded was 6,154, taking the total recoveries to 4,81,260. The health bulletin released by the Delhi government said that 54,893 tests had been conducted in the past 24 hours with a positivity rate of 12.29%. The death rate based on the last 10 days’ data stands at 1.69%. There are 40,212 active cases in the city, out of which 23,301 people are under home isolation. Heath Minister Satyendar Jain said over 400 ICU beds have been added for COVID-19 patients out of a total of 1,650 ICU beds that are in the pipeline. The Centre and State government have been working together to meet the growing demand of ICU beds as the number of cases and fatalities have been increasing. Efforts are being made to add 250 ICU beds in private hospitals, 650 in Delhi government facilities and 750 in those run by the Centre. AAP, during the day, organised a free mask distribution and awareness campaign across Delhi. “Emphasis is also being given to increase the number of ICU beds in hospitals in Delhi. In government hospitals as well as private hospitals, 60% ordinary beds and 80% ICU beds are reserved for COVID-19 patients,” the party leaders said. AAP MLA Raghav Chadha also launched the Delhi government’s large-scale RT-PCR testing drive from Old Rajinder Nagar through COVID-19 mobile testing vans.
23 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two men arrested for snatching gold chain of woman journalist||Two persons were arrested for allegedly snatching the gold chain of a journalist, who is the wife of former Director General of Police of Meghalaya, in south-east Delhi’s Moolchand, the police said on Sunday. A receiver has also been arrested, they said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South East) R.P. Meena said the accused have been identified as Alok Ranjan (23), Gufran (26), both residents of Tughlakabad, and Vishwanath Das (32), a resident of Garhi Village to whom they used to sell the stolen items. The police said that on Friday, an information was received regarding the snatching of a gold chain of a woman journalist at Amar Colony. They were told that she was on her way to the metro station when two bike-borne men snatched her gold chain with a diamond pendant. “During investigation, the CCTV footage of the area identified the motorcycle, which was registered in the name of Gufran. Thereafter, the police conducted raids at Tughlakabad and nabbed both the snatchers,” Mr. Meena said. During interrogation, the accused confessed that Gufran was riding the motorcycle and Ranjan, who snatched the chain from the journalist, was pillion-riding. They also admitted that about ten days ago, they had snatched a chain from a woman at Lajpat Nagar, which was recovered from Gufran’s house. They disclosed that the chain snatched from Moolchand metro station was sold to Das and at their instance, Das was also arrested from his house.
23 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘False allegation of impotency during divorce amounts to cruelty’||The Delhi High Court has ruled that false allegation of impotency against the husband made before the court during divorce proceedings amounts to cruelty by the wife under the Hindu Marriage Act. “No party can be excused of recklessness in allegations made before the court of law. The consequences of false assertions have to follow,” a Bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula said.  ‘Mental agony’ “It is also abundantly clear that due to the mental pain, agony and suffering caused by the false accusations, the respondent [husband] cannot be asked to put up with the conduct of the appellant [wife] and to continue to live with her,” the High Court said. It also rejected the plea of the wife challenging a decision of a family court allowing the husband’s plea for grant of divorce. At the time of the marriage in 2012, the husband’s status was that of a divorcee and the wife was a bachelorette. Soon, the husband moved a family court here to nullify the marriage on the ground that the woman was unable to conceive due to which they could not consummate their marriage. The woman, in her response, before the family court alleged that the husband was suffering from impotency (erectile dysfunction), which was the true cause of non-consummation of marriage. She also levelled allegation of torture by her in-laws. They also demanded dowry.  ‘No proof’ The family court, however, rejected her plea noting that she had not furnished any proof to substantiate her claim. On the other hand, the husband produced a report from a doctor saying that he was not impotent. The family court in February this year granted divorce to the husband on grounds of cruelty.
23 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Foreign national arrested for smuggling beer cans||A 49-year-old foreign national was arrested from the New Delhi Railway Station for allegedly transporting smuggled foreign-made beer for sale, police said on Sunday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Railways) Harendra Singh said that the accused has been identified as Mariam Eni Edakwo, a Nigerian national, who has been visiting India since 2011. Police said that on Saturday, due to suspicious movement, a woman was stopped and her luggage containing 12 jute bags were checked. “The bags contained 840 cans of beer with brand name Guinness Foreign Extra Stout. The woman was travelling in Mumbai Rajdhani Express from Mumbai to Delhi,” Mr. Singh said, adding that the beer cans have been recovered from her possession. Police said that the beer cans were smuggled to Mumbai from where it was transported to Delhi for sale. Probe revealed that Edakwo is married and has three children. Her husband is in police force in Nigeria and she has been visiting India since 2011. She had come to India in February 2020 for garment business and was living in Mumbai. The seized beer is very popular among the people of African origin, police said.
23 November 2020||Noida,||Death toll surges to 75 in Noida||Uttar Pradesh’s Gautam Buddha Nagar recorded one more fatality linked to COVID-19 that pushed the death toll to 75, while the district’s infection tally surged to 21,479 with 171 new cases on Sunday, official data showed. Active cases rose to 1,323, the third highest in the State, from 1,307 on the previous day, according to the data released by the U.P. Health Department, for a 24-hour period. Also, 155 more patients got discharged during the period in Gautam Buddha Nagar, with the overall number of recovery reaching 20,080, the fifth highest in the State, it showed. With the death toll reaching 76, Gautam Buddha Nagar now has a mortality rate of 0.35%. The recovery rate reached 93.48%, statistics showed.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Child’s play||
23 November 2020||Mumbai,||Bharti Singh, husband remanded in judicial custody till December 4||A Mumbai court on Sunday remanded comedian Bharti Singh and husband Harsh Limbachiya in judicial custody till December 4 after they were arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) following the seizure of drugs from their house. The magistrate’s court will be hearing their bail pleas on Monday. The NCB arrested Ms. Singh on Saturday and her husband early on Sunday morning following the seizure of ganja (cannabis) from their house in Andheri. The couple was produced before a magistrate’s court on Sunday afternoon. “The court has remanded both the accused in judicial custody till December 4,” said NCB prosecutor Atul Sarpande. The couple filed bail pleas through advocate Ayaz Khan soon after being remanded in custody. The NCB sought Mr. Limbachiya’s custody for questioning but did not seek Ms. Singh’s custody and told the court that she may be sent to judicial custody. ‘No need for interrogation’ Mr. Khan argued that there is no question of custodial interrogation as the alleged substance recovered is lesser than the ‘small quantity’ as prescribed under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. The magistrate accepted the arguments and noted that custodial interrogation was not required and that the accused have already been questioned for a considerable time on Saturday. The duo has been booked under Sections 20(b)(ii)(A) (involves small quantity of drugs) and 8(c) (possession of drugs) and 27 (consumption of drugs) of the NDPS Act. “Under these sections, the punishment is six months to one year. This is not a case where the accused needs to be kept behind bars. I am surprised that the NCB is taking such an action of arrest in cases where the quantity (seized) is less than the prescribed small quantity. The NCB mandate is larger than this,” Mr. Khan said. In their bail pleas, Ms. Singh and Mr. Limbachiya sought to be released saying they do not have any criminal antecedents and therefore there is no question of them absconding. ‘Confession inadmissible’ Asked about the NCB’s claim that both of them have accepted that they consume drugs, Mr. Khan said, “Any statement alleged to have been made before the NCB or any of its officials is inadmissible pursuant to a recent judgment passed by the Supreme Court.” Acting on a tip-off, the NCB on Saturday conducted a search at Ms. Singh’s office and residence as part of its probe into the alleged drug use in the entertainment industry. Up to 1,000 gm of ganja is considered small quantity, which attracts a jail term of up to six months and/or fine of Rs. 10,000. Possession of commercial quantity — 20 kg or more — can attract up to 20 years in jail. For the quantity in between, the punishment can be as much as 10 years in jail, an official said. “Ms. Singh’s name had cropped up during the interrogation of a drug peddler,” the official said. She has appeared in a number of comedy and reality shows on TV and also hosted a few such shows. The NCB has been probing the alleged drug use in Bollywood after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June this year on the basis of WhatsApp chats involving drugs. The Central agency had arrested Rajput’s girlfriend and actor Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some employees of the late film star and a few others under various sections of the NDPS Act. Ms. Chakraborty and a few other accused were granted bail by the Bombay High Court in October. Mr. Showik’s bail plea was rejected by the High Court.
23 November 2020||Nagpur,||Pregnant tigress found dead in sanctuary||A pregnant tigress was found dead on Sunday morning in Umred Paoni Karhandala Sanctuary near Nagpur in Maharashtra, an official said. Pench Tiger Reserve field director Ravikiran Govekar, in a statement, said the body of the tigress, between three to four years old, was found in Compartment 1452/1 of Tas beat of the sanctuary. “The spot is deep inside the forest and the nearest village is three kilometres away. The body was found to be dragged some 50 metres away. It was eaten from the left side with the rib cage broken and had canine puncture marks on the neck. Four fetuses, about seven to eight weeks old, were found aborted,” Mr. Govekar said. The official said the area bore signs of infighting, like blood trails, multiple pugmark tracks, body hair, etc., and, prima facie, internecine fight seems to be the cause of death. “The tigress is an adult captured during the last P-IV exercise. It was a new entrant to Umred Paoni Karhandala,” he added. Camera traps have been set up to find out more about the incident, he said.
23 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Man held for duping job seekers of Rs. 1 cr.||The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of the Navi Mumbai Crime Branch has arrested a 48-year-old MBA graduate for duping at least 22 people of Rs. 1.03 crore on the pretext of getting them jobs in the Railways. Deepak Kumar Sinha was on the run since 2018, when the Kharghar police filed an FIR against him based on a complaint by Mallappa Meti, a resident of Kharghar, that the accused had cheated him of Rs. 6 lakh. Assistant Police Inspector Krishna Mekle, EOW, Unit II, said the accused used to pose as a railway employee and lure job seekers from Gujarat and Jharkhand with posts such as travelling ticket examiner and train motorman. He would make them fill forged application forms and give them fake appointment letters after accepting money. He also cheated people by promising to get their tenders approved. “Though Mr. Sinha hailed from Bihar, he kept moving cities with his family. He also claimed to be a marketing professional. We are verifying these claims,” Mr. Mekle said. The EOW tracked him to Gujarat earlier this month, but he fled from his hideout on November 7. The team then managed to nab him from a bungalow in Vadodara on November 19. “We appeal to the people who were conned by the accused to come forward,” senior police inspector Vijay Waghmare, EOW, Unit II, said.
23 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||NMMC braces for second wave as COVID-19 cases rise sharply||With COVID-19 cases rising in Navi Mumbai post Deepavali, nodal and health officers are gearing up to tackle a second wave. Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) chief Abhijit Bangar has directed the officers to prepare to open COVID Care Centres (CCCs) even at a short notice of two days. The civic body has intensified awareness drives and all 23 testing centres have been asked to ramp up their capacity for early detection of cases. Mr. Bangar has called for testing at railway stations and giving priority to hawkers, shopkeepers, autorickshaw drivers and drivers of public transport vehicles. He has also directed vigilance teams to take stern action against those who violate guidelines. “Testing centres at APMC market and MIDC area have also been asked to increase testing,” Mahendra Konde, PRO of NMMC, said. NMMC has 6,098 COVID-19 beds, of which 4,853 are vacant, while 9 of its 13 CCCs were temporarily shut owing to a dip in cases and admissions. “NMMC is ready to face the second wave and citizens are urged to follow guidelines. Cases have risen in the last few days, but it is early to confirm a second wave. The impact of Deepavali will be known only next week as the incubation period ranges from five to 10 days. Factors like a dip in temperature also need to be considered,” Mr. Bangar said. COVID-19 cases in Navi Mumbai crossed 100 for the first time on May 30 with 114 cases. The highest single-day spike of 477 cases was recorded on August 20. A surge was feared post Ganesh Chaturthi, but cases dipped to below 100 after five months. On November 9, only 72 cases were recorded and the lowest spike of 62 was reported on November 16. However, cases began breaching the 100-mark from November 18, when 131 cases were recorded. The recovery rate has now gone up to 95%, while the case fatality rate has dropped to 2%.
23 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Mining operations put Chattisgarh tribals at risk of respiratory infection’||Mining operations have put tribals in Chattisgarh’s Raigarh district at an increased risk of acute respiratory infection (ARI), said a study commissioned by the Union Environment Ministry and conducted by the National Institute of Research in Tribal Health (NIRTH), an Indian Council of Medical Research body. “Nearby mining activities put the tribal population of Raigarh at increased risk of ARI, tuberculosis, road traffic accidents, etc. Apart from environmental health hazards, undernutrition increases the risk further for various diseases,” the report mentioned. The National Scheduled Tribes Commission had directed the Ministry to assess the health, ascertain key risk factors as well as the quality of nutrition among the residents of Tamnar Block, Raigarh, Chhattisgarh. Because the tribes in the block hadn’t been studied before, the studies would be useful to design specific health intervention and public policy, according to a background note. ARI was detected in nearly a fifth of the population, much higher than the National Health and Family Survey findings for Chhattisgarh as a whole, where it was only 2.2% in the last two weeks preceding the survey. “The reason could be due to environmental pollution or poor air quality index. However, in-depth studies need to be done to rule out possible other causes of infections as any infection of the lung in early childhood may cause the development of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease and bronchiectasis in later years of life,” the authors said in the report. The study was led by Suyesh Shrivastava and Tapas Chakma of the Division of Non-Communicable Diseases, ICMR. Other medical conditions A total of 1,733 adults and children from 33 villages of Tamnar Block were clinically examined for general morbidity and nutritional deficiency disorders. Their pulse, blood pressure, blood sugar, weight and height were measured. The children were examined for the prevalence of childhood morbidities. About 42% of pre-school children were underweight and 8.8% men and 6.6% women had “grade III chronic energy deficiency”. After ARI, the most common medical conditions were fever (6.2%) and scabies (1.6%) among the pre-school children. A fifth of the adult population was hypertensive and anaemia was found in 16.1%. Fungal infections were found in 4% of those surveyed. “These findings vindicate our claims of serious health conditions among the residents due to pollution from mines in the region. We also urge the government to ensure that no further expansion or new mines are started in the region until the adverse health impacts reversed,” Rinchin, writer and activist based in Raigarh, said in a statement. Prabir Chatterjee, former executive director of State Health Resource Centre, Chhattisgarh, said, “The study is well-planned and systematically executed. A clear recommendation on monitoring air pollution is very important and should be immediately implemented as there is planned expansion of mining and industry in this block. There is also an urgent need to improve the social determinants of health in the region as the health of any community cannot improve otherwise.”
23 November 2020||Panaji,||Ayurveda, yoga to help deal with post-COVID-19 problems: Shripad Naik||Union Minister of State for AYUSH Shripad Naik has said ayurveda and yoga will be greatly helpful in dealing with post-COVID-19 issues. In a series of tweets on Saturday, Mr. Naik said a new model of healthcare delivery with more emphasis on preventive measures is needed for effectively countering such a crisis in future. The profound impact of the pandemic will lead to fundamental changes in society and healthcare system, he said while virtually addressing a global conference on ‘Post COVID-19 Era - Health & Humanity Impact on Human and Societies’. “I am sure that Ayurveda, Yoga and other systems will be greatly helpful for the entire world in dealing with the Post Covid difficulties,” tweeted Naik, who recovered from the infection in September. He said Ayurveda and other traditional systems of medicines by virtue of their holistic approach towards health and disease and cost-effectiveness have an edge in dealing with health problems with primary prevention of disease. “These systems also have solutions for combating the psychological and emotional problems arising after the pandemic,” he tweeted. Ayurveda has been included in the national treatment protocol launched by the Centre, he said.
23 November 2020||Pune,||Amid spike, Ajit Pawar hints at lockdown||Noting the dramatic surge in fresh COVID-19 cases following the Deepavali festivities, Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Sunday hinted at another lockdown in the coming days. Mr. Pawar, who is also the Guardian Minister of Pune district, said, “A decision on a possible lockdown will be clear in the next five-six days… Big crowds were seen during the Deepavali period. So, now, we are reviewing the situation and talking to all departments concerned.” “This occurred even during the Ganesh festivities… at the time, cases had reduced prior to the festive season, only to surge dramatically once the immersion was over. During Deepavali, people were crowding as if corona could be killed because of large crowds and herd immunity,” he added. Mr. Pawar said the government has drafted regulations for the reopening of schools. “These regulations include testing of teachers and how classrooms ought to be sanitised,” he said. The Deputy Chief Minister, who himself recently contracted the virus, said people must wear masks while stepping out. Mr. Pawar said that he would be holding review meetings with the Pune district administration officials after December 1. Active cases surge again Maharashtra on Sunday reported just 4,060 recoveries as opposed to 5,753 new cases, taking the total case tally to 17,80,208. The active cases have surged to 81,512. However, the case surge must be viewed in the high number of samples being tested — 92,000 — in the last 24 hours. The cumulative recoveries stand at 16,51,064, with the State’s recovery rate falling to 92.75%. The surge in deaths was comparatively lower, with 50 deaths taking the total toll to 46,623. “Of a total of 1,02,13,026 laboratory samples tested thus far, 17,80,208 (case positivity rate of 17.43%) have returned positive, with 92,556 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate currently stood at 2.62%. Pune district reported over 750 new cases to take its tally to 3,46,433, while 11 deaths saw its toll climb to 7,289. As per district administration figures, active cases are nudging the 10,000-mark, rising to 9,863, while its recovery rate has incrementally dipped to 94.62%.  1,135 cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported 1,135 cases to take its case load to 2,73,486, of which 12,448 are active. With 19 fatalities, the city's toll rose to 10,675. Nagpur district reported 483 new cases, taking the district’s total case tally to 1,10,966, of which just 3,244 are active. Twelve deaths saw the toll reach 2,921. Satara reported five deaths to take its toll to 1,605. As many as 189 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 51,151, of which 2,470 are active. Sangli district reported 78 cases and no deaths as its tally touched 48,219, of which 1,170 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,713. Kolhapur recorded 28 cases and no deaths as its tally reached 48,373, while active cases stand at 336. The death toll remains constant at 1,668. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported more than 200 new cases as its total case tally reached 102,375, of which 2,371 are active. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported 72 new cases and no deaths as its total case tally touched 54,556, of which only 1,017 are active, while its death toll stands at 1,380. Dr. Awate said a total of 5,15,976 people across the State were in home quarantine and 5,615 were in institutional quarantine facilities.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||No-go zone||
23 November 2020||Atlanta,||Trump team requests Georgia recount||President Donald Trump’s legal team said on Saturday that his campaign has requested a recount of votes in the Georgia presidential race after results showed Democrat Joe Biden winning the State. Republican Secretary of State Brad Raffensperger on Friday certified the State’s election results, which had Mr. Biden beating Mr. Trump by 12,670 votes out of about 5 million cast, or 0.25%. Republican Governor Brian Kemp then certified the State’s slate of 16 presidential electors. Vital safeguards The statement from Mr. Trump’s legal team said: “Today, the Trump campaign filed a petition for recount in Georgia. We are focused on ensuring that every aspect of Georgia State Law and the U.S. Constitution are followed so that every legal vote is counted. President Trump and his campaign continue to insist on an honest recount in Georgia, which has to include signature matching and other vital safeguards.” “Without signature matching, this recount would be a sham and again allow for illegal votes to be counted,” the statement added. “If there is no signature matching, this would be as phony as the initial vote count and recount. Let’s stop giving the People false results. There must be a time when we stop counting illegal ballots. Hopefully it is coming soon.” Georgia law allows a candidate to request a recount if the margin is less than 0.5%. The recount would be done using scanners that read and tabulate the votes. County election workers have already done a complete hand recount of all the votes cast in the presidential race. But that stemmed from a mandatory audit requirement and isn’t considered an official recount under the law. State law requires that one race be audited by hand to ensure that the machines counted the ballots accurately, and Mr. Raffensperger selected the presidential race. Because of the tight margin in that race, a full hand count of ballots was necessary to complete the audit, he said. Mr. Trump has criticised the audit, calling it a “joke” in a tweet that claimed without evidence that “thousands of fraudulent votes have been found.” Twitter has flagged the post as containing disputed information.
23 November 2020||Washington,||Judge dismisses election fraud claims||A Pennsylvania judge on Saturday threw out Donald Trump’s claims of widespread electoral fraud there, dealing a new blow to the Republican’s bid to overturn his loss in the U.S. presidential election. The decision — announced in a scathing judgment which excoriated the Trump team’s legal strategy — paves the way for Pennsylvania to certify Democrat Joe Biden’s victory there, which is scheduled to take place on Monday. ‘Arguments lack merit’ With the clock ticking down to Mr. Biden’s January 20 inauguration, Mr. Trump’s team has focused on trying to stop battleground states from certifying election results, in addition to his numerous legal challenges that have so far failed. Judge Matthew Brann wrote in his ruling that Mr. Trump’s team had presented “strained legal arguments without merit and speculative accusations” in their complaints about mail-in ballots in Pennsylvania. “In the United States of America, this cannot justify the disenfranchisement of a single voter, let alone all the voters of its sixth most populated state,” wrote Mr. Brann. “Our people, laws, and institutions demand more.” Mr. Biden won the state-by-state Electoral College votes that ultimately decide who takes the White House by 306 to 232. The Electoral College is due to formally vote on December 14, with certifications to take place beforehand. States’ certification of results of their popular votes is usually routine following a U.S. presidential election. But Mr. Trump’s refusal to concede has complicated the process and drawn concerns that he could cause long-term damage to Americans’ trust in their voting system. The judgement in Pennsylvania came hours after Republicans also requested a delay in certification in Michigan, another battleground, in a letter that repeated allegations of irregularities in the state which Mr. Biden won by 1,55,000 votes. They asked for a delay of two weeks to allow for a full audit of results in Wayne County, the state’s largest and where majority-black Detroit is located, won overwhelmingly by Biden. Michigan’s board of canvassers, which includes two Democrats and two Republicans, is also due to meet on Monday to certify the results. Republican Party national committee chairwoman Ronna McDaniel and the party’s Michigan chair Laura Cox called on the board to “adjourn for 14 days to allow for a full audit and investigation into those anomalies and irregularities”. On Friday, Mr. Trump invited Michigan lawmakers to the White House as part of his bid to subvert the voters’ will, but the legislators stood firm, saying they would honour the election’s outcome. Mr. Biden has so far limited his criticism of Mr. Trump’s actions, though he has spoken of “incredibly damaging messages being sent to the rest of the world about how democracy functions”.
23 November 2020||COLOMBO,||Japanese grant to strengthen Maldives Coast Guard||The Maldives and Japan on Sunday signed an agreement for a Japanese grant of $7.6 million to be extended to the Maldives Coast Guard and the Maritime Rescue and Coordination Center, an official press release from Male said. Coming less than three months after the signing of the ‘Framework for U.S. Department of Defence-Maldives Ministry of Defence Defence and Security Relationship’, the “grant aid” is the Maldives’s second major pact with a member of the ‘Quad’, an informal strategic grouping of U.S., Japan, Australia and India. The member countries’ Foreign Ministers met in Tokyo last month and held discussions, including on ways to counter Chinese presence and influence in the region. The Indian Ocean archipelago, that is home to nearly 4 lakh people, assumes geopolitical significance, owing to its strategic location. Sunday’s deal, according to the official press release, will be utilised to further strengthen the capabilities of the Maldives Coast Guard, the country’s Maritime Rescue and Coordination Center, Sub-Regional Centers and Vessels. “This includes the provision of communications equipment, professional search and rescue dive equipment,” the statement said. Following the ceremony held to mark the signing – between the Maldivian government and the resident Japanese envoy — Maldivian Foreign Minister Abdulla Shahid spoke of the “close relations” the Maldives enjoys with Japan, and the need for coordinated action in combating piracy, countering violent extremism and narco-trafficking, and “to ensure a free and open Indian Ocean that would bring about peace and prosperity to the region.” India’s position New Delhi, according to diplomatic sources, views the development as a positive one, as it did when Washington and Male earlier signed the defence pact that focusses on maintaining peace and security in the Indian Ocean, besides promoting a rules-based order that promotes stability and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region. Departing from its earlier reservations to other big powers expanding its strategic presence in the region, India had welcomed the Maldives’s first military agreement with the U.S., the island nation’s first with a country other than India. Sunday’s ‘Exchange of Notes’, as Tokyo terms its official development assistance to partners, falls under the Economic and Social Development Programme of the Government of Japan.
23 November 2020||Washington,||Indian-American appointed as policy director of Jill Biden||U.S. President-elect Joe Biden has appointed Indian-American Mala Adiga as the policy director of his wife Jill, choosing an experienced education policy hand as the incoming First Lady focuses on education and plans to continue teaching community college classes. She belongs to the family of K. Suryanarayana Adiga, founder of the erstwhile undivided Dakshina Kannada districts private sector Karnataka Bank Limited, and Aravind Adiga, who won the Man Booker prize in 2008. Ms. Adiga was a senior adviser to Ms. Biden and senior policy adviser for Mr. Biden’s 2020 campaign. She previously worked for the Biden Foundation as director for higher education and military families. Before that, during former President Barack Obama’s administration, she was deputy assistant secretary of state for academic programmes at the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs and worked in the State Department’s Office of Global Women’s Issues as chief of staff and senior adviser to the Ambassador-at-large. “Future First Lady Jill Biden’s Policy Director will be Mala Adiga, who served as her senior adviser and a senior policy adviser on the Biden-Harris campaign. Adiga will work for a First Lady who has said she intends to prioritise education and military families,” CNN reported on Friday. Ms. Adiga served as Director for Human Rights in the National Security Staff’s (NSS) Multilateral and Human Rights Directorate. Prior to joining NSS, she was an attorney at the Department of Justice, where she served as Counsel to the Associate Attorney General. She earned her J.D. from the University of Chicago Law School and M.P.H from the University of Minnesota. She graduated from Grinnell College in Iowa with a B.A. in Spanish. Mr. Biden on Friday announced another round of White House staff positions to be filled by longtime aides to the Bidens. Late week, he announced that his aide Ron Klain will serve as his chief of staff.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Antibody treatment given to Trump gets FDA emergency nod||The Food and Drug Administration has granted emergency authorisation for the experimental antibody treatment given to President Donald Trump shortly after he was diagnosed with COVID-19, giving doctors another option to treat COVID-19 patients as cases across the country continue to rise. The treatment, made by the biotech company Regeneron, is a cocktail of two powerful antibodies that have shown promise in early studies at keeping the infection in check, reducing medical visits in patients who get the drug early in the course of their disease. A similar treatment, made by Eli Lilly, was given emergency approval earlier this month. The emergency authorisation for Regeneron’s drug is limited in scope: It is for people 12 and over who have tested positive for the coronavirus and who are at high risk for developing severe COVID-19. Evidence so far suggests that antibody treatments work best early in the course of the disease, before the virus has gained a foothold in the body. Like Eli Lilly’s treatment, Regeneron’s is not authorised for use in people who are hospitalised or who need oxygen. The authorisation raises immediate questions about who will get access to the treatments as an average of more than 1,68,000 people are diagnosed each day with COVID-19 in the U.S. and hospitals are running out of beds in some regions of the country. Regeneron has said it will have enough of the drug for only about 80,000 people by the end of November.NY Times
23 November 2020||JERUSALEM,||Israel strikes Hamas sites in Gaza Strip||Israeli aircraft on Sunday struck multiple sites in the Gaza Strip in response to a rocket fired earlier from the Palestinian territory, Israel’s military said. There were no immediate reports of injuries. While several militant groups operate out of the Palestinian enclave, Israel holds Gaza’s Hamas rulers responsible for all rocket fire out of the territory and usually strikes Hamas targets in response. The Israeli military said in a statement that fighter jets and attack helicopters hit two rocket ammunition manufacturing sites, underground infrastructure and a Hamas naval forces training compound. Late Saturday, Palestinian militants in Gaza fired a rocket toward Israel, setting off air-raid sirens in the Israeli city of Ashkelon, the Israeli military said.
23 November 2020||Beirut,||Beirut, Nov 22, 2020 (AFP) -||At least 14 pro-Iran militia fighters from Iraq and Afghanistan were killed in air strikes in war-torn eastern Syria, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said Sunday. The strikes on Saturday night in Deir Ezzor province, on the border with Iraq, were likely carried out by Israeli war planes, the Observatory said. The Israeli Army said it doesn't comment on foreign reports. The attack killed eight Iraqis and six Afghan fighters, it said.AFP
23 November 2020||DAKAR,||Al-Qaida names new North Africa leader, reports kidnap death||The North African branch of al-Qaeda said it has appointed a new leader after confirming the death of its former chief, who was killed in June by French forces, according to the SITE Intelligence Group. The Washington-based group said al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, known as AQIM, in a video showed the dead body of its former leader, Abdelmalek Droukdel, for the first time. AQIM also said that Yazid Mubarak, also known as Abu Ubaida Yusuf al-Annabi, is the new leader.AP
23 November 2020||LONDON,||UK leader to end England's coronavirus lockdown on Dec. 2||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson has announced plans for strict regional measures to combat COVID-19 after England’s lockdown ends on December 2, sparking a rebellion by members of his own party who say the move may do more harm than good. Mr. Johnson’s office said late on Saturday that the government plans to return to a three-tiered system of restrictions, with areas facing different measures depending on the severity of their outbreaks.AP
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||In vaccine race last lap, the key steps for India||Evaluation of candidate vaccines for COVID-19 should be done on technical parameters and programmatic suitability. An ideal vaccine would provide all of these — immunity that is of a high degree (90% + protective especially against severe illness), broad scale (against different variants) and durable (at least five years if not lifelong); a vaccine that is safe (little or no side-effects and definitely no serious adverse effects); a vaccine that is cheap (similar to current childhood vaccines); a vaccine that is programmatically suitable (single dose, can be kept at room temperature or at worst needs simple refrigeration between 2°C and 4°C, needle-free delivery, and a vaccine that is available in multidose vials, has long shelf life and is amenable to rapid production. Obviously, a vaccine having all these desirable characteristics is a pipe dream and most vaccines would fare well in some and not so well in other parameters, making it difficult to choose between them. Also, at this stage, we are only looking at a one-time use of this vaccine to stop the novel coronavirus pandemic as the requirement for a regular vaccination (as for influenza) would be somewhat different. A difficult vaccine to develop Historically, we have faced difficulties in the development of coronavirus vaccines. Although there were some attempts at development of vaccines against Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) and the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), there are no licensed vaccines for any coronavirus yet. Previous coronavirus vaccines were found to be immunogenic (generate antibodies as in phase II) but did not effectively prevent acquisition of disease (phase III) fuelling a concern that vaccination may not induce long-lived immunity, and re-infection may be possible. There are also safety concerns due to immunological consequences of the vaccine as these vaccines use newer techniques with which we do not have long term or large population experience. At this stage, it is not possible to comment much on the duration and breadth of protection of COVID-19 vaccine candidates. About the safety of vaccines, there are always possibilities of rare (one in million) or delayed (by months or years) serious adverse events which will come to light only after mass vaccination has started; this requires a good post-licensure surveillance system to be in place. We should be prepared for such eventualities, and a clear policy on their compensation should be framed. Most could be in two doses The COVID-19 vaccine candidates by Moderna and Pfizer have already released early information of high effectiveness (90%+). Pfizer’s two-dose shots need to be stored at minus 70°C) something which is beyond India’s current vaccine storage infrastructure. Moderna’s vaccine is more thermostable and has a requirement similar to what we used for oral polio vaccines. AstraZeneca, also a frontrunner, makes use of simplified storage settings as do many other candidates. As results of phase 3 trials of other vaccines are out, we will be faced with a dilemma of choice (referred to earlier). Almost all of them seem to require two doses. Given this complicated scenario, what should the government strategy be while choosing a vaccine and for vaccination? Ranking by risk category The first rule would be to not to put all your eggs in one basket. We already know that government has planned for vaccine supply from different sources. The second rule would be to prioritise. The World Health Organization has issued guidelines for prioritisation for vaccine recipients. For this, we need to rank population sub-groups by risk category (risk of infection or adverse outcome or economic impact), and by programmatic ease of vaccination — based on their captivity (health-care workers, organised sector, workplace, schools), and access to existing channels of vaccination (pregnant women and children). Start with where these two criteria intersect — health-care workers followed by policemen. The third rule is use multiple channels to immunise the population. Other important considerations would be of equity and cost. Obviously, military and paramilitary staff will be dealt with as a special case due to their high captivity and national security considerations. The first product off the block may not be suitable in terms of cost and cold storage, but if the priority is health-care workers, then we could go ahead and buy some (how much is a trade- off) vaccines for this group if it is above 75% effective, as it is possible to immunise health-care workers keeping cold storage requirements at their own facility, including in private sector or district hospitals. The same infrastructure can also be used to vaccinate the police force. This will buy us some time to evaluate other vaccines and delivery options. The workplace and school-based vaccination roll-out could be the second phase of vaccination. Models of social mobilisation Problems will arise as we move towards vaccinating the general population, even high-risk groups (the elderly and those with co-morbidity) in the general population. It might be easier to vaccinate the institutionalised elderly as compared to community-dwelling ones. The only orderly option is to create some sort of a technological solution of a queuing system based on an earlier registration process for age and presence of co-morbidity and allotment of appointment in a nearest booth. It is essential that we avoid overcrowding during vaccination. However, the greatest challenge would be to immunise the poorest and the most vulnerable (slums/migrants/refugees/people with disabilities). Because of access issues, this must be by an outreach or camp approach (booths along with web-enabled appointments facilitated by civil society); a programmatically suitable vaccine will have to be prioritised for them. We have learnt major lessons through social mobilisation efforts during the Pulse Polio campaigns, Aadhaar card enrolment and elections, which will serve as good models. We have the wherewithal to do it. However, our Aadhaar experience shows that this will take time. Fortunately, for the pandemic to end, we need not have to immunise everybody. It is expected that the pandemic would start receding once we protect about 60% of the population (in terms of coverage x effectiveness). However, we should ensure that this coverage is well-spread out, else focal outbreaks will keep occurring in areas with poor vaccine coverage. This also raises the possibility of using a ring immunisation strategy (immunising the population around reported cases), even earlier. Dealing with ‘pay and get’ One major challenge would be that many people would be willing to pay for the vaccine and ask for expedited access. So, should we allow this? Obviously, till we cover a bulk of phase 1 beneficiaries, the government should not concern itself with other groups. However, it can and should allow the vaccine to be available in the private sector at a market-driven price for such people. It will be ethical as well as cost-saving for the government, if it does not divert vaccines from the government-driven programme. Let the decision to wait for a government-delivered vaccine or one from the private sector be made by individuals, and not the government. It will also free the government to focus more on “needy” people. Many countries have already published their prioritisation policy whereas in India, it is only based on what we hear from the media — that health-care workers have been prioritised and details are not available in the public domain. It is critical that the government has a fair, transparent and published policy in this regard even if it results in heartburn in some quarters. Choosing, paying for vaccines and their administration by governments are going to be most challenging with no easy answers. And I expect some missteps early in the game. I would not like to be in those shoes, as public criticism is inevitable. Dr. Anand Krishnan is Professor at the Centre for Community Medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi. The views expressed are personal
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||A leaf from Stacey Abrams’ book||On November 3, 2020, as the polls closed across the 50 States of America, the world turned its eyes on the key battleground States that would determine who the next U.S. president would be. While there were close contests in the key swing States, Georgia, an unlikely contender, flipped Blue, much to the surprise of everybody except Stacey Abrams. What can the Indian progressive front learn from this? Ms. Abrams, a Democrat, is the former gubernatorial candidate from Atlanta, who has been credited with turning the southern state of Georgia from a Red State (that voted for the Republican Party) to a Blue one (that voted for the Democratic Party). It is important to note the sociopolitical and geographical context of Georgia, which voted for the conservative Republican Party for decades. Georgia has a significant Black population (32.6% of the demography). A former Confederate State which lost the Civil War, it could be argued that it still harbours the vestiges of racism that manifests today through voter suppression, especially in predominantly Black neighbourhoods. Georgia’s history and the positional significance of Ms. Abrams’ leadership (an African-American woman herself) informed her approach. Soon after the flip, congratulatory messages poured in for her and her organisation, the Fair Fight foundation, for standing at the helm of fighting voter suppression in Georgia. Her work brought 8,00,000 Georgian residents, predominantly Black, into the political process. These residents were at the receiving end of policies and operations of voter suppression and intimidation, a silent majority whose political engagement was ‘activated’ by Ms. Abrams’ leadership. Unlocking choice and action Ms. Abrams managed to galvanise three important elements that produced a political impact at scale in Georgia: a value framework informed by every citizen’s constitutional right to vote, representatives on the ground who embodied this value framework, and technological infrastructure for scale and sustainability. It appears that her campaign operationalised this framework to invoke agency for a historically suppressed community. This activated a citizenry whose political participation single-handedly furthered the core tenets of democracy — an informed and active voter base. Citizenship is typically seen through the lens of electoral participation, claim making, and resistance. There is, however, an undercurrent of citizenship which is now moving to the forefront — active citizenship. The active citizenship approach works to habituate citizens to utilise their agency in making claims of the State. It involves building the civic muscle of the citizens to engage with civic issues, and political participation. Ms. Abrams sets an example of active citizenship, in the case of Georgia’s Black electorate. Although she is a Democrat, the Fair Fight foundation maintains that it is non-partisan, whose mandate and value framework is to fight voter suppression and induct as many citizens into the political process as possible, for a fair and free election. This value framework was echoed by a network of representatives on the ground who mobilised and informed a citizenry that had faced systemic political erasure. These representatives become crucial in building trust and confidence in the community to drive agency and empowerment. They played a critical role in enabling disenfranchised communities to exercise their citizenship. The predominantly Black grassroots organisers played a pivotal role in helping citizens unlearn historical loss of agency to actively engage with the political process. A key feature of representation in leadership is to speak to the unique issues faced by specific communities, and focus on amplifying these issues until reform becomes a national focus. For instance, in her gubernatorial campaign, Ms. Abrams focused on criminal justice reform, and gun control, both issues that deeply affect Black citizens. This not only builds trust and solidarity, but also drives validation for communities navigating these issues on a daily basis. This approach has been buttressed by the accelerated pace of digital transformation where increased information dissemination and expanding avenues for citizen engagement has resulted in amplification of citizenship practices. The Fair Fight foundation used a data-driven approach to identify the demography that was excluded from the political process. It then utilised grassroots campaigning and technology to drive political participation at the last mile. Digital technologies helped amplify and scale Ms. Abrams’ campaign to reach suppressed voters across Georgia. Lessons for Indian progressives The Indian progressive front would benefit from the Abrams example. It is important to first address that in India, most campaigns for political participation of suppressed groups are often led by a partisan mandate over a constitutional one. In most cases, new vote banks are created through unscrupulous practices, with the goal centred around the victory of a political leader or party, and not around the political participation of an informed citizenry from diverse socio-structural contexts. The Stacey Abrams campaign ensured a representative leadership that amplified the voices from the bottom up. While identity politics may have been utilised to mobilise marginalised groups into political institutions, her success in Georgia is not necessarily because of an alignment with a specific party, but because of a simple constitutional mandate — voting rights for all. In the Indian context, we know that there are issues of missing voters, specifically in the case of religious and caste minorities. How can the progressive front address this without devolving to party politics? An issue-based approach embedded in suppressed communities is perhaps more effective than a partisanship-led approach. In the case of Georgia, the campaign retained focus on issues faced by Black communities. Perhaps a campaign led by party politics may have offered stop-gap results — as it does in the Indian context through vote bank politics — but these are often reactionary and untenable in the long run. A significant lesson for Indian progressives is to acknowledge that in the American context, there exists a space within a major party for promising, diverse, and independent voices like that of Ms. Abrams to flourish — one which turned the tide against a quasi-authoritarian opposition. A redistribution of agency and decision-making powers for representative leaders with the means to address voter suppression in their own communities seems to be an important first step to strengthen a crippling democracy. Leveraging offline and online architectures to drive access, information, and impact at scale is also of critical importance to build a viable opposition. Perhaps the Stacey Abrams example offers a sense of self-reckoning for Indian progressive voices that could successfully lead the charge against authoritarianism. Lakshmee Sharma is a Senior Research Associate, Aapti Institute; Kanimozhi Udhayakumar is a Data Analyst, Aapti Institute
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||No Minister, the trade agreement pitch is flawed||India’s External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar has presented an ill-considered take on India’s trade record in a ‘keynote’ speech delivered at a “dialogue” on November 16 (https://bit.ly/35Tbf6I). The Minister believes that the economic growth that has accrued from globalisation is not a good enough outcome for India. An “honest” self-assessment of this trade and economic performance is necessary to show what costs India has paid for its economic success: That if globalisation, especially trade, is assessed in the broader context of its overall impact on society, the costs could be shown to have set off the gains considerably. That one such cost is “de-industrialisation”. That “employment challenge” was created by trade. That trade agreements have made India “over-dependent on imports”. Let us fact check the Minister. A new paper by Shoumitro Chatterjee and Arvind Subramanian, ‘India’s Inward (Re)Turn: Is it Warranted? Will it Work?’ is instructive (https://bit.ly/3pRgTy4). Export-led growth The Minister gets it right when he says that trade has delivered high economic growth for the country. India’s record of export-led growth cannot be dismissed. Between 1995 and 2018, India’s overall export growth averaged 13.4% (in dollars) annually. This is the third best performance in the world among the top 50 exporters. It is nearly twice the world average growth and not far behind China’s growth of just over 15%. The Chatterjee-Subramanian paper also shows how much exports contributed to GDP growth in each of the three decades since the 1990s. The Minister has a point when he says this performance represents only limited progress relative to India’s potential, and that this gap with the potential presents the real challenges. It is true that despite the evident success, India is not a big exporter on the global scale; its share of global manufacturing exports is only 1.7%, marginally less than Vietnam’s, at 1.75%. ‘Strong rupee’ approach But how much of the blame for India’s below-potential growth can be ascribed to trade agreements? This causation Mr. Jaishankar suggests is problematic. India’s exports growth has lost momentum in recent years. The Narendra Modi government’s “strong rupee” approach is among the chief causes that have been shown to have slowed down exports. The real effective exchange rate has appreciated by about 20% since 2014. This is not a subsidy given by other countries to their exporters. It is in fact a subsidy given by Mr. Modi’s government to the exporters of other countries. If imports — such as of holidays and higher education overseas — have leapt, it is because the exchange rate has made them more affordable. Studies of trade agreements by NITI Aayog show that Indian exporters suffer logistics, compliance and transaction costs twice as high in other countries. This low ease of doing business relative to other exporting countries has further eroded the competitiveness of Indian exports. In sectoral causes, the damage to the reputational advantage of India’s pharmaceutical exports after malfeasance fraud was exposed at some manufacturers, has hurt exports. Those can also not be blamed on trade agreements. On manufacturing The Minister does not get it quite as right on manufacturing. Between 1995 and 2018, India’s manufacturing exports (in dollars) grew on average by 12.1%, nearly twice the world average. This was the third-best performance in the world, surpassed only by China and Vietnam. Even during the years of slowing global trade post-2012, when world exports were virtually flat, India continued to gain global market share, its exports growing by about 3%. During this period, India’s manufacturing export growth ranked within the top 10 among the 50 major exporters. Can this be characterised as “de-industrialisation” caused by trade? If India’s manufacturing sector finds itself in crisis since 2012, it is in large part because of policy errors inflicted first by the Manmohan Singh-led government and then the one headed by Mr. Modi. Between fiscal years 2006 to 2012, manufacturing-sector GDP grew by an average of 9.5% per year. India’s trade openness was at its peak during these years of high growth that also overlaps with the period when the highest number of Indians in recorded history exited poverty. Then, over the next six years, manufacturing-sector GDP growth declined to 7.4%, coinciding with the phase of corruption scandals, a severe banking crisis, demonetisation and a badly designed Goods and Services Tax(GST) — none of which were consequences of trade agreements. MEA in lead role The paper by Chatterjee-Subramanian shows how openness to trade is in fact one of the few channels available to India for generating employment in the post-COVID-19 world, given that the financial positions of households, government and banks are too weak to support the economy. They calculate that after the 2008 global financial crisis, China vacated about $140 billion in exports in unskilled-labour intensive sectors, including apparel, clothing, leather and footwear. But India did not take advantage of the opportunity. India is exporting about $60 billion of low-skill exports annually less than it can if the underlying problems are addressed. The weakest case the Minister makes is on the employment challenge. Probably because economic arguments are playing an ever-shrinking role in formulation of trade negotiating positions and growth strategies, with curtailed roles for the Departments of Economic Affairs and Commerce, and the Ministry of External Affairs taking over much of the economic diplomacy. Trade openness versus import substitution is the one policy debate where policymakers need to look no further than India’s own pre-1991 experience of inferior, low-quality products on the one hand and low growth rates on the other. Great examples of how responsible globalisation can solve problems are the multiple COVID-19 vaccines being readied across the world. They are in fact India’s only hope of safeguarding the population. To denounce trade openness and globalisation at this point is also poor timing. Mr. Jaishankar’s speech is a great candidate for a fact check of the sort done on U.S. President Donald Trump’s unfounded statements by the U.S. media. But to explain it away as a poorly-researched and badly argued talk would be to miss the point of it completely. It serves to lend credibility to the anti-trade narrative invented by certain political outfits — on the Left and the Right — that have come to represent India’s worst economic insecurities. This is no ordinary member of Mr. Modi’s Cabinet speaking. By blaming trade agreements for “de-industrialisation”, Mr. Jaishankar seeks to deflect blame for the Modi government’s policy errors. India’s switch to a “strong rupee” policy, in line with the Prime Minister’s pre-2014 election campaign, led to the surge in imports of goods and services preferred by non-rich Indians, and a measurable loss of competitiveness in labour-intensive exports. At the same time, the disadvantages Indian exporters have long struggled against — the substantially higher logistics and other costs — remain as burdensome. The speech is a purely political one. Puja Mehra is a Delhi-based journalist and author of ‘The Lost Decade (2008-18): How India’s Growth Story Devolved into Growth Without A Story’. The views expressed are personal
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Smart filters are more important than smart devices||I firmly believe that teaching is the best way to learn. The many remote conversations I had with my students due to the pandemic led to an extended discussion on my characterisation of the media ecology under two rubrics: digital empowerment that ensures access to credible information and digital disruption due to algorithms. Hierarchies created by technology I explained to them the trappings of the algorithm-driven universe. The dominant elements of this universe are metrics and analytics. I drew their attention to Umberto Eco’s reflection on how technology can act as a barrier. He argued that state of the art technological devices are notorious in demanding an upgrade every six months, which is beyond the means of many. He also cautioned us against having an irrational focus on all the information out there, which is beyond any individual’s ability to grasp and process meaningfully. He wrote: “Once upon a time, if I needed a bibliography on Norway and semiotics, I went to a library and probably found four items. I took notes and found other bibliographical references. Now with the Internet, I can have 10,000 items. At this point I become paralysed.” Due to the pandemic, most of us are forced to source information remotely through technology. And this option has re-emphasised a hierarchy. The available bandwidth and prowess of the devices are the markers of this divide. In this difficult reality, how does one deal with technology that has nearly become omnipotent and omnipresent? In other words, what are the means journalists can deploy to retain the cyberspace for empowerment? I have often been confronted with a question: isn’t disruption a positive development that can shake the status quo? If so, why do I fear digital disruption? My reading on the role of cyberspace-led ecology flows from the veteran broadcast journalist Edward R. Murrow’s reading of television when it was a major disrupter in the 1950s. Murrow said: “This instrument [television] can teach, it can illuminate; yes, and even it can inspire. But it can do so only to the extent that humans are determined to use it to those ends. Otherwise, it’s nothing but wires and lights in a box. There is a great and perhaps decisive battle to be fought against ignorance, intolerance and indifference.” This is vastly different from the imagination that is governing the Silicon Valley conglomerates that rule cyberspace, and in whose rules there is little space for an idea called public good. Filtering information The lesson I drew from Eco and Murrow is that I must devise my own filters to manage this information overload and create a system to look at materials that matter. I get about 25 newsletters a day from diverse sources which leads me to credible information and informed analysis. This includes not only The Hindu ’s newsletters such as The Morning Filter, The Evening Wrap, The Daily Digest, The View from India, and The Hindu Data newsletter, but also initiatives such as The India Cable, The India Forum and a host of websites, some of which are free and some of which are behind a paywall. These newsletters let me choose about 1,00,000 words which I can read and process in a day instead of the infinite number of words and images that clutter my screen. The newsletters have sharpened our ability to curate the information we need and hence, they are an integral part of re-imagining journalism. The India Cable pointed me to an ironic move by the Union government in defining its relationship with credible news. Following the entry headlined “Centre cites liberal media as alibi for its own failings on Tablighi coverage”, I examined the difference in power between credible journalism and propagandist drivel. Those who attack news organisations that retain their journalistic values should read the affidavit filed by the government in the Supreme Court. Channels and websites that are apologists of the regime were not mentioned when the government wanted to talk about examples of “largely factual reports” and “objective reporting”. Editing makes any story, irrespective of the platform on which it is published, a coherent whole. And if readers and viewers develop editing skills, they can easily convert this avalanche of information into a meaningful, democratic tool. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||A false messiah||The victory of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) in five constituencies in Bihar, largely at the expense of the Mahagathbandhan, made a crucial difference to the electoral outcome. Asaduddin Owaisi now plans to enlarge his party’s national footprint by contesting Assembly seats in districts with substantial Muslim populations in West Bengal and later in Uttar Pradesh. Wrong diagnosis Mr. Owaisi is harshly critical of the BJP’s agenda that he argues contravenes the basic principles of the Constitution. But his main objective, he says, is to expose the “hypocrisy” of the “secular” parties, especially the Congress, that he argues have exploited Muslims for decades by instilling in them the fear of the BJP and posing as their saviours. However, according to Mr. Owaisi, these parties have done nothing to improve the socio-economic status of the Muslims or empower them politically during the decades they were in power. Mr. Owaisi’s charge is corroborated by the findings of the Sachar Committee, which was set up to study the socio-economic conditions of Muslims. Its report, released in 2006, confirmed the abysmally low rate of Muslim employment in government services. It also showed that Muslims have higher levels of poverty than upper caste and OBC Hindus and their economic condition is worse than those of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in urban areas. While Mr. Owaisi’s diagnosis about the indifference of the “secular” parties towards the Muslims’ plight and their use of the latter as mere vote banks may be correct, his solution will make the problem worse. Mr. Owaisi’s remedy for the Muslims’ sorry condition is to expand the reach of AIMIM across the country as an exclusively Muslim party that would demand that their socioeconomic conditions be improved and their civil and political rights guaranteed. Mr. Owaisi seriously — and perhaps deliberately — underestimates the counterproductive nature of this solution. While AIMIM may garner a few seats in constituencies with Muslim concentrations, this will be at the cost of non-BJP parties, thus making it easier for the BJP and its allies to win elections. This strategy will also lead to greater polarisation and the consolidation of Hindu votes behind the BJP, thus rendering the Muslim minority even more marginal to political outcomes. A majoritarian backlash in an increasingly polarised society could irretrievably damage the “secular” parties and remove the buffer, no matter how deficient, they present between a pluralist idea of India and a majoritarian conception of the nation. This outcome was evident in Bihar where the AIMIM, by drawing away a substantial number of Muslim votes in Seemanchal, spoilt the Mahagathbandhan’s chances of gaining a majority. The same story could in all probability be repeated in West Bengal where State elections are due soon. The contest in West Bengal will be principally between the Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the BJP. In the 2019 Lok Sabha election, the TMC won 22 seats and the BJP, 18. The BJP’s vote share was only 3% less than that of the TMC. Even a 2% shift away from the TMC could see a BJP government installed in West Bengal. If, as is likely, AIMIM draws a sizeable share of the Muslim vote in Murshidabad, Malda and North Dinajpur, where the TMC has done well in previous elections, this scenario could become a reality next year. Building bridges A few AIMIM MLAs shouting themselves hoarse about Muslim grievances will not resolve the community’s problems. What is needed is building bridges, not burning them. What is required is holding the “secular” parties’ feet to the fire, not tossing them aside just because that is the only way AIMIM can win a few seats. Mr. Owaisi is a consummate performer; nonetheless, he is a false messiah whose remedy for the Indian Muslims’ predicament is worse than the disease. Today Indian Muslims need a Maulana Azad, not another false messiah like Muhammad Ali Jinnah. Mohammed Ayoob is University Distinguished Professor Emeritus of International Relations, Michigan State University
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Peaceful possibilities||The coming local body elections in Jammu and Kashmir could be an opportunity to open a new political dialogue in the Union Territory, particularly on the question of restoring its statehood. In the first democratic exercise since the Centre revoked J&K’s special status and reorganised it into two UTs in August 2019, Panchayati Raj elections are scheduled over eight phases beginning November 28. For the first time, this part of India will have the entire 73rd Constitutional Amendment coming into operation. In October, the UT administration amended the Panchayati Raj Act, providing for District Development Councils (DDC) in each district, and establishing the three-tier PR structure. Alongside the election of 280 DDC members, by-elections for around 12,000 panchayat seats and over 230 urban body seats will also take place. Peaceful, participatory election in a troubled region can be the most forceful demonstration of the resilience of Indian democracy. It is for this reason that elections are a target for those who believe that only violence can achieve popular aspirations in Kashmir. Four JeM militants who were planning a terror attack in the Valley to disrupt the elections and sow chaos were neutralised last week. A violence-free election is necessary, but not sufficient for a vibrant democracy. The BJP’s strident political posturing, portraying all its political opponents as anti-national and separatist might be electorally useful for it in the Jammu region but is harmful for the national integration that it professes. When such statements come from the Home Minister of India, it is even more counterproductive. Choices before the people of J&K must not be framed as a binary of macabre violence of Islamist separatism and dehumanising submission of their cultural identity to authoritarian ultranationalism. There are other viable possibilities for J&K’s progressive, respectful and accommodative association with the rest of India, which preserve national integrity and honour the region’s identity. A coalition of regional parties including the PDP and the National Conference, once the BJP’s allies, and the CPI(M), under the banner of People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration, has made the restoration of J&K’s special status and its statehood central to its politics. The alliance leaders have complained about restrictions on their campaigning. The Congress, which was in touch with the alliance earlier, has now snapped its ties with it. The government must encourage the widest voter participation, the clearest route to this being through an unrestrained and freewheeling campaign that mobilises and expresses the whole range of public opinion. All that might be said would not be acceptable or desirable. But meaningful dialogue is essential, and elections are the best way to open up peaceful possibilities.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Pressure and punishment||The conviction of Hafiz Saeed, a UN-designated terrorist whom India and the U.S. blame for the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks that killed 166, by a Lahore anti-terrorism court on terror finance charges shows that Pakistan can be forced to act against terror networks under international pressure. Saeed, in jail since July last year, was convicted in another case of terror financing in February this year. He is currently serving two sentences of five and a half years each. Saeed would not serve any additional jail term as the judge said he would serve the punishment concurrently with the other sentences. But the repeated convictions of someone who was a favourite of Pakistan’s military establishment till a few years ago, in terror financing cases, underscore the concerns India and the U.S. have about his operations. He first founded the LeT in the 1990s targeting India. When the terror group came under international pressure, he revived the JuD, supposedly an Islamic charity, in 2002, which India accuses of being an LeT front. Even after the Mumbai attack, Pakistan refused to act against Saeed and his networks. It was only after the U.S. declared a bounty on Saeed’s head and the UN proscribed his organisations that Pakistan, facing pressure from the FATF, banned his organisations. Unsurprisingly, the latest conviction comes a month after the FATF, a global dirty money watchdog, urged Pakistan to complete an internationally agreed action plan to fight terror financing. In February 2018, Pakistan endorsed a UN list of terrorist organisations operating in the country and enforced a nationwide ban on them, including the LeT and the JuD, just before a meeting of the FATF. But the FATF still placed Pakistan on its “grey list” in June 2018, and demanded more actions from Islamabad to avoid being blacklisted, which could invite economic sanctions. Ever since, Pakistan, which cannot afford to be blacklisted, especially when its economy is in a shambles, has moved against Saeed. The Anti-Terrorism Department’s FIRs against Saeed and his aides accuse the JuD of financing terrorism from its fund collections in the name of charity through NGOs. While the authorities’ move against Saeed is welcome, the question is whether these are genuine attempts to fight terrorism or half-hearted measures to dodge international pressure. There are doubts because Pakistan had used anti-India and anti-Afghan terrorist networks for strategic advantages. It was this dual policy of fighting terror at home while nurturing terror groups that target its rivals abroad that has been responsible for Pakistan’s predicament. If it is serious about fighting terrorism, Pakistan should crack down on terror financing and terror infrastructure. The international community and organisations, including the FATF, should keep up the pressure until Islamabad shows tangible outcomes.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Mr. Gandhi: An interview||Mr. Gandhi arrived here on Sunday morning and had a cordial welcome from the Nationalist of Delhi. On being seen by a representative, he had very little to add to what already appeared in the press. Asked whether he thought he would be able to run all the educational institutions in the country without taking any ‘financial aid’ from the Government, Mr. Gandhi replied, “Yes, I can carry the country with me. I think it is quite possible to run all the present institutions without any Government aid.” In reply to the enquiry whether the success hitherto achieved by Non-Co-operation made him confident of its ultimate triumph, Mr. Gandhi said, “Yes, certainly.” To the question, “Are the Non-Co-operation and the Khilafat agitations really two separate movements or have they been merged into one another for the realisation of any particular object, Mr. Gandhi said: — Non-Co-operation has been adopted by the country as the means to an end. It has been adopted for the rectification of the Khilafat’s wrongs, the Punjab wrongs and the attainment of Swaraj.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||President’s assent to Bengal bill||The President, Mr. V. V. Giri, to-day [November 22, New Delhi] gave his assent to the West Bengal Prevention of Violent Activities Bill which gives special powers to the State administration to curb extremists’ activities. The Bill, which was discussed by the West Bengal Consultative Committee of MPs, has now become a Presidential Act, and it comes into effect immediately. The Act is expected to be presented to Parliament to-morrow. The Bill is a modified version of the old Preventive Detention Act. It will enable the authorities to take into custody anyone who indulges in violence or incites violent activity against the State Government. The Bill provides for certain safeguards to detenus. One such safeguard provides that the case of each person who has been detained should be referred to an advisory board to be constituted by the Government. The decision of the board will be final. Eight M.Ps. belonging to the Left Opposition earlier in the day met the President and urged him to withhold assent to the Bill. In a 30-minute meeting with the President, they said the two Bills were “Draconian in their character,” and gave “unbridled powers” to the State police.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||When what you see is not what you get||Returns from an investment can come from market-price appreciation or payout from the investment itself, or both. In equity shares, returns come mostly from price appreciation and, to a limited extent, from dividends paid by the company. In bonds, returns come mostly from the coupon or interest payouts from the issuer of the bond. If a bond is held till maturity, then there is no market price-related gain or loss as it is redeemed at face value. A mutual fund (MF) is a vehicle for investment in instruments from the market (such as equity shares and bonds) and distribution of the returns to unit holders. The distribution of returns in MFs is done in two ways that are largely similar but slightly different. In the growth option of MF schemes, there is no separate pay out; it remains in the net asset value (NAV) and investors get their returns as and when they redeem at the NAV, which is higher than the earlier NAV. In the dividend option of MF schemes, there is periodic payout of dividends. Apart from this, investors can redeem as and when they want at the prevailing NAV. The NAV of the dividend option, at the time of redemption, may be higher than the earlier NAV or similar, depending on the extent of dividend payouts. Mis-selling a product The relevance of the above discussion is that sometimes some products are not sold in the right spirit. The dividend option is highlighted to investors as if it is some extra return such as a bonus. If the earnings in an MF scheme is not distributed in the form of dividend, it will remain in the NAV. As and when the investor redeems, she or he will get returns based on the NAV. An example of this kind of mis-selling is selling balanced funds (now aggressive hybrid funds) on the basis of ‘1% dividend per month.’ Dividend in an MF scheme is not a commitment and is dependent on market conditions. This ‘1% dividend per month’ was touted as a committed return over and above the NAV-based returns. A mutual fund is a vehicle for long-term wealth creation. It is not a Post Office Monthly Income Scheme. SEBI has stepped in now. In a circular dated October 5, applicable from April 1 next year, it has been stated that all dividend options shall be named ‘Payout of income distribution cum capital withdrawal option.’ Though it is a change of nomenclature only and not any restriction or other change in dividend, it is significant. It will not give the sense of something extra or a bonus being given out, but of means of income distribution, which it actually is. If you invest straight away in an equity share or bond, the extent of the payout makes an impact on your returns, but in an MF, it is just a method of distribution of income to unitholders. What’s in a name? Sometimes, a name may carry a different implication to people who are not in the thick of things. A long time ago, when an MF came out with a scheme, it was called an initial public offer and in certain sections, it used to be marketed as ‘IPO at par.’ These used to be marketed on the pitch that — with the NAV of other (older) schemes being higher, say Rs. 20 or Rs. 30 — the investor was getting a good bargain as it was available at par, say Rs. 10. To restrict this convoluted logic, SEBI stipulated that these offers should be called new fund offers (NFO) and not an IPO, so that the investors do not confuse this with an equity IPO. Similarly, while dividend is apparently an innocuous word, the misuse of the term by certain sections prompted SEBI to rename the dividend option. On your part, if you do not require regular cash flows, you need not opt for dividend option/payout of income distribution option. The growth option houses the gains in the NAV and you can redeem as and when you want, subject to any exit load implications.  (The writer is a corporate trainer — debt markets — and author)   If you invest in an equity share or bond, the extent of the payout makes an impact on your returns. But in an MF it is just a method of distribution of income to unitholders
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||A premium that doesn’t burn a hole in your pocket||As easy as 1,2,3…or 12 monthly instalments, if you wish. We are talking about the possible future of your health insurance premiums, where you may opt to pay in instalments through the year. The standardised health insurance policy — Arogya Sanjeevani — was designed by the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority with many interesting features. Every general insurance or health insurance company is mandated to offer it from April 1, 2020. One of them is the long-felt need for instalment payment of premium, as opposed to only annual payments. This enables us as an insured to match our premium payment to cash inflows. It is especially of great value in times like the present pandemic, when earnings and even jobs are at stake, and one would like to stagger expenses. In Arogya Sanjeevani, the policyholder can opt for half-yearly, quarterly or monthly payment of premium and also automate the payments using the auto-debit or ECS mode. If this proves popular, one can see insurers offering this option on other health policies. Options for instalment premiums in Arogya Sanjeevani operate with some conditions, similar to annual premium payments we are familiar with. Grace period There is a grace period of 15 days for paying the instalment premium. The caveat, however, is that during the period between due date of premium and actual receipt of premium by the insurance company, you will be uncovered. But the good thing is that, even if you have used your grace period to the fullest, your benefits of waiting period for pre-existing conditions, and specific waiting period for treatment of specified conditions are fully protected. Neither will there be any interest charges if the instalment premium is not paid on the due date. However, if you fail to pay within the grace period, your policy will lapse and, along with it, any accrued benefits such as waiting period or cumulative bonuses. Your choice will be only to start another hospitalisation policy, afresh. Most of us are used to making monthly payments of all kinds including rent, society dues, EMIs on home loans, school fees, phone, broadband, electricity and a host of other utility bills. When it comes to investments, life insurance premiums, systematic investment plans for mutual funds and even monthly public provident fund or recurring deposit payments are very common. So, instalment premium for health insurance can smoothly be incorporated into the payments list once the salary comes in. Once insurers start offering it on various policies. The catch is, what if you forget? The cost of that in the case of health insurance will be higher than in the case of other financial investments. The freedom has now been given and it is up to us to remember that with freedom comes significant responsibility. There is no point in forgetting to pay your instalment premium and losing health insurance coverage.  (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history)
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Angulo saves FC Goa’s blushes||Igor Angulo’s brace helped FC Goa salvage a 2-2 draw against Bengaluru FC (BFC) in their opening Indian Super League (ISL) encounter, at Fatorda Stadium in Margao on Sunday. New signing Angulo, a replacement for prolific striker Ferran Corominas, made a mark in his ISL debut. FC Goa entered the second-half trailing 0-2, before Angulo came alive. The Spaniard scored his first goal in the 66th minute, slipping behind the BFC defence to latch on to a clever pass from Alberto Noguera. A strong left-footed shot was too hot to handle for BFC goalkeeper Gurpreet Singh. Just a few minutes later, Angulo was in perfect position in front of goal to chest in a cross from Brandon Fernandes. On the double Earlier, BFC held all the cards, going in front through goals from Cleiton Silva and Juanan. On both occasions, the FC Goa defence stumbled. Brazilian Silva got on the scoresheet in the 27th minute, with a powerful header which flew past FC Goa custodian Mohammad Nawaz. Silva was able to shake off his marker Sanson Pereira much too easily. Juanan doubled BFC’s lead after the restart, when he found him completely unmarked deep inside the FC Goa box. BFC midfielder Erik Paartalu — similarly left free — had all the time and space in the world to head the ball to Juanan, who slammed his shot in. The FC Goa back-line had fallen asleep, and paid the price. FC Goa played with greater purpose in the second-half, creating chances regularly. BFC, on the other hand, was content to play it safe, substituting forward Udanta Singh for defender Rahul Bheke. The approach did not work, however, as Angulo and FC Goa came roaring back.  The result: BFC 2 (Cleiton Silva 27, Juanan 57) drew with FC Goa 2 (Igor Angulo 66, 69) .
23 November 2020||London,||Medvedev outduels Nadal||Daniil Medvedev sent Rafael Nadal packing after a gruelling slugfest at the ATP Finals here on Saturday to set up a title match against Novak Djokovic's conqueror Dominic Thiem. World No. 2 Nadal, who has never won the elite event in his illustrious career, served for the match in the second set but was eventually beaten 3-6, 7-6(4), 6-3. Medvedev — arguably the hottest player on the Tour after his Paris Masters win — put Nadal's serve under intense pressure in the early stages of their evening match at the empty O2 Arena. But he was unable to make his chances count and a drop in his level allowed the Spaniard to break to love to lead 5-3 before serving out the set. Medvedev immediately found his focus at the start of the second set, winning his first service game to love before Nadal double-faulted to give the Russian a 2-0 lead. Just when it seemed as though Medvedev was cruising, Nadal broke back twice to take total control and stepped up to serve for the match. But, in another astonishing twist, the 20-time Grand Slam champion was broken to love and Medvedev won the eventual tie-break. The deciding set hinged on the seventh game, which Medvedev won and went on to seal a famous victory.  The results (semifinals): Singles: 4-Daniil Medvedev (Rus) bt 2-Rafael Nadal (Esp) 3-6, 7-6(4), 6-3.   Doubles: 7-Jurgen Melzer (Aut) & Edouard Roger-Vasselin (Fra) bt 2-Rajeev Ram (USA) & Joe Salisbury (GBr) 6-7(4), 6-3, [11-9].   Before the loss to Medvedev, Nadal was 70-0 after winning the first set. The Spaniard’s previous loss was against Kyrgios at Acapulco in February 2019 2020 was Nadal's 10th appearance at the year-ender without winning the title, the most by any player Medvedev and Thiem are the first players at the ATP Finals to notch up victories over both Nadal and Djokovic since Federer in 2010
23 November 2020||Chennai,||Sweet home-coming after six seasons||The return of a long lost son it is. For Tamil Nadu, the coming back of K.B. Arun Karthick is welcome news. He brings with him ability and experience. And, crucially, adds depth. When Karthick trained with the Tamil Nadu boys at Chepauk after spending six years playing for Assam, Kerala and Puducherry, he said, “It feels good to be back.” Eventful journey He shared his eventful journey with The Hindu in a conversation on Saturday. Karthick made his debut in the marquee Ranji Trophy clash against Karnataka in Bengaluru, 2008. And he notched up a century on debut. However, with international M. Vijay back for the next game, he lost his place. “I was always seen as an opener, but Tamil Nadu already had Vijay and Abhinav Mukund. So it was hard to break in,” he said. Karthick spent several years in the periphery before moving to Assam. He played three years for Assam, two for Kerala and one for Puducherry. “Wherever I went, the team did well. Assam and Kerala reached the semifinals of the Ranji Trophy for the first time in their history,” Karthick said. By now, he had become a vastly experienced middle-order batsman with 4477 runs in 83 first class games at 36.39. He can be explosive in the shorter formats. Karthick nailed a game for Royal Challengers Bangalore in a last-gasp finish in the IPL, and then had a prolific TNPL in 2018. Driving force A desire to win the Ranji Trophy was the driving force in the Ranipet-born cricketer returning to his home State. “At the practise session I could sense that everyone was keen to bring home the Ranji Trophy after so many decades. The vibe was definitely there,” he said. A bottom-handed right-hander, strong on the cut and the pull and fluent with his flicks and sweeps, Karthick said more than technical changes, he improved his “game awareness to different situations.” He has improved his off-side game, and has made a conscious effort to play straighter in the longer formats. Tamil Nadu’s tactically suave assistant coach R. Prasanna said, “Given the wealth of batting Tamil Nadu has, Karthick will have to fight for his place. But he is a team-man, can open, bat middle-order and keep wickets if the need arises.” Karthick is up for the challenge.
23 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ready to bat anywhere: Rohit||He has enjoyed and revelled in his role as a Test opener, but Rohit Sharma says he will be flexible about his batting position in the Test series against Australia. The senior batsman is expected to play a big role alongside Test vice-captain Ajinkya Rahane and Cheteshwar Pujara when skipper Virat Kohli returns to India after the opening Test for the birth of his first child. “I will be happy to bat wherever the team wants me to, but I don’t know if they would change my role as an opener,” said Rohit. “I am sure the guys already in Australia must have figured out what the options are when Virat leaves and who will open the innings,” Rohit said. “Once I reach there, I will have a better idea of what’s going to happen. I will be okay to bat wherever they want.” One of the finest players of the hook and the pull, Rohit felt that the bounce on the Australian tracks is not as big a factor as it is made out to be. “We talk about bounce, but except for Perth, over the past few years, the other grounds (Adelaide, MCG, SCG) don’t have that much bounce. Nowadays, especially while opening the batting, I will have to think about not playing the cut or pull shots and focus on playing in the ‘V’”, he said. Rohit cited the example of how Nathan Lyon was Australia’s best bowler (eight wickets) in the Perth Test that the host won in the 2018 series. “We talk about bounce on Australian tracks... but tell me how many people got out to bouncers during the last series? When we played in Perth in 2018-19, it was Nathan Lyon who got eight wickets, including a five-for. In Australia, half the job is done if you can start well upfront.” He spoke about how a Josh Hazlewood, Pat Cummins or Mitchell Starc would keep it full with the kookaburra new ball. “With the new ball, whoever bowls, whether it’s Starc, Cummins or Hazlewood, they will obviously pitch it up, swing the ball and the bouncer would be used sparingly. “They would try to get some movement in the air and off the pitch. With the new ball, every bowler in the world loves to bowl full, and send down the odd bouncer.”
23 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SFI webinars focus on developing training strategies||The Swimming Federation of India (SFI) on Sunday conducted back-to-back webinars with the first stessing on developing a winning mindset and specifically targeting swimmers and parents. The second webinar was for Indian coaches which emphasised on strategies and techniques for resuming training effectively and efficiently. The webinars were conducted by Wayne Goldsmith, MD, Moregold Sports. He is one of the most sought-after speakers globally on development of swimming and coaches’ education for transforming how it is delivered for success of young athletes. The first session covered important aspects such as striking a balance between competitive swimming and education. Mental training It also explained the importance of mental training in every session, role of parents in swimming, how parents can help their child to realise their potential, and how parenting impacts the child’s success in sport, school and in life. “My mother followed the entire webinar and I was tuned in for the most part of the Q&A where some very interesting questions on mental training, balancing studies and swimming etc was being asked,” said Srihari Nataraj, who has successfully clocked the B Qualifying time for the Tokyo Olympics. “Wayne focused a lot on the importance of guiding the child into becoming a good athlete and how it’s important for parents to allow the child to have their freedom and to leave it up to the coach and the swimmer which I personally feel is quite critical.”
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Fab Five’ can hunt down the Aussies: Shastri||Ravi Shastri has been talking tough to his team. “No let up.” The conditions, as he admitted in this chat on Sunday with Sportstar from his room in Adelaide, are “tough,” but so is the resolve of the Indian team to make a mark this summer in Australia, one of the hardest cricket countries to tour, especially under the current scenario due to the coronavirus pandemic. The expectations from India are huge. “Nothing wrong. It makes us all the more excited to perform. I know it is going to be tough, but then the monkey is off our back...off the back of the captain (Virat Kohli).” “We beat Australia here the last time (2018-19) and beat them when they played in India (2016-17). None from this Australian team has the experience of having beaten India in India. We have lost at home to Australia only once in the last 15 years and that was in 2004,” Shastri said. India was capable of producing sparkling cricket, Shastri felt. “We have a tremendous bowling attack. I know Ishant (Sharma) is not here [yet], but then we have the capacity among the young bowlers to deliver. It is for them to grab the chance and prove that they are second to none.” The full range When asked to elaborate, Shastri observed: “We have a fabulous five – (Jasprit) Bumrah, (Mohammed) Shami, (Mohammed) Siraj, Umesh (Yadav) and Navdeep Saini. Yadav has the experience. Saini is young and fast. Bumrah is one of the best in the business. Shami is raring to go. Siraj is an exciting prospect. You put up runs on the board and watch these fast bowlers hunt the opposition. They can beat Australia in their own den.” At the same time, Shastri said that much depended on the surfaces. Chalk and cheese “We begin with pink-ball cricket where we lack experience. We have played just one pink-ball Test (against Bangladesh in Kolkata), but there is a qualitative difference between them and Australia. It is like chalk and cheese. “We have not played much pink-ball in domestic cricket, but I just want them to go and enjoy their game in Adelaide. We will be having some match fitness for white-ball cricket and [after that] we have to show the willingness to adapt.” Backing Kohli’s decision Shastri also backed skipper Kohli on his decision to return home for the birth of his first child. “It is a once-in-a-lifetime moment and I am with him. He is not the one to miss a game without a compelling reason. But for the quarantine, he would have returned for the last Test. “But it’s not easy because the quarantine process in Australia is strict and to go through another 14-day period of isolation would be tough for anyone.” “I must tell our fans and critics that Virat is the only Asian captain to have won a series against Australia both home and away. “That’s the trigger for the team to remember and shine.”  We have not played much pink-ball in domestic cricket, but I just want them to go and enjoy their game when they play the Adelaide Test
23 November 2020||MADRID,||Carrasco on target as Atletico shocks Barcelona||Atletico Madrid delivered a boost to its hopes of winning the LaLiga by beating Barcelona 1-0 on Saturday, consigning its opponent to the worst start to a league season in 29 years. Yannick Carrasco finished brilliantly from range after mistakes from Gerard Pique and Marc-Andre ter Stegen left the goal open. Atletico recorded its first league victory over Barcelona in 10 years, putting it three points ahead of Real Madrid with a game in hand. It is now second in the table, level on points with early high-fliers Real Sociedad. The result also left Barcelona languishing in 10th, with 11 points from the first eight games. It is the club’s worst tally at this stage since the 1991-92 season. Atletico has extended its unbeaten run in the league to 24 matches. In the Premier League on Sunday, Arsenal held on for a 0-0 draw at Leeds after Nicolas Pepe was sent off for head-butting Ezgjan Alioski. Arsenal has won only one of its last five Premier League games and sits 11th, while Leeds is 14th. Dominic Calvert-Lewin scored after just 42 seconds as Everton won 3-2 at Fulham. On Saturday, Tottenham powered to the top with a 2-0 win over Manchester City, while Chelsea jumped to second after victory at Newcastle. Jose Mourinho’s side is now two points clear of Chelsea, thanks to goals from Son Heung-min and Giovani Lo Celso. Manchester United was a 1-0 winner over West Brom. Ronaldo double lifts Juve In Serie A, Cristiano Ronaldo scored his third brace in five games as Juventus moved to second with a 2-0 win over Cagliari on Saturday.  Important results:   On Sunday:   Serie A: Fiorentina 0 lost to Benevento 1 (Improta 52).   Inter 4 (Sanchez 64, Lukaku 67, 84-pen, Martinez 90) bt Torino 2 (Zaza 45+2, Ansaldi 62-pen).   Verona 0 lost to Sassuolo 2 (Boga 42, Berardi 75); Roma 3 (Mayoral 28, Mkhitaryan 32, 40) bt Parma 0.   Sampdoria 1 (Thorsby 7) lost to Bologna 2 (Regini 44-og, Orsolini 52) .   EPL: Fulham 2 (Decordova-Reid 15, Loftus-Cheek 70) lost to Everton 3 (Calvert-Lewin 1, 29, Doucoure 35).   Sheffield 0 lost to West Ham 1 (Haller 56); Leeds 0 drew with Arsenal 0.   LaLiga: Eibar 0 drew with Getafe 0; Cadiz 0 lost to Real Sociedad 1 (Isak 66).   Bundesliga: Freiburg 1 (Petersen 63) lost to Mainz 3 (Mateta 2, 34, 40).   On Saturday:   EPL: Tottenham 2 (Son 5, Lo Celso 65) bt Manchester City 0; Manchester United 1 (Fernandes 56-pen) bt West Brom 0.   LaLiga: Sevilla 4 (Kounde 5, En-Nesyri 45+3, Escudero 85, Munir 87) bt Celta Vigo 2 (Aspas 10, Nolito 36).   Atletico Madrid 1 (Carrasco 45+3) bt Barcelona 0.   Serie A: Juventus 2 (Ronaldo 38, 42) bt Cagliari 0.   It was Barcelona’s worst start to a league season in 29 years Atletico extended its unbeaten run in the league to 24 matches
23 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Herrmann quits, AFI for two HPDs||The Athletics Federation of India, while acknowledging German Volker Herrmann’s contribution, indicated on Sunday that it was looking at dividing the responsibilities of the erstwhile High Performance Director with separate ones for seniors and juniors going ahead. “He dedicatedly contributed a lot in our coaches’ education programme. We tried to convince him to stay, however, it’s his personal decision to go back to Germany and we respect his decision. He has expressed his wish to continue as a consultant in future and we will definitely do that as and when required,” AFI president Adille Sumariwalla said. “We are now looking forward to appoint two High Performance Directors, one for senior athletes and one for juniors and youth,” he added. Herrmann, who worked with the AFI for 16 months since joining in July 2019, had resigned three weeks ago and announced the same through a Facebook post late on Saturday night. “Working in high performance sports requires a high level of expectations. Numerous athletes and teams all around the world, supported by their coaches and staff, are competing with the one goal to be the best at a particular date. Only one will succeed. Fruitful years “After one and a half fruitful and inspiring years in India, the day has come when I could not any longer meet the self-imposed expectations coming along with the role of AFI’s high performance director, which is why I resigned from my position three weeks ago.” Herrmann wrote. Herrmann had expressed positivity at his stint in India in July this year and even expressed hope at the road ahead in another post a month back as athletes’ training resumed.
23 November 2020||Hyderabad:,||Smashing Blue claims main event||Trainer R.H. Sequeira’s Smashing Blue, ridden by Akshay Kumar, won the upper division of the Youngsters Plate, the chief event of Sunday’s (Nov. 22) races here. The winner is owned by Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy & Dr. Peddi Reddy Prabhakar Reddy and trained by R.H. Sequeira. Trainer R.H. Sequeira saddled three other winners, while Jockey Akshay Kumar rode two more winners on the day.     RECOMMENDER PLATE (Div. II), (1,400m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): SHIVALIK VALLEY (Akshay Kumar) 1, Chuckit (Afroz Khan) 2, Spicy Star (Abhay Singh) 3 and Lightning Power (Kuldeep Singh) 4. Not run: Kate and Silver Set. 7-1/2, ns and 2-1/4. 1m 26.49s. Rs. 17 (w), 17, 37 and 29 (p). SHP: 34, THP: 49, FP: 227, Q: 328, Tanala: 14,456 (c/f). Favourite: Kate. Owners: Mr. Ravinder Reddy Male & Mr. Teja Gollapudi. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  YOUNGSTERS PLATE (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II): SMASHING BLUE (Akshay Kumar) 1, Classic Remark (Gaurav Singh) 2, Warrior Supreme (Md.Ismail) 3 and N R I Super King (Darshan R.N.) 4. 3/4, 3-1/4 and hd. 1m 13.78s. Rs. 7 (w), 5, 34 and 20 (p). SHP: 36, THP: 43, FP: 167, Q: 89, Tanala: 3,223. Favourite: Smashing Blue. Owners: Mr. P. Prabhakar Reddy & Dr. Peddi Reddy Prabhakar Reddy. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  DEMOCRACY PLATE (Div. I), (1,200m), rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): CURCUMIN (Jitendra Singh) 1, Story Teller (Nakhat Singh) 2, N R I Heights (Darshan R.N.) 3 and Smarty (Ashad Asbar) 4. Not run: Joy Of Giving. 1, 2 and 2. 1m 15.47s. Rs. 10 (w), 5, 36 and 25 (p). SHP: 75, THP: 103, FP: 581, Q: 380, Tanala: 3,349. Favourite: Curcumin. Owner: Mr. Abhimanyu Vinod Sigtia. Trainer: S. Sreekant.  ADOLFITO PLATE (1,200m), rated 40 to 65 (Cat. II): SOVIET PRIDE (Akshay Kumar) 1, Celeritas (Afroz Khan) 2, Apollo (Ashad Asbar) 3 and Flamboyant Lady (Nakhat Singh) 4. Not run: Amazing Script. 2-1/2, 2 and 1-1/2. 1m 13.83s. Rs. 10 (w), 7, 15 and 5 (p). SHP: 30, THP: 32, FP: 141, Q: 101, Tanala: 1,115. Favourite: Soviet Pride. Owners: Mr. Y. Damodar & Mr. Ashok Kumar Gupta. Trainer: R.H. Sequeira.  RECOMMENDER PLATE (Div. I), (1,400m), rated 20 to 45, (Cat. III): MIRANA (Ashad Asbar) 1, House Of Diamonds (Akshay Kumar) 2, Southern Princess (P. Trevor) 3 and Francis Bacon (Surya Prakash) 4. Not run: Crazy Horse and Castlerock. 4, 2 and 1-1/4. 1m 27.24s. Rs. 68 (w), 9, 8 and 7 (p). SHP: 6, THP: 7, FP: 156, Q: 99, Tanala: 365. Favourite: Southern Princess. Owners: Mr. S. Daljeet Singh, Mr. Sardar Jivtesh Singh, Mr. Ashok Chukkla & Mr. S. Mohan Raju. Trainer: M. Srinivas Reddy.  DEMOCRACY PLATE (Div. II), (1,200m), 5-y-o & over, rated 20 to 45 (Cat. III): MARVEL PRINCESS (Kiran Naidu) 1, The Special One (Abhay Singh) 2, Starboy (Ashad Asbar) 3 and Royal Green (Darshan R.N.) 4. Not run: Best Friend. 1/2, 2 and 2-1/4. 1m 15.87s. Rs. 16 (w), 6, 19 and 21 (p). SHP: 32, THP: 34, FP: 348, Q: 175, Tanala: 5, 472. Favourite: Marvel Princess. Owner: Mr. Niraj Tyagi rep. Blazing Saddle. Trainer: K.S.V. Prasad Raju. YOUNGSTERS PLATE (Div. II), (1,200m), rated 60 to 85 (Cat. II): TRUMP GIRL (Abhay Singh) 1, Shaquille (Akshay Kumar) 2, Long Range (Irvan Singh) 3 and Southern Legacy (Gopal Singh) 4. 2-3/4, 2-1/4 and 1-1/4. 1m 14.37s. Rs. 10 (w), 12, 10 and 22 (p). SHP: 28, THP: 44, FP: 159, Q: 59, Tanala: 992. Favourite: Trump Girl. Owners: Mr. Krupakar Reddy Challuri, Mr. Eswarachandra Rajagopal Tripuraneni & Mr. Vijay Anand Jangiti. Trainer: R.H. Sequeria.  SOVIET STAR PLATE (1,200m), 4-y-o & over, rated upto 25 (Cat. III): AUGENSTERN (Afroz Khan) 1, Bob Campbell (Jitendra Singh) 2, Hopscotch (Ashad Asbar) 3 and Tough Lady (Surya Prakash) 4. Not run: Alexanderthegreat and Rhine. 3-1/4, 2-3/4 and 2-1/2. 1m 16.27s. Rs. 23 (w), 5, 11 and 9 (p). SHP: 21, THP: 16, FP: 427, Q: 151, Tanala: 2,421. Favourite: Dazzling King. Owners: Mr. M. Rafeeq Iqbal, Dr. Sardar Mohd Khan & Mr. Subodh Kumar Ananthula. Trainer: Mir Faiyaz Ali Khan. Jackpot : 70%: Rs. 18, 424 (7 tkts), 30%: 614 (90 tkts). Treble (i): 83 (177 tkts), (ii): 1,975 (5 tkts), (iii): 2,146 (5 tkts). Mini Jackpot (i): 2,299 (6 tkts), (ii): 6,792 (1 tkt).
23 November 2020||KOLKATA,||T20 Challenge a boon to players, say coaches||With the six teams preparing for the first edition of the Bengal T20 Challenge, starting here on Tuesday, the coaches listed the benefits of the tournament. East Bengal coach Shibsagar Singh said the event would help the cricket-hungry players. “Every player is eager to do well in the tournament. Before the start of the domestic season, this will give everyone a chance to showcase his talent,” he said. Test of fitness Mohun Bagan coach Sanjib Goyel said the tournament would test the fitness of the players. “Everyone has got affected due to the pandemic. Some players participated in the Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) pre-season (training), while the others worked on their fitness at home. “With 12 matches to play, we will have to keep the fitness of the players in mind. We will have to keep shuffling them,” said Goyel. Kalighat Club coach Satinder Singh said the Challenge would be a blessing for the youngsters. “Hopefully, new talent will emerge and Bengal cricket will benefit a lot,” he said. Keen competition Nilambar Saha, Calcutta Customs coach, expected a keen competition. “It will be very tight as all the teams are balanced,” said Saha. Town Club coach Kanchan Maity felt that the tournament would help players stake a claim in the forthcoming IPL. “Keeping all protocols and rules in mind, we have prepared well and are eager to perform. The (next) IPL is close and this is where a player needs to perform.” Tapan Memorial Club coach Avishek Barman was excited about his team’s prospects. “Having Shahbaz Ahamad, who just came back from the IPL, as captain is a big boost. “We will gain from his experience and current form,” said Barman.  Every player is eager to do well in the tournament — Shibsagar Singh,East Bengal coach   It will be very tight as all the teams are balanced — Nilambar Saha,Calcutta Customs coach
23 November 2020||BENGALURU:,||Tarun, Suhitha triumph||Tarun Vetrivelan and Suhitha Maruri emerged the boys and girls’ singles champions respectively at the KSLTA-AITA Junior Circuit Talent Series tennis tournament that concluded on Sunday.  The results (finals):   Boys: Tarun Vetrivelan bt Mandeep Reddy Kudumal 6-4, 2-6, 6-4.   Girls: Suhitha Maruri bt Vanya Srivastav 6-2, 6-1 .
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennaiyin primed for action, says Laszlo||Chennaiyin FC’s new coach Csaba Laszlo has not been able to spend sufficient time with his players or oversee their training. His trip from Romania to Goa under quarantine rules meant he has had a little more than two weeks with the players. The Hungarian, however, has taken it in his stride and is focused on the team’s first match against Jamshedpur FC to be held at the ‘away’ Tilak Maidan Stadium in Vasco on November 24 (Tuesday). Difficult times “It is difficult for everybody. I arrived two-three weeks late. But I think the chemistry with the players and support staff is good. That is important,” he said at a virtual press meet on Sunday. The coach had words of praise for Anirudh Thapa and Lallianzuala Chhangte while picking developmental player Rahim Ali as the one to watch. Despite the absence of top striker Nerijus Valskis, who has moved to Jamshedpur FC, his team has sufficient firepower upfront, Laszlo said. “We have forwards Jakub [Sylvestr] and Isma [Esmael Goncalves]. And we have [Rahim] Ali who is strong and could be the future. We have winger Fatkhulo [Fatkhulloev] whose style is good. That way [skipper] Rafael [Crivellaro] will have more options. He can score goals and [also] give key passes,” he said.  Owen Coyle transformed Chennaiyin last season, taking it to the final from nowhere. Now with the Scot being on the opposite side (with Jamshedpur FC), will it be a matter of concern? “I don’t think it will affect the game too much,” Laszlo replied.
23 November 2020||Sydney,||Bouncers won’t rattle Smith: McDonald||Attempting to emulate Neil Wagner and rattle Steve Smith with a barrage of bouncers may not be a good idea for the visiting Indians, according to Australia’s assistant coach Andrew McDonald. Against New Zealand in the 2019-2020 season, Smith was dismissed by left-arm pacer Wagner four times, as the Kiwi consistently attacked the batsman with short-pitched deliveries aimed at his body. Opposition’s choice But despite that, McDonald doesn’t think the Australian run-machine has any weaknesses in his batting. “I know within a Test match he had that moment (recently) with (Jofra) Archer where he got him,” McDonald said on Sunday. “But in terms of coming back off that, he was still able to score runs. Even in one-day cricket and T20 cricket, he’s been able to score runs with that plan being adopted by opponents. So, I don’t necessarily see it as a weakness, they can keep approaching it that way if they want,” he said. In recent times, quite a few bowlers have tried to rattle Smith with short-pitched stuff and the Australian also suffered concussions twice after being hit on the neck and head. The Indians also employed the short-ball strategy against him during the three-match ODI series in January, but Smith responded with scores of 98 and 131. “They had a leg gully, a deep square and a deep man just in front of square and they had everyone up on the off-side during the PowerPlay. So, that’s a tactic they’ve used before. But he was able to combat that in India last time, so he’s had that before and he’s worked his way through it,” McDonald said.
23 November 2020||KARACHI,||Pakistan players to face less restrictions: Report||The 50-strong Pakistan cricket contingent, which is heading to New Zealand on Monday for a T20 and Test series next month, will face less restrictions compared to the tour of England that the side undertook earlier this year, a report said. The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) has not allowed families to accompany the players and officials, but according to a report, there will be less restrictions for the touring squad this time around compared to England. Quarantine period The report said that after reaching Auckland, the Pakistan contingent will be in a 14-day quarantine period. Pakistan plays three T20Is and two Tests and the New Zealand board has said that it is looking at allowing some crowds for the matches with the cooperation of its government. The series starts with T20s on Dec. 18. In the initial quarantine period, players and support staff will spend three days alone in total isolation during which they will not be allowed to leave or meet each other. A COVID-19 test will be conducted on the fourth day after which groups of 15 individuals will be made, including both players and support staff members. Members of these groups will live in their own separate areas and will not be allowed to interact with individuals of other groups for the remainder of their quarantine period. Once the quarantine period is over, another test will be conducted after which the players and officials will be free to go around as they please. In England, the players underwent more number of COVID tests and were in quarantine for a longer duration.
23 November 2020||MELBOURNE,||Australian Open schedule to be finalised soon||Tennis Australia says the dates for next year’s Australian Open in Melbourne should be known within two weeks. Chief executive Craig Tiley was responding on Sunday to reports that the season-opening Grand Slam event might be pushed back until February, March or even later. The tournament is scheduled to start on January 18. But questions remain over quarantine arrangements for players and their entourages — an estimated 2,500 people. In a statement, Tiley said Tennis Australia is “doing everything it can to finalise the summer of tennis as soon as possible. “Our intention is to deliver a summer in conditions that allow the players to prepare and perform at their best and the fans to enjoy their efforts — all in an environment that is safe for all concerned,” he said. “We are working closely with the Victorian Government on a plan that takes into account the needs of the players, fans, our partners and staff, and is of major benefit to the Victorian and Australian economies,” Tiley said. Urgent talks “We are continuing our urgent talks with local health authorities regarding quarantining and bio-security requirements and are confident we will have decisions soon.” Tiley said TA is “acutely aware” of the need for certainty but also of reaching a solution with the state government that ensures the safety of the entire community. He said reports that the tournament might be delayed, even as late as April, are pure “speculation.”
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 00:00 IST,||Krishna clarifies||In the Bhagavad Gita, Lord Krishna speaks of daivim sampath and asurim sampath. Those with demoniac qualities think of sense objects as lasting pleasures, and exhibit qualities like arrogance and pride. Ravana captured the wives of others, and did not think this was wrong. During the battle, Rama cut off Ravana’s heads, and every time, his heads came back, and it was only after hundred times, that Ravana was finally killed. Why was it so? Ravana had sinned by capturing the virtuous wives of others, and he was therefore repeatedly punished, before his evil life was brought to an end, said Valayapet Ramachariar, in a discourse. Arjuna is sorrowful at the thought of having to fight his relatives. Lord Krishna tells him about daivim sampath and asurim sampath. Arjuna is blessed, because he had the grace of Lord Krishna at birth. Those who know that the body and the atma are different are those with a divine disposition. They are people who follow His orders. Those who violate His orders are those with a demonic nature. The Lord lists the qualities of those with virtue and those without. Again, the question may arise as to why He had to list the negative attributes also. Was it not enough to just list the qualities of righteous people? The answer to this would be that a doctor not only tells us what to do, but also tells the patient what not to do. In the same manner, Lord Krishna tells Arjuna about both desirable and undesirable qualities. Arjuna was not a violator of the Sastras, and yet he had not completely conquered his ego. Like many of us, he had what Bhagavan calls ‘atimanah’ — that is conceit. The Lord is reassuring him that he has had jayamana kataksha — that is the Lord’s glance at the time of birth and is therefore not asuric in nature.
23 November 2020||Sydney,||Kohli’s absence will leave a big hole, says Ian Chappell||Former Australia captain Ian Chappell believes Virat Kohli’s departure after the first India-Australia Test next month will leave a “big hole” in the visiting line-up, creating a selection dilemma which could ultimately decide which way the series goes. Kohli will return home after the first Test in Adelaide (December 17 to 21), to welcome his first child. Chappell feels the situation provides a perfect opportunity for young Indian batters to show their skills. An opportunity, too “This creates both a big hole in the Indian batting order and an opportunity for one of their talented young players to make a name for himself,” Chappell has written in a column for ESPNcricinfo.com . “What was already shaping up as an exciting tussle now has the added stimulus of crucial selection decisions. “The result could well come down to who is the bravest set of selectors,” he says. Chappell feels India has an edge in terms of preparation.
23 November 2020||ORLANDO,||Prajnesh loses in final||Prajnesh Gunneswaran lost to Brandon Nakashima 6-3, 6-4 in the final of the Orlando Open Challenger tournament on Sunday. However, it was a productive end to the season for the 31-year-old, having made the final of the Cary Challenger the week before. Prajnesh, as a result, is set to leapfrog Sumit Nagal (ranked 136) to finish as India’s No.1 singles player this year.
23 November 2020||Karachi,||Zaman ruled out of NZ tour||Pakistan’s dashing opener Fakhar Zaman was on Sunday ruled out of the forthcoming tour of New Zealand just a few hours before the team’s departure after failing to recover from fever. The 30-year-old left-hander tested negative but had fever, forcing Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) to withdraw him. “The decision to withdraw Zaman from the tour was made keeping the health of the rest of the squad members as a top priority,” said a PCB release.
23 November 2020||MADRID,||Pique sustains serious knee injury||Barcelona’s Gerard Pique has sustained a serious knee injury, the club confirmed on Sunday, with the defender expected to be out for at least two months. Pique cried as he hobbled off the pitch during Barca’s 1-0 defeat by Atletico Madrid in La Liga on Saturday following a colission with Angel Correa. “Tests have shown that he has a grade 3 sprain in the internal lateral ligament and partial injury to the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee,” said Barcelona in a statement. The club also confirmed that Sergi Roberto will be out for two months after tearing a muscle in his thigh.
23 November 2020||LONDON,||Be patient on Oz Open, urges Nadal||Rafael Nadal urged patience over the arrangements for the Australian Open after losing his last-four match at the ATP Finals in London on Saturday. “I don't know what's the situation going to be yet,” he said. “We need to wait about what the (State) government there in Victoria says,” said Nadal. “We have nobody to say what they feel is better for their country. We just need to be patient and accept the situation. “We need to be flexible to understand the situation and to find a way to play as many tournaments as possible next year.”
23 November 2020||Melbourne,||Pranjala tops group||Y. Pranjala beat Alana Parnaby 6-4, 4-6, [10-7] in the second league match of the UTR Pro tennis championship here on Sunday. The 21-year-old Pranjala thus topped the three-player group, having earlier beaten former World No. 20 Daria Gavrilova. Pranjala awaits the topper of the other group, in the four-day competition.
23 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Sajiv advances||Sajiv Mathew of Towers Club entered the round-of-64 by defeating Rizwan (QBG) 4-1 in the second round of the Ajay Rastogi memorial-all-India open snooker tournament on Sunday.  The results (second round):   Uday Kumar (TNBSA) bt Raj Mohan (Pondy) 4-1; Sajiv Mathew (Towers Club) bt Rizwan (QBC) 4-1; Vishwanath Reddy (Tel) bt Parthiban (Pondy) 4-0.
23 November 2020||November 23 2020 07:26 IST,||Sudoku - November 23, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
23 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||City records coldest Nov. night in 17 years||It was the coldest November night in 17 years as the minimum temperature in the Capital dropped to 6.9 degrees Celsius — four degrees under the normal for the season — on Sunday. In November 2003, the mercury had dropped to 6.1 degrees Celsius. The Capital recorded a minimum of 7.5 degrees Celsius on Friday, which was the lowest in the month in 14 years, the Met said. It added that November has consistently seen temperatures below average due to the absence of cloud cover. Also, over the past few days, icy cold winds from the Himalayas have been blowing towards the city. However, under the influence of a Western Disturbance, the minimum is not likely to go down further and will rise to settle around 10 degrees Celsius, the Met said. The maximum temperature settled at 24.2, which was also two degrees below normal for the season. Partly cloudy sky is forecast for the coming days with mist in the morning. October this year was the coldest in 58 years as the mean minimum temperature was 17.2 degrees Celsius, the lowest since 1962, when it was 16.9 degrees Celsius. The all-time record for the lowest minimum temperature in November is 3.9 degrees Celsius recorded on November 28, 1938. The air quality in the Capital remained in the “poor category” with an AQI of 274 based on data from 36 monitoring stations over a period of 24 hours. Noida, Greater Noida, Ghaziaband, Faridabad and Gurugram also remained in the “poor category”. According to the Ministry of Earth Sciences’ air quality monitor, SAFAR, the effective stubble fire counts with sufficient potential estimated from SAFAR-multi-satellite products has decreased and are around 649. “Stubble burning share in PM2.5 in Delhi’s air is estimated as 12% for Sunday. Winds are forecast to slow down and low ventilation is forecast for November 23 and 24,” the bulletin said. SAFAR said the AQI is likely to deteriorate to the middle end of “very poor” category by November 23 and is likely to further deteriorate to the high end of “very poor” by Nov. 24. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”.
23 November 2020||New Delhi,||2 Delhi evening markets ordered shut for violating COVID-19 norms||The West Delhi district authorities on Sunday ordered two evening markets in Nangloi to be shut for flouting various COVID-19 safety guidelines, including on social distancing and wearing face masks, officials said. The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in West Delhi issued an order Sunday, directing closure of Punjabi Basti Market and Janta Market till November 30, a senior district official said. “The government directives for wearing face mask, maintaining physical distancing and other such COVID-19 safety measures were being flouted both by the vendors and shoppers in the two rehri-patri [street side] markets despite repeated instructions and warnings by officials,” he said. The district authorities, accompanied by the police and North Delhi Municipal Corporation teams, conducted inspection to ensure the closure of the markets and removal of encroachments in both the markets. Over 200 vendors dealing in various daily-use items used to set up shops in the markets that opened in the evening hours daily. The action comes two days after Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said his government did not wish to shut any market, and had assured their associations to support the government in preventing the spread of COVID-19 infection through these places. In the midst of a spurt in COVID-19 cases in Delhi, the Chief Minister had on Tuesday sought power from the Centre to impose restrictions in markets which may emerge as COVID-19 hotspots due to crowds, people not using face masks and violations of social distancing norms. Delhi has been reeling under a third wave of COVID-19 and has reported a death rate of 1.58% as compared to the national fatality rate of 1.48%. Experts attribute the high number of daily COVID-19 deaths in the national capital to a large number of “critical” non-resident patients coming to the city for treatment, unfavourable weather, pollution and better “reporting and mapping” of fatalities.
23 November 2020||Ghaziabad,||Man gets life sentence for bid to rape 100-year-old||A Meerut court on Friday sentenced a man to life imprisonment for attempting to rape a 100-year-old Dalit woman. The incident occurred in 2017 and the woman had died of shock during the medical investigation. “The convict has been found guilty under Sections 302, 376/511, and 458 of IPC and has been sentenced to life imprisonment. A penalty of Rs. 25,000 has also been imposed on him,” said Nishant Kumar Garg, the special public prosecutor who represented the State in the court. According to the order, passed by Mohd. Ghulam Ul Madar, Special Judge (SC/ST Act), Meerut, the incident happened on the night of October 29, 2017 in Raghunathpur village under Jani police station of Meerut, when the convict, Ankit Punia, a neighbour of the victim, trespassed into her residence in a state of drunken stupor and tried to sexually assault her. When the victim’s grandson and his wife rushed out, after hearing the cries of their grandmother, they found the convict lying over the victim. “The grandson raised the alarm and caught Ankit, in his mid-30s, but he managed to escape. The victim was taken to the government hospital, where she passed away the next day during the medical check-up. The post mortem report said the victim was already ill because of age-related issues but died because of the shock caused by the assault,” said Mr. Garg, adding that the convict was, however, acquitted of charges under Sections 3(2) 5 of SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. The lawyer of the convict had argued that the victim’s family had owed Rs. 1 lakh to Punia’s family and that they filed a false case against his client so that they did not have to repay the loan and get compensation from the government. “As he could not produce any documentary proof, the honourable judge did not take his argument into account,” said Mr. Garg.  ‘No motive’ “There was no motive. Heavily drunk, he just could not hold his sexual urge,” said Mr. Garg. “It is the same as some perverts assault infants and kids,” he argued. The judge described the act as heinous and said a lighter punishment would send an adverse message to society. However, the judge did not find the case to fall in the rarest of rare category, and hence, the accused was awarded life imprisonment.
23 November 2020||Agartala,||CM warns against circulation of videos on Tripura violence||Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb on Sunday warned action against those circulating graphic videos on Saturday’s violent incidents at Panisagar in north Tripura that left two dead and many injured. In a tweet, he appealed to people to refrain from sharing videos and images of the violence on social media platforms to avoid misinterpretation in society. The Tripura police too, in their Twitter handle, issued a warning against sharing videos on social media. “Strict legal action would be taken against those sharing such videos and spreading rumours”, they stated. Law and order issue The statement said the incidents at north Tripura were a law and order issue, but on social media, videos were being circulated to ‘give the incident the colour of communal violence’. Police said the situation in Kanchanpur and neighbouring Panisagar was now peaceful. One person, Srikanta Das (45), was killed when security personnel opened fire on huge crowds from Kanchanpur who blocked the Assam-Agartala National Highway at Chamtilla in Panisagar to protest the government’s plan to settle Bru refugees in Kanchanpur. The irate mob lynched a fire service staff, Biswajit Debbarma (40), who got trapped in the clashes. About 23 people, including 15 police and fire service personnel, were injured in the violence. Some of them were shifted to the GBP Hospital in Agartala. Five security vehicles were damaged by the protesters of the Joint Movement Committee (JMC) which had spearheaded agitation against the plan to permanently rehabilitate 5,000 Bru evacuees in Kanchanpur. The JMC had enforced an indefinite strike in Kanchanpur, which entered seventh day on Sunday. The Tripura government has announced a compensation of Rs. 5 lakh each to the bereaved families. Meanwhile, Kanchanpur Sub-Divisional Magistrate Chandni Chandran confirmed deployment of Assam Rifles and Border Security Force personnel in restive areas. The north Tripura district administration imposed Section 144 of CrPC in both Kanchanpur and Panisagar. 12 places selected The Tripura government has selected 12 places, including Kanchanpur, to rehabilitate some 35,000 Mizoram Brus currently housed in six makeshift camps. In January, Union Home Minister Amit Shah presided over the signing of a quadripartite accord of Ministry with State governments of Mizoram, Tripura and leaders of Bru refugees to permanently settle evacuees in Tripura, ending 23-year-old imbroglio. The refugee leaders recently met State Chief Secretary Manoj Kumar seeking implementation of the accord which offered lucrative rehabilitation package to the evacuees.
23 November 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha govt. modifies school closure criterion after protests||The Naveen Patnaik Government on Sunday changed school closure criterion following criticism from Opposition legislators and general public. The Bharatiya Janata Party and the Congress had stalled Assembly proceedings demanding withdrawal of school closure notification on Saturday. There are 67,000 schools including 52,000 schools coming under School and Mass Education department in Odisha. The government has announced to close down schools having less than 20 students, across the State. If there are two schools situated within one kilometre distance, then schools having student strength of less than 25 in schedule areas and 40 in non-schedule area would have been shut. As many as 7,772 schools were facing closure.  Move opposed Opposition parties had been vehemently opposing the move. Senior Congress leader Tara Prasad Bahinipati had announced to end his life in Assembly if the decision was not rescinded. They said closure of schools would lead to increase in rate of dropouts. Due to huge natural barriers, it was not possible for small kids to travel even one km distance, said Opposition leaders. “Closing down schools is not an intention of the government. We have now decided to close down schools having less than 15 students in schedule area. Earlier, the criterion was 25,” said Samir Ranjan Dash, School and Mass Education Minister. Mr. Dash, however, said the less than 20-student criteria for closing down schools remained unchanged “The ‘one size fits all’ decision will exclude thousands of children living in inaccessible region to access education. Government must revisit the policy and decide on shutting down of schools on case to case basis,” said Umi Daniel, social activist.
23 November 2020||New Delhi,||Court rejects petition of Delhi riots accused||A Delhi court has denied plea of a man, arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots, seeking bail on the ground that he wanted to attend his sister’s marriage. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav said he found substance in the submissions of the Special Public Prosecutor (SPP) that parents of Adil and his other siblings are there to take care of the marriage. The judge also added that he “cannot lose sight of the fact that offence complained off in the present matter is serious one as the same pertains to the brutal murder of an innocent auto-driver — Babbu — by the riotous mob”. Adil had sought interim bail for a period of 14 days for participating in the marriage. It was argued that his presence was very much necessary for the peaceful solemnisation of the marriage. In support of his contention, he submitted a copy of “Wedding Card”. The court, however, agreed with the contentions raised by the SPP that he has six sisters and one brother — who all can look after the arrangements. The SPP had argued that his brother was there to take care of the customs. The judge also noted that the Delhi High Court in a recent verdict had emphasized that the “gravity of offence has to be taken into consideration while considering the application for interim bail”. “Considering the facts and circumstances of the case in totality, I do not find it to be a fit case for enlarging the applicant [Adil] on interim bail,” the judge said refusing the interim bail application.
23 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Supplementary chargesheet against ex-JNU students||The police on Sunday filed supplementary chargesheeet against former JNU students — Umar Khalid, Sharjeel Imam — and one Faizan Khan under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act registered in connection with north-east riots. The supplementary chargesheet was filed in FIR number 59 — being investigated by Special Cell — in the court of Special Judge Amitabh Rawat. The FIR was registered under sections of UAPA, criminal conspiracy, rioting, cheating, murder, attempt to murder, Arms Act and damage to public property. A total of 930 pages of chargesheet were submitted, including 197 pages of chargesheet and 733 pages of documents. The main chargesheet in the case, comprising 17,000 pages, was filed against 15 persons in September. ‘Planned violence’ The police said protesters had blocked roads at 25 places. They added that violence was planned on the arrival of U.S. President Donald Trump in Delhi in a WhatsApp group that was created in the name of a Delhi protest support group. In February this year, riots that broke out in parts of north-east Delhi claimed 53 lives and injured 583 persons. There was high-scale destruction of both government and private properties, the police said. They added that claims amounting to more than Rs. 20 crores to compensate for the loss of property had been filed before the Delhi government.
23 November 2020||Jaipur,||BJP seeks probe into Minister’s audio clip||The BJP on Sunday sought an inquiry after an audio clip in which a Rajasthan Minister is allegedly heard using a casteist slur against a Congress worker surfaced on social media. In the purported conversation over the phone, Rajasthan Sports Minister Ashok Chandna is allegedly heard using a casteist slur against Congress worker Raju Gurjar over the ticket for the panchayat polls in Bundi district and dares him to contest the elections. The casteist slur has been made at the end of the conversation. Mr. Chandna could not be reached for comments. An inquiry into the matter should be ordered and if it is the voice of the Minister, he should be sacked, BJP spokesperson Ramlal Sharma said. Mr. Gurjar said he was threatened by the Minister on November 8 for demanding the ticket for the Panchayat elections. “I had been working for the party for the past 17 years and demanded the ticket for the elections of the panchayat samiti member from Ward No.5 of Nainwa in Bundi. I texted the Minister seeking an update on it, but he lost his cool. He called back and threatened me,” he alleged. Mr. Gurjar is now contesting the elections as an Independent candidate. The polling in Nainwa will take place on November 27. Mr. Chandna represents the Hindoli (Bundi) Assembly constituency of Rajasthan.
23 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||Nuh MLA launches campaign for addiction-free society||Several political, social and religious leaders along with academicians came together to launch a campaign in Nuh for a society free from all types of addiction on Saturday. Launching the campaign at Satputiyaka-Hussainpur village, Nuh MLA and Deputy Leader of Congress Legislative Party Aftab Ahmed said addiction to alcohol, tobacco and drugs were on the rise not only in Nuh but also across the country. He added that there is an urgent need to prevent youngsters from falling prey to this menace. Future of the country The MLA said the youth is the future of the country and therefore cannot be allowed to become slaves to addiction. “It is not a political campaign, but only a social initiative involving all sections of the society to create an addiction-free society,” said Mr. Ahmed. He added that he had made an appeal to the Haryana government in 2017 to impose a ban on liquor in the State. Mr. Ahmed, who was the Haryana Transport Minister, realised that addiction has been rising in the past three years in Nuh. ‘Religion and society’ “Our religion and our society consider addiction an evil. It destroys our body, mind and soul,” he said. Pradesh Congress Committee member Chaudhary Mahtab Ahmed and Mewat Vikas Sabha president Salamudeen Meo were also present during the drive.  It is not a political campaign, but only a social initiative involving all sections of the society to create an addiction-free society Aftab Ahmed Nuh MLA
23 November 2020||New Delhi,||Carry out inquiry of de-addiction centre: HC||The Delhi High Court has ordered the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to carry out a preliminary inquiry of a drug de-addiction centre based in Dehradun after it found that a 22-year-old woman was being illegally kept there despite her not being addicted to any narcotic or other substance. A Bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rajnish Bhatnagar questioned the circumstances under which the de-addiction centre, Golden Dream Society Rehabilitation Centre, admitted the woman and kept her there for over three weeks on the request of her mother. “The role of Golden Dream Society Rehabilitation Centre, Dehradun, appears to be dubious,” the High Court said. When the Bench interacted with the mother, she revealed her real concern was that her daughter was under “strong influence” of, and in relationship with a married man who has two children. The woman, on the other hand, told the Bench during the videoconferencing hearing that she does not wish to have any alliance with either her mother or with the married man. Taking note of the submission, the court ordered immediate release of the woman from the centre. It also remarked that “the possibility of the said centre being misused for the purpose of forcibly detaining people on the ground that they require rehabilitation, cannot be ruled out”. It directed registration of a case against the centre and its director.
23 November 2020||Agar Malwa/Bhopal,||M.P. govt. planning ‘gaumata’ tax||The BJP government in Madhya Pradesh is planning to levy a cess to raise money for the welfare of the cow, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday. Addressing a public meeting in Agar Malwa, Mr. Chouhan invoked “Indian culture” to explain the rationale behind the likely move to impose the “gaumata” tax. “I am thinking of imposing some minor tax to raise money for the welfare of the ‘gaumata’ (cow) welfare and for the upkeep of cow sheds....Is it alright?” the BJP leader asked while the people replied in the affirmative. ”...We used to feed the first ‘roti’ (baked in households) to cows. Similarly, we used to feed the last roti to dogs. Such was the concern for animals in our Indian culture which is vanishing now, so we are thinking to collect some small tax from the public for the sake of cows,” Mr. Chouhan said. He said a law will be enacted to run cowsheds in the State. Earlier in the day, the CM chaired the first meeting of the newly-formed ‘gau cabinet’ (cow cabinet) through virtual mode, during which it was decided to boost the cow-based economy.
23 November 2020||Jaipur,||First phase of panchayat polls in Rajasthan today||All preparations have been made for the first phase of the elections to panchayat bodies in 21 Rajasthan districts on Monday, an official said here. According to State Election Commissioner P.S. Mehra, around 72.38 lakh people will be eligible to vote in the panchayat samiti and zila parishad polls on Monday, for which nearly 25,000 EVMs will be used at 10,131 polling stations. Around 50,000 employees will be deployed for the polls, he said, adding that people will be able to vote from 7.30 a.m. to 5 p.m.
