24 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, China to ‘cool down’ LAC tension||India and China have arrived at a “mutual consensus” to disengage on their disputed eastern Ladakh boundary, an Army official said on Tuesday after detailed talks between Corps Commanders on Monday. The disengagement, eight days after 20 Indian soldiers were killed by Chinese troops in the Galwan Valley of Ladakh, came on a day Army chief M.M. Naravane visited his injured colleagues in a Leh hospital. Beijing, too, echoed the sentiments expressed in New Delhi, with the Foreign Ministry spokesman welcoming the Corps Commander-level talks “to take necessary measures to cool down the situation”. He said arrangements towards de-escalation were being coordinated by the two militaries on the ground. Phased disengagement An Indian Army official, who wished not to be named, said, “The Corps Commander-level talks between India and China on June 22 were held at Moldo in a cordial, positive and constructive atmosphere. There was a mutual consensus to disengage. Modalities for disengagement from all friction areas in eastern Ladakh were discussed and will be taken forward by both the sides.” Another Army official said the disengagement would be done from different places in a phased manner without giving a specific time frame or sequence. There would be more ground-level talks to take forward the disengagement. In the first Corps Commander talks on June 6, both sides identified five locations of conflict — Patrolling Point (PP) 14, 15, 17A, North bank of Pangong Tso and Chushul — and agreed on limited “disengagement” in some of the places. But that consensus ended with the Galwan clash. Interestingly, both rounds of talks between the Corps Commanders took place in Moldo, the designated meeting point on the Chinese side. They were reportedly sought by the Chinese side and hosted by the People’s Liberation Army (PLA). ‘False information’ The Chinese Foreign Ministry rejected a statement made by Gen. V.K. Singh (retd.) that China lost more than 40 soldiers in the June 15 clash, terming it “false information”. Beijing has not revealed the number of casualties from the Galwan clash. The Ministry said the holding of Monday’s Corps Commanders meeting, the first since the clash, “showed that the two sides hope to resolve differences, and control and ease the situation through dialogue and consultation”. When asked about Monday’s agreement to disengage, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said, “The relevant measures are being coordinated and arranged by the border forces of the two countries on the ground.” The Ministry said both sides agreed to take forward the consensus reached on June 6.
24 June 2020||Mumbai,||Wedding receptions allowed, but with 50 attendees at most||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday said citizens can now organise wedding receptions, but only with a maximum of 50 attendees and ensuring that physical distancing norms are followed strictly. Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Vadettiwar said the State government has received numerous requests asking to lift the restrictions on holding wedding receptions during the COVID-19 pandemic. “We were constantly receiving requests to this effect. Therefore, we have decided to allow wedding receptions with a maximum 50 attendees,” the minister said, reiterating that all physical distancing norms have to be followed. The receptions can be organised only on open lawns, non air-conditioned wedding halls, people’s residences or the nearby area. Mr. Vadettiwar said the decision was taken in view of the government’s move towards easing the lockdown restrictions and resuming activity in the State. Meanwhile, Food, Civil Supplies and Consumer Protection Minister Chhagan Bhujbal has written to Union Minister of Food and Public Distribution Ram Vilas Paswan, requesting an extension to the provision of free rice and dal to the poor till September. The relief is being provided under the Pradhan Mantri Gareeb Kalyan Ann Yojana. “For the last three months, we have been giving 5 kg rice per person and 1 kg dal per family for free to those with ration cards every month. Businesses have not restarted yet, neither are there jobs available for the poor. I have requested that the scheme should be continued for the next three months, till September,” Mr. Bhujbal said. On Tuesday, he met Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief and Rajya Sabha MP Sharad Pawar, requesting him to discuss the matter with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.  We were constantly receiving requests. Therefore, we have decided to allow wedding receptions with a maximum 50 attendees Vijay Vadettiwar Relief and Rehabilitation Minister
24 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,||Sattankulam tense as trader, son held during lockdown die||Tension prevailed in Sattankulam in the district on Tuesday after a 60-year-old timber trader and his 31-year-old son, who were arrested and lodged in the Kovilpatti sub-jail, died in hospital within hours. Accusing the police of beating to death the timber trader, Jayaraj, 60, and his son Bennix, 31, who owned a mobile phone showroom, members of the public staged an agitation on the road. The protesters demanded registration of murder cases against sub-inspectors, Balakrishnan and Pauldurai, who allegedly thrashed the father and the son. Both of them are attached to the Sattankulam police station. On June 19, when Jayaraj was in the mobile phone showroom of his son Bennix, the police picked him up for allegedly keeping the shop open in the evening in violation of lockdown norms. As the police allegedly assaulted Jayaraj, his son Bennix appealed to the police to release him. When the police reportedly assaulted Jayaraj with a baton and roughed him up, Bennix came to his rescue. After thrashing them, the officers took them to the police station. Later, both were taken to the Kovilpatti Government Hospital where they died. The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court directed the Dean of the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital to constitute a team of three doctors and conduct the postmortem of father and son. A petition was filed by the family members of the victims demanding that the postmortem be videographed. Justice B. Pugalendhi directed the experts to conduct the postmortem, which shall be videographed. “Jayaraj and Bennix were thrashed again after they were taken to taking them to the police station, even as some of us were witnessing it from the entrance of the police station,” said a relative. After registering a case against Jayaraj and Bennix under Sections 188, 383 and 506 (II), the police lodged them in the Kovilpatti Sub-Jail. “While the police brutally assaulted Bennix and inserted a baton into his anus that triggered uncontrolled bleeding, they smashed Jayaraj and kicked him on his chest multiple times. We saw him bleeding profusely even as he was in police custody at Sattankulam police station,” charged the relatives of Bennix. At the Kovilpatti Sub-Jail, Bennix’s bleeding became uncontrollable due to an internal haemorrhage and he fell unconscious on Monday evening. Though he was rushed to the Kovilpatti Government Hospital, he died around 9 p.m. Jayaraj developed “chest pain” when he was in the prison and was admitted to the Kovilpatti Government Hospital where he died around 8 a.m. on Tuesday. MLA joins protest Tiruchendur MLA Anita R. Radhakrishnan, who arrived at the spot around 10 a.m., joined the protesters. “Both the officers recently thrashed a youth from nearby Peikulam without any reason. Now, they have murdered two innocents. A murder case should be registered against Mr. Balakrishnan and Mr. Pauldurai. Besides employment to two persons from the families of the deceased, the Tamil Nadu government should give Rs. 1 crore as compensation,” he said. Superintendent of Police Arun Balagopalan said the son, who had heart ailments, developed breathing problems in the jail and got admitted to the Kovilpatti Government Hospital, where he died. “Jayaraj was running high fever when he was arrested and was admitted to the isolation ward of Kovilpatti Government Hospital for monitoring. He died around 5 a.m. on Tuesday. Since they were under judicial remand, an autopsy will be done under the monitoring of Judicial Magistrate and further course of action will be taken based on the post-mortem report,” he said. Sub-inspectors, Mr. Balakrishnan and Mr. Pauldurai have been shifted to the Armed Reserve Police Force.
24 June 2020||New Delhi,||Ayush lens on Ramdev’s COVID-19 cure||Hours after yoga guru Baba Ramdev unveiled Ayurvedic medicines — ‘Coronil’ and ‘Swasari’ — on Tuesday, claiming that clinical trials on COVID-19 affected patients had shown favourable results, the Central government asked Patanjali Ayurved Limited to stop advertising the drug and sought details on its claimed “successful trial and cure”. In a statement issued by the Ministry of Ayush on the claims made by Haridwar (Uttrakhand)-based Patanjali Ayurved in treating COVID-19, the Ministry noted that it had taken cognisance of the news being recently flashed on its drug. Facts of the claim related to the drug and details of the stated scientific study are not known to the Ministry, the statement said. List of details Patanjali Ayurved has been asked to provide, at the earliest, details of the name and composition of the medicines being claimed as successful in COVID-19 treatment; site(s)/ hospital(s) where the research study was conducted; the protocol, sample size, Institutional Ethics Committee clearance, Clinical Trials Registry-India (CTRI) registration, and results data of the study, and to stop advertising/publicising such claims till the issue has been duly examined. The Ministry has also requested the concerned State Licensing Authority of the Uttarakhand government to provide copies of the license and product approval details of Ayurvedic medicines being claimed as useful in the treatment of COVID -19. “Also, the concerned Ayurvedic drug manufacturing company has been informed that such advertisements of drugs, including Ayurvedic medicines, are regulated under the provisions of the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954, and Rules thereunder and the directives issued by the Central government in the wake of COVID outbreak,” the Ministry said. Meanwhile, a scientist associated with the trial, said trial investigators had not yet published the results. Dr. Abhishekh Sharma, assistant professor of medicine, National Institute of Medical Sciences and among those who supervised the trial, said that 100 patients, who had tested positive for the virus, were recruited for the trial. Of them, 50 were given the medicine and five dropped out midway. The remaining 50 were administered a placebo.
24 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State records new high of 141 cases, 1 death takes toll to 22||Kerala reported 141 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, the number of cases steadily going over 100 for the fifth consecutive day. With 60 recoveries, the active number of cases in the State at present stands at 1,620. One more COVID-19 death was reported on Tuesday, taking the death toll to 22. A 68-year-old, a native of Mayyanad, Kollam, died at Kollam Government Medical College Hospital. He had returned from Delhi to his home State on June 10 and had been in the hospital since June 15 after he developed fever and tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The cumulative number of cases reported ever since the outbreak began is 3,451. The number of recoveries stands at 1,807. 10 contact cases On Tuesday, of the 141 new cases, local transmission resulted in 10 cases, including a health-care worker in Ernakulam. The rest 131 cases are imported cases of infection diagnosed in people who came from abroad or other States. The Health Department figures say that of the total of 2,811 cases reported in the State since May 4, 2,545 cases are imported ones. More than 100 cases Nine districts now have more than 100 active cases in hospitals. These include Malappuram (201), Palakkad (154), Kollam (150), Ernakulam (127), Pathanamthitta (126), Kannur (120), Thrissur (113), Kozhikode (107) and Kasaragod (102). The number of persons under surveillance and in quarantine is 1,50,196, of whom 2,206 persons with mild symptoms have been isolated in hospitals in various districts. The number of hotspots in the State now is 111.
24 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Slash staff at mission, India tells Pakistan||Protesting “espionage” and “terrorism-related” activities by officials of the Pakistan High Commission in Delhi as well as the “ill treatment” of Indian High Commission officials in Islamabad, the government has decided to reduce the staff strength at both missions by half. The government’s decision, which will bring down Indian staff strength in Pakistan to 55, follows the return of two Indian staffers from Pakistan on Monday, who had been subjected to torture by Pakistan security agencies earlier this month, the MEA said. On Tuesday, MEA’s Joint Secretary Deepak Mittal summoned Pakistan’s Charge d’ Affaires Syed Haidar Shah to inform him of the decision, giving Pakistan seven days to complete the process. The last time this kind of reduction of diplomats was seen was in 2001, after the attack on Parliament. Pakistan has denied all allegations and responded by asking India to reduce its staff in Islamabad. “The behaviour of Pakistan and its officials is not in conformity with the Vienna Convention and bilateral agreements on the treatment of diplomatic and consular officials. On the contrary, it is an intrinsic element of a larger policy of supporting cross-border violence and terrorism,” the MEA said in its statement. It referred both to the arrest and expulsion of two Pakistan High Commission officials on May 31 for suspected spying activities and attempting to recruit an agent, and the arrest and torture of two Indian staffers in Islamabad on June 15. The reduction in staff strengths in the latest in a series of measures taken by New Delhi and Islamabad.
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,||IAS officer Vijay Shankar found dead at home||Senior IAS officer B.M. Vijay Shankar, 58, was found dead at his house in Jayanagar on Tuesday evening. The Tilak Nagar police have filed an Unnatural Death Registry (UDR) report and are further probing the case. On Tuesday evening, his family members found him dead in his bedroom. The body was found lying on the floor, sources said. However, senior police officials refused to confirm any details. “Only an autopsy can reveal the exact cause of death,” a senior police official said. The officer was arrested on charges of bribery in the IMA scam in July 2019 and has been facing Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe in connection with the scam. He was recently out on bail and was posted as Additional Mission Director, Sakala. Sources said he was in Vidhana Soudha earlier in the day, though there is no clarity on whom he met. He attended office on Tuesday and held a meeting. Mr. Shankar is survived by wife and two children.  (People in distress or having suicidal thoughts can seek counselling by calling Arogya Sahayavani at 104.)
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump suspends H-1B visas till year-end||Tech workers in India hoping to move to the U.S. for work suffered a setback on Monday with U.S. President Donald Trump signing an executive order (EO) pausing new H-1B visas effective June 24 through the end of the year. H4 visas (H-1B dependents), L visas (intra-company transfers), as well as H-2B (non-agricultural workers) and J visas will be on pause through the year end. Mr. Trump’s order was issued ostensibly to protect American jobs during the ongoing pandemic but it has been criticised by the tech industry as well as politicians on both sides of the aisle as damaging to the U.S. economy. Monday’s order also extended to year-end, the April 22 order suspending new immigrant visas issued to those outside the U.S. The order does not apply to existing green card holders, spouses and children of U.S. citizens, those already in the U.S. on temporary work visas (such as H-1Bs) or their derivative visas. Also exempt are those outside the U.S. who have valid non-immigrant visas issued before June 24. Individuals may still apply from within the U.S. for H-1B transfers, but if these are denied for any reason, such individuals could fall out of status. There will be an exemption for professors and scholars on J visas as well as for some food industry workers needing an H-2B visa, according to senior administration officials, who briefed reporters on a call on Monday (U.S. time).
24 June 2020||New Delhi,||Ayush Ministry’s lens on yoga guru Baba Ramdev’s COVID-19 cure||Hours after yoga guru Baba Ramdev unveiled Ayurvedic medicines — ‘Coronil and Swasari’ — on Tuesday, claiming that clinical trials on COVID-19 affected patients had shown favourable results, the Central government asked Patanjali Ayurved Limited to stop advertising the drug and sought details on its claimed “successful trial and cure”. In a statement issued by the Ministry of Ayush on the claims made by Haridwar (Uttrakhand)-based Patanjali Ayurved in treating COVID-19, the Ministry noted that it had taken cognisance of the news being recently flashed on its drug by the company. Facts of the claim related to the drug and details of the stated scientific study are not known to the Ministry, the statement said.  Patanjali Ayurved has been asked to provide, at the earliest, details of the name and composition of the medicines being claimed as successful in COVID-19 treatment; site(s)/ hospital(s) where the research study was conducted; the protocol, sample size, Institutional Ethics Committee clearance, Clinical Trials Registry-India (CTRI) registration, and results data of the study, and to stop advertising/publicising such claims till the issue had been duly examined. The Ministry has also requested the concerned State Licensing Authority of the Uttarakhand government to provide copies of the license and product approval details of Ayurvedic medicines being claimed as useful in the treatment of COVID -19.
24 June 2020||Bengaluru/Raichur,||Another round of lockdown?||A day after Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said that COVID-19 should be contained without affecting economic activities in Bengaluru, one of his Ministers (B. Sriramulu) said on Tuesday that a citywide lockdown could be contemplated “if the situation warrants”. Meanwhile, ruling out any possibility of implementing further lockdown in Bengaluru, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi has said that “it is now difficult to implement another round of lockdown as the government has already taken initiatives to tackle the pandemic.”
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Crowds pull out||
24 June 2020||Srinagar,||CRPF jawan, two militants killed in J&K||Two unidentified militants and a CRPF jawan were killed in an encounter in south Kashmir’s Pulwama on Tuesday. A police spokesman said that the terrorists were killed in the gunfight and their bodies were retrieved from the site of the encounter in Bundzoo area of Pulwama. A CRPF jawan also received critical gunshot injuries. “He succumbed to his injuries in a hospital,” the police said. He was identified as head constable Sunil Kala of the CRPF’s 182 Battalion The identification and the affiliation of the killed terrorists are being ascertained, the police added. 108 militants killed At least 108 militants have been killed so far this year. “The operation was launched on a specific input generated by the Pulwama police regarding their presence in Bundzoo area. They were given the opportunity to surrender. However, they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party,” said the police spokesman. The villagers claimed the slain militants were locals. “The bodies of the terrorists have been sent to Handwara for their last rites after conducting medico-legal formalities, including collection of their DNA. In case any family claims them to be their kith or kin, they can come forward for the identification and participation in the last rites,” the police said. The police said incriminating material, including two AK rifles and ammunition, were recovered from the site. Militant hideouts busted A militant hideout was busted in Harwan area on the outskirts of Srinagar. Police sources said one magazine of AK-47 and an Under Barrel Grenade Launcher (UBGL) along with six grenades were recovered from the hideout. In a separate operation, the security forces spotted a hideout in Poonch’s Bufliaz area. “One Pika gun, 7.62 mm rounds and 222 cartridges were recovered,” said the police sources.
24 June 2020||New Delhi,||India, China need no help, says Lavrov||Russia has appreciated India and China for not resorting to “non-diplomatic” language during the tension at the Line of Actual Control near Ladakh. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said at the Russia-India-China Foreign Minister-level virtual interaction on Tuesday that both countries were capable of solving the crisis without escalation. The discussions among Mr. Lavrov and his Indian and Chinese counterparts backed an upgrade of the group to include inter-ministerial meetings covering defence, health, culture and technology. “New Delhi and Beijing have shown commitment to peaceful resolution after they initiated contacts between military officers and Foreign Ministers. Neither side has made any statement regarding finding non-diplomatic solution... I don’t see any reason for Russia or anyone else to impose its services to help India and China,” he said.
24 June 2020||Washington DC,||Trump suspends H-1B visas till year-end||Tech workers in India hoping to move to the U.S. for work, suffered a setback on Monday with U.S. President Donald Trump signing an executive order (EO) pausing new H-1B visas effective June 24 through the end of the year. H4 visas (H-1B dependents), L visas (intra-company transfers), as well as H-2B (non-agricultural workers) and J visas will be on pause through the year end. Mr. Trump’s order was issued ostensibly to protect American jobs during the ongoing pandemic but it has been criticised by the tech industry as well as politicians. Monday’s order also extended to year-end, the April 22 order suspending new immigrant visas issued to those outside the U.S. The order does not apply to existing green card holders, spouses and children of U.S. citizens, those already in the U.S. on temporary work visas (such as H-1Bs) or their derivative visas. Also exempt are those outside the U.S. who have valid non-immigrant visas issued before June 24. Individuals may still apply from within the U.S. for H-1B transfers, but if these are denied for any reason, such individuals could fall out of status.
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,||KSEEB helpline flooded with anxious calls||With the number of COVID-19 cases on the rise, the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board helpline has been flooded with calls from parents and students demanding that the SSLC examination be put off for the time being.
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,||HC seeks action against politicians for violations||Taking serious note of a large number of violations of lockdown regulations by political figures and elected representatives, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to take strict action against violators.
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Association suspends activities at golf club||Karnataka Golf Association closed the premises and suspended golf activities on Tuesday after a member tested positive for COVID-19 here. The member had played a round of golf at the club on June 13, and tested positive for the virus on Tuesday.
24 June 2020||Coimbatore,||No need for lockdown in Coimbatore: Collector||Coimbatore district does not need a lockdown as of now, as the recent COVID-19 cases had contracted the infection outside the district, said Collector K. Rajamani on Tuesday.
24 June 2020||New Delhi,||Record 3,947 fresh COVID-19 cases in Delhi||Delhi witnessed the biggest single-day spike of 3,947 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 66,602, said a government health bulletin. Also, 68 more deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 2,301.
24 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana to give Rs. 1,500 for transport to workers||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Tuesday announced that the State government would bear the transportation cost of the migrant labourers willing to return home. He said the government would provide financial assistance of Rs. 1,500 as transport fare to each construction labourer.
24 June 2020||New Delhi,||Sisodia writes to L-G to scrap new guidelines||Delhi’s Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Tuesday said he has written to Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal urging him to end the new system under which COVID-19-positive people will have to visit a ‘COVID Care Centre’ to get examined.
24 June 2020||Madurai,||Strict norms for e-pass||The district administration has approved 312 out of 2,312 e-pass applications received here on Tuesday from residents of other districts in Tamil Nadu looking to make their way back to Madurai before the intensified lockdown begins.
24 June 2020||KALABURAGI,||Another COVID-19 death in Ballari||An 85-year-old woman (P-9679), a resident of Kappagal Road in Ballari city, died of COVID-19 on Tuesday. The woman was admitted to Vijaynagar Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), a designated hospital, on June 17 and she died on June 22. Her swab test report turned out to be COVID-19 positive. With this, the total number of COVID-19 fatalities in the district rose to four. As on Tuesday, the district reported 495 cases, including 145 people discharged from hospital after recovery. There are 346 active cases.
24 June 2020||Mumbai,||3,214 new cases, 248 deaths in Maharashtra||Maharashtra reported 3,214 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, with the cumulative number of cases in the State reaching 1,39,010. Of these, 62,833 cases are active, while 69, 631 patients have been discharged till now, health officials said. On Tuesday, 1,925 patients were discharged. Another 248 deaths took the total toll due to the virus to 6,531.
24 June 2020||Mumbai,||BEST starts terminating staff for absenteeism||The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) Undertaking has started terminating the services of drivers and conductors on the grounds of absenteeism during May. It had earlier issued chargesheets to nearly 2,000 workers and the latest action is a result of the same.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. records over 2,000 COVID-19 cases yet again||For the seventh consecutive day, Tamil Nadu recorded 2,000-plus COVID-19 cases. Adding 2,516 new cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday, the overall tally of cases climbed to 64,603 as the Health Department instructed districts witnessing a spike in cases to strengthen surveill- ance of Influenza Like Illness.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Pudukottai tops in domestic violence||Pudukottai district topped the State with 1,424 cases of domestic violence during the lockdown (March 24-May 31), followed by Kancheepuram (819) and Tirunelveli (705). Among cities, Coimbatore was on top with 257 cases, followed by Salem(143) and Tiruppur (105).
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennai receives its quota of Krishna water||With Andhra Pradesh releasing the assured quantity of Krishna water this year, the Water Resources Department plans to seek water in a couple of days for the next spell, beginning July.
24 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India plans international flights||India is likely to enter into bilateral agreements with the U.S., the U.K., France and Germany to restart international air travel. The government is discussing a template known as “travel bubble”, which permits relatively unrestricted and risk-free travel between two countries positioned similarly vis-a-vis the spread of COVID-19. “As we contemplate further opening up in response to demands, we are looking at the prospect of establishing individual bilateral bubbles — India-U.S., India-France, India-Germany, India-U.K. These are all destinations where demand for travel has not diminished. Final decisions pursuant to negotiations are expected to be taken soon,” a spokesperson of the Ministry of Civil Aviation said. U.S. ultimatum The decision was made public on a day the U.S. served an ultimatum of 30 days to Air India, threatening to ban it from conducting repatriation charters under the Vande Bharat Mission. The U.S. said the special flights were putting American airlines at a “competitive disadvantage” because India did not allow them a share of the pie, which also allegedly amounted to the denial of reciprocal rights enshrined under the Air Services Agreement of 2005 signed between the two countries. “Air India’s so-called evacuation charters have gone beyond true evacuations [at least on the India to the United States segments] and involved sales to any member of the general public able to enter the United States. As such, it appears that Air India may be using its passenger repatriation charters as a way of circumventing the GoI (Government of India)-imposed prohibition of all scheduled services,” said the U.S. Department of Transportation (DoT) in its order. The DoT said Delta Air Lines had not received a response to its request made to India’s Ministry of Civil Aviation (MoCA) on May 26 to perform repatriation charter services. The MoCA issued a rebuttal: “We have also had one round of negotiations with the U.S. on 15 June 2020 with representatives of U.S. Department of Transportation and U.S. Embassy on this issue. They were invited to submit precise proposals in this respect. A communication has now been received on 19 June, 2020 detailing these requests.”
24 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre and CBSE likely to take decision today||The Union government and the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Tuesday informed the Supreme Court that the “decision-making process” on whether the remaining Class X and XII exams from July 1 to 15 should be held amid the pandemic was at an “advanced stage”. “Solicitor-General has informed us that the expert body is in the process of taking a final decision in the matter very shortly and hopefully by tomorrow, June 24. In the circumstances, we defer the hearing of these matter(s) to June 25, 2020 at 2:00 p.m,” a three-judge Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar said in a short order. Parents’ pleas The court said it would consider on Thursday separate petitions filed by parents of students of both the CBSE stream and those of the ICSE (Indian Certificate of Secondary Education), an examination conducted by the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examination. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, for the Centre and the CBSE, said that “we understand the anxiety of the students” and a decision may be finalised by “tomorrow [June 24] evening”. Advocate Rishi Malhotra, on behalf of the parents, said the students were worried about the uncertainty caused by the pandemic. A group of parents has sought the quashing of a notification to conduct the remaining Class X and XII exams in July. They have asked for students to be awarded marks based on an internal assessment or in line with the marks allotted for practical exams. A similar request has been made by the Maharashtra, Delhi and Odisha governments to the Ministry of Human Resource and Development. The parents said in the plea that students could potentially be exposed to COVID-19 infection if they appeared for exams amid an increase in the number of coronavirus cases. “The government is deciding... Let the government take a decision. These times are unprecedented,” Justice Khanwilkar, flanked by Justices Dinesh Maheshwari and Sanjiv Khanna, told Mr. Malhotra orally. ICSE exams case The Bench also took up a separate petition filed seeking clarity on the part of the ICSE authorities regarding the pending examinations. The Bombay High Court had raised concerns over the conduct of the exams in the middle of rising COVID-19 cases and deaths. The court asked the ICSE authorities to make their stand clear on the examinations. The court asked the ICSE, represented by senior advocate Jaideep Gupta, to “take the informed decision of the government [about conduct of exams] seriously and abide by it”. The government initially told the court that it could not decide for the ICSE. “We cannot decide for the ICSE. They have to say ‘we will follow the decision of the government’. We cannot bind the ICSE to our decision, they have to bind themselves,” Mr. Mehta said. Students in focus But the court told Mr. Gupta that the ICSE should go by what the government decided. “In the interest of students, ICSE should go by what the government decides about the conduct of the exams. The decision of the government will be taken after consultations with experts. It will be an informed decision. You [ICSE] abide by it,” Justice Khanwilkar addressed Mr. Gupta. Mr. Gupta, at one point, asked the court to defer the case in the Bombay High Court. He urged the court to list it with the CBSE matter coming up on June 25.
24 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Karnataka toll up; Telangana, T.N. case tally soars||Andhra Pradesh witnessed eight new COVID-19 deaths in the highest single-day spike so far, and Telangana recorded 879 positive tests for the infection. Kerala reported one more death and 141 new cases of COVID-19. With 60 recoveries, the active cases were 1,620. The death toll in the State stood at 22. A 68-year-old man belonging to Mayyanad, Kollam, died at Kollam Government Medical College hospital. He had returned from Delhi on June 10 and was in hospital since June 15 after he developed fever and tested COVID-19 positive. The cumulative cases reported since the outbreak began was 3,451, of whom, 1,807 had recovered. On Tuesday, of 141 new cases recorded, local transmission resulted in 10 cases, including that of a health care worker at Ernakulam. The rest were imported cases — people from abroad or other States. Health Department data showed 2,811 cases in the State since May 4, and 2,545 were imported cases. Nine districts now had over one hundred active cases in hospitals. These included Malappuram (201), Palakkad (154), Kollam (150), Ernakulam (127), Pathanamthitta (126), Kannur (120), Thrissur (113), Kozhikode (107) and Kasaragod (102). A.P cases high The toll in Andhra Pradesh with eight new fatalities rose to 119. Three new deaths occurred in both Krishna and Kurnool and one each in Guntur and Kadapa. In the past five days, 27 deaths were reported, and Krishna district continued to register the highest number of deaths, standing at 40.Meanwhile, the State detected 462 new cases after 20,639 samples were tested in 24 hours. Of the total, 407 fresh cases were of locals. The overall tally mounted to 9,834, including 7,858 local cases. East Godavari district reported 87 new cases and Anantapur 68 cases. They were followed by Kurnool (53), Guntur (50), Krishna (33), West Godavari (31), Chittoor (26), Kadapa (24), Visakhapatnam (21), Nellore (7), Prakasam (5), Srikakulam (1) and Vizianagaram (1). The State had so far tested 7.14 lakh samples. In another daily of high case numbers, Telangana recorded 879 positive tests on Tuesday, recording a total of 9,553. The 879 new cases included 652 from Greater Hyderabad, 112 from Medchal, 64 from Rangareddy, and 14 from Warangal Rural.  2,516 new cases in T.N. For the seventh consecutive day, Tamil Nadu recorded 2,000-plus cases of COVID-19 on Tuesday. With 2,516 new cases of COVID-19, the State’s overall tally climbed to 64,603, and the Health department instructed districts witnessing a spike to strengthen surveillance of Influenza Like Illness (ILI). Another 1,227 persons were discharged, taking the number of persons discharged so far to 35,339. There were 28,428 active cases. The death toll exceeded 800 with 39 more persons succumbing to the infection.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, and Chennai Bureaus)
24 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Govt. mishandled LAC situation’||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday told a virtual meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC) that the Narendra Modi government “gravely mishandled the border situation with China that has resulted in a full-blown crisis and is attributable to the wrong policies of the government”. While former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said the border crisis could lead to a serious situation if not tackled firmly, former party chief Rahul Gandhi said it was a “complete and total failure of diplomacy”. After starting the proceedings with two-minute silence and homage to Colonel B. Santosh Babu and the 19 jawans who were killed in the violent face-off with the Chinese troops last week, the CWC adopted three separate resolutions: the face-off with China, the Centre ‘abandoning’ the States in handling COVID-19 cases and the ‘extortionate increases in petrol and diesel prices’. Ms. Gandhi said India had been hit by a terrible economic crisis, a pandemic of huge proportions and a full-blown crisis on the borders with China and the cumulative effect of “widespread misery, fear, and danger to the security and territorial integrity of the country”. “Mature diplomacy and decisive leadership should inform the Modi government’s actions in protecting India’s territorial integrity”, she stated. The Prime Minister was “called out” when he announced that no one had intruded into Indian territory in Ladakh, she observed. “The undeniable fact is that since April-May, 2020 till date, Chinese troops have committed brazen transgressions into our territory in Pangong Tso Lake area and the Galwan Valley, Ladakh. True to its character, the government is in denial,” said Ms. Gandhi, adding, “...there is a growing feeling among people that the government has gravely mishandled the situation,” she said Mr. Gandhi said, “The established institutional structure of diplomacy has been demolished by the PM. Our relations with our once friendly neighbours lie in tatters.” On the COVID-19 pandemic, the CWC accused the Centre of leaving the States to fend for themselves. At the CWC, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot, backed by others, is learnt to have pitched for Mr. Rahul Gandhi to take over as party chief again. But at the press conference, the party denied that it was discussed.
24 June 2020||PATNA,||Five RJD MLCs join JD(U) in Bihar||In poll-bound Bihar, the Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) on Tuesday suffered a shock with five of its MLCs quitting the party to join the ruling Janata Dal(U). Another blow came to the party when ailing senior party leader and former Union Minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh resigned from the post of national vice-president. The five RJD MLCs — Sanjay Prasad, Radha Charan Seth, Ranvijay Kumar Singh, S.M. Qamar Alam and Dilip Rai — met Acting Chairman of the Legislative Council Awadhesh Narain Singh and handed over their resignation letters. They requested Mr. Singh to allow their group to merge with the JD(U). With five of the RJD’s total eight members in the Upper House having resigned, party leader Rabri Devi may lose her position as Leader of the Opposition in the 75-member Council. Under the rules, the main Opposition party must have at least 10% of the total seats in the Upper House for its leader to don the post of Leader of the Opposition. JD(U) leader Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh said, “the RJD does not respect its party leaders ...we welcome them to our party.” However, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav said, “Since elections are coming, leaders from one party will switch over to another party…but, this has also exposed that the JD(U) has no vote bank of its own and it throws all kinds of allurement to other party leaders to remain in power.” The RJD leaders held a meeting at the official residence of Ms. Rabri Devi to review the situation. In another blow, Raghuvansh Prasad Singh resigned from the post of party’s national vice-president (V-P). He is currently undergoing treatment for COVID-19. Mr. Singh, the four-time RJD MP from Vaishali, is said to be miffed over the recent meeting of his rival Rama Kishore Singh with Mr. Yadav. The buzz in RJD is that Mr. Rama Kishore Singh is to join the RJD on June 29.
24 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Change in ICMR rules delays local test kits||COVID-19 testing kits developed by labs of the Department of Science and Technology (DST) and the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) are yet to make it to the market thanks to a change in rules by the ICMR that now requires additional data and not just results from laboratory-controlled conditions. With nearly 4,50,000 positive cases nationally, several States have adopted testing strategies beyond the standard-of-diagnosis RT-PCR kits. The Delhi government last week allowed the use of a cheaper, rapid antigen test that gives quicker results but is less reliable when there is limited background prevalence of the disease. The ICMR recommends the kit developed by SD Biosensor, a South Korean company, but manufactured in India, as a confirmatory for positive test but a requires a re-test with PCR if the person tests negative. On May 5, the CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB) announced a collaboration with Tata Sons Ltd. to develop a paper-based test, called FELUDA, that could detect the presence of the virus. Unlike the conventional RT-PCR test that requires a specialised machine, FELUDA (FNCas-9 Editor Linked Uniform Detection Assay), was relatively more adaptable and could be used in conventional pathology labs that didn’t have a PCR machine. Moreover the results, its developers say, would be available in one hour. Early results However, officials said approvals for FELUDA would take more time. The FELUDA kit, which uses a CRISPR-cas9 gene editing system to detect the coronavirus, was developed completely in-house and based on the results, Tata Sons decided to take it up for production. In March and April, when ICMR was approving homegrown kits, it only needed a single batch of test kits to pass muster. Following the change in the ICMR’s rules, Dr. Anurag Agrawal, Director, CSIR-IGIB said, “Now at least three batches have to be made and, by the company, in their facilities.” Following the earlier nod, Dr Agrawal said, “Tata Sons got a factory in place in Chennai but due to the lockdown, there were delays in readying it as well as in procuring some of the equipment needed for the test.” Another testing kit announced in April by the Sri Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMS), Thiruvananthapuram, that was initially approved by the Pune-based ICMR-National Institute of Virology (NIV) sister-lab in Alappuzha, and commercially developed along with Ernakulam-based Agappe Technologies, is nowhere near ready.
24 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM CARES finances ventilators||The PM CARES Fund Trust has allocated Rs. 2,000 crore for the supply of 50,000 “Made-in-India” ventilators to government-run COVID-19 hospitals in all States and Union Territories. Further, Rs. 1,000 crore has been allocated for the welfare of migrant labourers, a Union government release said on Tuesday. The Indian companies involved in manufacturing the ventilators include Bharat Electronics Ltd., AgVa Healthcare and AMTZ Basic. “So far 2,923 ventilators have been manufactured of which 1,340 have already been delivered to the States/UTs,” the release said. The prominent recipients include Maharashtra (275), Delhi (275), Gujarat (175), Bihar (100), Karnataka (90) and Rajasthan (75). By month-end, 14,000 more will be delivered to cover all States and Union Territories. “Further, Rs. 1,000 crore has already been released to States/UTs for the welfare of the migrant labourers.” The distribution of the fund is based on the formula of 50% weightage for the population as per the 2011 Census, 40% weightage for the number of positive COVID-19 cases and 10% for equal distribution among all the States/UTs. “This assistance is to be used for arranging accommodation, food, medical treatment and transportation of the migrants. The main recipients of the grant are Maharashtra (Rs. 181 crore), Uttar Pradesh (Rs. 103 cr.), Tamil Nadu (Rs. 83 cr.), Gujarat (Rs. 66 cr.), Delhi (Rs. 55 cr.), West Bengal (Rs. 53 cr.), Bihar (Rs. 51 cr.), Madhya Pradesh (Rs. 50 cr.), Rajasthan (Rs. 50 cr.) and Karnataka (Rs. 34 cr.),” said the release.
24 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||HC grants bail to pregnant student||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday granted bail to Safoora Zargar, Jamia Coordination Committee media coordinator, who was arrested in the northeast Delhi violence case. Justice Rajiv Shakdher passed the order after the Central government, represented by Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, agreed to the grant of bail to Ms. Zargar, who is 23-week pregnant, “purely on humanitarian grounds”. Mr. Mehta said the order granting her bail should not be made a precedent in any other case and insisted on a slew of conditions to be followed by Ms. Zargar. Taking note of his request, the court said Ms. Zargar should not indulge in activities for which she had been investigated. She should refrain from influencing or hampering the investigation and seek the permission of the court concerned if she was required to go out of Delhi. Mr. Mehta also sought that Ms. Zargar be present at the police station concerned every 15 days, but Justice Shakdher declined the plea, saying an interaction with the investigating officer concerned on the phone once in 15 days was enough. The court also received some documents filed on behalf of the Delhi police in a sealed cover. “I have not opened the sealed cover. The documents, which are in sealed cover, are returned to the Registry,” the court said, asking the Registry to return it to the State government officer concerned. Advocate Nitya Ramakrishnan, appearing for Ms. Zargar, agreed to the terms and conditions set by the court. Earlier, the Delhi police objected, in the status report, to the grant of bail to Ms. Zargar, arguing that she was part of the “conspiratorial design” to use any means to cause death, injuries and loss. “Their main target was to uproot the government of India through violent means by instigating riots,” the report said. The police said 39 deliveries had taken place in Delhi prisons in the past 10 years and jail officials were providing Ms. Zargar with proper medical care.
24 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Chariots roll in Puri without crowds||The annual Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath was held in Puri on Tuesday without the usual congregation of devotees, a historic departure from the centuries-old tradition. The traditional servitors of Shree Jagannath Temple, who tested negative for COVID-19, performed the rituals associated with the Rath Yatra, which was allowed by the Supreme Court with stringent conditions. As per scriptures, deities step out from their abode once a year to give darshan to all devotees. More than a million people come to Puri to witness the grand festival every year. However, in view of the pandemic, the Supreme Court directed the State government not to allow devotees to gather for the festival. The State government imposed a 41-hour shutdown in Puri. The situation was normal in the temple. The traditional servitors started performing rituals since the early hours.    As ordered by the Supreme Court, the Puri district administration conducted a COVID-19 test on 1,143 servitors. One of them tested positive. The administration said tracing of the contacts of the lone servitor was under way. Around noon, the servitors started towing the chariots. Before the decorated chariots rolled on the 3 km Grand Road, fire service personnel sanitised the whole stretch. The police had sealed the entrance of every lane leading to the Grand Road.
24 June 2020||New Delhi,||CBI to quiz former Manipur CM in embezzlement case||A Central Bureau of Investigation team (CBI) is in Manipur to question former Manipur Chief Minister O. Ibobi Singh and some officials in connection with the alleged embezzlement of Rs. 332 crore by the four former chairmen of the Manipur Development Society (MDS). The CBI visit comes just days after Mr. Ibobi Singh, as head of the Congress legislature party, staked claim to form a new government in Manipur. “Mr. Ibobi Singh, who was the MDS chairman during the check period, has been asked to appear before the probe team on Wednesday,” a CBI official said. “The CBI wanted to record his statement at their Imphal office. We requested them to go for videoconferencing or visit our residence in view of the COVID-19 scenario. They agreed to come to our house tomorrow [on Wednesday]. We are not running away anywhere,” a member of Mr. Ibobi Singh’s family said. The former Chief Minister could not be contacted. In November last year, the agency had registered the case and searched multiple locations in Gurugram, Aizawl and Imphal, on the day when Manipur Congress legislators led by the former CM staged a protest in Delhi against the Naga Accord.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Submit report on action taken in Raghavendra bank case’||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed the Enforcement Directorate to submit a report on action initiated after registering an Enforcement Case Information Report (ECIR) in connection with the alleged fraud in Sri Guru Raghavendra Co-operative Bank Ltd, Bengaluru. Also, the court directed the State government on handling of the criminal case related to the bank by one investigating agency. One case was recently transferred to the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) from Basavanagudi police station while the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) had recently registered a First Information Report (FIR) based on a complaint by a shareholder-cum-depositor of the bank, and had searched several places. A division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy issued the directions while hearing a PIL petition filed by K.R. Narasimha Murthy and three other depositors of the bank. ‘Helps 54% depositors’ Meanwhile, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) told the court that its decision taken on June 19 permitting withdrawal up to Rs. 1 lakh per depositor would benefit 54% of the customers, who can avail their entire balance from the bank. The RBI has also said that it has received 7,623 applications from depositors seeking withdrawal for hardship and medical expenses, and it has allowed withdrawal of Rs. 12.3 crore by 2,467 applicants towards mitigating hardships, and Rs. 79 lakh for meeting medical expenses for 33 applicants so far. Avoid queue Meanwhile, the bench directed the bank’s administrator to take steps to avoid long queues in front of its branches in the present situation by allowing payment through online transfer of their money and provision to submit applications through e-mail for withdrawing the permitted amount. The bench also asked the RBI to consider other representations made by the depositors while reviewing the bank’s performance under Banking Regulations Act while adjourning further hearing till July 7.
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka govt. fixes fee for treatment in private hospitals||The Karnataka government on Tuesday fixed the rates for COVID-19 treatment in private hospitals, with charges ranging from Rs. 5,200 to Rs. 25,000, depending on the category and severity of the infection. Rates have been fixed for both Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka (AB-ArK) patients and other insurance/cash paying patients. In an order issued on Tuesday, the State government said 50% of beds in private hospitals having facilities to treat COVID-19 patients should be reserved for patients referred from public health authorities. The governmen did not want to wait till the Cabinet approved it as the need for referring patients to private hospitals is high, now with number of cases on the rise every day. While the rates per day for general ward has been fixed at Rs. 5,200 for AB-ArK patients and Rs. 10,000 for other insurance and cash patients; the rate for ward with oxygen has been fixed at Rs. 7,000 for AB-ArK and Rs. 12,000 for other insurance and cash patients. Similarly, the rates for Isolation ICU has been fixed at Rs. 8,500 for AB-ArK and Rs. 15,000 for other insurance and cash patients. And for Isolation ICU with ventilator, the rate is Rs. 10,000 for AB-ArK and Rs. 25,000 for other insurance and cash patients. According to the terms and conditions pertaining to treatment of COVID-19 patients in private hospitals, the rate ceiling announced by the government on Tuesday will not be applicable for patients subscribing to COVID-19 insurance packages as well as for agreements/ MoUs entered into between hospitals and corporate entities.     The Hindu on June 18 had written about the rates after the State’s COVID-19 task force modified and approved the cost of treatment in private hospitals recommended by an eight-member committee set up by the government. The revised rates had been referred to the State Cabinet for ratification. The government has accepted and approved the task force’s recommendation.
24 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Stalemate over test for expatriates||Kerala has stuck to its stance that expatriates returning by chartered and other flights from June 25 should not be allowed to board the flight untested for COVID-19, even as the Centre rejected the State’s request for a relatively speedier and cheaper TrueNat Beta CoV test. “We cannot compromise on the security of those waiting to fly down and the government is committed to bringing all Non-Resident Keralites [NoRKs] back home. All boarding the aircraft should undergo the test and they should not get infected during the flight,” Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said on Tuesday. Talks to be held In the wake of the difficulties pointed out by Indian missions to the External Affairs Ministry on the conduct of tests, the government will hold consultations with the Centre to overcome the situation without causing any hardship to the NoRKs. “We are expecting a quick decision,” the Chief Minister said, giving details of the External Affairs Ministry’s communication to the Chief Secretary. Operational clearance The State had made it clear that operational clearance would be given only to airline companies and chartered flight operators that ferry COVID-19 positive and negative passengers on separate flights. The State urged the Centre to direct the embassies to make arrangements to conduct the test where expatriates are facing difficulties in getting them done. For those who cannot afford the test, it should be done free of cost. The External Affairs Ministry, which held discussions with various Indian missions abroad following the stance taken by the Cabinet, has informed the State that Rapid Antibody Tests were being conducted in the United Arab Emirates and TrueNat test could not be conducted.
24 June 2020||KOCHI,||100 years later, Malabar Rebellion fights for screen space||The 1921 Malabar Rebellion has once again caught the creative imagination of Mollywood. With the rebellion turning 100 next year, four movies have been announced back-to-back within two days. Three of them will narrate the story of freedom fighter Variyamkunnath Kunhahamed Haji, who was shot dead by the British police at Kottakkunnu, Malappuram, while the fourth film is said to ‘bring out the real truth behind the incident’. The battle on screen comes almost 32 years after the late filmmaker I.V. Sasi gave his version of the rebellion through the movie 1921 . Actor Prithviraj Sukumaran fired the first salvo when he announced through social media his titular role in Variyamkunnan on Monday. Ashique Abu and Muhsin Parari will be directing the movie. The creative team was at the receiving end of a social media attack by right-wing radicals on Tuesday after they opposed the portrayal of Variyamkunnath as a Muslim hero against British rule. Veteran playwright Ibrahim Vengara was the next to announce his movie, The Great Vaariyam Kunnathu . “Besides actors in Malayalam, artists from abroad will be part of the movie. The lead actress will be played by an African artist,” he said. Filmmaker P.T. Kunju Muhammed joined the bandwagon of directors working on the theme when he announced the title of the movie as Shahid Vaariyamkunnan . “The script will be ready in two months. I hope to start the shooting by the start of next year,” he said. Mr. Muhammed, elected twice to the Kerala Assembly as a Left Independent candidate, said there was nothing wrong in having four versions of a common theme. Ali Akbar, filmmaker and fellow-traveller of the BJP, took to Facebook to say that his movie 1921 will portray the real heroes behind the incident. His post also left a hint that the film may not be showing Variyamkunnath Haji as a hero.
24 June 2020||Ahmedabad,||Symbolic Rath Yatra held within temple in Ahmedabad||The Jagannath temple in Ahmedabad organised a token procession of the Rath Yatra within its sprawling premises on Tuesday, after the Gujarat High Court turned down pleas for a street procession. Chief Minister Vijay Rupani conducted the “pahind” ritual to kickstart the Yatra. A few political leaders and some devotees were present. In an urgent hearing that continued till 2 a.m. on Tuesday, a Division Bench of the Gujarat High Court rejected six pleas, including that of the State government, seeking the court’s permission to allow the Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra. The Division Bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J.B. Pardiwala turned down the State government’s proposal to allow the procession to be taken out in curfew, and said that it was proper that the chariots’ movement was restricted to Lord Jagannathji Temple premises in Ahmedabad. As many as six pleas moved late on Monday sought the court’s nod, citing the Supreme Court’s order which allowed the Lord Jagannath Rath Yatra procession in Puri, Odisha. The Gujarat government, in its plea, contended that the traditional annual Rath Yatra should be allowed with limited devotees and curfew along the procession route. It also contended that the yatra, which was begun in 1878, had never been interrupted and, therefore, that tradition should continue this year too, with restrictions in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. The State authorities had even prepared the route and issued advisories for traffic movements in anticipation of a favourable court ruling.
24 June 2020||Chandigarh,||SAD-BJP to attend all-party meet convened by Punjab CM||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and its ally Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Tuesday decided to attend an all-party meeting called by Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on June 24 over the issue of three ordinances related to the agriculture sector passed by the Centre recently. This was decided at a meeting of the SAD-BJP coordination committee which was presided over by SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal and State BJP president Ashwani Kumar. The CM had convened an all-party meeting to evolve a consensus on the Union government’s agriculture related ordinances. Capt. Amarinder had already said that the ordinances were totally unacceptable to the State as they were against the interests of farmers and could spell the end of the minimum support price (MSP) regime. The ordinances The Centre had recently passed three ordinances — the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance. It had said these would transform the farm sector and help raise farmers income. The SAD-BJP coordination committee demanded that the CM call another meeting next week to discuss the illicit liquor, seed and ration scams besides other burning issues concerning the State.
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,||HC for action against lockdown violators||Taking serious note of a large number of violations of lockdown regulations by political figures and elected representatives, the High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday directed the State government to take strict action against these violators. “The State government must ensure that strict action is taken against everyone violating lockdown regulations, especially political figures and elected representatives. It will send a wrong signal if no action is initiated against these political figures and elected representatives for violations,” the court said while pointing out that some sections of society have thrown the norms to the wind. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Nataraj Rangaswamy issued the direction while admitting a PIL petition, filed by a city-based Letzkit Foundation. The petitioner had produced records related to violations of lockdown regulations like not wearing masks and not maintaining social distancing by people, including political leaders. Rise of COVID-19 The Bench said that stricter enforcement of norms on wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing, Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for places of worship, hotels, restaurants, shopping malls and offices, parks, salons and parlours, etc., will have to be ensured as the number of COVID-19 cases are on the rise in several districts, including Bengaluru in recent days. Complaint mechanism The Bench also directed the government to set up a Grievance Redressal Mechanism (GRM) within a week to enable citizens to lodge complaints on violations of lockdown regulations through e-mails, WhatsApp messages, SMSes, and to send photos of instances of such violations. The GRM, the Bench said, should work in addition to the facility of calling the police control room number 100, and the mechanism should be designed in such a way that the complaints should be immediately forwarded to the police to initiate prosecution and to officers authorised to levy and collect spot fines for violations like not wearing masks. The government has also been directed to appoint more public servants as authorised officers to levy and collect spot fines for not wearing masks as the court felt that each and every person not wearing a mask cannot be penalised unless a sufficient number of officers are not empowered to levy spot fines. It is the duty of the State government and other authorities to swiftly act on the complaints from citizens and to ensure that criminal law is set in motion under Sections 51 to 54 of the Disaster Management Act and under the Section 188 of Indian Penal Code against violators of the guidelines and SOPs to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Bench said.
24 June 2020||KOCHI,||Rules flouted to bail out Mohanlal?||The Forest Department issued ownership certificates for four elephant tusks to actor Mohanlal by violating the “due process” of the Wildlife Act and without holding “proper inquiry regarding the legitimacy of tusks and ivory,” reveals a document of the Forest Department accessed by The Hindu . The violations were highlighted in a statement of facts prepared by Surendrakumar, the present Chief Wildlife Warden (CWW), to be submitted before the Kerala High Court. The document, forwarded to the Additional Chief Secretary, Forest and Wildlife, is yet to be submitted to the court. Yet, it has been made available to all senior law officers of the State and the Forest Department, sources said. On his application, the government had on December 16, 2015 issued an order assigning the ownership of the elephant tusks to Mr. Mohanlal. However, the government order is not published in the official gazette. NOC issued Recently, the government issued a No Objection Certificate for withdrawing the prosecution against the actor for the possession of ivory. A perusal of the inventory report of the articles, noted the CWW, unearthed during the income tax raid revealed that the “inquiry regarding the source or legitimacy of possession of the ivory artefacts by V. Mohanlal was not conducted by the Assistant Conservator of Forest (Social Forestry). Based on those inventory reports, the Chief Wildlife Warden issued a Certificate of Ownership,” says the document.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump suspends H-1B visas till year-end||But it has been criticised by the tech industry as well as politicians on both sides of the aisle as damaging to the U.S. economy. Monday’s order also extended to year-end, the April 22 order suspending new immigrant visas issued to those outside the U.S. The order does not apply to existing green card holders, spouses and children of U.S. citizens, those already in the U.S. on temporary work visas (such as H-1Bs) or their derivative visas. Also exempt are those outside the U.S. who have valid non-immigrant visas issued before June 24. Individuals may still apply from within the United States of India for H-1B transfers, but if these are denied for any reason, such individuals could fall out of status.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||CRPF jawan, two militants killed in J&K||“The operation was launched on a specific input generated by the Pulwama police regarding their presence in Bundzoo area. They were given the opportunity to surrender. However, they fired indiscriminately upon the joint search party,” said the police spokesman. The villagers claimed the slain militants were locals. “The bodies of the terrorists have been sent to Handwara for their last rites after conducting medico-legal formalities, including collection of their DNA. In case any family claims them to be their kith or kin, they can come forward for the identification and participation in the last rites,” the police said. The police said incriminating material, including two AK rifles and ammunition, were recovered from the site.
24 June 2020||IMPHAL/GUWAHATI,||NPP MLAs flown out to meet BJP leadership||Four MLAs of the National People’s Party (NPP), who had withdrawn support to the BJP-led government triggering a political crisis in Manipur last week, were on Tuesday flown to Guwahati. They were expected to be flown to Delhi from Guwahati for a meeting with the BJP’s central leadership to bring them back to the government. For the second time in 48 hours, Meghalaya Chief Minister Conrad K. Sangma and Assam Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma took a special flight to Imphal on Tuesday to hold closed-door parleys with the NPP lawmakers and three BJP leaders who had quit. While Mr. Sangma is the national president of the NPP, Mr. Sarma is the BJP’s trouble-shooter and convener of the North East Democratic Alliance, a BJP-helmed forum of most regional parties in the region. The Nongthombam Biren government was reduced to a minority after nine MLAs — the four of NPP, the three of the BJP, one of the Trinamool Congress and an Independent — withdrew support and went to the Opposition Congress.
24 June 2020||Srinagar,||CRPF jawan, two militants killed in J&K||Two unidentified militants and a CRPF jawan were killed in an encounter in south Kashmir’s Pulwama on Tuesday. A police spokesman said the terrorists were killed in the gunfight and their bodies were retrieved from the site of the encounter in Bundzoo area of Pulwama. A CRPF jawan also received critical gunshot injuries. He was identified as head constable Sunil Kala of the CRPF’s 182 Battalion. The identification and the affiliation of the killed terrorists are being ascertained, the police added.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||India, China need no help, says Lavrov||“Russia, India and China consistently speak in favour of inter-state relations based on a firm and, let me stress this, generally recognised international legal basis in order to ensure global stability and general prosperity,” Mr. Lavrov said in his opening remarks. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said upholding the fundamental principles of international relations was necessary for maintaining order in the world. “Leading voices of the world must be exemplars in every way. Respecting international law, recognising legitimate interests of partners, supporting multi-lateralism and promoting common good is the only way to build a durable world order. This special meeting reiterates our belief in time-tested principles of international relations, but the challenge today is not of concepts and norms but equally of their practice,” he said. However, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi subtly hinted at bilateral issues. He called for revitalisation of the three countries, while “correctly treating and properly handling sensitive factors in bilateral relations”. Mr. Jaishankar’s speech dwelt upon the post-World War-II order, which came into existence after the defeat of Nazi Germany. He said the order that came to replace the previous one of the late 1940s was inherently flawed and denied India its due recognition. “We helped keep key supply lines open for both your countries, one through the Persian corridor and the other over the Himalayan Hump. If Indian personnel were conferred the Order of the Red Star, the medical mission led by Dr. Kotnis was a legend in China,” Dr. Jaishankar said, elaborating on the Indian role during the war. He focussed on the normative aspect of international relations in the speech, which is being interpreted as India’s subtle reminder to China. Both sides are in talks to de-escalate the situation that flared into a clash that left at least 20 Indian soldiers dead in the Galwan Valley on June 15.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Ayush lens on Ramdev’s COVID-19 cure||“Also, the concerned Ayurvedic drug manufacturing company has been informed that such advertisements of drugs including Ayurvedic medicines are regulated under the provisions of the Drugs and Magic Remedies (Objectionable Advertisements) Act, 1954 and Rules thereunder and the directives issued by the Central Government in the wake of COVID outbreak,” The Ministry had also issued a Gazette Notification on April 21, 2020 stating the requirements and the manner in which research studies on COVID-19 with Ayush interventions/medicines should be undertaken,” the Ministry said. Meanwhile, a scientist associated with the trial said trial investigators had not yet published the results. Dr. Abhishekh Sharma, Assistant Professor of Medicine, National Institute of Medical Sciences, and among those who supervised the trial, said that 100 patients, who had tested positive for the virus, were recruited for the trial. Of them, 50 were given the medicine and five dropped out midway. The remaining 50 were administered a placebo. “69% of the 45, when tested on the third day, were found clear of the virus and half of those on the placebo recovered,” said Dr. Sharma. That works out to 31 of those on the treatment tested negative, and 25 of those on placebo tested negative. No other details on the profiles of the COVID-19 positive persons — the degree of sickness in those who enrolled for the trial, their age, whether they were on other medication prior to enrolment — were immediately available. A check on the clinical trial registry, where all trials must be registered, showed that a wide spectrum of patients were solicited.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||India, China to ‘cool down’ LAC tension||“During the meeting, based on the consensus reached at the first Commander-level meeting, the two sides have had candid and in-depth exchange of views on outstanding issues related to border control, and agreed to take necessary measures to cool down the situation,” said Mr. Zhao. “The two sides agreed to maintain dialogue and work together for peace and tranquillity in border areas.” To a query about Chinese casualties, Mr. Zhao said, “China and India are in dialogue and talks with each other to resolve this issue through diplomatic and military channels. As for what you saw in the media, for example some people alleged that casualties on the Chinese amounted to 40, I can tell you for sure this is false information.”  Indian Army chief General Naravane, meanwhile, is on a two-day visit to review operational preparedness on the ground in Ladakh. “The Army chief will be visiting Ladakh for reviewing the ground situation, discuss the ongoing stand-off with ground commanders, visit forward locations and interact with troops on the ground,” a source said. Upon reaching Leh, Gen. Naravane interacted with soldiers at the military hospital. This is his second visit to Ladakh since the stand-off with the Chinese troops that began in May. He visited the Leh-based 14 Corps Headquarters on May 22.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||India tells Pakistan to slash staff at mission||On the contrary, it is an intrinsic element of a larger policy of supporting cross-border violence and terrorism,” the MEA said in its statement. It referred both to the arrest and expulsion of two Pakistan High Commission officials on May 31 for suspected spying activities and attempting to recruit an agent, and the arrest and torture of two Indian staffers in Islamabad on June 15. “These officials who have returned to India on June 22 have provided graphic details of the barbaric treatment that they experienced at the hands of Pakistani agencies,” the MEA said. Pakistan denied the allegations, and summoned the Indian Charge d’Affaires Gaurav Sabharwal to inform him that they intended to reduce the Indian mission in Islamabad’s strength by 50%, and also gave them seven days to carry out the reductions. “The MEA’s statement is another effort to distort facts and deny the culpability of these Indian High Commission officials in criminal offences,” Pakistan’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) said in a statement on Tuesday evening. The reduction in staff strengths in the latest in a series of measures taken by New Delhi and Islamabad who have seen bilateral ties plummet since the Pulwama terror attack last year and the government’s decision to amend Article 370 of the Constitution and reorganise the State of Jammu and Kashmir. In the past year both sides have snapped trade ties, reduced visas to a minimum and cancelled overflight rights for a few months. In August last year, Pakistan expelled the Indian High Commissioner Ajay Bisaria, and both missions have functioned without a High Commissioner since then.
24 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Country of origin’ must on GeM platform: govt.||In a push to promote local products, the Union government has made it mandatory for all sellers on the Government e-Marketplace (GeM), a platform for public procurement, to list the country of origin while registering new products. Those who had uploaded products are getting regular warnings that they will be removed if the origin details are not updated. Local content The changes to the GeM, a Special Purpose Vehicle under the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, are in line with the Centre’s Atmanirbhar Bharat and Make in India policies, an official statement said.  Buyers on the platform can now see the percentage of local content in various products. They can also switch on a new Make in India filter to see products that match their preferences on local content. For example, buyers can choose to buy only those products that meet a minimum 50% local content criteria. “In case of bids, buyers can now reserve any bid for Class I local suppliers (local content > 50%). For those bids below INR 200 crore, only Class I and Class II local suppliers (local content > 50% and > 20% respectively) are eligible to bid, with Class I supplier getting purchase preference,” said the statement.
24 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre to reimburse applicants for Haj||Following a phone call by Saudi Arabia’s Haj and Umrah Minister Mohammad Saleh Bin Taher Benten to Union Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi informing him that no international pilgrims will be allowed for Haj due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Indian government said it would reimburse payments made by Indian pilgrims for the same. “Honouring the decision of the Saudi Arabia government because of serious challenges of corona pandemic and keeping in mind the health and well-being of the people, it has been decided that Muslims from India will not go to Saudi Arabia to perform Haj (1441 H/2020 AD),” said Mr. Naqvi in a statement. 2,13,000 applications He said that the process of immediately refunding (without deductions) the amount deposited by pilgrims for the journey was being initiated. Around 2,13,000 applications had been received for Haj 2020. The money will be refunded through online DBT mode into the bank accounts of the applicants, he added. Women pilgrims Of these pilgrims, 50% were women, with 3,040 women having performed Haj after the Union government ensured Muslim women can perform Haj without Mehram (male companion) in 2018. This year too, more than 2,300 women had applied to perform Haj without Mehram . These women pilgrims will be allowed to go to Haj 2021 on the basis of this year’s application. Women pilgrims who file a new application for the journey will also be considered for Haj next year.
24 June 2020||Hyderabad,||‘EAMCET cannot be postponed’||After promoting Class 10 students, and almost deciding to promote Degree final year and Post Graduate students without conducting exams, the government, however, is keen on conducting the EAMCET as scheduled. Even postponement of the test is not a possibility as the service provider doesn’t have any slots for the next two months. “No slots are available for the online exam in the next two months. Keeping the students waiting for so long is not in their interest, more so with the fears that COVID may only see an upsurge for the next four months,” a senior education official revealed. The TCS is the service provider for online entrance exams conducted under the aegis of Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE). Moreover, admissions to engineering and medical related courses cannot be given on the basis of Intermediate marks as legal issues would come up since admission into professional courses have to be done based on an entrance exam. “There is a demand from certain sections that even EAMCET be cancelled but that can’t be done given the sensitivity of the test itself. We know how seriously students prepare for EAMCET throughout the year and even one mark makes a difference in admission in a good college,” a senior official said. The Telangana EAMCET is scheduled from July 6 to 9 with the engineering stream exam scheduled between July 6 and 8, and the agriculture stream test on July 8 and 9. Meanwhile, thousands of students who chose Hyderabad as their exam centre much before coronavirus raised its head are seeking change in the centre as they have gone back to their native places, including the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. The EAMCET Committee has allowed them to change the centre to any of the four locations — Visakhapatnam, Vijayawada, Kurnool and Tirupati. Telangana students who moved to their native districts during the pandemic will also get the opportunity. Several engineering colleges are located on the outskirts of the city connected to Warangal, Nalgonda, Mahabubnagar, Nizamabad and Karimnagar routes. “Change requests will be allotted to test centres on these routes as Hyderabad slots are full,” TSCHE chairman T. Papi Reddy said.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Public exhibit||
24 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chidambaram hits back at BJP president||Former Union Finance Minister P. Chidamabaram on Tuesday hit back at BJP president J.P. Nadda for accusing the Congress of ‘signing a memorandum of understanding with the Chinese Communist Party’ and blaming Rahul Gandhi of trying to divide the nation and demoralise the armed forces. In a series of tweets, he said,” “BJP President Mr Nadda asked ex-PM Dr Manmohan Singh to explain the 600 Chinese incursions into India between 2010 and 2013. Yes, there were incursions but no Indian territory was occupied by China and no lives of Indian soldiers were lost in violent clashes. Will Mr Nadda please ask the present PM to explain the 2264 Chinese incursions since 2015? I bet he will not dare to ask that question.”
24 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC gives nod to woman to abort foetus||The Supreme Court has allowed a woman in her 25th week of pregnancy bearing twins to medically terminate one of the foetuses detected with substantial abnormalities. The Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act of 1971 bars abortion if the foetus has crossed the 20-week mark. An exception to the law is made if a registered medical practitioner certifies to a court that the continued pregnancy is life-threatening for the mother. In the present case, a three-judge Bench led by Justice R. Banumathi set aside the Bombay High Court’s rejection. It allowed the woman to go ahead with the “selective foetal reduction” procedure after a medical expert reported that the process would not harm the other normal foetus or the mother.
24 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Russia to speed up defence deals||Russia has said that it will accelerate deliveries of some defence contracts with India, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Tuesday in Moscow after meeting Russian Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov. “I have been assured that ongoing contracts will be maintained and not just maintained, in a number of cases will be taken forward in a shorter time. All our proposals have received positive response from the Russian side. I am fully satisfied with my discussions,” Mr. Singh elaborated in a statement. India has been asking Russia to speed up deliveries of the S-400 long range air defence system in addition to spares and support for military hardware. Mr. Singh is in Moscow to participate in the Victory Day parade to mark the 75th anniversary of the Second World War. On Wednesday, an Indian tri-service contingent comprising 75 personnel will march in the parade at the Red Square. On the India-China border tensions, a defence source said Mr. Singh conveyed that India is a peace loving country and never in history has it looked at other people’s territory. “We are on for resolving all disputes by dialogue. But if there are any questions on sovereignty and territorial integrity, our resolve to protect our interests at any cost cannot be doubted,” the source quoted Mr. Singh as having said.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,||PUCL flays action against journalist||The People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) has condemned the attempt at criminalising the writings of Supriya Sharma, executive editor of the digital news publication Scroll.in. In a statement, PUCL president Ravi Kiran Jain and general secretary V. Suresh said the criminal provisions invoked against the journalist do not apply to the complaint made by the aggrieved individual. “The FIR against Supriya is an attempt to harass her via the police machinery as she showed the failure of the State to protect livelihoods,” the statement read.
24 June 2020||Srinagar,||J&K govt. prepares for Amarnath Yatra||The Jammu & Kashmir administration on Tuesday decided to speed up preparations for the annual Amarnath Yatra in Kashmir, even as no dates or details on the flow of pilgrims have been formalised so far in the wake of COVID-19. “All the rituals with morning and evening pooja  or aarti shall take place at the Holy Cave from July 5 [Vyas Poornima] to August 3 [Raksha Bandhan],” Lieutenant-Governor Girish Chandra Murmu, who is also the chairman of the Shri Amarnathji Shrine Board, said.
24 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||2020 Delhi riots: ED conducts searches at 6 places||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday conducted searches at six places in Delhi and Noida in connection with the 2020 Delhi riots cases. “The premises of suspended Aam Aadmi Party councillor Tahir Hussain have also been searched. The money laundering probe pertains to the cases registered by the Delhi police against those involved in the riots in February,” said a ED official. The money laundering probe is based on an FIR lodged by the police against Mr. Hussain and others.
24 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI books Videocon’s Venugopal Dhoot for causing losses to banks||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has booked Venugopal Dhoot, chairman-cum-managing director (CMD) of Videocon Industries Limited, and unknown officials of a consortium led by the State Bank of India, for alleged undue pecuniary gains to Videocon. The agency had last year initiated a preliminary inquiry against unknown officials of ONGC Videsh Limited, Oil India Limited, Bharat Petro Resources Limited, and the consortium of banks (SBI, IDBI Bank and ICICI Bank).
24 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||Mayawati seeks probe into 57 girls of Kanpur govt home testing positive for COVID-19||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Tuesday demanded a high-level independent probe into the case of 57 girl inmates of a government shelter home in Kanpur, including five who were pregnant, testing positive for COVID-19. Taking to Twitter, Ms. Mayawati asked the Uttar Pradesh government to take strict action against the accused and not cover up the issue.
24 June 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown in Ariyalur||There will be no power supply from 9.45 a.m. on Thursday in the following areas of the district owing to maintenance works to be taken up by Tangedco on power lines from Koothur sub-station: Ariyalur West, B.R.Nallur, Koothur, Koodalur, Kulathur, Ramalingapuram, Rasulapuram, Hussain Nagaram, Allinagaram, Mela Mathur, Venmani, Kaadur, Namankunam, Pudu Vettakudi, Koilpalayam, Keezha Perambalur, Thungapuram, Kuzhumur and Kiliyapattu. The power shutdown will be in force till the completion of the maintenance works during the day, a Tangedco press release said here.
24 June 2020||BODI,TAMIL NADU||Police station shut||The Bodi Town Police Station has been closed after eight policemen including a sub-inspector of police tested positive to COVID-19 on Monday. Investigations revealed that a police team nabbed four suspects in connection with a kidnap case four days ago. Out of the four, one tested positive to the Corona virus. It seems the virus had infected other personnel too, who came in contact with the persons tested positive. On information, the municipal authorities from Bodi arrived to disinfect the station. A few others from Kurangani police station and from the municipal office, who had returned from Chennai also tested positive. Steps were taken to disinfect the premises.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State’s case tally rises by 2,516; 39 more deaths take toll to 833||Tamil Nadu recorded 2,000-plus cases of COVID-19 for the seventh consecutive day on Tuesday. With 2,516 new infections, the State’s overall case tally climbed to 64,603*, even as the Health Department instructed districts witnessing a spike in cases to strengthen surveillance of influenza-like illness (ILI). As many as 1,227 patients were discharged, taking the total figure to 35,339. There are currently 28,428 active COVID-19 cases in the State. The death toll went past 800, with 39 more persons succumbing to the infection. Chennai and the districts of Tiruvallur, Madurai, Tiruvannamalai and Chengalpattu accounted for 76% of the new cases. Chennai, which reported 1,380 fresh cases, accounts for a total of 44,205 infections. Chengalpattu’s tally climbed to 4,030, with 146 fresh cases. Tiruvallur reported 156 cases, while Madurai and Tiruvannamalai continued to witness a spike in infections, recording 137 and 110 cases, respectively. Barring Ariyalur and Tiruppur, all other districts reported fresh cases. Kancheepuram recorded 59 cases, followed by Theni (48), Dindigul (44), Tiruchi (40), Thoothukudi (38), Kallakurichi (37) and Vellore (36). A total of 38 persons who had returned from other countries and States also tested positive. With the case counts continuing to rise in many districts, a health official said that districts had been instructed to strengthen containment measures. “One of the main factors is strengthening ILI surveillance in containment areas. We have told district officials to identify cases and test more. This should be coupled with proper contact tracing. Cases are increasing in a number of Corporations,” he said. The official added that initially, districts like Erode and Salem had ensured that people in containment areas did not step out to get groceries in order to prevent the spread of the infection. “People step out of homes mainly to purchase vegetables and groceries. So, these districts had deployed vehicles and regularly supplied the essential commodities to families in areas where positive cases were reported. This way, they succeeded in containing the spread of infection, and we have asked districts to do the same,” he added. Of the 39 persons whose deaths were recorded on Tuesday, 36 had co-morbid conditions. One of the deaths was reported nine days after it occurred — a 43-year-old woman died at GMKMCH, Salem, on June 14, and this was reported in Tuesday’s bulletin. She had obesity and was admitted to the hospital on June 11. She died due to a sudden cardiac arrest and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 75-year-old man with systemic hypertension and diabetes died on the day he was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai, on June 20, due to factors including cardiopulmonary arrest and COVID-19 pneumonia. Two other persons — a 68-year-old and an 82-year-old — died on the day of admission to hospitals in Pudukottai and Cuddalore, respectively. A total of 833 persons have died in the State till date, with Chennai accounting for 645 of the fatalities. Paediatric cases There has been an increase in the number of children aged 0 to 12 testing positive for COVID-19. At least 100 children have tested positive every day since June 20. On Tuesday, 128 children tested positive, while 126 had tested positive on Monday. As of date, a total of 3,188 children have tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu.   (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai receives its quota of Krishna water from A.P.||With Andhra Pradesh releasing the assured quantity of the Krishna water this year, the Water Resources Department (WRD) plans to seek water in a couple of days for the next spell beginning July. As on Tuesday, Chennai has received 8.05 tmcft. of Krishna water from the Kandaleru reservoir in Andhra Pradesh, since September-end last year. WRD officials said this was one of the highest quantities of the Krishna water received since the launch of the project in 1996. Earlier, the city received 8.19 tmcft of water in 2011-12. Andhra Pradesh had assured Tamil Nadu of providing 8 tmcft. from Kandaleru reservoir in August last year to meet the drinking water requirements of Chennai. On Tuesday, water flow into the Kandaleru-Poondi canal at the inter-State border dwindled to a minimum of 18 cusecs (cubic feet per second). Krishna water discharge to the city would be stopped as Poondi reservoir had received the quantity of water that Andhra Pradesh promised last year, officials said. “We will be able to maintain the water supply in the city till the year-end with the available storage in reservoirs and other sources. The steady flow of Krishna water has helped in maintaining the storage at city reservoirs,” said an official. Healthy storage The combined storage at the four reservoirs, including Poondi and Red Hills, stood at 5.1 tmcft against their capacity of 11.2 tmcft as on Tuesday. “We consider the period between July and April as the water year. Water release for the next spell is due in July. The department officials will write to their counterparts in A.P. in a couple of days requesting to discharge water from Kandaleru,” said an official. As per the pact with A.P. since 1996, 12 tmcft. of Krishna water needs to be released in two spells — July to October and January to April. “We have only 46% of storage in the lakes. If A.P. releases more water, it will help build water level to cater to Chennai’s needs,” the official added.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tally crosses 1,000 in 11 zones||Eleven zones of the Greater Chennai Corporation have registered more than 1,000 COVID-19 positive cases. Royapuram continues to report the highest number of cases. But the largest number of influenza like illness (ILI) cases were reported at the fever clinics in Tondiarpet on Tuesday. Officials said the case mortality rate was 1.46% on Tuesday. The case mortality rate was 1.47% on Monday. The Corporation on Tuesday screened 39,673 residents at 532 locations and identified 2,121 ILI patients. The civic body has tested all the patients for COVID-19. Results are awaited. Residents want the Corporation to announce test results the same day as was being done by private laboratories. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the results of the tests would be released in 24 hours. Pointing to the increase in testing, Mr. Prakash said the civic body had tested 2.35 lakh residents. “Over 85% of the residents have been tested in government facilities. At least 30,000 patients have been cured in the city,” said Mr. Prakash. At a press meet, Mr. Prakash said the lockdown had led to a stable condition with no clusters in the city. “We have developed the largest COVID-19 care centre at Athipet. The centre will have 5,000 beds. Doctors and paramedics will also get accommodation in the centre. At present, the city has 7,000 vacancies in care centres. Over 3,200 patients have been admitted in care centres. Of the 55 COVID-19 care centres, 12 had admitted patients," he said. “We have decided to develop the COVID-19 care centres in Anna University without taking over the Hostel," he said. E-commerce delivery hit Meanwhile, there were complaints that essential services, particularly delivery by e-commerce sites, had been disrupted in a few areas. Officials said vehicles carrying the goods of e-commerce sites for delivery did not have e-passes. Twenty-one vehicles were seized on Tuesday. The representatives of the companies were asked by the police to get permission online. When the representatives visited the government offices for getting permission on Tuesday, one of their vehicles was seized. Although online services had been permitted during lockdown, their representatives were not able to get passes. Similarly, police prevented Union Government employees from reaching offices, said an official of the GST. Lack of coordination among the police, the Corporation and e-governance officials was said to be the reason for the confusion over e-passes.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Compressed biogas plant opened at Namakkal||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas Dharmendra Pradhan inaugurated a compressed biogas plant (CBG) at Namakkal and five CBG fuel stations in Pudhuchattiram and Rasipuram on Tuesday. The plant has been set up by IOT Infrastructure and Energy Services, a joint venture between Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. and Germany’s Oiltanking GmbH at a cost of Rs. 25 crore. “The plant will be able to manufacture 15 tonnes of biogas and 20 tonnes of biomanure every day,” Mr. Palaniswami said during the inauguration that was done virtually. The Chief Minister said Tamil Nadu was the leading State in the country in renewable energy. “Tamil Nadu has a renewable energy potential of 15,876 MW,” Mr. Palaniswami said. His government would extend all support to the Government of India to implement clean energy projects, he said. “The CBG produced from the plant can fuel more than 1,000 vehicles a day in Salem–Namakkal region. The biogas plant shall also fuel 2 industries with green alternative fuel,” Mr. Pradhan said. The State government proposed to construct a gas-based power station of 1,460 mega watt (MW) in the place where a private power station was operating near Basin Bridge.  The plant will be able to manufacture   15 tonnes of biogas and 20 tonnes of biomanure every dayEdappadi K. Palaniswami,Chief Minister
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With online classes in vogue, schools shift focus to feedback and reviews||Embracing the concept of online learning, private schools across the State have been scheduling classes on a daily basis. From providing feedback forms to students to conducting weekly reviews, the educational institutions are now working on putting mechanisms in place to ensure that teachers receive feedback on these changes. A survey by the Centre for Teacher Accreditation (Centa) in April revealed that while the number of teachers taking to online teaching had tripled over the last three months, many teachers had indicated that they would like to focus more on their ability to engage students and gauge their understanding, and orient themselves accordingly. This highlights the importance of having a good feedback or review system in place in schools. “We have a system where the teachers brief the senior coordinators of their department the day before a class. The teachers are expected to outline what they will be teaching the next day and how they intend to progress with their class,” explained C. Satish, director, Paavai group of schools, Namakkal. “While it is important to ensure that they are comfortable with the technical aspects of handling these classes, we also need to give them feedback based on their pace of teaching, and on whether they are able to connect with the students,” he added. Students attending online classes at the Vikas Mantra Public School are given feedback forms at the end of each session to record their views on the class and suggest improvements, if any. Many students from the senior classes in particular have come forward to share interesting online resources pertaining to their subjects, which are relevant and useful for the whole class. Several schools are having weekly reviews of the lessons by the subject heads. For live as well as pre-recorded online classes, there are several aspects that need to be reviewed. “While the first step is to review the lesson plan and content in place, we then look at whether the teachers are able to engage well with students, how they sound, and even the background against which they sit and teach,” said K.R. Maalathi, education consultant and adviser, SRM Public School. As part of the live online lessons being conducted by the school, Ms. Maalathi said that the principal, the vice-principal and the department heads take turns tuning into the classes to see how they are progressing. “While teachers may initially feel hesitant about this, this transition has meant that any input for improvement has been valuable and welcome,” she added. Stressing the need for self-reflection, Anjali Jain, founder and director, Centa, said teachers should be encouraged to spend some time after the online sessions going through their lessons, and reach out for support, if needed. “This is an effective starting point. Since it has been a big transition for most teachers, with several challenges, the next step is to provide constructive feedback,” she added.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Quarantine period cut to seven days for healthcare providers on COVID-19 duty||The quarantine period for healthcare providers (HCPs) posted on COVID-19 duty has been reduced from 14 to seven days in some government medical college hospitals in Chennai. Doctors at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) and Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, were informed that the quarantine period after seven-day-long COVID-19 duty will be seven days, and not 14 days as was the case earlier. At RGGGH, the views of members of the College Council were sought on the post-COVID duty quarantine period, and it was resolved to follow the pattern of seven days’ duty, followed by seven days of quarantine. The latest roster for COVID-19 duty was in line with this decision, reliable sources said. “Fourteen days is the incubation period during which anyone exposed to the virus can become symptomatic. The previous model was good, as there were less infections among HCPs in many city hospitals. We waited till the seventh day of quarantine to see if we became symptomatic. If not, we would undergo testing, and go home if the swab returns negative. From now on, we will not have that option. There is a higher chance of asymptomatic carriers spreading the virus unknowingly. We either have to stay away from family or put them at risk of being infected,” a doctor said. At RGGGH, a section of doctors said the hospital was already facing a crisis. “Till now, nearly 100 staff members have tested positive for COVID-19. Two anaesthesia PGs tested positive again after being discharged. A few PGs residing in the men’s hostel have tested positive. The same HCPs are posted on COVID-19 duty, resulting in continuous exposure. Also, there is no routine testing of HCPs,” a doctor said. Another doctor said the number of COVID Care Centres was being increased, and resources were low. “The authorities want to manage with no shortfall in manpower. But if HCPs test positive, they will have to go on leave for 28 days,” he said. The ICMR, in its advisory dated June 18, said that for HCPs with high risk of exposure, the quarantine period should initially be for a week. A decision can be taken by the nodal officer/head of department on extending it for a further period of one week after looking at their profile. K. Senthil, State president of Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association, said, “Apart from quarantine, our duty spacing takes into consideration other factors — a break to avoid increase in viral load, de-stress after physically tiring COVID-19 duty and psychological balancing for a week with family after being away for a tense 14 days.”
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Political leaders condemn death of father-son duo||DMK leader M.K. Stalin on Tuesday said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who heads the Home Department, should take responsibility for the deaths of the father-son duo, P. Jayaraj, 60, and J. Bennix, 31, after they were arrested and lodged at Kovilpatti prison in Thoothukudi district. They were picked up for violating lockdown restrictions and opening their shop. In a statement, Mr. Stalin said those responsible for the deaths should be punished. DMK MP Kanimozhi, representing the Thoothukudi Lok Sabha Constituency, urged the Collector to take severe action against those responsible. “Their families should be given adequate compensation,” she said. In a letter to DGP J.K. Tripathy, she said transferring policemen to the Armed Reserve Unit would not render justice. “The police denied medical treatment to the son and father and suppressed from the magistrate that they were attacked them. This is a violation of human rights,” he said. Call for CBI probe Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K.S. Alagiri demanded a CBI inquiry into the deaths, while MDMK general secretary Vaiko on Tuesday demanded a probe by a sitting judge of the Madras High Court. In a statement, he said the police personnel in Sattankulam were fully responsible for the deaths and a case should be filed against them immediately. Alleging that the procedure for lodging someone in jail was not followed in the case, he said the magistrate also remanded them without seeing them.  Manithaneya Makkal Katchi founder Prof. M.H. Jawahirullah said the police officials should be tried for murder of the father and son. “While speaking to his friends, Bennix described the assault in detail. He died in the hospital yesterday night. Jayaraj died on Tuesday. It is clear that both were killed as a result of police torture,” he said. Mr. Jawahirullah said the police officials concerned should be suspended immediately. Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi founder Thol. Thirumavalavan said all those responsible should be immediately arrested and that they should not be let out on bail until the case has been conclusively investigated.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM asks officials to hand over aid at doorstep of ration cardholders||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami asked officials to hand over Rs. 1,000, being distributed as COVID-19 relief assistance to ration cardholders, at the doorstep of all those eligible in Chennai, Chengalpattu, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts that are under complete lockdown. “Strict action will be taken if fair price shops are opened and money is distributed through them at this time,” he warned in a tweet. Meanwhile, acting on complaints that officials in charge of distributing Rs. 1,000 aid to ration cardholders in Chennai and three adjoining districts (areas under complete lockdown) are asking people to visit fair price shops to collect the amount, the office of Registrar of Cooperative Societies has warned erring officials. In a circular sent on Tuesday, Additional Registrar M. Antonysamy John Peter stated that action would be taken both against monitoring officials and those attached to fair price shops.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Domestic violence in the time of virus: a case of rising numbers||Pudukottai district topped the State with 1,424 cases of domestic violence during the COVID-19 lockdown period (March 24-May 31) followed by Kancheepuram district with 819 and Tirunelveli with 705 cases. Among cities, Coimbatore was on the top with 257 cases followed by Salem with 143 and Tiruppur with 105 cases. Chennai city, which has the highest population among cities, had the lowest number — 45 cases. According to police sources, the State Police Master Control Room at the police headquarters here received 7,372 calls relating to domestic violence from victims across the State during the lockdown period. Community outreach Apart from this, 6,150 complaints were received from women, mostly housewives, when women police constables visited/called them as part of a community outreach programme. Of the total 13,447 complaints received during the lockdown, 13,372 cases were settled amicably after the victims voluntarily withdrew the complaints. However, investigators took an undertaking from the accused persons that they would not resort to the offence again. Police called back the victims at regular intervals to ensure that there was no recurrence of domestic violence at home, the sources said. “Every call received at the police headquarters was forwarded to the police station concerned and we ensured that police visited the scene. Among the reasons that triggered domestic violence were arguments arising out of sharing household work, suspicion over time spent in social media, unemployment resulting in a cash crunch at home etc. In 75 cases police registered a case and arrested 48 persons,” Additional Director-General of Police (Crime Against Women and Children) told The Hindu on Tuesday. Mr. Ravi said police conducted 15 raids across the State and rescued 19 women and children who were abducted and forced into flesh trade. Seventeen cases were booked under the provisions of the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act and 38 suspects, including 17 women, were arrested between March 24 till May end. Mr. Ravi said 360 cases under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, were registered and 372 accused persons were arrested. In three cases, suspects were convicted to nine years of imprisonment. “We have prepared a dossier of criminals who habitually indulged in crimes against women and children in every police station in the State. Special teams have been formed to monitor their activities…,” he said.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State receives 17,000 returnees under Vande Bharat Mission||Tamil Nadu has received around 17,000 returnees under the Vande Bharat Mission, which has been gaining momentum over the past two weeks. Nearly 2,000 returnees arrived on three ships, while around 90 flights brought back the rest. Those who had returned by sea came from Sri Lanka and Maldives, and their arrival point in the State was Thoothukudi. On Wednesday, fishermen stranded in Iran, most of whom hail from Kanniyakumari, are expected to reach the harbour in the southern part of the State. With the authorities allowing international flights to Chennai, Coimbatore, Tiruchi and Madurai, the returnees’ figure has reached around 15,000, according to an official overseeing the return of expatriates and persons stranded abroad. The tally is likely to reach 20,000 in a week. Apart from the Gulf, flights have come in from destinations like Singapore, Kuala Lumpur, Moscow, Kiev and Frankfurt. On an average, four-five flights reach the State every day. On Tuesday, the number of flights that had arrived was eight — the highest so far, the official noted. Over 70,000 persons have registered themselves on the portalhttps://non- residenttamil.org/launched by the State government. All the returnees have also furnished their information to the respective Missions. The authorities are conscious of the fact that approximately 40,000 persons are expected to return to the State. As for the procedures being adopted, the returnees, on arrival, are being screened for COVID-19, after which they have to undergo mandatory institutional quarantine for seven days. As many as 285 returnees have tested positive so far. Claiming that free quarantine facilities were being offered, the official said that broadly, two flat rates — Rs. 1,500 and Rs. 2,500 — were being charged per day for paid facilities.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Steps will be taken to disclose details of all donations to CM’s fund’||The State government on Tuesday told the Madras High Court that donations to the Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) were received not only through cheques but also through payment gateways like Google Pay, Amazon Pay, Paytm, MobiKwik, PhonePe and UPI. In a counter affidavit filed before a Division Bench of Justices R. Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy, the treasurer of CMPRF, P.A. Parimala Chelvi, said that only the donations received through its web portal were displayed on the site, and that steps would be taken to disclose overall collections. The counter was filed in response to a public interest litigation filed by advocate M. Karpagam, seeking complete transparency in the donations received. The petitioner’s counsel, R. Prabhakaran, had insisted upon the disclosure of every single detail related to receipts and expenditure. Replying to it, Ms. Chelvi told the court that the CMPRF portal was developed and maintained by National Informatics Centre (NIC), and that steps would be taken to collaborate with NIC in order to disclose as much information as possible with regard to the funds. “The government has been transparent in disclosing donations made by the public, corporates and philanthropists. The honourable Chief Minister has regularly issued press releases during this period, indicating individual contributions of more than Rs. 10 lakh,” the counter read.  The government has been transparent in disclosing donations made by the public, corporates and philanthropists
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nagaswaram player brings out the poet in Kamal Haasan||On Tuesday actor-politician Kamal Haasan tweeted a poem in praise of a nagaswaram player after listening to him playing in the Thiruneelakandeeswarar temple at Paganeri in Sivaganga district. “It is a lonely temple and without much of a crowd; He was a unique artiste who showers his God with music without any commercial benefits in return,” thus reads Mr. Hassan’s poem. The nagaswaram player is K. Pillappan, a native of Paganeri. “If his offering and the God he delves deep into are true, the God should come out of the sanctum sanctorum to sit beside him and rest on his shoulders,” the actor says. Though Mr. Pillappan is popular in his district and had visited countries like Myanmar and Singapore, he was unknown to the music world outside till someone posted a thodi rendered by him. He was seen sitting in the ‘praharam’ of the temple and teaching the raga to a student. Subsequently, the brief ‘alapana’ of Sahana caught the attention of music lovers and everyone was curious to know the background of the artist. Mr. Haasan came to know about Mr. Pillappan’s talents after a few postings — ragas such as Nashigabhoosanai, Bowli, Malayamarutham and Mayamalavagowla — were found on social media. He was seen sitting beside the Nandhi of the temple and rendering the ragas. “I learnt the instrument from my father Kottaiswami Pillai, who was a student of Vedaranyam Vedamurthy. I am working in the temple owned by the samasthanam of Sivaganga,” Mr. Pillappan told The Hindu . He said the COVID-19 had proved to be very tough for artistes like him as there were no weddings and temple festivals. “I have to manage with the temple salary,” he said.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tangedco opposes plea to extend last date for payment of power bill||The Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) on Tuesday opposed a plea to extend till July 31 the last date for payment of electricity consumption charges by domestic consumers across the State. Appearing before Justices R. Subbiah and Krishnan Ramasamy, Additional Advocate General P.H. Arvindh Pandian said the last date had been extended multiple times for consumers across the State, and it expired last on June 15. He also told the court that 75% of domestic consumers had already paid the power charges. Tangedco had extended the payment deadline till July 15 for consumers in Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu districts alone, since the lockdown in these districts had been intensified till June 30. Now that the lockdown has been intensified in Madurai too, an appropriate decision would be taken at the earliest, he said.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ambulance with seven passengers intercepted||With the government tightening the norms for e-passes, people have started using illegal means to travel. On Tuesday, the Chengalpattu police stumbled upon one such attempt where private ambulance was used by a group of people to travel from Thiruverkadu to Gingee. The ambulance driver has been arrested and seven others, including an 85-year-old man, who were travelling in the vehicle have been detained. The police said the passengers and the driver decided to make the elderly person pose as a patient to pass through the police checkpost. Around 10.30 a.m, V. Ponramu, Additional Superintendent of Police, spotted an ambulance travelling at high speed. He alerted DSP Mahendran at the Paranur toll plaza. The police stopped the ambulance and found an elderly man and six others. They were taken for an inquiry. “The driver’s name is Manivannan, 25. He drives the private ambulance,” said a police officer.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK man holds bash, tests positive for COVID-19||A DMK member, who violated the lockdown and celebrated his birthday with pomp by hosting nearly 250 guests on June 14, tested positive for COVID-19 along with three others. Gunasekaran, 48, has been booked under various sections of the Indian Penal Code, Disaster Management Act and Epidemic Diseases Act. The police have identified 60 persons who took part in the party. According to police, Mr. Gunasekaran is a DMK party member and his wife Malathy, is vice-chairman of Gummidipoondi Union. On June 14, a celebration was organised at a mango orchard in Kannambakkam, despite the lockdown. Around 250 people took part in the event. In a video shot at the venue, most of those at the birthday celebrations did not wear masks. “After the party, four of those involved, including Gunasekaran and his friend from Pathirivedu, developed symptoms and they tested positive for COVID-19. They have been admitted to Tiruvallur Government Hospital,” said a police officer. DMK reacts DMK joint secretary for media and press relations Constantine Ravindran said Mr. Gunasekaran was not a main member of the party and that the party supported its president M.K. Stalin’s stand that if anyone had done anything illegal, the law should take its own course. Five arrested An advocate from Otteri, Kiranti, celebrated his birthday in a grand manner Friday last, on a decorated dais at Arasankazhani. Despite the lockdown, about 50 youth, including a few history-sheeters, participated in the birthday bash. The advocate cut the birthday cake with a long knife, the police said. Following complaints from the public in nearby areas, the Pallikaranai police registered an FIR against them under Section 188 279 and other provisions of the IPC and provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act. Five persons have been arrested and search was on to nab others, said the police.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NIA files chargesheet against 12||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has filed a chargesheet against 12 persons for their involvement in fraudulent procurement and activation of SIM cards used by IS terrorists for their activities in the country. The chargesheet was filed in a special court here in the city. The accused are Pachaiyappan, 37, of Kancheepuram district; A. Rajesh, 34 of Chennai; T. Anbarasan, 27; Abdul Rahiman, 44; Liyakath Ali, 29, of Salem; Mohammed Haneef Khan, 29; Imran Khan, 32; Mohammed Zaid, 24; Ejaz Pasha, 46, and Mahboob Pasha, 48, are from Bengaluru and Khaja Mohideen, 52, is from Cuddalore district. A press release from NIA said that after the release of the key conspirator and IS terrorist Khaja Mohideen on bail in a case relating to the murder of a Hindu leader from Central Prison, Puzhal in February, 2019, he conspired with one Liyakath Ali with the intention of furthering the activities of IS in India. They procured a large number of SIM cards.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two bikers held for injuring inspector||The Secretariat Colony police on Tuesday arrested two motorcycle-borne youth for injuring a traffic police inspector at Kellys here when he tried to stop them. The youth were riding the bike in a rash manner in Ayanavaram. The police tried to stop them, but the youth sped away. When the police at Kellys signal stopped them, the youth dashed their bike on inspector Kumaran. In the impact, he fell and was injured. The police managed to nab the two, whose names were given as Jayakumar, 19, of Villivakkam and Vijay, 19, of Kolathur. Tobacco products seized The Avadi Tank Factory police on Tuesday arrested a 45-year-old man for selling banned chewable tobacco products.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hundreds of families watch Jagannath Rath Yatra online||ISKCON Chennai conducted the Sri Jagannath Rath Yatra with only the temple residents participating in the festival. The deities were placed in small raths and were taken around the temple premises. The procession festival was webcast live through the ISKCON, Chennai, YouTube channel and was viewed by hundreds. “The pandemic has brought us closer through our various online programs,” said president of ISKCON, Chennai, Sumithra Krishna Das said in a statement.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister slams Stalin over COVID-19 comments||Dairy Development Minister K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji on Tuesday criticised DMK leader M.K. Stalin for issuing statements which, according to him, made it seem as if COVID-19 was the AIADMK’s creation and the DMK was fighting against it. “Mr. Stalin should stop confusing people by issuing statements every day. He is speaking as if it is he who is trying to stop the spread of the disease,” Mr. Bhalaji said in a statement. The Minister said the government was working day and night to stop the spread of COVID-19. “If Mr. Stalin keeps making accusations against such a government every day, the DMK will vanish from Tamil Nadu politics even before COVID-19 is eradicated,” he said. “Has Mr. Stalin given any good suggestions to medical experts or professionals for stopping the spread of the virus or curing patients? All the statements he has been issuing on a daily basis are rooted in political vendetta,” Mr. Bhalaji said.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MMC gets new dean||The Health Department on Tuesday transferred and posted E. Theranirajan, dean and special officer of the Government Perambalur Medical College, as dean of the Madras Medical College (MMC), in place of R. Jayanthi, who is on medical leave. Dr. Theranirajan, a paediatrician, was on deputation at the Government Karur Medical College. Dr. Jayanthi went on medical leave earlier this month. On Monday, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar had said that she had tested positive for COVID-19 after being involved in the pandemic’s management for three months.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||27,327 cases registered for violations in five days||City Police Commissioner A.K. Viswanathan on Tuesday said 27,327 cases were registered against violators in the first five days of the 12-day complete lockdown, which began last Friday. Accompanied by senior police officers, Mr. Viswanathan inspected a vehicle checkpoint on Anna Salai. According to the Commissioner, people were booked for violating prohibitory orders and roaming in public places without valid reason. As many as 23,816 vehicles were seized. On Tuesday, 9,511 cases were filed and 7,823 vehicles seized from violators. The police booked 11,412 persons for failing to wear a mask and maintain physical distance. Addressing the media, Mr. Viswanathan said, “The public’s response to the implementation of the lockdown has been good, and people have been cooperating. All police officers are directly monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of the lockdown. There were a few sporadic incidents such as disputes over allowing permitted people to move around, and they were resolved quickly.” He said the police would allow movement of medical or government staff or other exempted persons if they produce their identity card.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Prince of Arcot writes to PM on haj pilgrims||The Prince of Arcot, Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging him to consider sending the Indian haj pilgrims, who have been selected in 2020, in the next year’s batch. He said the same group may be given a chance in 2021 since there was no possibility of them going on the pilgrimage this year. To facilitate this, the government can suspend any fresh haj draw next year, he said. In his letter, the Prince of Arcot said that Saudi Arabia decided to allow only local pilgrims to perform haj in limited numbers this year in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. International haj had been officially cancelled this year, therefore no Indian pilgrim can go on the pilgrimage, including those who were selected by the Hajj Committee of India, in the haj draw (Qurrah) 2020 or through international flights from India. Therefore, he urged the Prime Minister to consider allowing this year’s Indian haj pilgrims to avail next year’s quota.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC dismisses State appeal against bail granted to R.S. Bharathi||The Madras High Court on Tuesday dismissed an appeal preferred by the State against bail granted by a special court to DMK Rajya Sabha member and the party’s organising secretary R.S. Bharathi in a case booked under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act of 1989.
24 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown not necessary for Coimbatore dist., says Collector||Coimbatore district does not need a lockdown as of now, as the recent COVID-19 cases had contracted the infection outside the district, said Collector K. Rajamani on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters after inaugurating 20 autorickshaws deployed to create awareness on COVID-19 precautionary measures across the district, Mr. Rajamani said that nearly 17,000 persons, who came from outside the district, have been placed under 14-day house quarantine and strict action would be taken against those who venture outside while being house quarantined. Checkposts at the State and district borders are being closely monitored and nearly 2,000 swab samples are tested for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district a day, he said. According to a press release, the fine amount imposed by the police on those who do not wear masks touched Rs. 11 lakh, which included Rs. 8.5 lakh in Coimbatore City Police limits. A total of 16 commercial establishments were sealed for violating physical distancing norms and 11 persons who violated the house quarantine were booked by the police in the district. Police have formed 20 flying squads to monitor adherence to personal distancing in public areas, the release said. An initiative of the Transport Department, the 20 autorickshaws would announce the precautions issued by the government to both rural and urban areas through public address system. These vehicles are distributed within the limits of Regional Transport Offices – Central, North, South, West, Mettupalayam and Pollachi. The Department will pay the fare per day to all the 20 drivers.
24 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation continues action against shops for violation||The Coimbatore Corporation continues its action against commercial establishments for violation of COVID-19 safety guidelines. In Central Zone, officials sealed a shopping complex with over 40 shops, a readymade shop and slapped Rs. 3,000 fine on a jewellery showroom – all on Big Bazaar Street – for various violations. Sources familiar with the developments said, the shopkeepers in the shopping complex did not observe physical distancing norms and so did the management of the readymade shop. At the jewellery showroom, the management had switched on the air conditioner at a room housing the accounts department. In East Zone, the officials sealed two vegetable shops near the Singanallur farmers’ market and another shop on Trichy Road for similar violations. The Corporation officials also cordoned off areas where positive cases were reported. The sources said that the officials cordoned off a portion of the VCV Street, near Shanmuga Theatre, an apartment complex on Perur Main Road and a street in Karumbukkadai. In the Perur Main Road apartment complex, two persons had tested positive for COVID-19 and in Karumbukkadai three. Rapid response teams Meanwhile, the Corporation formed five rapid response teams – one each a zone. The East Zone team was in the R.G. Pudur containment area conducting a medical camp screening the residents there. The team gave kabasura kudineer , a herbal decoction to boost immunity, and tested people for COVID-19 symptoms. The Corporation flying squads also went around the city checking safety guideline violations – not wearing masks and observing physical distance, the sources added.
24 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers, students from Assam, Tripura sent home||The district administration on Tuesday sent 53 persons from Assam and Tripura in two buses to Chennai, from where they will catch the train to their respective hometowns. Around 43 migrant workers and 10 college students gathered on the Collectorate premises on Tuesday afternoon, where they were screened for COVID-19 symptoms using thermal scanners. Following the screening, they boarded two buses bound for Chennai, according to sources at the Revenue Department. The workers and students boarded a Shramik special train to Guwahati, Assam, from Chennai at around 11.30 p.m., sources said. The district administration has sent nearly 50,000 migrant workers to their hometowns till date. As the demand for Shramik special trains had declined, no more special trains would be operated from Coimbatore Junction, the sources said.
24 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation to accommodate flower vendors on Devanga school ground||After oscillating between Devanga Higher Secondary School and Corporation Boys’ School ground in R.S. Puram to accommodate the vendors at the now-closed Flower Market on Mettupalayam Road, the Corporation has now decided that it will provide the alternative place at the school ground. According to sources, the Corporation was readying the ground to accommodate around 100 vendors as it had closed down the Market as a part of the COVID-19 containment measures. The Corporation said that it was impossible to open the Market as observance of physical distance was impossible, given its cramped alleys and number of people moving in and out on any given day. After the traders demanded the civic body to provide an alternative location, the Corporation proposed the Devanga Hr. Sec. School ground, but the vendors’ reluctance sent the Corporation on a land hunt. It zeroed in on the ground at the Corporation Boys’ School in R.S. Puram, opposite the Shastri Maidan, but the vendors were once again unwilling to resume business, the sources said. Meanwhile, the Corporation evicted hawkers from near the Market and imposed severe restrictions. It also barricaded the Mettupalayam Road margins to prevent them from squatting on the road. Work in shifts Left with no option, the flower vendors had agreed to the Devanga Hr. Sec. School ground, the sources said and added that though there were 180 of them, they agreed to the place saying that they would work in shifts to make use of the 100 slots earmarked for them. The sources said that the vendors said that depending on the arrival of flowers, one set of traders would wind up by around noon and the rest would resume business thereafter. But this was only a temporary measure – for about 10 – 15 days, as the Corporation was making arrangements to provide them alternative shops at the Flower Market Complex that it had built on the eastern side of the Mettupalayam Road, opposite the now-closed Market. The sources said that at Rs. 75 lakh, the Corporation was erecting iron poles and nailing sheets to provide 100 shops with each measuring at least 36 sq.ft. At the Market, the vendors operated from an area of around 20 sq.ft. The new shops at the Complex would be spacious with wider pathways for people walking in and help maintain the COVID-19 safety guidelines.
24 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Company sealed for conducting interview||Coimbatore North Tahsildar T. Magesh Kumar sealed the office of M India Land Developers, located at New Siddhapudur, on Tuesday for conducting interview to select candidates for employment. According to an official press release, nearly 120 candidates from different parts of Coimbatore district and other districts took part in the selection process. They did not wear mask and did not maintain physical distance and a number of people had gathered at the location. The company had not taken permission from the district administration to conduct the selection process. Hence, the officials took action on the company. The Tahsildar said a complaint had been registered against the promoter of the company. The officials visited the two-storey office following an alert that a large number of people had gathered there for job. The company was selecting candidates for tele-calling. Offices and companies were permitted to work with minimum staff strength and also by taking all the precautionary measures against spread of COVID-19.
24 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Case against two for violating quarantine norms||The Saravanampatti police and the Peelamedu police have registered a case each against two persons whom the Coimbatore Corporation officials found violating quarantine restrictions on Tuesday. Zonal Sanitary Officer, East Zone, K. Chandran said after a Corporation team in Ward 32 found a woman, who had arrived in the city from Chennai on June 22, not in her house in Vilankurichi on Tuesday when it had inquired about her whereabouts. From family and neighbours, it learnt that her going out on Tuesday was her second such violation of the COVID-19 safety precautions. The woman had ventured out of the house though the team had pasted a sticker outside the house cautioning that it was a quarantined house. The team then lodged a complaint with the Saravanampatti police, who had invoked provisions of the Indian Penal Code and Disaster Management Act. Another Corporation team in Kalapatti Nehru Nagar found a 30-year-old man, who had arrived in the city from Bengaluru on June 17, not at his house at the time of inspection. After ascertaining that the person had violated the safety precautions, the team lodged a complaint with the Peelamedu police, who had registered a case, Mr. Chandran added.
24 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Repatriation flight from Doha brings home 183 Indians||As many as 183 Indians landed at Coimbatore International Airport on a repatriation flight from Doha on Tuesday evening, airport sources said. There were 149 men, 25 women, six children and three infants aboard in the repatriation flight. The swab samples of all the passengers were collected for COVID-19 test on arrival at the airport.
24 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Private bus seized for carrying migrant workers||Coimbatore District Police seized at Karumathampatti check post on Tuesday a private bus that carried 30 persons, including 25 migrant workers, from Rajasthan as they did not possess e-passes. The police said that the air-conditioned sleeper bus with five drivers and 25 workers was stopped at around 6.30 a.m. at the Karumathampatti checkpost in the district border. Upon checking the persons inside the bus, the police found that none of them possessed valid e-passes to enter Coimbatore district. Following this, police seized the bus and asked the migrant workers and drivers to deboard the bus. Officials from the Health Department and Revenue Department visited the checkpost and collected the swab samples of all the 30 persons, police said. Karumathampatti police registered a case against Suga Ram, 26, one of the five drivers who was driving the bus, under section 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. Police sources said that the bus was initially set to go to Erode, where the workers were employed at a moulding company, but reached Coimbatore district inadvertently. The company officials agreed to quarantine the migrant workers on its premises and sent a vehicle to the Karumathampatti checkpost to transport the 30 persons to Erode. Further action would be initiated based on the COVID-19 test results, according to the sources.
24 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Female elephant found dead||A female elephant was found dead at Pethikuttai in Sirumugai Forest Range on Tuesday. Forest Department officials said that a team of forest officials were patrolling at Pethikuttai beat on Monday evening when they discovered a foul smell emanating from Ottrai Kan Paalam in the forest area. However, as a herd of elephants was at the spot, the team could not examine the cause. On Tuesday morning, the officials went back to the spot and found the carcass of a female elephant, according to the officials. As per the instructions of District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh, the carcass was autopsied on Tuesday. Estimated to be around 28 years old, the female elephant’s liver was found to be damaged, which might have resulted in reduced intake of food, officials said.
24 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Three accused in murder case released||Following the Madras High Court order in the Udumalpet Shankar murder case, three accused were released from the Coimbatore Central Prison on Tuesday. B. Chinnasamy, the prime accused, K. Dhanraj alias Tamil alias Stephen Dhanraj and M. Manikandan came out of the prison around 5.30 p.m., according to police sources. Members from a caste organisation greeted the three with shawls outside the prison. The five assailants — P. Jagatheesan, M. Manikandan, P. Selvakumar, P. Kalaithamilvaanan alias Tamil alias Kalai and M. Mathan alias Michael — are at the Coimbatore Central Prison serving life imprisonment, sources said. Mr. Chinnasamy was accused of hiring contract killers to murder V. Shankar on March 13, 2016, because the latter had married his daughter C. Kowsalya. Shankar was from a Scheduled Caste community while Mr. Chinnasamy belonged to an Other Backward Classes caste. In December 2017, a trial court in Tiruppur awarded death sentence to Mr. Chinnasamy, life sentence to Mr. Dhanraj and five years of imprisonment to Mr. Manikandan. These sentences were set aside by the Madras HC on Monday. The High Court commuted the death sentences of the assailants to life imprisonment.
24 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Maoist gets conditional bail||Principal District and Sessions Court on Tuesday granted conditional bail to Deepak, a Maoist, who was detained under National Security Act last year. Deepak was arrested by a Special Task Force from a forest near Anaikatti in Coimbatore on November 9, 2019, a press release said. Deepak is currently remanded in judicial custody in Chhattisgarh. Man arrested The All Women Police (West) on Monday arrested a 43-year-old man on charges of sexually harassing a 16-year-old girl. The accused S. Ramalingam was sent to be remanded in judicial custody.
24 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Three accused in Shankar murder case released from prison||Following the Madras High Court order on the 2016 Udumalpet Shankar murder case, three of the accused, including the prime accused, were released from the Coimbatore Central Prison on Tuesday. B. Chinnasamy, who was the prime accused, along with K. Dhanraj and M. Manikandan came out of the prison around 5.30 p.m., police sources said. Meanwhile, the five assailants – P. Jagatheesan, M. Manikandan, P. Selvakumar, P. Kalaithamilvaanan and M. Mathan – are still lodged at Coimbatore Central Prison serving life imprisonment, sources said. Mr. Chinnasamy was accused of hiring contract killers to murder V. Shankar on March 13, 2016, because the latter had married his daughter C. Kowsalya. Shankar was from a Scheduled Caste, while Mr. Chinnasamy belonged to an Other Backward Classes (OBC) caste. In December 2017, a trial court in Tiruppur awarded death sentence to Mr. Chinnasamy, life sentence to Mr. Dhanraj and five years of imprisonment to Mr. Manikandan. These sentences were set aside by Madras High Court on Monday and it ordered the three to be released forthwith. The High Court commuted the death sentences of the five assailants to life imprisonment. Protest staged Untouchability Eradication Front staged a demonstration outside the Tiruppur District Collectorate on Tuesday condemning the Madras High Court’s verdict. The members also petitioned Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan.
24 June 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||72 persons test positive in Cuddalore||The district continued to witness a spike in COVID-19 cases with 72 persons testing positive for the virus on Tuesday. The total number of cases in the district now stands at 893. Of the 72 new cases, 47 returned to the district from Chennai. They tested positive when they were screened at check posts. Besides the 47 persons, eight people from Kerala, Punjab, Delhi, Rajasthan and Hyderabad also tested positive. Of the total 893 cases, 382 are active cases, while a total of 506 persons have been discharged so far.
24 June 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Post-wedding, a family of COVID-19 cases||Over 10 persons from a single family testing positive for COVID-19 has put the official machinery on high alert. The infections were traced to a primary contact with movements between three districts for a wedding party and a post-wedding feast. On Monday, nine members of a family tested positive after a woman, headmistress of a school, had tested positive. The woman had returned to Harur from Chennai along with her son, for his wedding with a Krishnagiri bride. The wedding was held in Krishnagiri in the second week of June. A post-wedding feast was held Harur. Both the events had witnessed a large turnout of guests, including immediate family members and relatives. Last week, the woman developed multiple symptoms of COVID-19 and tested positive. Travel history revealed a trail from Chennnai to Harur to Krishnagiri and back to Harur for wedding and post-wedding festivities. On Monday, the woman's husband, and immediate family members of nine others also had tested positive. Following this, an alert was sounded out to others. Over 45 other relatives in Harur had volunteered for testing. According to sources, similar contact tracing was needed to trace the attendees from Krishnagiri. Questions are being raised on the efficacy of e-passes and restrictions, where wedding parties and festive congregations were escaping scrutiny, leading to potential mini clusters of of COVID-19 cases. Until these cases, Harur had remained free of COVID-19 infection.
24 June 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Policeman tests positive||A police constable attached to Veeruveedu police station tested positive to COVID-19 on Tuesday. Therefore, his wife was subjected to a test and she too confirmed positive to the virus. The policeman lived at Pallapatti in Nilakottai taluk. Over the last one week, the number of people testing positive to COVID-19 virus had been rising steadily and the total number of cases crossed 300 mark. As the news of the policeman testing positive was informed to the higher-ups, the station was temporarily shut for carrying out disinfection and sanitising work.
24 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||One each die in Erode, Salem||A 38-year-old woman, who tested positive for COVID-19 and was undergoing treatment at the isolation ward of Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai died on Tuesday morning. A resident of Valayakarar Street in the Erode Corporation limits, the woman was the attender for her 20-year-old pregnant daughter, who tested positive and is undergoing treatment at the ward. Health officials said that swab samples were taken from the woman recently and she tested positive and was admitted to the ward. She died in the morning. Her body was packed and buried in the evening with all protocols mandated for the burial of COVID-19 patients being followed, they said. This is the second COVID-19 death reported in the district so far. Salem A 60-year-old woman, who tested positive and was undergoing treatment at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here, died on Tuesday. R. Balajinathan, Dean of the Hospital, said the patient from Fathima Nagar near Kitchipalayam here was admitted to the hospital on June 21. According to doctors, the patient was suffering from diabetes and had undergone coronary bypass surgery earlier. J. Nirmalson, Deputy Director of Health Services, said the funeral would be held following all health protocols. He added that they were tracing how the patient contracted the disease. Ten of her contacts had tested positive and they were undergoing treatment at the hospital, he said.
24 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Divisional-level Dak Adalat on June 30||The divisional-level Dak Adalat will be conducted at the Office of the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Erode division, between 11 a.m. and 12 noon on June 30. A press release from Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Erode division, said that postal customers may send their complaints related to the services offered by the department to the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Erode division, Erode 638 001 so as to reach the office before June 26. The cover should be superscribed on the top as “Dak Adalat case”. The grievances may also be handed over in person at the office between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. before June 26. The complaint should contain full details such as date and time of posting, full address of the sender and addressee, registered number with date and office of booking for MO, VP, Registered, Insured and Speed Post articles. If the complaint is about savings bank of Postal Life Insurance, the complaint should contain the account number, PLI policy numbers, name and address of the depositor, Insurant, name of the post office, the details of recovery and any reference of the Postal Department, wherever available, the release added.
24 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Carcass of two gaurs found||Two gaurs were found dead in the forest area at Chellapampalayam East Beat in Ennamangalam Kappukadu in Anthiyur Forest Range here on Monday. Forest personnel found the carcasses of a male and a female and alerted the senior officials. A team led by K. Ashokan, wildlife veterinary surgeon at Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR), performed autopsy on the spot in the presence of District Forest Officer, Erode Division, Anthiyur Forest Ranger and veterinarian from Ennamangalam. The doctor said that both the animals had died of old age, Mr. Asokan said.
24 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||250 swab samples lifted from traders, loadmen at vegetable market||With five COVID-19 positive cases reported in the Corporation limits, swab samples were lifted from 250 traders, loadmen, conservancy workers and auto drivers at the temporary Nethaji Daily Vegetable and Fruit Market functioning at the Corporation’s Central Bus Stand here on Tuesday. The wholesale market functions from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. for shopkeepers and the retail market for the public from 6 a.m. to 9 a.m. every day. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said there were over 700 traders in the market of which the houses of over 75% of the traders were located on Valayakarar Street where four cases were reported. Recently, 150 samples were tested in the area and all tested negative. Since the market served as a potential source for infection, samples were lifted from traders, conservancy workers, auto drivers and loadmen on Tuesday and the results were expected on Wednesday. “We have carried out random tests and covered around 400 people who are related to the market activities,” he added. Mr. Elangovan said that a special camp would be held on Wednesday to lift samples from call taxi drivers in the city. The samples were taken to the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital for tests.
24 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Micro finance firms insisting on payment of interest’||Stating that various micro finance companies are pressuring them to repay borrowed loans and interests during the lockdown period, members of various women self help groups have decided to submit a petition to the Collector on June 29 to initiate action against those companies. A meeting was held here in which members affected by the micro finance companies participated. S.T. Prabakaran, District Treasurer, Communist Party of India, S. Chinnasamy, State Secretary, AITUC, and other functionaries spoke on the occasion. A resolution passed in the meeting said that many micro finance companies functioning in the city had provided loans to the daily earners and self help groups and were collecting interests from them regularly. “Lockdown led to the workers losing their livelihood and are facing difficulty as normalcy is yet to be restored”, the resolution said. The resolution said that the Central government and the Reserve Bank of India had clarified that interest for borrowings and other repayments related to loans for the period from March to August can be paid in instalments without additional interest. But these companies impose additional interest for non-payment of interest and also fine for delayed payments.
24 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to ongoing works to remove electric poles at Thirunagar, power supply will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on June 24 at the rear side of Thiruvalluvar Kudil, J. Marriott Hotel, Bus Stand areas, Kamaraj Higher Secondary School, Janaki Ammal Layout, Kandasamy Street, E.V.K. Sampath Road, K.N.K. Road, Moolapattarai, Thirunagar Colony, Rajajipuram, Mill Street, Gandhipuram 1st, 2nd and 3rd streets, Kannaiyan Street, Subbaiyan Street, Marapalam Road, Kuyilaan Thoppu, Karungalpalayam, Cauvery Road, V.C.T.V Road (Malligai Arangam), Madavakadu, Sithan Nagar, Kamala Nagar, Krishnampalayam, Kakkan Road, R.K.V. Nagar, Rajagopal Thottam, Ramamurthy Nagar, M.GR. Nagar and Vandiyuran Kovil Street.  Kavindapadi sub-station, June 25, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. : Kavindapadi, Kolathupalayam, Odathurai, Pethampalayam, Ellispettai, Singanallur, Perundalaiyur, Vellankovil, Appakudal, Krishnapuram, Dharmapuri, K. Pudur, Marappampalayam, Ayyampalayam, Velampalayam, Chandirapuram, Perumapalayam, Thannachipatti, Pandiyampalayam, Kunjaramadai, Odamedu, Karukkampalayam, Kannadipudur, Manickavalasu, Ayyanvalasu, Manipuram, Viralimedu, Thangamedu, Sevacoundanur, Alandur, Kavundampalayam, Kuttipalayam and Serayampalayam.
24 June 2020||GUDALUR,TAMIL NADU||Six children rescued||In a joint effort, officials from Kerala and Tamil Nadu safely rescued six children, engaged in a murukku making unit in Pathanamthitta, Kerala and handed them over to officials here on Tuesday. Following a complaint from the parents, who lived in Periakulam, district childline official Suresh Kumar and team, took up the issue with their counterparts in Kerala. Preliminary inquiries revealed that a broker from Usilampatti in Madurai district had approached the parents and offered them money. Forced by poverty and unaware of the consequences, the parents had sent their wards with the broker. After handing them over to an agent in Pathanamthitta, the broker had disappeared. The COVID-19 pandemic had forced the children to leave the place, and one of them had informed their parents here at home about the dangerous living conditions. After locating the illegal murukku making unit, a team swooped in and rescued the children safely on Monday. At Kumili-Lower Camp, the children were handed over to the officials from Tamil Nadu by the team from Kerala, where they were screened for COVID-19. As and when the swab results are known, they would be handed over to their parents, Deputy Tahsildar, Kannan, said and added that until then they would be in safe hands at the Child Welfare premises in Theni. A senior official said that a hunt was on to nab the broker from Usilampatti in Madurai district.
24 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Strict norms to approve e-pass||The district administration has approved a total of 312 out of the total 2,312 e-pass applications here on Tuesday from residents of other districts in Tamil Nadu looking to make their way back to Madurai before the intensified lockdown begins. A source said several applications were received from Chennai, Coimbatore, Tiruchi and other southern districts. A majority were from Tirunelveli, Ramanathapuram and Dindigul. Approvals were provided only in case of medical emergencies, deaths or funerals. Many looking to come back to the district before the lockdown to join places of work and stay with their families during the lockdown said that they cannot come back until June 30. They said they are likely to apply for more number of times. M. Selvam, a research scientist working at Indian Institute of Technology (Madras), said he applied to go back to his house in Madurai on Sunday as his father fell ill. The news of the lockdown and his e-pass rejection reached him on Monday. "I was not told of any reason for the rejection," he said. A journalist, who has to join a new job at a Tamil newspaper on Wednesday, said he too was unable to procure a pass to Madurai. "I have appealed again. Let us hope it is approved," he said. Several residents from Tiruchi, Dindigul, Sivaganga and Nagercoil arrived at the Collectorate, hoping to find a way back to their hometowns before the lockdown. S. Nachiketan and N. Rajalakshmi, a couple residing in Madurai who wished to go to Srirangam, their hometown, said their e-pass was rejected from the district administration. “We are writing to the administration in Madurai to consider our case and forward our application as urgent as we have a young child and want to go back to our hometown,” he said. Collector T. G. Vinay said that they are tightening the reins around approval of passes keeping in mind the spread of COVID-19. “We are exercising caution and only allowing genuine cases at the moment,” he said.
24 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Move within your police station limits’||The police have restricted movement of people within the jurisdiction of their respective police stations during the intensified lockdown from Wednesday . Commissioner S. Davidson Devasirvatham said the rule is meant to keep a tab on unnecessary movement of people to prevent crowding at markets. “We will have picketing on the borders of each police station limits,” he said. Each five ranges would be monitored by a Deputy Commissioner and every Assistant Commissioner of Police would supervise two police stations each. Over 2,500 police personnel and Tamil Nadu Special Police personnel would be deployed at the checkposts and picketing at important junctions. People who wander without any purpose would be booked and their vehicles seized. Movement of vehicles on bridges across the Vaigai is restricted. Only Albert Victor Bridge, New Bridge, P.T. Rajan Bridge and Kamaraj Bridge would be kept open for vehicle movement. “People coming from other districts and from rural areas would not be allowed without e-pass,” he said. He said unnecessary movement in crowded place would lead to getting infected with Corona virus. People should have enough stock of essentials at one go and not venture out every day during the lockdown. He said that several streets in the city had been marked as corona virus affected area and cautioned people to stay safe and maintain social distancing. Wearing of mask is mandatory. Those who were violating the norms for movement within the city would be booked under the provisions of Indian Penal Code, Disaster Management Act, Tamil Nadu Epidemic Diseases Act. The police are making an elaborate picketing plan to curtail unnecessary movement of people.
24 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||137 persons test positive in Madurai||A total of 137 persons tested positive for COVID-19 here on Tuesday taking the tally of cases to 988. In the last week, COVID-19 cases have risen by 112% from 464 cases on June 16 to 988 cases on June 23. All 137 cases were indigenous on Tuesday. The district recorded its ninth death as a 75 year-old man with hypertension and diabetes who was admitted on June 20 died the same day. Apart from his comorbidities and COVID-19 induced pneumonia, he suffered a cardiopulmonary arrest. A total of 16 persons were discharged and there are 574 active cases. Virudhunagar Virudhunagar district recorded 26 new COVID-19 positive cases. Most of them were people who had contact with those who had returned from Chennai. With this, the total number of positive cases in the district has gone up to 234. The number of active cases is 93 and 140 patients have so far been discharged. Theni Theni district accounted for 48 fresh cases on Tuesday. A majority of the people had travel history. After arriving here, they had come in contact with their relatives or friends or other acquaintances. So, not only new cases were on the rise, but new locations too were popping up with COVID-19 virus, a doctor at the Cumbum GH said. At least eight policemen tested positive from Bodi following which the station was shut. With this, the total positive cases were 284 and 129 were discharged and two persons died due to the virus so far. Ramanathapuram The number of fresh cases was 18 and all the people had travel history from other districts or came in close contact with the positive patients. The officials said that the passengers, after taking swab tests, were confined to isolation centres. After the tests were made known, they were admitted for treatment. Dindigul The number of COVID-19 cases stood at 44 taking the total active cases to 357. After a lull, the numbers had again gone up and in the last seven days, the total active cases went up by 100. So far, 220 patients have been discharged from the hospitals after successful treatment. Sivaganga A total of 19 fresh cases were admitted to the COVID-19 isolation ward that for the first time, the total active cases crossed the 100 mark and stood at 103. The doctors said that 80 % of the patients had travel history and the rest had contacts with the positive patients. The hospital had so far discharged 53 people. Thoothukudi With the addition of 38 more cases, the infection tally of Thoothukudi district rose to 678, the highest among the southern districts, on Tuesday. All 38 cases were indigenous cases, who did not have any travel history and have contracted the infection from a local source. The district now has 259 active cases. Tenkasi  Tenkasi recorded 11 fresh cases on Tuesday that took its tally to 272 and the number of active cases to 162. Kanniyakumari The Kanniyakumari district, with the lowest number of infections among southern districts, has 79 active cases now with the addition of 9 more cases – all indigenous - on Tuesday. The district’s total number of infections stood at 180. Tirunelveli Tirunelveli had 5 more positive cases including 3 indigenous cases that took the total number of cases to 648 and active cases to 211.
24 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Residents throng shops, markets||Residents thronged vegetable markets and shops on Tuesday ahead of intensified lockdown. S. P. Jeyaprakasam, president, Tamil Nadu Food Grains Merchants’ Association, said many customers started visiting shops on East Masi Street since Tuesday morning. “There is no need for concern as there would be no shortage in supply of groceries,” he said. Prices of vegetables too shot up on Tuesday. President of Central Market Wholesale Vegetable Vendors Association P.S. Murugan said a kg of tomato was sold at Rs. 55 with an increase of Rs. 20 per kg. Prices of vegetables like lady’s finger, carrot and potato also had risen. K. Hakkim, a resident of Nelpettai, said that due to lack of clarity on functioning of meat and fish shops, many customers visited meat markets. However, crowds at markets and shops on Tuesday was less than the crowds witnessed during the previous intensified lockdown, he said. “It is because people do not have sufficient disposable income to buy large quantities of goods,” he said. The restriction in using private transport for purchase of essentials during the intensified lockdown had prompted people to crowd shops, said V.P. Manikandan, a resident of S.S. Colony. Collector T.G.Vinay said there was no need for people to indulge in panic buying as all grocery and vegetable shops would function between 6 a.m. and 2 p.m. during the intensified lockdown. He urged the public to avoid crowding at shops and visit shops that were near their residences.
24 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs to work with minimal staff||A majority of micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the district will function with skeletal staff during the seven-day lockdown period, say industrialists. With the restrictions in place for movement of employees to the workplace, most entrepreneurs cannot provide accommodation to their employees, resulting in operation of industries with minimal staff, they say. The lockdown would be intensified in areas falling under Madurai Corporation limits, Paravai Town Panchayat, and village panchayats of Madurai East, Madurai West and Tirupparankundram blocks from June 24 to 30. G. Ramalingam, General Manager, District Industries Centre, said there were no restrictions in the functioning of industries during the intensified lockdown. “However, only employees who reside within walkable distance from their workplace would be allowed to work. Other employees can work if the businesses can provide accommodation for them near the workplace,” he said. E-pass would be issued for managerial staff and business owners for their movement. President of Kappalur Industrial Estate P.N. Ragunantha Raja said that though the estate was not located within the specified areas where intensified lockdown would be implemented, there would still be difficulties in operation of industries as most workers were not residing in walkable distance from the estate. “Around 3,000 workers of the industrial estate reside within the areas where intensified lockdown would be implemented,” he said. For many industries, working with minimal staff will result in heavy losses when compared to shutting down the enterprises, he added. President of K. Pudur Industrial Estate Association M.S. Sampath said that shortage of employees would affect production at industries. “But, it is practically not possible for most MSMEs to provide accommodation to their employees near the workplace,” he added. Mr. Raja said that though the G.O. mentioned that RT-PCR tests should be conducted once for employees, there was no clarity regarding how such tests can be conducted. “But, all industries are already following the standard operating procedure and are following necessary safety precautions,” he added.
24 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Form panel to test Siddha doctor’s herbal concoction, says High Court||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the Directorate of Indian Medicine and Homeopathy to constitute a committee of experts to test the herbal concoction prepared by a Madurai-based Siddha doctor to see if it could be a cure for COVID-19. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi directed S. Subramanian of Madurai, the Siddha doctor to appear before the committee on June 26 at 10 a.m. and submit the medicine prepared by him with information regarding the ingredients and preparation. If the expert committee were of the opinion that the medicine would be efficacious, they may refer it to the Central Council for Research in Ayurveda and Siddha (CCRAS), New Delhi, the court said and adjourned the hearing to June 30. The court was hearing the petition filed by Siddha Doctor, Subramanian, currently working as Medical Officer in the Government Siddha Medical College in Palayamkottai. He was previously Medical Officer of the Siddha dispensary at the High Court Bench. He filed the petition before the court seeking a direction to the Ministry of Ayush to test his herbal concoction to see if it could be a cure for COVID-19. He said his concoction, ‘IMPRO’, a mixture of 66 herbs would increase immunity. The court observed that under normal circumstances, it would not have entertained the petition as it would open the floodgate for a number of such petitions. The plea was taken up for hearing on the sole ground that the petitioner was a qualified Siddha doctor, the court said.
24 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Attack on health worker condemned||The Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA) said four to five deaths have been recorded every day at the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in the last week. In a press release, it condemned an attack on a health worker at GRH on Tuesday. Its president K. Senthil said medical staff are putting their lives at risk during COVID-19 by providing medical care. ‘With the current rise in the number of cases, we see between 40 and 50 patients in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) and around four to five deaths everyday at the COVID-19 speciality hospital. While some are COVID-19 positive, some swabs are indicative of COVID-19 deaths. Others are negative,’ he said. While some patients die after one or two days after developing fever, breathlessness and collapse on the third day, others are treated for a prolonged period (a week) at ICUs and then die, he said. ‘The son of a patient who died this morning abused a nurse using foul language. The nurse served even without taking time to change her torn mask. On a regular day, we would have demanded strict action against the man but considering the ongoing burden of pandemic, we continue to do our job in the hope that the public understand the contribution of doctors,’ he said.
24 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Bus services from other districts to be cut short||Owing to the intensified lockdown in parts of Madurai district between June 24 and June 30, public vehicles will not ply in Madurai Corporation, Paravai Town Panchayat, Madurai East, Madurai West and Tirupparankundram blocks, said a press release from the district administration. Consequently, bus services from other districts will be terminated outside areas under lockdown. Vehicles coming via Sattur, Sivakasi and Rajapalayam will be stopped at Tirumangalam. Those from Aruppukottai will be allowed only till Kariapatti. Transport from Ramanathapuram and Manamadurai will be allowed only till Tirupuvanam and those from Sivaganga until Poovanthi. Vehicles from Singampunari, Kottampatti and Tiruppatur will be allowed till Melur and transport from Natham till Kadavur. Strict enforcement Collector T. G. Vinay in an audio message to the public said that the lockdown will be enforced strictly and that those with symptoms must visit their nearest health facilities.
24 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Fever, contact tracing, disinfection teams formed||In the wake of rising COVID-19 positive cases in the city, Madurai Corporation has formed special fever teams, contact tracing teams and disinfection teams to intensify COVID-19 surveillance and screening within the city. Fever teams, comprising 1,400 field workers, have been formed to undertake door-to-door surveillance to identify fever cases within the 100 wards of the Corporation. The workers will cover around four lakh households in the city. Each worker has been allotted 300 houses, such that a worker will do medical screening at 100 houses each day. “Once a worker covers 300 houses in three days, they will again start medical screening from the first house to start the next cycle. This will ensure strict surveillance and help to detect fever cases early on,” said a Corporation official. A press release from the Commissioner S. Visakan said that residents must cooperate with the fever teams and inform the teams if they know anyone suffering from fever. They can also inform the civic body by contacting 8428425000. Contact tracing teams led by four Assistant Revenue Officers have been formed to trace and screen the primary and secondary contacts of COVID-19 positive patients. The teams will work with Urban Primary Health Centres to collect information of persons infected with COVID-19 and trace their contacts. Teams led by sanitary officers and comprising 150 workers have been formed to disinfect the residences of COVID-19 positive patients twice every day.
24 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Upload schemes on Legal Services Authority website’||After the State submitted the list of welfare schemes, including the ones announced during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has said welfare schemes be uploaded on the Tamil Nadu State Legal Services Authority website for the benefit of the public. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi directed the member-secretary of the Tamil Nadu legal services authority to upload the schemes and sensitise the district and taluk level legal services authorities to them. Any person who has been denied benefit under any of these schemes can approach the district or taluk level legal services authority for grievance redressal. The court directed the government departments to mark a copy of new welfare schemes in the future and amendments to the existing schemes to the Member-Secretary of the Tamil Nadu Legal Services Authority so that it can be updated on the website. It was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by N. Malaikannu, coordinator of Association for Rural Development and Upliftment of Humanity to Virtual Integrity, who sought a direction to the State to extend financial assistance to unregistered unorganised sector workers. With the above direction the petition was closed.
24 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Air passengers refuse to pay for quarantine service||Passengers from Male who arrived in Madurai Airport by a chartered flight on Wednesday remained at Madurai airport after refusing to pay mandatory charges for their stay, COVID-19 testing and transport. However, after the officials pacified them, they came out of the airport at 5 p.m. after 7 hours of staying in the airport. An official said that since they had not come by Vande Bharat flight but in a chartered flight, the passengers had to pay for their stay in hotel, swab tests and transport. “All the passengers had boarded the flight only after giving an undertaking that they would abide by the conditions laid down by the district administration. However, they protested here,” the official said. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan, had flayed the State and the Centre for charging the passengers.
24 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||DMK MLA booked for intimidation||A case of criminal intimidation has been registered against Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MLA, P. Moorthi, for having threatened a Bharatiya Janata Party functionary, Sankar Pandi, here. The police said that Mr. Moorthi went to his house at Devi Nagar and questioned him for a social media message Sankarpandi had posted criticising the MLA. After a quarrel, the MLA is said to have abused him and threatened. The Oomachikulam police have registered a case for rioting and trespass.
24 June 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Farmers start desilting tail-end branch canal||After a long wait, farmers in the tail-end areas of Kilvelur, Killukudi, Pattamangalam, and Sottalvannam villages in the district are now in the process of desilting a branch canal to a length of seven km, at their own expense, to ensure availability of water for paddy cultivation in about 3,000 acres where they have already undertaken direct sowing as per the advice of the Agriculture Department. Farmers in these villages are apprehensive since delay in flow of water in the canal fed by Odambokki, a tributary of the Vettar, will lead to withering of the sprouts. “We have been trying in vain for many years to get the branch canal desilted through the Public Works Department,” S.R. Tamil Selvan, who has mobilised the farmers in the cluster of villages to deepen the branch canal by two to three feet, said. “Clearing of silt and shrubs in the canal with earth movers has been completed to a stretch of five km over the last few days. We are hopeful of finishing off the remaining two km in the next two to three days,” Mr. Tamil Selvan said. Delay in flow of water will lead to late harvest, which, in turn, will hamper the schedule of thaladi crop. “After a gap of eight years, we have hopes of completing two crop cycles this time,” Mr. Tamil Selvan said. Though it is a week since water was released into the Vennar, there are no signs of water reaching the Vettar, its tributary, so far, he added. According to a PWD official, water will reach the branch canals in the tail-end areas of the delta region within the next two days.
24 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||One death, 19 new cases in Puducherry||A 60-year-old woman, who died at the Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital, was later confirmed to have contracted COVID-19. With this, the death toll reached nine in the Union Territory. The woman, hailing from neighbouring Mudaliarpet, died on Monday evening at the general hospital. A staff nurse at the GH was among the 19 new cases diagnosed on Tuesday. Eight persons were admitted to IGMCRI, while seven persons, including one from Cuddalore, were admitted to Jipmer. Four persons were admitted to the government hospital in Karaikal. In all, 16 patients were discharged. Of the 228 persons undergoing treatment, 172 are at IGMCRI, 43 at Jipmer, 11 at Karaikal GH and one each at facilities in Yanam and Cuddalore. The exponential rise in the number of COVID-19 cases in Puducherry has prompted the territorial administration to bring further restrictions on movement of people from Tuesday. In accordance with the decision taken by Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy at a meeting of the Puducherry State Disaster Management Authority four days ago, shops, including petrol pumps, stopped functioning from 2 p.m. The government, in a revised order issued on Monday, exempted only wholesale and retail medical shops from the lockdown restrictions. While milk parlours were allowed to function till 6 p.m, restaurants were allowed to offer takeaways till 8 p.m. and dine-ins with 50% capacity till 2 p.m. The restrictions were not applicable to industrial, agricultural and fishing activities, government offices and hospitals, the order said. In a press release on Tuesday, District Collector T. Arun sought the public’s help in combating the spread of the virus.
24 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Beach Road in Puducherry closed for 10 days||The rise in number of COVID-19 cases in Puducherry has prompted the administration to bring further restrictions on movement of people. The Beach Road was closed for 10 days with effect from Tuesday. The government, as per a revised order issued on Monday, exempted only wholesale and retail medical shops from any restriction.
24 June 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Collector conducts vehicle checks on NH||Collector P. Uma Maheswari on Tuesday conducted surprise vehicle checks on Tiruchi-Pudukottai National Highway at SIPCOT to ensure that those entering the district had valid e-passes. She said police personnel, along with revenue and health department teams, had stepped up vigil on those from other districts and States. The teams were conducting vehicle checks at 13 places. Steps had been taken to escort the travellers to designated spots for screening and allow entry only after ensuring that they did not have COVID-19 symptoms. Instructions had been given to village administrative officers and municipal and town panchayat officials to inform the district administration on those who arrived stealthily. In a press release, she said a total of 8,768 cases had been registered against those flouting prohibitory orders during vehicle checks. As many as 15,884 persons were arrested and 15,338 vehicles seized. Those with symptoms of the viral disease should subject themselves to medical examination at primary health centres and government hospitals, she added.
24 June 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors resuscitate woman, post-delivery||Doctors at Pudukottai Government Medical College Hospital successfully resuscitated by artificial ventilation a woman who became unconscious after delivery through Caesarean section recently. Gladys Geetha, hailing from Vichur in Manamelkudi taluk was admitted to the Aranthangi Hospital for her second delivery. She underwent Caesarean section on June 10. The next day the patient developed aspiration pneumonitis accidentally whereby the gastric contents entered into the trachea. The patient developed dyspnea and her condition worsened following which she was shifted to Pudukottai Medical College Hospital on June 11. On examination, she was febrile and gasping for breath. Chief Anaesthesiologist Saiprabha and Assistant Professor Ganesan instituted artificial ventilation for the patient and arterial blood gas analysis was done. It was found that the patient was suffering from oxygen deficit and excess of acid in the body. The doctors corrected the metabolic imbalance based on arterial blood gases which was done twice a day. The patient was treated with higher antibiotics. She was given five days of artificial ventilation and kept on partial artificial ventilation for two days. On the seventh day, the patient was allowed to breathe normally and fed through ryles tube which is inserted through the nostril and kept in the stomach. A press release issued by hospital dean Meenakshi Sundaram said the patient was discharged in healthy condition on Tuesday. “This is a team effort involving anaesthesiologist Dr. Saiprabha and Dr. Ganesan, medicine chief Dr. Balamurugan, OG chief Dr. Amudha and thoracic physician Dr. Damodaran,” he said. The services of nurses and sanitary workers were laudable. The entire treatment was done free of cost, Dr. Meenakshi Sundaram added.
24 June 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Bed strength enhanced in Ramanathapuram: Collector||Following a rise in the number of persons testing positive to COVID-19 virus, the district administration has enhanced its bed strength in Government Hospital’s COVID-19 isolation wards from 400 to 800 and in quarantine/isolation centres, there were 1559 beds taking the total strength to about 2400, said Collector K Veera Raghava Rao here on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters, he said that the official machinery and the team of doctors and para-medical staff were fully geared up to take on the emergency. The Collector said that the recent rise could be well attributed to people with travel history. The number of people arriving from other districts like Chennai and Coimbatore were in large numbers. As on date, the district had taken swab tests on 10,063 persons and 9577 tested negative. As many as 397 tested positive and results were awaited for 89 people. He clarified that out of the 397 people, who tested positive, 80 were from other stations. Hence, after cross notification, their names were removed from the district’s total active cases, which brought down the actual total to 317 in which 131 had been discharged after successful treatment. Thus, 184 persons were in treatment at different stages in the hospital, Mr. Rao said, adding two persons had died. A delegation comprising leaders from the DMK, Congress, CPI (M), CPI and other allied political parties led by Lok Sabha MP K Nawas Kani met the Collector and submitted a memorandum. Later talking to reporters, Mr. Nawas Kani said that they urged the district administration to ensure that the patients in the COVID-19 ward were given proper food and attended well by the doctors. They attributed media reports that the patients were agitated since even facemasks were not changed regularly and physical distancing lacked in the wards. When the Collector was asked to comment, he said that food and treatment for the COVID-19 patients were done as per medical guidelines. There was no slackness on the part of the health teams or the frontline workers. He suggested that the patients discharged from the COVD-19 wards can be independently checked by anybody.
24 June 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Cheque handed over||Representing Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit, the Aide-De-Camp, Major Ajay P S Rathore handed over a cheque for Rs. 20 lakh to the family members of slain soldier K. Palani at Tiruvadanai in the district on Tuesday. The soldier, who was in the line of duty at the Galwan Valley, Ladakh, was killed in a ‘violent standoff’ between Indian and Chinese soldiers. In a press release issued from the Raj Bhavan, Chennai, it stated that the Governor, as a token of gratitude to Palani’s supreme sacrifice, Rs. 20 lakh has been granted from his discretionary grant. It was personally handed over to the spouse of the soldier at his residence in Tiruvadanai.
24 June 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Door delivery of diesel launched||The Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited on Monday launched door delivery of diesel in the district. According to a release, customers can call the dealership in the phone number 90928 17777 to order delivery of diesel by sharing their location, time and quantity preferred, a release said.
24 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Case against two patients||The Salem City Police on Monday registered cases against two COVID-19 patients after they allegedly stopped doctors from discharging their duty. The police said, the patients, aged about 26 years, picked a quarrel with doctors for the food of their choice instead of the diet provided by the hospital. Based on a complaint from the hospital, the police registered a case against them.
24 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Complete lockdown sought||Members of Consumer Voice Foundation here petitioned the Collector on Tuesday requesting the district administration to implement complete lockdown during the end of the week to control the spread of COVID-19 here. Cases on the rise In the petition, the members said that the number of positive cases in Salem had been increasing and the spread could increase due to persons travelling from other places to Salem. The petitioners said that physical distancing norms were not followed in the markets and also in town buses. They requested the district administration to implement complete lockdown on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays.
24 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Shops to function only till 4 p.m. in Salem||As part of COVID-19 preventive measures, the district administration has ordered closure of all shops by 4 p.m in the district from Wednesday. Hotels, bakeries have been advised to operate only for takeaway services till 8 p.m. Collector S.A.Raman said in a release that various trade organisations had volunteered to close shops by 4 p.m. No restriction for hospitals There is no time restriction for hospitals, pharmacies and petrol pumps. Tea shops should remain closed. Weekly markets cannot function until further orders and u zhavar sandhais would function as usual, the release said. Industries can function as usual and bus passengers, drivers and conductors should wear masks and practice physical distancing norms. Mr.Raman advised public to alert them about quacks.
24 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Farmers petition District Collector||Members of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam petitioned District Collector S.A. Raman here on Tuesday demanding authorities to not acquire farm lands for implementing Mettur surplus water scheme. In their petition, the farmers said that under the scheme, surplus water from Mettur dam would be carried to 100 lakes here in four Assembly constituencies. The petitioners said that agricultural lands must not be acquired for carrying water to lakes here instead water traditional water channels must be used. They also requested governments to not to implement the Salem-Chennai eight-lane green corridor project.
24 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Officials warn paddy seed sellers||Six paddy seed retailers in Thanjavur district have been stopped from selling seeds as they were found to be of inferior quality. The inferior quality of the seeds came to light during surprise checks conducted by a team of officials from the Directorate of Seed Certification and Organic Certification, Coimbatore, at private retailing units in Thanjavur, Ammapettai, Orathanadu, and Pattukottai taluks on Monday. The DSCOC officials had urged farmers to procure certified seeds and demand receipt for the purchase. They had also warned seed sellers of stern action for sale of uncertified seeds to farmers and non-issuance of receipt.
24 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Navy ship repatriates 198 Indians stranded in Maldives||Indian Naval Ship Airavat repatriated 198 Indians stranded in Maldives following COVID-19-induced lockdown to VOC Port here on Tuesday under the Union Government’s ‘Samudhra Setu’ operation. This is the third mission to be undertaken by the Indian Navy as INS Jalashwa had repatriated the Indians from Colombo and Male recently. Of the 198 repatriates, 195 are from Tamil Nadu while the remaining three are from neighbouring Union Territory of Puducherry, who were provided with personal protection equipment kits before boarding the waiting buses to take them to their respective destinations that included Thoothukudi, Virudhunagar, Kanniyakumari etc. Receiving the repatriates at VOC Port, Collector Sandeep Nanduri said INS Airavat had brought the stranded Indians from Maldives after INS Jalashwa had brought back Indians stranded in Sri Lanka and Maldives. In the next mission, around 700 Indians stranded in Iran would be brought to VOC Port, Thoothukudi on June 28. He said there was no need to clamp total lockdown in Thoothukudi as the pandemic was under control and there was no community transmission. Chairman of VOC Port T.K. Ramachandran, Superintendent of Police Arun Balagopalan and other senior officials were present.
24 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Onboard staff to sanitise moving trains||Three special trains originating from Tiruchi junction and operated to Nagercoil and Chengalpattu are being disinfected daily here to ensure passenger safety. Railway authorities have also deployed onboard staff to disinfect vulnerable areas inside the coaches while the trains are on the move. After complete suspension of services from March-end due to lockdown, Southern Railway resumed operation of some specials from June 1. Tiruchi - Nagercoil Intercity Superfast Express was the first to be resumed from Tiruchi followed by Tiruchi- Chengalpattu - Tiruchi special trains. One is being operated on the chord line section via Ariyalur and another on the mainline section via Thanjavur and Kumbakonam from June 12. Railway sources said all coaches are being disinfected with recommended chemical substances upon arrival at Tiruchi junction at night. A senior railway officer says the interiors of the coaches such as seat area and lavatory besides main door, hand rails and handles are being disinfected at the platform after completion of cleaning and mopping. The coaches are then locked and opened only the next morning when it is to be operated again to its destination. A team of about three to four onboard staff are being deployed in each of the specials for disinfection exercise when the train is on the move. The staff have been equipped with safety kits such as mask and gloves . The disinfection of coaches is being done despite less patronage, the senior railway official said. Complete disinfection of coaches is also being done in Villupuram - Madurai special train at Villupuram junction which falls under the limits of Tiruchi Railway Division. In addition to these measures, the trains are also being disinfected when they are moved for primary attention at the broad gauge coaching complex near Tiruchi junction. Intensive disinfection will be done during primary maintenance in the exteriors and interiors of the coaches, the officer said.
24 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Differently abled youth reaches out to narikurava families in Tiruchi||With funds generated from well-wishers, an orthopaedically challenged youth of Police Colony has reached out to several narikurava community families in Poolangudi with essential commodities, to enable them tide over the struggle for survival during the COVID 19 lockdown. Since the bread-winners in the Narikurava community, who make a living selling beads, are stranded, as their mobility has become restricted due to the lockdown, Kamaraj, a youth in his thirties, mobilised funds from his well-wishers to provide them with daily necessities. Sugar, atta, groceries and other necessities have been provided to over 100 families by Kamaraj on Monday. "I learnt that the narikurava families are living in penury due to the lockdown restrictions, and thankfully, five of my well-wishers contributed materials and money, to a cumulative value of Rs. 20,000," Kamaraj said. There are also a few migrant families in Cholamadevi area who are in dire straits without access to relief provided by the State government due to their inability to furnish proof of residence to the Revenue Department. They will also receive the package of groceries during this week, Kamaraj said.
24 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Special train passenger rushed to GH||A passenger, who arrived in Thanjavur by Chengalpattu-Tiruchi special train, was rushed to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital after a health department team deployed at the railway station found a quarantine seal on his hand. The 26-year-old passenger, hailing from Pattukottai and reportedly drunk, alighted at Thanjavur junction at 7.55 p.m. when the team deployed to screen and test passengers noticed the seal on his hand, railway sources said.  Foreign returnee  The passenger reportedly told the team that he was a returnee from Saudi Arabia and travelled with two others who alighted at Mayiladuthurai and Kumbakonam railway stations. His reserved ticket was found valid for travel from Chengalpattu to Thanjavur. But he reportedly claimed that he came up to Tindivanam station by a lorry from Chennai and boarded the train there. The team immediately arranged for a 108 ambulance and sent him to the hospital for medical examination. After lifting swab sample from him, he was sent to an institutional quarantine near Vallam. The passenger’s test results are awaited, officials said.
24 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Defence staff seek PM’s intervention||In the backdrop of India-China face-off, defence civilian employees of Ordnance Factory Tiruchi and Heavy Alloy Penetrator Project establishment, have, like their counterparts in 39 other defence production units nationwide, have appealed to the Prime Minister to prevail upon the Ministry of Defence to withdraw its move to convert the production units into a public sector undertaking. In a ballot conducted earlier this month by All India Defence Employees' Federation, Indian National Defence Workers' Federation and Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh, to elicit opinion for an indefinite strike opposing the move, over 95% out of 82,000 employees of 41 ordnance factories nationwide voted in favour of the protest. At HAPP, 90.95 % of the employees took part in the strike ballot, and 97.51 % voted in favour of the indefinite strike. Employees of Ordnance Factory, Tiruchi, also responded similarly. “Demoralised employees will be motivated if the production in the ordnance factories is scaled up to fully equip the soldiers protecting territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country,” AIDEF general secretary C. Srikumar said.
24 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||CM visit: samples lifted||Swab samples were lifted from Collector S. Sivarasu, senior police and health officers and other government employees, on Tuesday for testing in view of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s proposed visit to Tiruchi on Friday to review containment measures andkudimaramathuworks. All officials, who will be attending the review meeting and move in close proximity to the Chief Minister, were being tested.
24 June 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||15,191 more houses to get FHTC in Tiruvarur district||Protected drinking water connections will be provided to 15,191 houses in rural areas of Tiruvarur district under Jal Jeevan Mission during the financial year 2020-21. A proposal to this effect has been prepared and approved at a meeting chaired by Collector T. Anand on Tuesday. According to official sources, each house will be provided with a functional household tap connection (FHTC) under the scheme in 97 villages coming under 72 village panchayats in Tiruvarur, Nannilam, Kudavasal, Valangaiman, Mannargudi, Kottur, Koradacheri and Needamangalam taluks to ensure protected drinking water supply of 55 litres per person per day. A sum of Rs. 20.63 crore will be spent for identifying and setting up the water source locally, construction of overhead water tanks and laying of distribution and supply networks. With the addition of 15,191 houses, the total number of households in rural areas of the district provided with FHTC will increase to 79,760. As on June 22, it has been estimated that 3,12,117 households exist in rural areas of the district. Out of this, functional household tap connection has been provided to 64,569 houses.
24 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Over 80 shops gutted at Ooty municipal market||More than 80 shops in the Udhagamandalam Municipal Market were destroyed as a fire ravaged the facility over a four-hour period on Tuesday morning. Nilgiris District Fire Officer T. Immanuel said that it was suspected that a short-circuit led to the initial fire, before three LPG cylinders kept inside a few tea stalls and eateries in the market exploded. “Our personnel removed eight cylinders before they exploded. If we had not acted so quickly, the fire could have been a lot worse,” said Mr. Immanuel. According to fire department officials, a total of 81 shops, including over 50 vegetable shops, three tea stalls, six general provisions stores and an eatery were destroyed in the fire. The fire was first noticed by a resident of Elk Hill, who informed the fire department. It took the fire and rescue service personnel over four hours to put out the fire, with over 30 fire-fighters involved in the battle to control the blaze, with three fire tenders also being pressed into service. “As these shops were closely packed due to encroachments, the fire, which broke out at the centre of the market spread quickly in all directions,” said Mr. Immanuel, adding that no one was killed or injured in the incident.
24 June 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Stir against fuel price hike||Cadre of the Communist Party of India on Tuesday staged protest at various places against the exorbitant increase in the price of petrol and diesel. Party district secretary P. Lingam led the protest at Seithur. He said that when the common man was struggling under economic crisis due to COVID-19 lockdown, the Centre has kept increasing the fuel prices for the last 15 days despite the lower crude of price. The fuel prices had gone to an unprecedented level, he said adding that it has shocked the people.  Former MP, Alagirisamy, MLA, T. Ramasamy, also took part in the protest. Members of CITU also staged a similar protest in the district.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Civic army’ in combat mode, as Tiruchi gears up for CM review||A micro-level management plan has been introduced in Tiruchi city to stem the spread of corona virus. The move comes in the wake of sharp rise in number of COVID-19 patients in the district. Tiruchi city, in particular, accounts for nearly 80% of the cases. The plan warrants involvement of a substantial number of employees of Tiruchi Corporation, Collector S. Sivarasu told The Hindu . The civic workers have been assigned the task of identifying patients with COVID-19 symptoms and monitoring them during quarantine. They have to record details of the patients, their neighbours, follow-up steps and disinfection of affected areas. They have to bring vulnerable spots under containment zones. Sixty-five teams have been formed in the city, according to Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian. Each team will consist of a medical officer, sanitary officer/sanitary inspector, assistant engineer/junior engineer, bill collector and sanitary supervisor. They will visit residences of positive patients in their wards to ascertain their travel history, if any, and their contacts. The primary duty of the teams is to monitor the health condition of their neighbours. Patients with fever, cough, cold and breathing difficulty will have to be identified and tested. The teams should ensure that the contacts of positive patients remain indoors. Alwarthope and Kottapattu, where a number of residents were diagnosed with the virus in the initial stage, are free of it now, Mr. Sivasubramanian says. Also, no fresh cases have been reported recently. This has been made possible due to close monitoring and continuous follow-up measures. The same approach should be followed in the new clusters. Supervisory teams have been formed to check the functioning of the micro-level management teams. They will function for 15 days. The plan is expected to bring tangible results, Mr. Sivarasu adds.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Districts across region report fresh cases||Coimbatore district reported 18 new COVID-19 positive cases on Tuesday. Health Department sources said the new cases comprised four women and 14 men. A man and his wife from Telungupalayam, both aged 32, tested positive. Of the 18, only five cases were imported or had a travel history – a 29-year-old man from Peelamedu who reached Coimbatore from Gujarat by road and four persons who reached Coimbatore by flights from Bengaluru, Delhi and Mumbai. The other cases were either indigenous, high-risk contact or part of a cluster at Kuniyamuthur and Karumbukkadai, according to the sources. The oldest patient among the new cases was a 72-year-old woman from Velandipalayam. Her 77-year-old husband had died reportedly due to pneumonia at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Saturday. Her case was a “high-risk contact,” the sources said. According to the bulletin issued by the State government on Tuesday, Coimbatore district has so far had 292 total COVID-19 cases -- 280 indigenous and 12 imported. Of these, 164 had been discharged, and 126 are active cases. Those discharged on Tuesday from the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital were eight men, four women and a transgender, hospital sources said. One of the women was pregnant and two had recently delivered babies, the sources said. No fresh cases were reported in Tiruppur district on Tuesday. The nine-month-old girl and her 35-year-old father who tested positive in Dindigul were cross-notified to Chennai. Hence, Tiruppur district has so far recorded 120 COVID-19 cases, out of which four are active cases and 116 have been discharged. Seventeen persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris on Tuesday. With these, 46 persons have tested positive so far in the district, and 32 of these infections were reported only since last Monday. Nilgiris District Collector J. Innocent Divya said that of the 17 new cases on Tuesday, nine worked at a private firm, whose Public Relations Officer infected his colleagues. More than 250 people working in the firm, and their contacts, were being monitored, the Collector said. Apart from three index cases, who tested positive while entering the district, the others were primary and secondary contacts of people who had a travel history. Ms. Divya said 19 places had been made containment zones, including places that infected persons had visited. The surge in the number of cases following the easing of travel restrictions has caused concern in the district administration over the reduction in the doubling rate of the infection, which now stands at just five days, after not even a single case being reported for 36 days till last Monday. The Collector was part of a meeting headed by Monitoring Officer for the district, Supriya Sahu, on Tuesday. After visiting the various containment zones, the Collector said Ms. Sahu had recommended a “community vigil” campaign, whereby local residents could anonymously inform on toll-free number 1077 the entry of people from outside the district. Ms. Divya said the monitoring at the checkposts would be strengthened. People entering the district should show proof of residence and have a valid reason for entering the district. Anyone coming in for tourism would be booked and severe action would be taken against them, she said. Erode district saw five new positive cases on Tuesday. Health officials said a 43-year-old woman of Balasubramani Street in Thirunagar Colony area tested positive and was admitted to the isolation ward at the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital. Her husband, a businessman, who visited Tiruppur district, tested negative. Another person in the Erode Corporation limits also tested positive. Two cases were reported from Sathyamangalam and one from Gobichettipalayam. Seven new positive cases were reported in Salem on Tuesday. Health officials said five patients were from Salem and one patient each had come from Tiruchi and Coimbatore districts. A 26-year-old woman from Namakkal has tested positive. She had travelled back to Chennai and was undergoing treatment there.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Puthanatham garment makers’ plea for collateral-free loans||Faced with delayed payments from buyers and rise in price of raw material in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, readymade garment manufacturers of Puthanatham in Tiruchi district have urged the district administration to ensure that the units were sanctioned collateral-free credit at the earliest. The relief was promised by the Centre under the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme introduced as part of the economic stimulus package, they point out. Puthanatham, a small village near Manapparai, has grown into a readymade garment manufacturing cluster over the past three to four decades. The small business units mainly produce shirts, trousers, churidhars and night dresses, besides school uniforms. They source the raw material (cloth) from places such as Mumbai, Surat, Ahmedabad and Delhi. The annual turnover of the Puthanatham cluster, which provides employment to about 2,000 workers, is estimated to be about Rs. 50 crore. The industry thrived in the 90s when hundreds of people thronged the village during festival seasons such as Deepavali for purchasing the garments. Though the increase in the number of readymade shops in towns and cities has impacted the industry, about 120 units continue to produce garments and market them throughout Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka. Like all other sectors, the readymade garment manufacturing units too have been badly hit by the pandemic. The units resumed operations following relaxation in lockdown restrictions. They are on the threshold of peak production time for the Deepavali season ahead. “This is the time for us to gear up for the Deepavali season. But most of the units are badly in need of working capital. There has been delay in payment from many buyers due to the pandemic. Besides, with the Bhiwandi hub near Mumbai remaining closed, many of our raw material suppliers have hiked their prices,” said T.A.K. Hidayathulla, secretary, Readymade Clothing Manufacturers Welfare Association, Puthanatham. Many of the units have also invested heavily in producing school uniforms, he told The Hindu . “With the schools yet to reopen, they are unable to recover the investment,” he said. The units have to pay labourers to retain them. “We have to protect our labourers and protect our interests too and, hence, we need to keep producing. Our suppliers [of raw materials] are now insisting on cash and carry due to cash crunch faced by them. On the other hand, we are unable to press our buyers to pay the dues they owe us,” observed K. Sadakathulla, vice-president of the association. Given the circumstances, it is essential that the units are extended collateral-free loans and enhanced working capital limits as promised by the Centre under the stimulus package, said Mr. Hidayathulla. Along with other officer-bearers of the association, Mr. Hidayathulla presented a memorandum to Collector S. Sivarasu on Tuesday, seeking his intervention for expeditious sanction of credit to the small business units in Puthanatham.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Central region: 3 more deaths, 84 positive cases||Three more patients died of COVID-19 on Monday and Tuesday and 84 patients tested positive for the virus in central districts on Tuesday. While two deaths were reported in Tiruchi district, the third was recorded in Pudukottai. According to a medical bulletin issued by the State Health Department on Tuesday, a 68-year-old male from Tiruverumbur in Tiruchi with diabetic mellitus and systematic hypertension, who was admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government College Hospital (MGMCH), died on Monday due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. In Pudukottai district, another 68-year-old male from Thiruvalluvar Nagar in the town, who was admitted to Pudukottai Medical College Hospital on Tuesday with hypertension and improper functioning of kidneys, died of heart attack. He died within a few hours of admission. He too tested positive for COVID-19, the bulletin said. Meanwhile, a 70-year-old male from Marungapuri near Manapparai in Tiruchi district died at MGMCH on Tuesday. He was admitted to the hospital with breathing difficulties and hypertension on June 17, sources said. Out of 84 fresh positive cases reported from central districts on Tuesday, Tiruchi district accounted for the maximum number of patients (41). While Thanjavur district accounted for 14 fresh cases, Perambalur came next with 12 cases followed by Tiruvarur with 10 cases. While Karur reported three cases, Pudukottai and Nagapattinam recorded two cases each. In Tiruchi district, cases were reported from Inamkulathur, Mannachanallur, Palakkarai, Karumandapam, Ariyamangalam, Kallatheru, K.K. Nagar, Samayapuram, Woraiyur and Bharathiyar Street. Three faculty members of SRM Medical College in Samayapuram were among those tested positive for the virus. While Bharathiyar Street accounted for seven cases, the laboratory test of five patients in Kallatheru turned out to be positive. All of them were asymptomatic and were under treatment at MGMCH. They were said to be responding well to the treatment. In Thanjavur, 14 new cases were reported on Tuesday. While 184 persons remained under treatment at hospitals, 134 had been discharged in the district so far, according to official sources. Out of the 241 patients who tested positive in Tiruvarur district since the outbreak of the virus, 108 had been discharged and 133 were undergoing treatment. Ten of the positive cases were reported in the district on Tuesday. The native places of the 23 infected persons in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur districts were brought under the surveillance of the Health Department. Out of 12 cases in Perambalur district, four belonged to Veppur block. Perambalur and Alathur blocks accounted for five and three cases. They were quarantined at the government hospital in Perambalur, Veppur Arts College and Urban PHCs. Most of the positive cases were Chennai returnees.  At a glance Two deaths in Tiruchi, one in Pudukottai district Fresh cases: Tiruchi (41), Thanjavur (14), Tiruvarur (10), Perambalur (12), Karur (3), Pudukottai and Nagapattinam (2)
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man, son die in custody||“Jayaraj and Bennix were thrashed again after they were taken to taking them to the police station, even as some of us were witnessing it from the entrance of the police station,” said a relative. After registering a case against Jayaraj and Bennix under Sections 188, 383 and 506 (II), the police lodged them in the Kovilpatti Sub-Jail. “While the police brutally assaulted Bennix and inserted a baton into his anus that triggered uncontrolled bleeding, they smashed Jayaraj and kicked him on his chest multiple times,” charged the relatives of Bennix. At the Kovilpatti Sub-Jail, Bennix’s bleeding became uncontrollable due to an internal haemorrhage and he fell unconscious on Monday evening. Though he was rushed to the Kovilpatti Government Hospital, he died around 9 p.m.Jayaraj developed “chest pain” when he was in the prison and was admitted to the Kovilpatti Government Hospital where he died around 8 a.m. on Tuesday. Tiruchendur MLA Anita R. Radhakrishnan joined the protesters. Compensation sought “A murder case should be registered against Mr. Balakrishnan and Mr. Pauldurai. Besides employment to two persons from the families of the deceased, the Tamil Nadu government should give Rs. 1 crore as compensation,” he said.  Autopsy Superintendent of Police Arun Balagopalan said the son, who had heart ailments, developed breathing problems in the jail and got admitted to the Kovilpatti Government Hospital, where he died. “Jayaraj was running high fever when he was arrested and was admitted to the isolation ward of Kovilpatti Government Hospital. He died around 5 a.m. on Tuesday. Since they were under judicial remand, an autopsy will be done under the monitoring of Judicial Magistrate,” he said. Sub-inspectors, Mr. Balakrishnan and Mr. Pauldurai have been shifted to the Armed Reserve Police Force.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Human Rights activists demand justice||Human Rights activists have condemned the ‘custodial torture and killing’ of two traders at Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district. They demand appropriate action against the Judicial Magistrate and the police involved in the case. In a press release, People’s Watch, a Madurai-based NGO, said there was no reason for the police to produce father and son, Jayaraj and Bennix, for remand before the Judicial Magistrate, who were only traders and not criminals. The Judicial Magistrate too should not have remanded the duo which was totally illegal and arbitrary. The remand of the traders to the Kovilpatti Sub-Jail had taken place without the mandatory medical examination as contemplated under the CrPC. People’s Watch demanded action to be taken against the Judicial Magistrate, Sattankulam, for the illegal manner of remanding the two without even seeing them in person and recording their injuries which led to not referring them to a hospital for medical treatment. Inspector, Sub-Inspector and all police officers involved should be suspended immediately and the post mortem of the duo must be conducted by a team of experts comprising senior doctors. In a separate statement, Sammam Makkal Iyakkam president C J Rajan demanded appropriate action against the police involved in the incident in order to bring justice to the grieving family members of traders.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||In the report “Thiruvanmiyur apartment complex barricaded” published in these columns on Monday, the opening sentence should read as “An apartment complex in Thiruvanmiyur, Atrium, was barricaded with tin sheets after a few residents tested positive for COVID-19” and not as published. The error is regretted.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Raining problems||
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Feeding time||
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till June 23   Persons tested +ve so far: 292 Domestic cases: 280 Imported cases: 12 Persons recovered: 164 Death: 1 (Another death cross-notified to Kerala) Active cases: 126        House quarantined: 1,968 Positive: 120 (No fresh cases; Two cases cross-notified) Discharged: 116 Active cases: 4
24 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||155 doctors for ESI hospitals soon||The State government will soon appoint 155 doctors to Employees State Insurance hospitals, Labour Minister Shivaram Hebbar has said. He told a meeting of officials in Belagavi on Monday that the Labour Department would ask the Karnataka Public Service Commission to take up the process of recruitment. He said that the government would set up sector specific welfare boards to extend benefits to labour in the unorganised sector. “We will table a Bill in the next Assembly session to set up such boards,” he said. Mr. Hebbar, who also holds the Sugar portfolio, asked officials to see that sugar factories paid sugarcane arrears to farmers without waiting for release of subsidy from the government.
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSEEB helpline receiving calls from anxious parents, students||With the number of COVID-19 cases on the rise, the Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) helpline has been flooded with calls from parents and students demanding that the Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examination be put off for the time being. Subject experts and psychologists have been roped in to man the helplines so that they can clear the doubts of students related to their portions and help them manage exam stress. However, in the past few days, they have been receiving a different kind of calls. Many irate parents are losing their cool with those answering the calls, with some even verbally abusing the staff and asking them to connect their call to Primary and Secondary EducationMinister S. Suresh Kumar, the helpline staff said. “The parents are asking us if we can issue in writing that their child will not get COVID-19. The parents are anxious and go on a monologue asking us why the exam cannot be postponed,” a teacher said. “Over the past couple of days, very few people have called to ask any clarification related to subjects. They have been asking us about the precautionary measures. The other day, a student called me and told me she was feeling uncomfortable wearing a mask for long periods of time. When I told her she had to wear mask for the exam, she asked me to try wearing one for three hours and then hung up,” said another teacher. Other calls include questions to board officials about whether they would bear the treatment cost in private hospitals if the studentsgot COVID-19. Some students are also up to mischief, asking helpline officials if they would be allowed to write the exam wearing PPE kits and face shields. Suman S., a parent whose daughter is to write the exam in Bengaluru, said, “I called the helpline to find out if there are any students from containment zones who will write the exam at the centre where my daughter has to go. The helpline staff said they could not disclose such details.” The SSLC exam is scheduled from June 25 to July 4. A total of 8.48 lakh students have registered for it. The helpline — 080-23310075/23310076 — is open from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.  The other day, a student called me and told me she was feeling uncomfortable wearing a mask for long periods of time. When I told her she had to wear mask for the exam, she asked me to try wearing one for three hours and then hung up A TEACHER MANNING THE HELPLINE
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Spike in cases leads to calls for lockdown||As the city witnesses a spike in COVID-19 cases and the wholesale market hub of the city has been sealed, fears about other crowded spaces, such as markets and malls, turning into hotspots have been aired, making a case for a lockdown. Though the civic body says a citywide lockdown is ‘unnecessary’ and not on the cards, Minister for Health and Family Welfare B. Sriramulu, on Tuesday, said if the spike doesn’t subside, there is a possibility of another lockdown in the city. The statement came hours after opposition leader and former chief minister H.D. Kumaraswamy tweeted demanding ‘a minimum of 20 days lockdown in the city’ if it did not want to become ‘another Brazil’. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said while the concerns over the recent spike were justifiable, it did not warrant a pan-city lockdown. “The spike can be mostly attributed to people coming from other hotspots. The change in weather has also added to Influenza Like Illness (ILI) cases. An analysis of deaths in the city show most of them had co-morbidities and were hospitalised three or four days after they developed fever. As long as we are able to reduce death rate, we need not fear the numbers,” he argued. However, public health consultants and other stakeholders point to a sense of complacency that seems to have set in among citizens over the pandemic. “There seems to be a notion that with the lockdown being lifted, the worst is behind us and we are back to normal. We see people without masks and not maintaining social distancing. We need to correct this immediately,” said Uday Garudachar, BJP MLA from Chickpet, which is going into lockdown. For instance, many supermarkets and other shops no longer have restrictions on the number of customers being allowed inside simultaneously. The boxes in front of shops for customers to stand in line while maintaining social distancing have not been in use. The civic commissioner said, “We may have lifted the lockdown, but that doesn't mean we have returned to normalcy. Social distancing norms are key to fighting COVID-19. We will intensify on our awareness campaign and make enforcement more stringent.” Community medicine practitioner Dr. Sylvia Karpagam said that people's behaviour is directly linked to the effectiveness of communication from the government. Dr. K.R. Antony, a public health consultant, argued that there was a strong case to reconsider re-opening of malls, restaurants and crowded marketplaces. “If not a complete shutdown of markets, stringent crowd control is the need of the hour. We need to decentralise the unloading of essential goods, like vegetables and foodgrains, at multiple locations across the city, rather than at one market, like K.R. Market or the APMC yard, to prevent crowding. The Koyambedu market hotspot in Chennai should act as a caution,” he said. But neither stakeholders of industry nor the civic body agree. “Malls may be open, but the footfalls are absolutely negligible. How long can we shut down the city? The need of the hour is creating awareness of simple precautions people need to take,” said Mr. Garudachar, who owns three malls in the city. Traders at APMC yard, Yeshwantpur are worried. “Maintaining social distancing is practically impossible in markets. Also, vegetables and foodgrains are coming from across the country, including Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. We feel like we are sitting on a time bomb. Any breakout will only lead to complete sealing, which will not only affect our livelihoods, but also food security in the city. As self regulation doesn't work, we want the government to intervene and regulate trade in the yard. We have suggested that shops selling perishable and non-perishable goods open on alternate days for a few hours,” said Ramesh Chandra Lahoti, chairman, APMC Committee, Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Mr. Anil Kumar said shutting down any market is not being considered. “I will inspect all the major markets and ensure they follow social distancing and other precautionary measures to check the spread of the infection,” he said, adding that despite the recent spike, the situation in the city was under control and it had fared better than any other metro city in the country.  If the people of Bengaluru have to survive, announce a lockdown for at least 20 days. People's health is more important than the economy  H.D. Kumaraswamy,   former chief minister    The number of cases in the city is on the rise in the last few days. If the situation does not improve, we will have to go in for another lockdown in the city  B. Sriramulu,   Minister for Health and Family Welfare    The concern is justifiable...but does not warrant a pan-city lockdown. As long as we are able to prevent deaths, we need not fear the rising numbers  B.H. Anil Kumar,   Commissioner, BBMP
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Fifty ambulances to shift patients to hospitals||With an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in the city, as many as 50 ambulances have been pushed into service to shift patients to care centres or hospitals, and other vehicles to take swab samples to laboratories. According to a release, six will be for Bengaluru Urban district, four for Bengaluru Rural district and the rest for BBMP limits. Within BBMP limits, the eight zones will have 38 ambulances while two additional ambulances will be at the disposal of the head office of the civic body. Apart from this, 17 vehicles to transport primary and secondary contacts have been arranged. There will be five separate vehicles to transport patients with Influenza Like Illness (ILI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI). A mobile swab collection vehicle will also be pushed into service within three days. The BBMP has appointed eight epidemiologists on outsourced basis, who will be responsible for tracing primary and secondary contacts. The release said that hearses have been organised to transport bodies of COVID-19 patients to the designated crematoria. The BBMP war room report stated that there were as many as 458 active containment zones in the city, as on June 23. Of the active containment zones, 439 were areas, 46 apartments, 14 clusters, two slums and one hotel. The report also stated that 16% of the positive cases had travel history (domestic/ international), 30% were primary or secondary contacts while 34% had ILI/SARI. Of the 80,022 tests conducted, 1.8% had tested positive.
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KSRP constable ends life||A 50-year-old head constable attached to the Karnataka State Reserve Police (KSRP) allegedly ended his life late Monday night after testing positive for COVID-19. According to sources in the KSRP, the constable was found dead inside a KSRP mini bus that had taken him to a dedicated COVID-19 hospital in the city. His colleagues found out only after reaching the hospital. Sources said that the deceased was disturbed and had started panicking the moment he got to know that he had tested positive. “His colleagues and senior commandants had counselled him before he was sent to the dedicated COVID-19 hospital,” a senior official said. 10 test positive Speaking to The Hindu , Alok Kumar, Additional Director General of Police, KSRP, said that 10 personnel from the city had tested positive and over 118 of them were under quarantine. “I request our personnel not to panic as most of those who have tested positive have recovered. Mental strength is important to fight the virus,” he said, adding that all the personnel under quarantine and those who test positive are regularly counselled by senior officials. With this, the tally of police personnel losing their lives to COVID-19 and related issues in the city has risen to four. A 59-year-old assistant sub-inspector attached to Wilson Garden Traffic Police Station lost his battle to COVID-19 on Sunday while a 56-year-old constable attached to Kalasipalyam police station died of COVID-19 last Saturday. Earlier, an assistant sub-inspector attached to V.V. Puram traffic police station, who died of heart attack, had tested positive posthumously. Accused tests positive As many as 20 police personnel attached to D.J. Halli Police Station have been quarantined after a detainee tested positive for COVID-19. The police station has been sanitised. The accused was arrested in connection with a murder case and was brought to the police station recently. Meanwhile, four personnel attached to Marathahalli Police Station tested positive.  (People in distress or having suicidal thoughts can seek counselling by calling Karnataka’s Arogya Sahayavani helpline 104)
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM’s appeal to corona warriors||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday called upon people, particularly frontline corona warriors infected by the virus, not to lose courage. Pointing out that the total number of COVID-19 related deaths in the State was very less compared to other major States, he tweeted, “There is no reason for any infected citizen or government employee to lose courage. The government is always with you.” The Chief Minister made the statement after a KSRP constable ended his life after testing positive for COVID-19. Mr. Yediyurappa condoled the death of the constable and said he has directed officials to provide all necessary compensation and facilities to the family of the deceased at the earliest.
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Measures taken to safely hold SSLC exam: Suresh Kumar||Amid arguments for and against conducting the SSLC examination, which is due to starton Thursday, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar has maintained that adequate precautionary measures have been taken by the department and that students and parents need not worry. Karnataka Secondary Education Examination Board (KSEEB) too, in a press release issued on Tuesday, said it has put in place various measures as per the Standard Operating Procedure. The department claimedthat it had already distributed 18 lakh masks, at two per student. The release further stated that 12,674 students, including children of migrants and those staying in hostels prior to the lockdown, had opted for change in examcentres, and for them the department had issued revised admission tickets. The department has claimed that thermal scanners have been distributed to screen the temperature of students. The department has also decided to use the services of Scouts and Guides at the centres. The Health Department will deploy a health assistant and an Accredited Social Health Activist at each centre. As decided earlier, the students coming from containment zones will be allowed to sit for the exam in a “special room” and the invigilators in these rooms will be provided with N-95 masks. If a student tests positive, he or she will be allowed to appear for the supplementary exam as a “first attempt” candidate. Backup centres In another move, the department has identified one additional exam centre at the taluk level and two at the district level as reserved centres. In case any exam centre comes under a containment zone, students will be go to these centres. Meanwhile, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy demanded the State government put off the exam in the wake of the rising COVID-19 cases. He accused the State government of playing with the lives of lakhs of students, parents, and department employees. “Fearing a community spread, the Telangana and other governments have already cancelled the SSLC exam and allowed the students to pass. The Karnataka government could have taken the same decision or put off the exam till October,” he said.
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Senior IAS officer was facing CBI probe for IMA scam||Senior IAS officer B.M. Vijay Shankar, who was found dead at his house on Tuesday, was recently implicated in the IMA Ponzi Scheme in July 2019. He had also been arrested and was out on bail. He was presently posted as Additional Mission Director, Sakala. As recently as first week of June, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), now probing the IMA scam, had sought sanction from the State government to prosecute Mr. Shankar and three other revenue officers for their alleged role in the scam. The request is still pending with the State government, sources said. Mr. Shankar was Deputy Commissioner, Bengaluru (Urban), when the IMA scam broke in June 2019, when IMA founder Mansoor Khan fled the country duping thousands of investors in the name of ‘Islamic banking’. A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the State police formed to probe the scandal, led by senior officer B.R. Ravikante Gowda, arrested Mr. Shankar for allegedly taking a bribe of Rs. 1.5 crore from Mansoor Khan for giving IMA a clean chit during an internal probe. The SIT had also recovered the alleged bribe money from a builder who the IAS officer had reportedly invested it with. Mr. Shankar was named as an accused in the chargesheet that SIT prepared and CBI eventually filed in the court. The CBI had recently registered a fresh case and sought sanction to prosecute him, assistant commissioner L.C. Nagaraj and two other officers. It has already been granted permission to prosecute two senior IPS officers from the State in connection with the scam.
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. revises discharge policy||The State government on Tuesday revised its discharge policy allowing asymptomatic positive patients to be discharged without COVID-19 test 10 days after the positive test. All mild and moderate cases will be discharged without test 10 days after the onset of symptoms, only if the patient has no fever or symptoms for the last three consecutive days before being discharged. It is also important that these patients maintain saturation above 95% for the last 4 consecutive days (without oxygen support). After being discharged, the patients will be advised 14 days home quarantine and self-monitoring. All other patients will be discharged after complete clinical recovery and if only their test returns negative, stated the revised discharge policy. Toll touches 150 With eight more deaths reported on Tuesday, the State toll touched 150. This is apart from four non-COVID-19 deaths. While six are from Bengaluru Urban, one death each were from Dakshina Kannada and Ballari. With 322 new cases, the total number of positive cases is at 9,721. With 40 more patients turning critical, the number of patients shifted to ICU shot up to 120. Meanwhile, the number of discharged patients touched 6,004. Bengaluru Urban continued to record surge in cases with 107 new cases, the highest.
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Modi govt. has destroyed economy, health’||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Tuesday attacked the Narendra Modi-ledgovernment’s policies and alleged that the Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime and demonetisation had destroyed the country’s economy, while the government’s handling of the COVID-19 crisis had destroyed the people’s health. Addressing party leaders at a meeting — a precursor for the virtual conduct of the ‘Prathijna’ event (of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president-designate D.K. Shivakumar officially taking charge) on July 2 — Mr. Siddaramaiah said that the untimely lockdown had rendered many people jobless and increased poverty in the nation. The Prime Minister’s call for clapping from balconies and lighting lamps did not eliminate the virus, which has spread widely owing to lack of preparation to handle the pandemic, he said. The spread of COVID-19 could have been reduced if the Centre had banned the operation of international flights soon after the first case was reported on January 30 in Kerala, he said. The lockdown was imposed from March 25. The former Chief Minister also said that Mr. Modi had “lied” to the people, saying that the government had given a stimulus package of Rs. 20 lakh crore, which constituted nearly 10% of theGross Domestic Product (GDP). “But the actual stimulus was less than 1% of the GDP,” he said. He added that Mr. Modi had enacted a “drama” through ‘Mann Ki Baat’ and other such programmes, and had only implemented a “communal agenda”. Through agencies such as the Income Tax Department, Enforcement Directorate, and Central Bureau of Investigation, the Centre “threatened” leaders of serving notice if they raised their voice against the government, Mr. Siddaramaiah alleged. Mr. Shivakumar criticised the Karnataka government’s policies and said that it had lost an opportunity to serve the people during the lockdown. No social distancing Hundreds of party leaders, including MLAs, MLCs, and former Ministers, attended the programme, but social distancing norms were hardly followed inside the party office.
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||North runway of KIA closed till year-end||The north runway of the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) has been closed for rehabilitation from Monday. The runway has been operational for over 12 years and was closed for strengthening, resurfacing and installation of the runway centerline lights. In a release, the Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL), the operator of the KIA, has stated that work is expected to be completed by year-end. All flight operations during this period will be done using the parallel runway (south runway) that was opened for operations last December. As per the order of the Central government, the KIA resumed domestic flight operations on May 25 after two months of lockdown due to COVID-19. At present, the KIA is handling 140 flights every day and witnesses footfall of 13,000 passengers per day. “Once complete, these enhancements offer flexibility to operate both runways in low visibility and adverse weather conditions,” stated the release. The new runway is fitted with indigenously-developed Aviation Weather Monitoring System (AWMS).
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMCRI, NIMHANS labs and Jayadeva affected as staff test positive||COVID-19 labs in Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute and NIMHANS have been shut for a week after lab attendants (one in each lab) tested positive on Saturday. The two labs have been closed for sanitisation and fumigation since Sunday. Confirming that the labs had been closed for a week, M.S. Satyanarayana from BMCRI lab and V. Ravi from NIMHANS lab said that sample testing had not been affected. “Samples that were usually sent to our labs have been reallocated to other labs in the city,” said Dr. Satyanarayana. Meanwhile, as more staff members at Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences have tested positive, the premier institute has also stopped all its services except emergency till June 29. A 32-year-old cardiologist had tested positive on Sunday. Institute director C.N. Manjunath told The Hindu on Tuesday that one more 34-year-old cardiologist, a 21-year-old lab technician, and another 38-year-old data entry operator had tested positive. “Following this, there was a sense of fear and anxiety among the hospital staff. It was essential to close the hospital for a week for sanitisation and fumigation,” he said. “The three staff members were tested in the in-house lab as they developed symptoms, including headache, bodyache, fever, throat pain, and cough. This points towards community spread,” he said. While 35 of the 36 contacts of the first cardiologist have tested negative, test reports of the contacts of the other three are awaited. All four have been admitted in the cardiac rehabilitation centre that is located in a separate building on the institute campus, Dr. Manjunath added.  Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences has stopped all services except emergency till June 29
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Sudhakar’s wife and daughter also test positive||Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar’s wife and daughter also tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. Earlier, his father and a household help had tested positive. The samples of the Minister and his two sons have returned negative. “Test results of our family members have come. Unfortunately, my wife and daughter have tested positive for #COVID-19 and are undergoing treatment in a designated hospital. My two sons and myself have tested negative. I am grateful to everyone for their wishes and prayers,” Mr. Sudhakar tweeted.
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man kills wife, mother-in-law; ends life||A 42-year-old, identified as Amit Agarwal, allegedly killed his wife in Mahadevapura in Bengaluru, and went to Kolkata and killed his mother-in-law, before ending his own life there. According to the Mahadevapura police, Amit shot his mother-in-law before killing himself on Monday. His father-in-law reportedly escaped. His wife has been identified as Shilpi D., 40, who was working as a chartered accountant and was staying in an apartment in Garudacharpalya. Alerted by her neighbours in Bengaluru and the Kolkata police, the Mahadevapura police rushed to her residence and found Shilpi dead. According to sources, the Kolkata police found a note in which Amit claimed to have killed his wife. The couple had reportedly separated and have a 10-year-old son.  (People in distress or having suicidal thoughts can seek counselling by calling Karnataka’s suicide prevention helpline 104.)
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa directs officials to expedite K.C. Valley, Yettinahole projects||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday directed officials of the Water Resources and Minor Irrigation Departments to expedite the progress of K.C. Valley and Yettinahole projects A delegation of elected representatives from Kolar district met Mr. Yediyurappa and discussed the progress of these projects. Under the K.C. Valley project, 400 MLD treated water has to be released, but only 284 MLD treated water is now being received from Bengaluru. It was observed in the meeting that rainwater is being wasted in the city. The Chief Minister directed BWSSB to take steps to check this and make rainwater available for treatment. He also directed officials to step up the treatment capacity of STPs. The CM also assured the delegation that the Yettinahole work would be expedited by removing hurdles in land acquisition. The project was being executed to supply drinking water to drought-prone southern districts such as Ramanagaram, Tumakuru, Chickballapura and Bengaluru Rural.
24 June 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mobility summit||The Bengaluru Mobility Summit, a five-part series of panel discussions not focussed on political policy, organised by Bengaluru Needs You, will begin on Wednesday at the Board Room, R.V. Teacher’s College, Jayanagar. The other themes, according to a release, are: utilising buses better (July 1), Internet-enabled mobility services (July 8), and sustainable mobility (July 13). On July 22, the last day of the summit, there will be a discussion with a senior government official or a Minister.
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RGUHS virtual convocation tomorrow||The 22nd annual convocation of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) will be held on Thursday at the NIMHANS Convention Centre with only around 200 people at the venue. Most of the students will participate virtually. Vice-Chancellor S. Sacchidanand said only the chief guests and senior officials and faculty would be present at the venue, along with the gold medal winners. “The other students can log in and take part in the convocation virtually,” he said, adding that around 60 gold medal winners have confirmed they would attend the convocation in person. “There will be around 200 people at the venue. The capacity of the convention centre is over 1,000. Hence, maintaining social distancing will not be a problem,” he said. Governor Vajubhai Vala will be preside over the convocation, while Balaram, former director of Indian Institute of Science will be the chief guest and will deliver the convocation address. Dr. Sacchidanand said that 36,434 candidates would receive their degrees at the convocation. He also said the university had drawn up a shortlist of 15 projects related to COVID-19 and would fund them. “A total of Rs. 2 crore has been allotted for this. Various projects, including one on biodegradable PPE kits, have been shortlisted,” he said. Exam dates Dr. Sacchidananda also said that RGUHS would wait for the government’s guidelines regarding lockdown and related restrictions, expected to be decided on June 30, before taking a call on its exams. “We have already announced the exams. The dates will be finalised based on the decision of the government. As of now, it will be as per the schedule,” he said.
24 June 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Masti awards||The Masti Trust has announced the Masti Katha Puraskar and Masti Kadambari Puraskar 2020. According to a release, Meese Hengasu and Other Stories written by Dr. Lokesh Agasanakatte, Chitradurga, has been chosen for the Kadambari Puraskar award, which carries a purse of Rs. 25,000 and a citation. Mrugashira , authored by Sridhara Balagara, Kumata, Uttara Kannada, has been chosen for the Masti Katha Puraskar, carrying a prize money of Rs. 25,000.
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Covid Care Centre at Haj Bhavan||The COVID Care Centre at Haj Bhavan is now operational and will have doctors, nurses, marshals, and housekeeping staff, apart from essential equipment, medicines and other facilities. The task force has a threefold strategy to identify and establish 20,000 bed facility in the care centres.
24 June 2020||Bengaluru/Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Are pvt. hospitals prepared?||Although the State government has roped in private hospitals and fixed rates for COVID-19 treatment, it appears that many hospitals are not yet prepared or willing to handle patients. On Sunday, a 32-year-old cardiologist from Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences was refused admission in at least four private hospitals before he got admitted in the cardiac rehabilitation unit of Jaydeva institute, which is a non-COVID-19 hospital. C.N. Manjunath, institute director, said the doctor went to at least four private hospitals after his test returned positive. “Some said they were full and others were reluctant to admit him. In one hospital, he was made to wait for three hours. Although private hospitals have agreed to join hands with the government, it is unfortunate that most are not prepared to admit COVID-19 patients,” he said. Several private hospitals either do not have enough space to establish isolation wards for COVID-19 patients or do not have the required equipment and staff to handle cases, making segregation of patients a tough task. Moreover, some hospitals authorities The Hindu spoke to expressed fear that their general patient flow could be hit if they start admitting COVID-19 patients. Private doctors said there is a greater risk of infection spreading in hospitals if there is no proper segregation. Vikram Siddareddy, general surgeon and chairman of United Hospital in Kalaburagi, said: “Involving private sector in handling the pandemic is the need of the hour. But, at the same time, it needs meticulous planning to create COVID-19 treatment space. Medical college hospitals are the best bet at present, since each one has over 6 lakh square feet of space compared to 6,000 sq. feet nursing homes.” Admitting that it was a tough task, R. Ravindra, president of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA), said hospitals need time to set up isolation wards. Training needed “We not only have to create isolation facilities but also plan staffing pattern with available staff. Staff shortage is an issue now. Although we are used to following infection control practices, we have to train our staff in COVID-19 protocols. We are not refusing treatment, but we will need some time to set up facilities,” he said. Also, hospitals have to source PPE kits and stock up other paraphernalia. “Although PPE kits are available, it will take at least five days for the orders to be delivered,” he said. Urgency due to surge Sources said private hospitals had asked the government to give them at least 10 days to prepare before opening up COVID-19 treatment. “But with the continuous surge in cases, roping in private hospitals now has become inevitable,” sources added.  Some hospitals authorities  expressed fear that general patient flow could be hit if they start admitting COVID-19 patients. Private doctors said there is a greater risk of infection spreading in hospitals if there is no proper segregation.
24 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Police Sub-Inspector, staff in quarantine||Hassan Extension Police Station Sub-Inspector and all staff members have been quarantined after a policeman attached to the station tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. The policeman who tested positive had Influenza-Like Illness.
24 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Four arrested on the charge of murder||The Kalaburagi Police on Tuesday arrested four persons on the charge of being involved in the recent murder of 22-year-old Syed Hassan in Kalaburagi district, based on a complaint filed by the victim’s father.
24 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Rs. 5 crore grant to be sought to reactivate sewage plant||District in-charge Minister Kota Srinivas Poojari on Monday said that arrangements would be made to reactivate the Pachchanady Sewage Treatment Plant by availing of Rs. 5 crore grant from the government. He was speaking at a meeting to address problems arising out of the malfunctioning of the treatment plant at the administrative office of Dr. K. Shivaram Karanth Pilikula Nisargadhama near here. The Nisargadhama too gets part of the treated water for watering plants and other purposes and is facing problems on account of the plant’s malfunctioning. Mr. Poojari said that residents of the area have been complaining about their miseries following the plant’s malfunctioning. Untreated sewage was being let into the Pachchanady Thodu which joins the Phalguni (Gurupura) thereby polluting the river water too. The Minister directed the officials concerned to address the issue. He said that technical problems affecting the plant would have to be rectified within a month following which sewage would be treated before it is let out. The modernisation work would be taken up after getting technical report from the National Institute of Technology, Surathkal, Mr. Poojari said and added that the work thus should help stop untreated water being let out permanently. Moodbidri MLA K. Umanath Kotian, in whose constituency the area falls, said that the malfunctioning of the plant has affected groundwater, including tanks, open wells and borewells, in the entire region. Untreated sewage has been polluting stored water in the Malavoor Vented Dam across the Phalguni that caters to the drinking water requirements of many villages under the multi-village drinking water project, he said.
24 June 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Savadi rules out further lockdown, says preventive steps already taken||Ruling out any possibility of implementing further lockdown in Bengaluru in view of the rising number of COVID-19 positive cases, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi has said that “it is difficult to implement another round of lockdown at this juncture as the government has already taken initiatives to tackle the spread of the pandemic.” Addressing presspersons after a meeting of officers in Raichur on Tuesday, Mr. Savadi, who threw light on the preventive steps taken by the State government to tackle the pandemic, said that “people’s life should not be allowed to be affected by lockdown. Thus, it is not possible now to implement any further lockdown.” Reacting to comments by the former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy urging the government to implement lockdown again in Bengaluru, the Deputy Chief Minister said that Mr. Kumaraswamy should talk in a responsible manner. The government has to pay several crores of rupees of salaries to its employees every month. He should have realised this before giving suggestions to the government, he added. Mr. Savadi, who also holds the Transport portfolio, said that transportation will be provided to SSLC students to reach their examination centres. To a question, he said that the government is planning to run inter-State bus services, except to Maharashtra where there are a high number of COVID-19 positive cases. Issuing a warning to private hospitals, he said that if any hospital was found charging high rates for treating COVID-19 patients, criminal action will be taken against it. Earlier, the Deputy Chief Minister reviewed development works being taken up by various departments and directed the officials concerned to stock adequate quantity of seeds and fertilizers to meet the demand of farmers.
24 June 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Last date extended||Kuvempu University has extended the last date for payment of fee for examinations of even semesters for the academic year 2019-20 to July 7 from June 23. In a press release, Registrar of Evaluation of the university M. Venkateshwarulu has said that the time extension will be applicable for examinations of all post-graduate and under-graduate degree courses, including B.Ed and BP.Ed.
24 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||All preparations made in Udupi dist. for SSLC exam||All preparations have been made in Udupi district for the SSLC examinations which will start on June 25. Zilla Panchayat president Dinakar Babu said here on Tuesday that 13,526 students would be appearing for the SSLC exams in 51 exam centres. If any exam centre was declared to be in a containment zone, then an alternative exam centre will be arranged. As many as 10 additional exam centres have already been identified in the district. A total of 82 private buses had been procured from private schools to transport students appearing for the exams. The department would only be providing the fuel cost for these buses. A proposal had been sent to the SSLC Board. Every tahsildar would have five additional vehicles with him to be used during an emergency, he said. The students would be allowed to enter the exam centres in four queues. The places where students should stand had been marked and their health check would be carried out. There would be one thermal scanner for every 200 students to check their temperature, Mr. Dinakar Babu said.
24 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Yakshagana artiste Karki Narayana Hasyagara dead||Senior Yakshagana artiste Karki Narayana Hasyagara died at his house at Karki in Uttara Kannada district on Monday. He was 90. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter. He served for seven decades in the field of Yakshagana, particularly the Surathkal Yakshagana Mela (Tenkuthittu). He used to perform the roles of Krishna, Sudhanva and others. He had several awards to his credit, including one from Karnataka Yakshagana Academy and the Udupi-based Yakshagana Kalaranga.
24 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||11 test positive for COVID-19 in Udupi||As many as 11 persons, including four children aged between two and eight, tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi district on Tuesday. All the 11 have been shifted to COVID-19 hospitals.
24 June 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Rs. 60 cr. plan for drinking water supply to be taken up with CM||Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj has said that six taluks in Yadgir district, Yadgir, Gurmitkal, Shahapur, Wadagera, Surpur and Hunsagi, will see extensive development with all civic amenities, including drinking water supply and a underground drainage system, in the coming days. He was addressing reporters after attending a meeting of officials in Yadgir on Tuesday. Mr. Basavaraj, who was on his maiden visit to the district after becoming Minister, said that “I have discussed with officials as per a direction given by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to study civic problems, particularly drinking water and underground drainage system in the district.” “During the discussion, the Deputy Commissioner of Yadgir gave me a copy of a proposal for Rs. 60 crore, which has already been submitted, for a drinking water project in these taluks. Once I go back, I will discuss this issue with the Chief Minister and senior officers, while seeking priority to more such projects in the district,” he added. He said that he has directed municipal commissioners to develop full-fledged layouts to bring revenue and also take up aesthetic development of localities under municipal limits. The district administration and officials of various departments had worked hard to tackle effectively COVID-19, he said and added that he appreciated their immense contribution. MLAs Venkata Reddy Mudnal and Narasimha Naik, Deputy Commissioner M. Kurma Rao and others were present.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||FHA-K to seek higher rates for non-scheme patients||Unhappy with the rates fixed by the government for COVID-19 treatment of non-Ayushman Bharat and Arogya Karnataka (AB-ArK) and cash paying patients, the Federation of Healthcare Associations of Karnataka (FHA-K) is planning to appeal to the government to reconsider the rates. Nagendra Swamy S.C., FHA-K principal coordinator, told The Hindu that the federation has no questions about the rates for AB-ArK patients. “We are with the government in its efforts to control the pandemic. We will not desist or question the rates for patients referred under the government scheme. But the rates for other category, especially in ICU and ICU with ventilator category, are not feasible and far less than what we had proposed. We will appeal to the government to reconsider this,” he said.  Bed facility, rates Meanwhile, as per the order issued on Thursday, while calculating 50% of the beds to be utilised by patients referred by the government under its scheme, the number will be counted irrespective of whether the beds are located in general wards, sharing wards or private wards. The package rate ceilings for private patients are for general wards/multi-sharing wards. An additional 10% may be charged for twin-sharing wards and 25% more for single rooms. There will be no ceiling for suites, the order stated. Requisitioning of hospitals for sending government patients will be done by the BBMP Commissioner in respect of BBMP area, Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts, and Deputy Commissioners for other districts. In respect of unforeseen complications/surgeries/other co-morbid conditions/pregnancy etc. of COVID-I9 patients, additional packages under AB-ArK packages will apply. The clinical treatment and discharge protocol issued by the State government from time to time should be strictly followed, the order stated. Besides, all the hospitals should get empanelled through the online portal of Suvama Arogya Suraksha Trust with desktop review of statutory documents by the SAST on a fast forward basis.  ‘No compromise’ “Referral of a COVID -19 patient by a public health authority will be treated as auto authorisation by SAST. All COVID-I9 patients, including those belonging to BPL and APL categories, migrant labourers, and interstate returnees not possessing PDS card, will be considered eligible in view of the unprecedented pandemic situation. There should be no compromise on the quality of medical services rendered to the patients referred by the public health authorities and those admitted privately,” the order stated. Nodal agency Suvama Arogya Suraksha Trust will be the nodal agency for the settlement of claims. “Non-compliance to this order will attract punishment under the relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and the Indian Penal Code. This order will be in operation until further orders,” it added.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Two new cases in Kodagu; total tally at eight||Two new cases of COVID-19 were reported in Kodagu on Tuesday, taking the district tally to eight. The two new patients are the children of a 36-year-old fruit trader (P-9215) from Sirangala village in Somawarapet taluk who had tested positive on Monday. The 17-year-old and 14-year-old children had been shifted to the designated COVID-19 hospital. However, the trader’s wife has tested negative. As many as 30 houses with 122 families in Sirangala village in Kodlipet hobli of Kodagu have been brought under containment zone. Also, Doddahalli village in Shanivarasanthe hobli with about 137 families living in 37 houses has been declared a containment area. Entry to the villages has been sealed restricting the movement of residents. Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy said two students from the containment area would get separate classroom to appear for SSLC examination starting June 25. “They shall be picked up from the village to the exam centre and dropped back. This arrangement will continue until the exam gets over,” she said.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Testing times||
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||State fixes rates||The Hindu on June 18 had written about the rates after the task force modified and approved cost of treatment in private hospitals recommended by an eight-member panel set up by the government. The revised rates were referred to the State Cabinet for ratification. The government has accepted and approved the task force’s recommendation.
24 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha bypass by September||Clearing a major hurdle in the realisation of the Alappuzha bypass project, installation of girders as part of the construction of a rail overbridge (ROB) at Kuthirapanthy has been completed, Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran has said. In a press note here on Tuesday, Mr. Sudhakaran said the work had been completed in four days. Likely by September “Now concreting and tarring works need to be taken up. If weather permits, all pending works will be completed in a time-bound manner and the bypass could be opened for traffic in September,” the Minister said. The fixing of the girders signals that the more-than-four-decade-long wait for the bypass is set to end soon. Although mooted in the 1970s, the bypass work remained a non-starter. The work finally got under way on April 10, 2015. The project set to be completed in September 2017 got delayed further on account of various reasons. Delays The Alappuzha bypass project consists of two ROBs at Malikamukku and Kuthirapanthy. One-and-a-half-years ago the work on the project came to a halt following the delay in getting permission from Railways to place girders over the railway track. After inspecting the girders brought for the construction of the ROBs, Railways had recommended structural changes and denied permission for starting the work. Following this, necessary changes were made to the girders. The installation of girders at Malikamukku was completed in January. The 6.8-km two-lane bypass road, passing through the western side of NH 66, will link Kommady in the north to Kalarcode in the south.
24 June 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||No new case in Idukki||The district recorded no new COVID-19 case on Tuesday. Five persons were admitted to various hospitals for observation on the day and 376 were asked to go in home quarantine. The total number of active cases remained 51. Two wards of Kattappana municipality and one ward of Rajakumari grama panchayat have been made containment zones. The district recorded the highest number of 11 SARS-CoV-2 positive cases on Sunday followed by four cases on Monday.
24 June 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||‘Rehabilitation of Puthumala landslip victims on fast track’||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said that the Harsham project, a rehabilitation scheme for the victims of the Puthumala landslip in Wayanad district, will be completed in three months. Mr. Vijayan was speaking after laying the foundation stone for the rehabilitation project at Poothakolly near Meppadi in the district on Tuesday through videoconferencing. Firm steps adopted by the government to address the issues of the victims of natural calamities in the State had helped to reduce their woes to a certain extent, Mr. Vijayan said. The project titled “Harsham” (Happiness And Resilience Shared Across Meppadi) under the Rebuild Kerala Initiative project, would be a model for the State as it would be executed with the active participation of the public and NGOs, Mr. Vijayan said. He praised the Meppadi grama panchayat for its active role in implementing the project and the Mathrubhumi Charitable trust which contributed seven acres of land worth Rs. 1.96 crore for the project. “As many as 95 families had lost their houses and properties in the landslip at Puthumala last year, of which 52 families will get houses under the project,” Mr.Vijayan said, adding that the remaining families were provided Rs. 10 lakh each to purchase and set up houses with the support of NGOs. Apart from houses on seven cents of land, other infrastructures including community centre, health centre, reading room, nursery school, drinking water supply, and road facilities would also be set up with the support of six NGOs under the project.
24 June 2020||Kasaragod,KERALA||Idol made of elephant tusks seized, 3 held||The Forest Department seized an idol carved out of elephant tusks in Kanhangad on Tuesday and arrested three persons in connection with it. One of the accused, Jomon Joy, 30, a native of Kottayam, was associated with a non-governmental organisation working for tribal welfare at Attappady in Palakkad, said K. Ashraf, Forest Range Officer, Kanhangad. The other accused are Binoj Kumar of Kongad in Palakkad and M. Prabin of Muzhapilangad in Kannur.
24 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Nod for sanitary landfill at Ambalamugal||The government has given its nod to allocate 25 acres of the 300 acres owned by Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation (Kinfra) at Ambalamugal to Kerala Enviro Infrastructure Limited (KEIL) for setting up a sanitary landfill for disposal of inert waste collected by local bodies in the State. Kinfra had purchased the 300 acres of land from the public sector Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore (FACT) for the proposed petrochemicals park. KEIL can entrust Clean Kerala Company to get the necessary clearance for the sanitary landfill, according to a government order issued on June 18. The government has also asked KEIL to take immediate steps to dispose of about 3,000 metric tonnes of inert waste collected by Clean Kerala Company from various local bodies. The government had earlier provided temporary sanction to the company for treatment and disposal of 2,000 tonnes of non-biodegradable solid waste at the Common Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage and Disposal Facility (CHWTSDF) operated by KEIL at Ambalamugal. It was given in view of the public health hazard created by the accumulation of municipal solid waste in the State and the absence of access to an alternative facility during the lockdown. The government’s crisis management group had suggested that unused land in industrial parks could be used for setting up sanitary landfills for disposal of inert waste. The proposal came after the State Pollution Control Board limited the maximum quantity of inert waste that can be disposed of at the KEIL’s facility at Ambalamugal to 2,000 metric tonnes. The board had pointed out that the facility could be used only for treatment of hazardous waste as per the rules prescribed by the Supreme Court Monitoring Committee on Hazardous Waste and the Central Pollution Control Board. The government order stated that KEIL would be responsible for the operation and management of the proposed sanitary landfill. It will have to take steps to get clearance from the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority and comply with the rules pertaining to the selection of land for the landfill as per the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. Hazardous waste KEIL will get a “cell” or adequate land to treat about 5,000 tonnes of hazardous waste as compensation for disposal of the 5,000 tonnes of inert waste collected from local bodies. The State Industries Department would issue a separate order allocating 25 acres of the 300 acres under Kinfra for setting up the landfill, it said.
24 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Child abuse cases rose as lockdown progressed||The number of child abuse cases reported with the Childline in Ernakulam district progressively increased during the two months of lockdown, hinting that children were vulnerable to abuse despite being locked up in their homes surrounded by their immediate families. While nine cases categorised as protection from abuse — which includes sexual, physical and emotional abuse — were reported in April, that number increased more than four-fold to 38 in May, which was more than the monthly average prior to the lockdown. The corresponding numbers in January, February and March were 31, 47, and 25 respectively. The number of child sexual abuse cases for the lockdown period was less than what it was before. While no such cases were reported in April, seven cases were reported in May whereas in the preceding three months it was 9, 11 and 11 respectively. “Of the seven cases reported in May, two children were engaged in an affair, two were abused by their relatives and three by neighbours. The police have registered First Information Reports in all these cases,” said Childline district coordinator Jithin Xavier. Six cases each of physical abuse were reported in April and May, which were less than the 16, 15 and 11 cases reported between January and March. “The physical abuse against children were mostly the result of domestic friction, with even grandparents and step-parents turning out to be culprits,” said Mr. Xavier. Cases of emotional abuse made a quantum jump from a mere three cases in April to 25 cases in May, which, incidentally, was the sum of such cases for the three preceding months taken together. Children getting caught in petty fights between their families and neighbours and ending up verbally abused in the process was common. Alcoholism of fathers and general neglect towards children also emotionally scarred them, said Mr. Xavier. Meanwhile, schools remaining closed has dealt a severe blow to the flow of information to Childline. “Children mostly confided in their teachers, who, in turn, alerted us. However, that critical information channel remains snapped for the time being,” he said.
24 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Police crack down on illegal parking||Faced with haphazardly-parked vehicles obstructing traffic movement in the city following relaxation of lockdown norms, the police have begun attaching wheel locks on vehicles of rule violators. The City Traffic Police (West), which takes care of a bulk of arterial roads in the city hub, registered a total of 2,766 petty cases against rule violators from June 1 to 21. Wheel locks were attached to the vehicles of grave offenders to drive home the point that they would be unable to escape the arm of law by paying fine alone, said G. Poonguzhali, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic, Law and Order). The average number of cases rose from 113 on June 1 to 253 on June 17. “We began stricter enforcement since more people are venturing out in private vehicles than during the pre-lockdown days,” she added. “The rise in number of cases being registered can be attributed to increase in obstructive parking, including on narrow roads, no-parking zones and even on footpaths. This was the norm on arterial roads such as M.G. Road and S.A. Road. The situation was bad even on Hospital Road, where ambulances and other vehicles which brought patients to Ernakulam General Hospital were finding it tough to enter the premises. The action by the police has decongested the stretch,” said T.B. Vijayan, Assistant Commissioner of City Traffic Police (West).  Recovery vans But the police are hamstrung by issues such as old recovery vans which are not very effective in towing away vehicles. “Another problem that we face is inadequate space in the vicinity of police stations to park vehicles towed away. However, no leniency will be shown to rule violators,” said Mr. Vijayan.
24 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Infant’s condition improves||A day after she underwent hours-long surgery, the infant who suffered serious head injury after being allegedly assaulted by her father showed visible signs of improvement on Tuesday. The infant, who is about two months old, underwent a surgical procedure called subdural evacuation to remove a blood clot from her brain on Monday. “The infant opened her eyes, cried, moved her arms and legs and was also breastfed. “She did not have fever. Her condition is being monitored and whether she is completely out of danger can be confirmed only after another 24 hours,” said hospital sources. The child continues to be in the neuro-intensive care unit. She suffered brain injury after her father allegedly slapped her on Thursday night. The Angamaly police have registered a case against the father, Shaiju Thomas, 40, of Kannur. Child welfare council A team from the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare on Tuesday visited the Kolencherry Medical College Hospital where the infant has been admitted. The team, led by Council general secretary Shijukhan J.S., met the child’s mother and assured her of the best treatment. Mr. Shijukhan apprised Minister for Woman and Child Development K.K. Shylaja of the hospital visit.
24 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Drain work worsens traffic chaos at Vyttila||The inordinate delay in completing rebuilding of drains and a culvert on service roads at Vyttila has worsened traffic chaos at the junction, which was barricaded in December 2017 for flyover construction work. The PWD (NH wing) has not readied drains nor the flyover, although the deadline to commission the flyover expired in May 2019. The busy service road on the Palarivattom side of the junction was trenched over a month ago for laying gas pipelines. The PWD was simultaneously engaged in building drains in the place of drains that were demolished when retention walls were built to support slip roads constructed on the NH Bypass to divert vehicles away from the flyover worksite. While the pipeline laying work is largely over, commuters and pedestrians expressed their angst at the inordinate delay in completing work on drains, which began over a year ago on the junction’s Palarivattom side. Commercial establishments and people living in residential colonies beside the service roads have been severely affected by the delayed construction works and the shoddy manner in which the works are being executed. A senior PWD engineer said that drain works, which began on the western side of the junction, had now been extended to the eastern side, to prevent waterlogging on service roads. “The process is expected to get over by mid July.” Collector’s order The District Collector, at a videoconference meeting convened on Tuesday, said the ongoing works on drains, power and gas pipeline works on the service road must be completed in three weeks.
24 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Call for a system to streamline parking||Kochi urgently needs to evolve a system to streamline parking. Earmarking of dedicated parking lots for two and four-wheelers would help make optimal use of parking space, said B.G. Sreedevi, former director of National Transportation Planning and Research Centre (NATPAC). “The city also needs ample number of tech-based parking solutions and easily-accessible multi-tier parking lots, to ensure that roads are set apart for moving vehicles. Public-private partnerships will be of considerable help in this regard. The government must regulate parking fee. While becoming a source of revenue for civic agencies and private operators, the fee will in turn act like a congestion fee and dissuade motorists from venturing into the city unnecessarily,” added Ms. Sreedevi.
24 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||KSEB to monitor energy generation in real time||The State Renewable Energy Data Centre, a facility to monitor renewable energy generation in real time, will be up and running in six months at Vydyuthi Bhavan in Thiruvananthapuram. The centre will have a video wall of myriad screens that will not just beam real-time data from solar generation facilities but various other related environmental aspects that are pivotal to the generation. Once it turns operational, Kerala State Electricity Board’s (KSEB) Renewable Energy and Energy Savings (REES) division will be able to analyse the performance of renewable energy generation more accurately in real time and manage grid operations better. Consyst, a Kochi-based Industry 4.0 Automation System Integration company, which was awarded the bid for setting up the centre is already at it. The company with more than 10 years of experience in data analytics projects in energy and water conservation sectors has been entrusted with design, engineering, supply and commissioning of IT equipment and software solutions to collect data from various solar power plants across the State. "We already have an Internet of things-based product that helps to monitor assets distributed across a large expanse and that will be effectively utilised in the functioning of the centre. We will collate data from various acquisition systems of solar projects across the State and use cloud technology to make data accessible to the KSEB for real-time assessment of generation critical for various aspects,” said Jasir Sabri, Managing Director, Consyst. Consyst plans to upgrade the system in the next phase of the project with its machine learning-driven product to forecast energy generation and trigger alerts. Hydroelectric projects in the State account for 1,338 MW of power generation compared to 161 MW of power being generated through solar energy. Fuel projects accounts for 614.18 MW and wind farms 70.275 MW.
24 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||4,420 people to arrive in 23 flights today||The Cochin International Airport will have one of the busiest days on Wednesday with a total of 4,420 passengers expected to arrive here in 23 relief flights. The flights include one from Australia via New Delhi, bringing 180 passengers, said a communication. The airport confirmed the arrival of 1,620 passengers on Tuesday in nine evacuation flights. Three operations earlier scheduled by Indigo from Doha, Muscat, and Dammam have been cancelled. The arrival scheduled for Wednesday are: Air Arabia from Sharjah, Air India Express from Abu Dhabi, Spice Jet from Ras al Khaima, Oman Air from Muscat, Salam Air from Muscat, Fly Dubai from Dubai, Indigo from Doha, Gulf Air from Bahrain Kuwait Airways from Kuwait, and Air India Express from Muscat.
24 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||68-year-old Delhi returnee dies in Kollam||The district reported one death, four more cases of COVID-19 and four recoveries on Tuesday. A 68-year-old Mayyanad resident died at Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Parippally. He had travelled from Delhi by Nizamuddin Express (S2 Seat N 36) and reached Ernakulam on June 10. Symptoms started on June 15 while he was in home quarantine and his sample was collected the same day. After he tested positive on June 17, he was taken to the MCH, but his condition deteriorated soon. Cardiac arrest According to hospital sources, the patient was undergoing treatment for pneumonia and suffered a cardiac arrest on Monday night. He passed away at 9.55 a.m. on Tuesday. His funeral was held as per medical protocols at the Mulankadakam public crematorium. This is the second COVID-19 death in the district. Swab samples of a 65-year-old Kavanad resident who died on May 31 tested positive SARS-CoV-2 later. He had died following respiratory issues and had no recent travel history or known contact with COVID-19 patients. Shop owner positive A person remanded in connection with a narcotic case is among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. The 65-year-old Punalur resident was arrested with tobacco products from near a school and his sample was collected on June 20. He runs a shop, Shafeeq Store, with his elder son near the Punalur police station and retail suppliers from Tenkasi and Puliyankudi used to visit the store every week. Thirteen personnel of the Punalur police station have been asked to go in quarantine after the shop owner tested positive. Health dept. directive The Health Department has instructed all those who visited the store between June 8 and 19 to get in touch with the Punalur Taluk Hospital superintendent on 94470 51097. The other patients include a 53-year-old Perinad resident, a 43-year-old Ambalamukku resident and a 52-year-old Cherivaikkal resident. While the first two had returned from Bahrain and Kuwait respectively, the Cherivaikkal resident arrived in the district by Mangala Express from Haryana.  Meanwhile, all grama panchayats in the district have been instructed to find buildings to quarantine Non-Resident Keralites who cannot afford paid facilities. Directions have been issued to local bodies to spread awareness and avoid untoward incidents since some expatriates are finding it difficult to undergo home quarantine due to the objection of neighbours.
24 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Surgery held on iguana||A team of veterinarians from the District Veterinary Centre on Tuesday successfully conducted a surgery on an iguana. Iggu, the pet lizard, had been finding it difficult to take food due to a growth in its upper jaw. The five-year-old male iguana was brought to the centre by its owner, Jithin from Oachira. The reptile was first sedated and then the part affected by granuloma was removed. Led by veterinarian Ajith Pillai, a team comprising veterinarians Ajith Babu and Raju S. conducted the surgery. Jithin had bought Iggu as a four month old from Ernakulam. “Iggu is herbivorous and stays very calm and friendly all the time. Carrot, hibiscus flowers, spinach and some leafy greens form the major part of its diet. The 1.5-m-long reptile is worth lakhs,” said Dr. Ajith.
24 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||8 cases in Kottayam||Eight persons, including six who landed from abroad, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. The patients have been identified as a 46-year-old Madappally native who landed from Saudi Arabia, a 34-year-old from Velloor and a 23-year-old from Athirampuzha who returned from Kuwait, a 47-year-old woman from Mariyappally and her 20-year-old daughter who landed from Dubai, and a 52-year-old Mundakkayam native who landed from Qatar. The remaining two are a 35-year-old Kaippuzha native who returned from Haryana and a nine-year-old who returned from Shillong along with his mother and sister. At the same time, 12 persons recovered from the disease and left the hospital on the day. They included a 29-year-old woman from Kuravilangad, a 45-year-old woman from Mattakkara, a 26-year-old Kaduthuruthy native, a 32-year-old from Thiruvathukkal, and a 51-year-old woman from Ayarkunnam, among others. With this, the number of recovered cases in Kottayam is 76. 93 active cases Of the 93 active cases in the district, 31 are at the Government Medical College Hospital here while 30 are at the District General Hospital. As many as 28 patients are at the Pala General Hospital while the remaining four are in Ernakulam.
24 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Mani refuses to budge, UDF toughens stand||Notwithstanding a hardening of stance by the United Democratic Front (UDF), the stalemate over a change of guard in the Kottayam district panchayat appears no way near the end with the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani further digging its heels in. Earlier on Tuesday, senior UDF leader Oommen Chandy once again reiterated the coalition’s decision to hold discussions with the Mani group but only after the stepping down of Sebastian Kulathungal, a Mani group leader, as the district panchayat president. “Both sides have raised a few points but for these to be taken up for discussion, the UDF’s decision must be implemented,” he told mediapersons in Thiruvananthapuram. Besides Mr. Chandy, UDF convener Benny Behanan too expressed the coalition’s discontentment over the delay in the resignation to the Mani group. The Mani group, however, decided not to concede an inch and sought permanent settlement to the issues raised by it.
24 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Teachers’ forum concerned over absence of full-time VC||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan is yet to appoint a Vice Chancellor for Calicut University even a month after the search committee submitted its proposals for the post. Now, the Confederation of University Teachers’ Organisations of Kerala has urged Mr. Khan to nominate a “meritorious person at the earliest” as the absence of a full-time VC has created “apprehension, uncertainty, and anxiety among various stakeholders.” In a letter to Mr. Khan, also the Chancellor of the university, K. Gangadharan and M. Junaid Bushiri, president and general secretary of the confederation respectively, said that the VC’s post had been lying vacant for the past nine months. The search panel, involving then Chief Secretary Tom Jose, State Planning Board Vice Chairperson V.K. Ramachandran, and Jawaharlal Nehru University Vice Chancellor M. Jagadesh, had submitted a list of names on May 18. According to functionaries of the confederation, the process to pick the VC had started around a year ago, months before the then VC, K. Mohammed Basheer, completed his tenure in November last. Though the search panel’s tenure was extended in the wake of its failure to complete the process in time, a list of shortlisted candidates could not be submitted to the Governor. Then, the committee had to be reconstituted, and the entire process repeated afresh. In between came the lockdown, and the interaction with applicants could be held only last month. University sources said Mr. Jose and Mr. Ramachandran had proposed a list of three names while favouring K.M. Seethi, who was Professor, School of International Relations and Politics, Mahatma Gandhi University, for the post. The others on the list were C.T. Aravind Kumar, Pro Vice Chancellor, Mahatma Gandhi University, and M.K. Jayaraj, Professor, Department of Physics, Cochin University of Science and Technology. Mr. Kumar favoured C.A. Jayaprakash, Principal Scientist, Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Thiruvananthapuram, while also proposing M.V. Narayanan, Fellow, Indian Institute of Advanced Study, Shimla, and Suresh Mathew, Professor, School of Chemical Sciences, Mahatma Gandhi University. In between, Mr. Seethi retired from service in the last week of May. It is not clear why the Governor is delaying the nomination though there are reports that some complaints had been filed in his office against some of the chosen candidates. Meanwhile, the search panel’s tenure also got over and Mr. Jose retired. Now, the confederation functionaries pointed out that the present situation cannot be continued for long as Calicut University is among the most important universities in the State.
24 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Former Mayor dead||Kozhikode Corporation former Mayor U.T. Rajan, 70, passed away here early morning on Tuesday. He was undergoing treatment for heart ailment at Cooperative Hospital in the city. A lawyer by profession, Mr. Rajan took charge as Kozhikode Mayor in 1990 when he became elected as the party leader of the Congress (S), which was part of the Left Democratic Front then. He joined the Bharatiya Janata Party in 2019. Son of freedom fighter U.T. Appu Vaidyar and Chiruthakkutti, he started his political career with the Kerala Students Union.   He is survived by wife P.P. Susheela, and children Rukma and Athma.
24 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||KSEB restores power supply to study hall||The Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) has restored the power connection for children’s online study hall at Punchakkolli tribal hamlet in Nilambur forests. On Tuesday afternoon, KSEB officials from Moothedam section installed permanent power connection to the community hall, where tribal children attend classes aired through Victers channel. Disconnection of a temporary power line to the community hall taken from a neighbouring house last week had affected the study of 30-odd tribal children, and been highlighted in these columns. Sunita M.R., assistant engineer at KSEB Moothedam section, said that the disconnection was a result of a lack of communication. “Our staff was not aware of the classes at the community hall. They disconnected the illegal line for safety reasons. That line was found unsafe and, if anything happened, we would have been answerable,” said Ms. Sunita. She said they would have given not only a safe connection, but also a TV set for the kids had they been aware of the children’s plight.
24 June 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||27 new COVID-19 cases in Palakkad||As many as 27 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Palakkad district on Tuesday. They included five children below 10 years of age. While 17 of the new infected cases had returned from abroad, nine had come back from other States. A jail employee from Pattambi contracted the disease apparently from a prisoner who had been tested positive. District Collector D. Balamurali said that among the 27 positive cases on Tuesday, six had returned from Tamil Nadu, two from Delhi, one from Hyderabad, seven from Kuwait, four from Qatar, two each from Saudi Arabia and the UAE, and one each from Oman and Kazakhstan. The total number of infected persons currently under treatment in Palakkad rose to 181. In Malappuram Meanwhile, the neighbouring Malappuram district registered 11 fresh cases on Tuesday, taking the number of infected patients currently under treatment to 197. This is the largest in the State. “Naturally, we have the largest population in the State as well,” said a senior health official. A total of 379 persons have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram so far. Among those currently being treated at Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, are five persons from Palakkad, three from Thrissur, two from Kozhikode and one each from Idukki and Pathanamthitta, said District Medical Officer K. Sakeena. Three of the 11 persons tested positive on Tuesday contracted the virus through contact. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan warned people to maintain vigil. He said those who had interacted with the persons tested positive should go in self-quarantine and should alert health officials. In Ernakulam Five more persons have been identified as primary contacts of a 40-year-old in Nayaramblam who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on June 21. With this, samples taken from a total of 106 persons who came in contact with the patient have been sent for tests. A communication from the district administration said that the COVID-19 patient had come into contact with a person who had arrived here from outside Kerala and was under observation. There was considerable apprehension on Monday as the source of the infection could not be immediately identified. 13 test positive Thirteen persons tested positive for the virus in Ernakulam district on Tuesday. A person from Kottayam district has also been tested positive here. The infected included those who arrived early this month from Kuwait, Delhi and Mumbai. The person from Kottayam had arrived here on June 21 from Qatar. The district administration said that six persons were cured of the disease on Tuesday. They included a Lakshadweep native who tested positive for the virus on June 16 and a native of Maharashtra who tested positive on June 10. As many as 797 persons were added to the list of those under observation on Tuesday while 581 were removed from the list. The total number of those under observation now is 12,921. They include 11,051 persons in home quarantine, 388 in COVID care centres and 1,482 in paid facilities. The number of people admitted to hospitals for observation on Tuesday was 26. A total of 135 COVID-19 patients are undergoing treatment in the district now. In Thrissur Thrissur district reported 14 more COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. In all, 117 persons are undergoing treatment at various hospitals. There are 15,007 people under observation. A 49-year-old employee from Kunnamkulam, working in the planning division of the Thrissur Corporation, was among the infected. He had not attended the meeting held on June 15, in which Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar participated. In Kozhikode Six more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Tuesday. They include an airport official from Naduvannur who contracted the virus from another infected official. One person came by a lorry from Bengaluru to Kozhikode on June 20. Two had come from Muscat and one each from Sharjah, Bengaluru and Chennai. A total of 113 patients are undergoing treatment for COVID-19 in the district. As many as 894 persons were added to the list of those under observation on Tuesday, taking the total number to 15,032. Man dies A Kunnamangalam native who had been under observation died on Tuesday. District Medical Officer V. Jayasree said that his samples would be sent for test immediately. In Wayanad Two more COVID-19 cases were reported in Wayanad district on Tuesday. A 24-year-old youth of Vengapally and a 33-year-old woman of Muppainad in the district were confirmed to have contracted the virus. Both were shifted to the District Hospital at Mananthavadi. As many as 3,585 persons are under observation in the district. Two persons, including a Tamil Nadu native, were cured of the disease on Tuesday.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Kozhikode, Ernakulam, Thrissur, and Wayanad bureaus)
24 June 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Man dies of hack injuries||A man who was under treatment after having been hacked by a gang at Panamanna near Ottapalam three weeks ago, died on Tuesday. Vinod, 32, succumbed to the deep wounds he suffered in an attack that took place on May 31. His brother, Ramachandran, 29, was also attacked. The police said the hacking was in vengeance for the attack on an SDPI leader.
24 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta sees new high||Twenty-seven COVID-19 cases, the highest in the district on a single day, were reported in Pathanamthitta on Tuesday. A 33-year old man who came from Dubai on June 22, a 46-year-old man who came from Madhya Pradesh on June 4, a 45-year old man who came from Kuwait on June 11, two men — a 38 year old and a 54 year old — who came from Kuwait on June 16, two boys — a 13 year old and an eight year old — who came from Chennai on June 14, a 40-year-old woman who came from Chennai on June 14, a 49-year-old man who came from Muscat on June 12 and a 54-year-old man who came from Bahrain on June 11 are among those who tested positive on the day. A 27-year-old youth who came from Dubai on June 10, a 75-year-old woman who came from Maharashtra on June 10, a 45-year-old man who came from Maharashtra on June 5, a 16-year-old boy who came from Kuwait on June 13, a 44-year-old man who came from Qatar on June 14, a 49-year-old Saudi returnee (June 15), a 32-year-old Kuwait-returnee (June 12), a 59-year-old woman who came from Delhi on June 4, a six-year-old boy who came from Delhi on June 4, a 32-year-old woman (from Delhi, June 4), a 42-year-old man who returned from Maharashtra on June 20, a 10-year-old who came from Maharashtra on June 20, a 47-year-old man who came from Maharashtra on June 19, and three Kuwait returnees — a 29-year-old man (June 15), a 30-year-old man (June 12) and a 40-year-old man (June 11) are the other patients. One cured Only one patient was cured of the disease in the district on Tuesday. A total of 148 patients are under treatment — 145 in various hospitals in the district and three in hospitals outside the district, according to an official bulletin. 161 in hospital The total number people admitted to hospitals, including persons tested positive, was 161 as on Tuesday. The General Hospital in Pathanamthitta houses 73 persons, 11 persons are at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, 73 persons are at the Firstline COVID Treatment Centre at Menanthottom Hospital in Ranni, and four others are at various private hospitals. The total number of COVID-19 cases in the district is 225 with 76 recoveries.
24 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Low recovery rate a cause of worry||Experts have expressed concern over the low recovery rate of COVID-19 cases in the district, despite strict compliance with the lockdown norms. As per a Health Department data, 198 persons have been tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district and 122 of them are still undergoing treatment at various hospitals, 61.61%, as of Monday. A total of 75 persons, 37.87%, have been cured of the disease and one patient died. State average The cure rate in Pathanamthitta is much lower than the State average. At the State level, 52.78% of the 3,310 patients have been cured of the disease as of Monday. In the first phase of the pandemic, Pathanamthitta had 17 patients. The district that had become the epicentre of the disease on March 7 had successfully treated all 17 patients in the first spell. All of them were properly quarantined in the isolation wards of various hospitals and got cured in the next 46 days. The systematic and effective treatment protocol pursued by the health-care team here had succeeded in keeping the district free of any new cases for one month from April 12 till a fresh case was diagnosed on May 12. Second spell A 69-year-old woman who came from Abu Dhabi was tested positive on May 12, making it the start of a second spell of the pandemic in the district with the beginning of the inflow of Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) from abroad and from various other parts of the country. The number of patients went up to four in a short span of one week. And now the district has started witnessing a spurt in the number of fresh cases. Testing protocol The Health Department follows the protocol of two consecutive negative throat swab tests for declaring a patient cured. The low recovery rate is attributed to the delay or rather failure in ensuring swab results, according to experts. As much as 60% of the patients in the district were found to be asymptomatic, said Ashish Mohankumar, Resident Medical Officer.
24 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Four NoRKs positive in capital||Four Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. All of these are imported cases. One of the four patients, a 27-year-old Kuwait returnee from Pettah, has been admitted to Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Parippally, Kollam. After arriving at the Cochin International Airport along with four friends on June 16, they were taken to a quarantine centre at Punalur. He and one of his friends were shifted to the Punalur taluk hospital after developing symptoms on June 20. A couple, aged 33 and 27 years, from Powdikonam also tested positive on the day. They returned from New Delhi on a special train on June 9 and were in home quarantine. They have been admitted to the General Hospital. An assistant sub-inspector and a civil police officer, attached to the City Traffic police, who came in contact with the couple during a vehicle inspection at Ulloor on June 21, have been directed to go into quarantine. The fourth patient is a 29-year-old Kaimanam native who came from Dammam on a flight on June 20. A mechanic, he came to Thiruvananthapuram for treating a head injury. Following his arrival, he was taken to the General Hospital as he exhibited symptoms. After obtaining his swab samples, the authorities shifted him to the COVID-19 first-line treatment centre at the Dr. Somervell Memorial CSI Medical College and Hospital, Karakkonam, on the same day.  Meanwhile, the district administration has released the patient route map of the security guard at the Government MCH here who was diagnosed with the disease on Monday. He was reportedly engaged in crowd management in the hospital casualty, main gate, cardiology out-patient wing and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) ward. Containment zones Karikkakom and Kadakampally wards in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation have been made containment zones. The district authorities removed 10 wards in Kattakada grama panchayat from the containment zone list. The City police registered a case against a COVID-19-infected Vanchiyoor native who concealed his medical history upon arrival from Chennai on a flight on June 21. He tested positive subsequently. He flew to Chennai from Qatar on June 10 and tested positive two days later, following which he was admitted to the Chengalpattu Medical College. According to District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram city) Balram Kumar Upadhyay, he was discharged without recovering from the illness. He managed to board a flight to Thiruvananthapuram and went to his ancestral house upon his arrival. He revealed his medical history after being questioned by police officers and health workers later. Trip sheets The police also introduced trip sheets for autorickshaws to maintain the details and contact details of passengers. The public can raise complaints regarding drivers who violate the rule at 0471-2558731 or 2558732.
24 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Gloomy prognosis for the State as serious cases go up||Even as the debate on whether community transmission of COVID-19 is happening in the State rages on, the steady increase in the proportion of serious cases and deaths where the source of infection remains mysterious is an indication that the pandemic is progressing to a new level in the State, public health experts say. The State has so far excelled in picking up and treating COVID cases early and curing them before any complications set in. But as the epidemic unfolds, improving the care of persons with severe acute respiratory illness (SARI) and attempting to reduce the mortality in this category may be one of the newer challenges that the State might face. Case in Kannur The case of a 28-year-old youth at Kannur who had turned up with fever and acute respiratory distress in hospital and could not be saved (doctors say it was an exaggerated immune response or cytokine storm which led to the rapid deterioration of the patient) is a case in point. “A chunk of our positive cases are in the quarantine pool and, hence, we have been able to test and treat them as soon as they develop symptoms. The window of opportunity to save COVID patients is within the first week of symptom onset. Once they present with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), the disease progression is rapid. In the case of all those positive cases with no epidemiological link who presented late to hospital, we had no reason to suspect COVID. By the time they were diagnosed, they were far too along to be saved,” says a senior clinician involved in COVID care. Case progression “Our first 500-odd cases were all mild and we had few deaths. But with case numbers as well as local disease transmission also going up, the proportion of those presenting late with serious illness and the mortality amongst them is on the rise. The prognosis has been bad for them so far but with newer treatment options such as convalescent plasma therapy working for some, we are also learning,” he said. Senior health officials said close to 25 seriously ill COVID patients were at present undergoing treatment in intensive care units across the State. The State Medical Board is currently doing a COVID-19 death audit to analyse each of the cases. There have been 22 deaths so far and in at least eight deaths, the source of infection is yet to be ascertained. Equip hospitals Epidemiologists point out that as the epidemic progresses and more cases are detected from the community, all hospitals should be equipped and prepared to recognise a potential COVID patient and provide the appropriate line of care. Clear protocols While there are clear protocols on who should be tested for COVID-19, a careful analysis and dissemination of the clinical progression of serious cases that originated through local transmission will improve the clinical skills of doctors in the periphery and secondary hospitals to pick out potential COVID cases.
24 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||RTC to start BonD, Relay services||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) is planning to roll out ‘Buses on Demand’ (BonD) during morning and evening peak hours for short-distance commuters and ‘Relay’ services for long-distance passengers. The Relay services using super deluxe buses will be operated from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Thiruvananthapuram-Thrissur sector. Passengers can travel up to Thrissur on super deluxe buses in the Thiruvananthapuram-Kollam, Kollam-Alappuzha, Alappuzha-Ernakulam and Ernakulam-Thrissur sectors. From Thrissur to Thiruvananthapuram, one will have to board four Relay buses. The buses will stop only at designated stops of super deluxe buses. Online reservation will be available for these services, likely to be launched next week. The BonD services are intended to attract short-distance passengers travelling on motorcycles, to their workplaces daily and others. Non-stop The non-stop services to be operated from key KSRTC depots using super fast (SF) and fast passenger (FP) buses to important offices and hospitals in the district will be based on demand and seats will be ensured for all passengers. The passengers will be dropped off on their office premises and will be picked up from designated points. The BonD services to hospitals will be available on holidays too. BonD Travel Cards would be available for frequent travellers for five, 10, 20 and 25 trips, a top KSRTC official told The Hindu . Discounts would be offered for those opting for travel cards. Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran will formally launch the cards on Wednesday. The initiative, the brainchild of KSRTC Managing Director Biju Prabhakar, aims at increasing revenue from the fleet. The KSRTC also aims at reducing the dependence of working people in personalised modes of transport, curbing road accidents and checking air pollution, by offering last-mile connectivity to the citizens. Parking facilities for motorcycles will be provided at KSRTC depots. In capital Initially, the KSRTC is planning to launch the BonD services from the Nedumangad and Neyyattinkara depots and back. Services will be operated to the Secretariat, AG’s Office, Vikas Bhavan, Legislature Complex, Kerala Public Service Commission headquarters at Pattom, Government Medical College Hospital, SCTIMST, SAT Hospital and Regional Cancer Centre. “If found successful, it will be extended to other districts,” the KSRTC official said.
24 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Orange alert for more districts||The India Meteorological Department (IMD), in an updated weather forecast on Tuesday evening, sounded orange alerts for more districts in the State for Friday and Saturday. Orange alerts for isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall have been issued for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Idukki for Friday and Kozhikode and Wayanad for Saturday. Heavy rainfall Of this, Pathanamthitta and Idukki can expect extremely heavy rainfall on Friday and Kozhikode and Wayanad on Saturday. The southwest monsoon is expected to gain in strength over the State towards the weekend, the IMD had indicated on Monday. In the updated forecast, the IMD issued yellow alerts for isolated heavy rainfall for Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam and Alappuzha for Wednesday. Yellow alerts are also in place for seven central and southern districts on Thursday; Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur and Palakkad on Friday; and Thrissur, Palakkad, Malappuram, Kannur and Kasaragod on Saturday.
24 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Stricter norms from today||With the partial withdrawal of the lockdown during ‘Unlock 1.0’ showing signs of pushing the city into an alarming situation, the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation has finalised a protocol for commercial establishments in the city to reduce crowding in public areas. The arrangement, which will take effect on Wednesday, allocates specific working days for shops on the basis of the nature of business. The move to further strengthen restrictions comes on a day when the district administration intensified inspections and adopted steps to streamline vehicular flow, particularly in the city. Mayor K. Sreekumar, who convened a meeting of representatives of traders’ associations on Tuesday, said shopping malls, supermarkets and outlets in prominent markets, including Chala and Palayam, would be permitted to function on alternate working days, effectively bringing down business operations by a half in order to reduce rush and enforce physical-distancing norms. Vegetable shops Vegetable shops at Chala, Palayam and other markets will be permitted to function on Mondays, Tuesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, while outlets selling meat and other essential commodities can function on alternate days. Fish outlets in such places will be required to function on alternate working days. Public entry to markets will be regulated by the police. Shopping malls and supermarkets will function on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays. On other days, home delivery will be allowed. All shops will have to ensure availability of hand sanitisers and facilities to wash hands. Traders have also been asked to permit entry for only those wearing masks. Failure to adhere to the norms will result in the suspension of their licences, the Mayor said. The restrictions will also apply to restaurants and wayside eateries. Four health squads will be deployed by the local body to crack down on violators. Meanwhile, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran convened a meeting of leaders of local-self government institutions in the district as part of intensifying containment efforts. Lamenting the lax enforcement at the grassroots-level, he called for renewed vigour to rein in the spread of the disease. Urging local bodies to adopt stringent steps to ensure compliance with government guidelines, Mr. Surendran directed officials to limit participation in official programmes. He reiterated that the public should note down details of autorickshaws on which they travelled.
24 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Community spread may be happening: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, for the first time, has conceded that the increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in the State with untraceable sources points to the possibility of community transmission. Briefing media here on Tuesday, Mr. Vijayan said the situation was turning grave and that the number of asymptomatic cases as well as cases where the source of infection was unknown was on the rise. He said that while the source of infection could not be pinpointed in 40% of the cases across India, in Kerala, the proportion of such cases was less than 2%. Mr. Vijayan said that even in cases where the source of infection could not be identified, the State had implemented effective intervention protocols. Around the locality of every such case, the Health Department was checking for case clustering, which would indicate community transmission. These localities were being turned into containment zones and strict measures were being taken to prevent disease transmission. Till now, through these measures, the government had kept disease transmission low and had prevented community spread. However, this did not mean that community spread was a distant threat. Testing to be increased Mr. Vijayan said that cases of local transmission comparatively seemed to be more in Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur and Malappuram and said that stringent measures at curbing local transmission would have to be implemented. He said that people needed to be aware that the virus was around them and that one had to keep oneself safe through adequate precautions. The government proposed to increase the number of testing centres as well as testing at all levels and categories of persons in an attempt to actively find cases and stop disease transmission. Steps were being taken for addressing the shortage of health-care workers. Final year students of medicine would be given clinical posting so that there are more hands in hospitals.
24 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Unaided schools still in queue for textbooks||Students of unaided schools following the State syllabus are still waiting for textbooks for the current academic year, three weeks after online classes began for them. Distribution of textbooks for government and aided schools is well under way, but unaided schools are still in queue. School managements say they gave the indents and paid for the textbooks months ago but are yet to receive them despite getting release orders. CBSE schools can opt for any textbook; their textbooks are available in the market too. However, students of unaided schools following the State syllabus get their textbooks only through the school. Downloadable versions of the textbooks are the only option available now. School managers under the umbrella of the Kerala Recognised School Managements’ Association staged a dharna in front of the Textbook Office here on Monday. Association charge The government had assured that textbooks would reach schools in time but unaided school students were yet to receive them despite making the payment, general secretary Anand Kannasa, who inaugurated the protest, said. Textbook Officer Subramania Iyer denied there had been any delay on their part. The release orders had been issued and 15 days given to schools to pick up textbooks. However, the textbook distribution was done by the Kerala Books and Publications Society (KBPS) and a convenient date for distribution had to be fixed by it. A memorandum submitted by the Kerala Recognised School Managements’ Association had been taken up and the KBPS authorities had said the matter would be sorted out in a couple of days.
24 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No Vavubali at temples||TDB will not permit the conduct of Vavubali rituals in the 1,248 temples under its ambit. President N. Vasu told The Hindu on Tuesday that conducting the rituals following physical distancing was not feasible and hence the board decided not to hold Bali this year.
24 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State not to lose money in estate takeover: CM||The public exchequer will not lose any money in the takeover of the Cheruvally estate in Pathanamthitta, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Asked about Congress leader V.M. Sudheeran’s allegation that the takeover was a land scam, Mr. Vijayan said on Tuesday that the modalities of repossessing the land were under way. At a press conference here, Mr. Sudheeran had said the government had decided to purchase the land at massive cost from private persons ignoring cautionary reports filed by several agencies that the property belonged to the State. At least two commissions and inquiries by the Crime Branch and the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau had shone the light on how the questionable “owners” of the land had come into its possession fraudulently.
24 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online classes raise the spectre of screen addiction||A Class 2 student of a private school in the city spends a little over two hours a day in front of a laptop for his online classes. The father of a Class 9 student says though she has four online classes of 40 minutes each with 25-minute breaks in between, homework and notes all increase her screen time. “She is busy from morning till evening with school work,” he points out. Class duration Parents say some schools are gradually upping the duration of the online classes. A Class 10 student in another school spends four hours in front of a smartphone for the classes. Maya M., Principal in-charge, Kendriya Vidyalaya, Pangode, says primary and secondary students in her school have two sessions each of 40 minutes and one-hour duration respectively, with one likely in the morning and the other in the afternoon. Parents say the online classes have made it difficult to keep the children away from gadgets. Monitoring their use is not easy either. “Earlier, we used to wrest the gadgets from our children. Now, we hand them over readily,” says a parent. The State General Education Department’s Victers classes have time slots ranging from half-an-hour for primary classes to two hours for secondary students a day. Parents’ demand However, parents of pre-primary students have been clamouring for online classes for their wards too, says an official. T.V. Anil Kumar, professor and in-charge of child and adolescent psychiatry section at the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, says children’s screen time and addiction are increasing on the whole. Children with behavioural issues can spin into gadget addiction pretty fast. Medical issues too may arise. Strike a balance He says there is a need to find a balance between using gadgets and avoiding their harmful effects. Adult supervision and restricted use are important. Parents should be aware of how to use mobile phones responsibly. Ms. Maya suggests that self-learning should be promoted, so that children, except for young ones, studied on their own, rather than depend on the teacher completely. “At least 40% of a lesson can be studied by a student or else the screen time will go on increasing.”
24 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||The litmus test was Nipah: Minister||The first Nipah outbreak in 2018 was a litmus test of the resilience of Kerala’s public health system, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said. The experience in managing the outbreak helped Kerala realise the gaps and weaknesses in its public health system and build a more sensitive and alert disease surveillance mechanism, she said participating in a webinar organised by the United Nations on Public Service Day 2020 on Tuesday. The UN marked the day to honour people who risk their lives and health to deliver essential public services amid the pandemic. Ms. Shylaja was the speaker from India, along with António Guterres, Secretary-General, UN, Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Director General of World Health Organization, and Tijjani Muhammad-Bande, president of the General Assembly.
24 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Airports to have testing facilities: CM||The State government will set up COVID-19 testing facilities at airports, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. He said the frequency of international flights would pick up in the coming months and the State had braced itself for increased arrival of expatriates. The Chief Minister said senior IAS and IPS officers would coordinate the pandemic containment strategy at airports. Mr Vijayan warned that the government would be constrained to roll back the relaxation in lockdown regulations if the COVID-19 caseload continued to rise. In Thiruvananthapuram, the opening up of offices had caused the hustle and bustle on the streets. The police reported 4,320 instances of people venturing out into the open without wearing face masks on Tuesday.
24 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PSC recruits 7,225 candidates||The Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) has issued appointment advice to 7,225 candidates and published 43 rank lists between March 20 and June 15, in strict compliance with the social-distancing norms. A release said here on Tuesday that advice memos were issued for recruiting 1,459 health professionals, including assistant surgeons and assistant professors in the department of medical education. Recruitment was also made to police, prisons and other departments.
24 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Make recorded content available to students: panel||The Kerala State Commission for Child Rights has said that lessons taught as part of the online classes should be made available to students in recorded form. This is to ensure that students receive its benefits even if they miss out on live classes. The number of students in live interactive sessions should be limited on the basis of divisions, the commission said. The commission’s order is applicable to all educational institutions in the State. Commission member K. Nazeer has directed that the General Education Department, the CBSE, and the CICSE issue special orders in this regard. Recorded classes will help address the lack of Internet availability. Students whose parents go to work will also benefit from these. With very young children starting their education in the online mode, they should not lose out on the classes, the commission said. Instead of conducting one live online classes for all students, the classes should be conducted on division basis so that all children get an opportunity for interaction. Schools in the State have switched on to the online mode in the wake of COVID-19 spread. With new mechanisms evolving, difficulties experienced by students on their account should be resolved, the commission said.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Alappuzha records highest single-day count at 19||In the biggest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases in the district so far, 19 people tested positive for the virus on Tuesday. According to officials, all the fresh cases are imported—13 from abroad and six from other States. Among the foreign returnees, two men, a 60-year-old man from Chengannur and a youth from Thazhakara, came from Kuwait on June 12. A father-son duo hailing from Alappuzha reached the district from Saudi Arabia on June 20. The fifth patient, a 47-year-old native of Budhanoor, came from Saudi Arabia on June 10. A young woman, hailing from Punnapra, who reached the district from Qatar on June 16 is the sixth patient. The seventh person, a 58-year-old man, came from Kuwait on June 12. He is a native of Bharanikavu. Another patient, a young man from Chengannur, came from Saudi Arabia on June 11. Kuwait returnees Also among the cases are five men from Kuwait who reached the district on June 13. These included three youths hailing from Krishnapuram, Karuvatta and Mavelikkara; a 48-year-old from Punnapra; and a 49-year-old native of Chengannur. Of the cases from other States, three persons—a young man from Chengannur and two young women from Venmony and Chengannur—came from Delhi on June 6, June 15 and June 11 respectively. Also, two women, a 51-year-old Pandanad native and a young woman from Chengannur, came from Mumbai on June 23 and June 16 respectively. Another young woman hailing from Chengannur reached the district from Chennai on June 4. Of the patients, 18 have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, and one person to a hospital in Pathanamthitta, for treatment. Meanwhile, a person from the district who was undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at a hospital in Ernakulam tested negative for the virus. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 121. The government has declared ward number 16 in Pattanakkad and ward number 7 in Karthikappally grama panchayat as containment zones.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Season’s flavour||
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Tributes to brave hearts||
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Better COVID care||
24 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur district likely to get piped water supply in 3 years||Piped drinking water supply to each and every habitation in Anantapur district will be a reality in the next three years with the Rural Water Supply Department readying a Rs. 4,000-crore detailed project report (DPR) that has been requisitioned by the State government before this week-end. The department supplies drinking water to more than 350 villages and habitations through tankers in nine mandals, mostly in Penukonda water division. a majority of these mandals do not have storage facilities or tanks, which could be fed from existing canal networks and groundwater is not available. Compared to last summer, the current season has seen lesser demand, partially due to the lockdown. Rural Water Supply Superintendent Engineer Hareram Naik told The Hindu on Tuesday that the DPR was sent to the government which asked for some fine-tuning taking into the decadal population increase projections up to 2050, which will entail increasing the size of main pipelines to be used for water supply to each and every household in 3,312 villages in the district. Huge requirement At a time when people’s representatives are fighting over their share of irrigation water, the Rural Drinking Water Grid Project will need a net allocation of 9.42 tmcft from both Tungabhadra’s High Level Canal and River Krishna’s Handri Neeva Sujala Sravanthi (HNSS) networks put together. “Taking into account transmission losses, about 13 to 14 tmcft will be essential to feed every high-level tank with surface water. At present, the project has 4.52 tmcft water allocation at the time of its launch in the earlier version (Jaladhara) two years ago,” he said. All the existing schemes would be merged into this grid to meet the demand. The department supplies 18 tmcft to the Tadipatri Municipality and surrounding villages,” Mr. Naik said.
24 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP encouraging faction politics: Kotla||TDP leader and former Union Minister Kotla Jayasurya Prakasha Reddy has accused the YSR Congress Party of encouraging faction politics and usurping power at all levels in Kurnool district instead of concentrating on the completion of projects and development activities. At a press conference here on Tuesday, Mr. Jayasurya Prakasha Reddy challenged the YSRCP leaders to come for an open debate on sand mining, house site pattas and sale of liquor. He took exception to the alleged forcible change of the governing body of the Sri Venkateshwara Lift Irrigation Mutually Aided Cooperative Society. “The YSRCP leaders should first concentrate on completing the Vedavathi, RDS Right Canal, and Gundrevula projects and get elected to the managing committees without disturbing the existing societies,” he said.
24 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||503 country rifles seized in special drive in Chittoor||Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar on Tuesday said that a week-long special drive against country rifles in Chittoor, Palamaner, Madanapalle and Puttur sub-divisions yielded 503 weapons after the villagers of the forest fringe areas bordering with Tamil Nadu and Karnataka voluntarily surrendered them. Speaking to the media here, the SP said that the prime objective of the special drive against the country rifles was to usher in peace in rural villages and to protect law and order, besides preventing hunting of wildlife. Mr. Senthil Kumar said that it came to the notice of the police that some farmers kept country rifles in their possession to protect agricultural crops from wild animals, while some kept it for hunting wild animals. The SP said that the special drive was fruitful due to the involvement of village elders. Awareness sessions for the public in forest fringe villages also bore fruit, he said. The SP said that thanks to the awareness campaign, those who possessed the country rifles had voluntarily surrendered the weapons at their respective villages. Mr. Senthil Kumar termed it as a welcome sign in rural villages. “The special drive led to the seizure of 275 country rifles in Palamaner sub-division, 125 in Madanapalle, 54 in Puttur and 49 in Chittoor. We have identified those who are involved in the manufacture of country rifles, and steps will be initiated to deal with them as per law,” the SP said. Meanwhile, the Palamaner sub-division police on Tuesday morning seized gutkha stocks worth Rs. 20 lakh, and cash of Rs. 8.75 lakh and a van during a raid at Kothapalle bridge, 20 km from here. Deputy SP S. Arifulla said that acting on a tip-off, the vehicle, carrying the contraband stock concealed under a load of cabbage was seized. Two youth were arrested.
24 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ramesh Kumar’s meet with Sujana, Kamineni triggers row||The reported meeting between Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar, who is locked in a legal battle with the State government over his removal from the post of State Election Commissioner, with two senior BJP leaders from the State — MP Y.S. Sujana Chowdary and Kamineni Srinivasa Rao — at a hotel in Hyderabad has kicked up a political storm. ‘CCTV footage’ Terming the reported meeting which took place on June 13 ‘a political conspiracy’, YSR Congress Party leaders demanded that Mr. Ramesh Kumar resign on moral grounds. Party leaders said it emerged from CCTV footage that the trio met at least thrice during the day. Party spokesperson Ambati Rambabu and Minister Adimulapu Suresh alleged that TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu was using the issue to target the government. How could Mr. Ramesh Kumar go for a secret meeting with political leaders, asked Mr. Suresh Meanwhile, Minister for Panchayat Raj, P. Ramachandra Reddy said “the conspiracy” would exposed soon. Home Minister M. Sucharita said the SEC was an independent body, but the way Mr. Ramesh Kumar acted raised doubts about his intentions. Seeking to clear the air, Mr. Sujana Chowdary said that since the imposition of the lockdown, he had been carrying out his official and business duties from the star hotel located at Banjara Hills in Hyderabad. “I have been meeting people from various walks of life and leaders from different political parties. My meetings are not secret and there is no need for secrecy in any of my activities. Mr. Srinivas met me in my office after taking an appointment. Mr. Ramesh Kumar also dropped by to meet me and we spent a little time over a cup of coffee. Our conversation had nothing whatsoever to do with any of his or my official or political roles. Our families know each other well,”Mr. Chowdary said.
24 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Ensure house site pattas are distributed by July 8’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday asked district Collectors to ensure house sites are handed over to all eligible beneficiaries by July 8. “I would like to achieve the target of disbursing 25 lakh house site documents before July 8. I want total compliance on this and I also want the process of identification of beneficiaries through the lottery system and the list of eligible persons displayed at village/ward secretariats. As I begin tour of villages after the COVID situation eases, I do not want anyone to complain that he did not get a patta,’’ Mr. Jagan said during a video-conference with Collectors and SPs as part of review on the Spandana programme. The Chief Minister also wanted the Collectors to ensure the deadlines for issuing the pension cards (10 days), ration cards (10 days), Aarogyasri cards (20 days) and house site pattas (90 days) through village/ward secretariats are strictly adhered to. ‘Build up sand stocks’ On the scarcity of sand, he asked officials concerned to build up a stock of 70 lakh tonnes for construction works before monsoon, and said availability of sand would be there for two weeks only. Principal Secretary (Panchayat Raj and Rural Development) Gopalakrishna Dwivedi said orders had been given to mine sand from dunes close to villages by engaging bullock carts. The Chief Minister directed Collectors to concentrate on village/ward secretariats, Rythu Bharosa Kendras, YSR Health Clinics, Anganwadi Centres and complete all constructions by March 31, 2021. Further, a green drive should be initiated with an aim to plant six crore saplings under Jagananna Patchathoranam. Layouts of housing projects, vacant lands, internal roads and approach roads would be the ideal sites, he added.. Health centres Mr. Jagan wanted the Collectors to take steps to set up village/ward clinics, YSR Urban Health Clinics within 2 km radius of residential habitations. On the Nadu-Nedu programme, the CM said all works should be completed by the end of July so that schools are ready by August 3. On August 9, ROFR pattas would be given away to eligible beneficiaries , he added. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, DGP Gautam Sawang and CMO officials were among those present.
24 June 2020||GURAZALA (GUNTUR DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Silent revolution against liquor smuggling||Not long ago, liquor outlets at Nadikudi and Gurazala in the Narsaraopet Excise district were being bid for staggering amounts. The outlet at Nadikudi went for a record Rs. 5.21 crore in 2012, the highest bid at that time, and it was followed by Rs. 4.90 crore for an outlet in Dachepalli. The two outlets on the AP-Telangana border used to fetch a huge revenue due to their advantageous location and the vast network of belt shops around the two villages. But this summer of 2020 is proving to be a different one altogether. Not only has the sale dipped, but the MLA of Gurazala, Kasu Mahesh Reddy, is leading a vocal revolution against illegal smuggling of liquor and gutkha. “We have decided to use the vast network of village volunteers, ward/village secretarial staff and mahila police to sensitise people about the dangers of smuggling liquor and gutkha,” said Mr. Mahesh Reddy. Drastic change During a review meeting held at Piduguralla, Mr. Mahesh Reddy said that for many years the two mandals had been notorious for smuggling of liquor. Being the two most backward mandals in the district, they have also earned the notorious reputation of having the highest consumption of liquor. With many factories located in the two areas, there is a large workforce which makes running of liquor outlets a profitable proposition. Now, after the State government has announced the new liquor policy, there is a drastic reduction in consumption of liquor.
24 June 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC develops app to monitor survey on seasonal diseases||The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) has come up with a Seasonal Diseases Surveillance app to monitor door-to-door surveillance conducted by the ward volunteers and the health wing staff. The app checks how many houses have the personnel visited and conducted survey over seasonal diseases. Awareness camps The GVMC has already started door-to-door surveillance and awareness camps on seasonal diseases in all zones to tackle mosquito-borne diseases. Ward secretariat staff and health wing employees have been instructed to check houses and destroy if there are any mosquito breeding points. They were also asked to create awareness about dos and don’ts, places of mosquito breeding points and others. “To make this surveillance more effective, the SD surveillance app was introduced. Visiting the house, the ward volunteer should update the data in the app. Ward volunteers should visit a house once in a week or 10 days. Each volunteer has been asked to visit at least 150 houses. Every day, they need to update details of their survey,” said GVMC Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao. He also said that a Special Officer has been appointed for every ward. The Special Officer also updates about his survey on daily basis. The data is being uploaded on GVMC Dashboard by the evening and it is being checked by the GVMC Commissioner, he said. “The app will give us proper information on how many houses the volunteers have conducted survey and status of survey in high-risk areas,” he added. According to officials from health wing, in the year 2019, the number of malaria cases reported in the GVMC limits were 89, while the number of dengue cases were 827. Twenty-seven chikungunya cases were reported in the same year. For the year 2020 (till May), the GVMC has reported four malaria cases, 57 dengue cases and five chikungunya cases. High-risk areas Based on the previous cases, the GVMC has identified 47 high-risk areas for dengue based on previous cases under the limits. Similarly, 21 areas were identified as hotspots for malaria in the GVMC limits.
24 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown in East Godavari from tomorrow||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Tuesday issued an order, imposing partial lockdown across the district from June 25 as part of the COVID-19 containment strategy. Shops, commercial establishments, liquor outlets and places worship will be permitted to carry out their activities only between 6 a.m.and 11 a.m. Also, inter-district movement of people has been prohibited until further orders. An exception will be made in case of medical emergency. All academic institutions will remain closed. The fresh guidelines were finalised at a high-level meeting attended by Kakinada City MLA D. Chandrasekhar Reddy,Joint Collector (Development) Ch. Keerthi and officials concerned. . Testing centres Mr. Chandrasekhar Reddy said at least 10 testing centres would soon be set up in Kakinada Municipal Corporation limits. “On Monday alone, the city witnessed 24 new cases, forcing the district authorities to come out with more containment measures,” he said. Meanwhile, the tally in the district crossed the 900-mark with 106 persons testing positive for the virus since Monday, according to the bulletin issued by the district authorities on Tuesday. Cases on the rise in Chelluru  Of them, As many as 96 are of locals and the rest are of those who arrived in the district from various places. The death toll as of Tuesday is 10. District Medical and Health Officer M. Mallik told The Hindu that Chelluru panchayat alone had witnessed 22 new cases since Monday morning. So far, 107 persons have tested positive in the panchayat. The district authorities have stopped revealing the data on the spread of the virus at the mandal and city levels, reportedly to avoid panic among the public.
24 June 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ahobilam temple closed as archaka tests positive||The Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Devasthanam temple at Ahobilam in Allagadda mandal has been closed for devotees till June 30 after one of the archakas tested positive for COVID-19, Executive Officer Ganji Mallikarjuna said. The ekantha seva, aradhana and other daily rituals will be continued inside the main temple complex, but devotees will not be allowed to have darshan, he said. The temple was closed on Monday following orders from the Endowments Commissioner, and all the 119 temple staff members have been tested for COVID-19 along with 59 of the family members of the archakas and the neighbours of the person who tested positive for the virus. The entire temple was being sanitised by regularly spraying sodium hypochlorite, to disinfect places that are regularly touched by archakas and devotees.
24 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||9 held for Adarana scheme ‘funds misuse’ in Prakasam||Ongole Taluka police have arrested former BC Corporation Executive Director A. Nageswara Rao and eight others in connection with alleged misappropriation of over Rs. 50 lakh earmarked for distribution of tools to artisans under the Adarana scheme. The arrests followed a complaint from Prakasam District Collector P. Bhaskar to Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal after a departmental inquiry, said Ongole Taluka Circle-Inspector K. Lakshman. The nine arrested late on Monday after a thorough probe were remanded in judicial custody on Tuesday. Police booked a case against 11 persons under section 409 IPC(criminal breach of trust by public servant). The others arrested were A.Srinivasa Rao(57), former Assistant Executive Officer of the B.C.Corporation, P Venkata Anjaneyulu(37), former Junior Assistant, Y Yedukondalu(29), former Junior Assistant, B.Kamaleswara Rao(47), data entry operator, A. Lakshmaiah(40), a labour contractor, T.Jahnavi(41), former Senior Assistant and Sk Jilani(46), an office subordinate. Police are on the lookout for two others in this connection.
24 June 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Surge continues as Prakasam, Nellore report 18 cases each||Coronavirus cases continued to surge in south coastal Andhra Pradesh as 37 fresh cases were reported in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts in the last 24 hours. SPSR Nellore district accounted 18 new cases. So is Prakasam district which reported an equal number of positive cases. A person from Kadapa also tested positive for the virus in Nellore. Sangam accounted for four new cases followed by A.S. Peta and T.P. Gudur with three cases each, Nellore and Kavali with two cases each and Kovur, Vinjamur, Dubagunta and Kaligiri with one case each, a health bulletin issued by the Medical and health department said on Tuesday night. In Prakasam district, seven persons who had returned from Chennai and four others from Hyderabad got infected. Health officials were worried over the disease spreading to remote places and to those with no history of travel to COVID-19 hotspots in other States. Four persons who had returned from Tamil Nadu to Machavaram village tested positive. So were two persons aged 40 and 35 from Angirekulapadu village, near Lingasamudram. A 33-year-old businessman on his return to Chirala from the metropolis also contracted the disease. Four persons who had returned from Telangana capital to Venkatdirpalem, near Kandukur and another person to Kandulapuram village, near Cumbam, also tested positive for the dreaded virus. Two persons from Markapur town with no travel history to other places got infected. An equal number of persons in Ongole with no history of travel to COVID-19 hotspots contracted the disease. Shops closed Shops and other business establishments remained closed in Ongole where stringent lockdown was enforced by the authorities. Vehicles seized Restaurants which remained open after Unlock 2.0 was implemented downed the shutters once again. Police seized private vehicles, including autorickshaws, which plied in the morning hours to prevent unnecessary travel by people. Civic officials went round the town urging people to remain indoors in view of the surge in fresh positive cases and sanitised the colonies that reported fresh cases.
24 June 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Polavaram project works back on track||The Polavaram project site is abuzz with activity again with works, which were suspended during the lockdown, resuming. Polavaram MLA T. Balaraju (YSRCP) said all the workers, who left the site during the lockdown, have returned. About 2,160 labourers from Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Assam, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Odisha were working at the site, Jangareddygudem Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO) Y.N. Prasanna Lakshmi said. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, who reviewed the progress of the works, directed officials to take steps to complete the project as per schedule. Water Resources Minister P. Anil Kumar Yadav recently visited Polavaram dam site and enquired with the officials about the progress made in the construction of the cofferdam, spillway and other structures. The Minister also took stock of works being undertaken in rehabilitation colonies in West and East Godavari districts. A panic situation prevailed after the imposition of the lockdown with many workers gripped by fear of contracting COVID-19, demanding that they be sent back to their native places. Officials arranged buses and special trains for the workers and works were halted for about two months. After the restrictions were eased, officials and representatives of Megha Engineering Infrastructure Limited (MEIL), which is executing works, facilitated the return of labourers from different States by arranging special trains and buses.. Safety steps “Works are in full swing after a lull. We are planning to engage more workmen and about 500 more will arrive this week,” said a MEIL representative. An official monitoring the works told The Hindu on Tuesday said all measures were being taken to speed up works. “We are providing sanitisers, masks and other material as per COVID-19 protocol to all the workers. Offices, dormitories and other spots in the village are being sanitised as workers are arriving from different States, in wake of the pandemic,” the official said.
24 June 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress questions ‘silence’ of CM on SCS, Kapu quota||Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) president S. Sailajanath on Tuesday questioned the ‘silence of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’ on Special Category Status (SCS) to Andhra Pradesh. Addressing the media here, Mr. Sailajanath accused Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy of sidelining the Kapu reservation issue. “The Chief Minister is shying way from the issue saying that it comes under the purview of the Central government. I wonder why Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy can not persuade Prime Minister Narendra Modi to bring the Kapu reservation issue to the floor of Parliament,” said Mr. Sailajanath. Referring to the spending on the welfare schemes, Mr. Sailajanath appealed Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy to waive off the power bills during the lockdown period. Atchannaidu’s arrest The Congress condemns the way in which TDP leader MLA K. Atchannaidu was arrested despite his poor health condition, he said.
24 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials face tough time with migrant workers||Managing the migrant labourers staying in quarantine centres has become a Herculean task for the Srikakulam district administration. Many returnees have been agitating for their immediate ‘release’ from the centres as they have been staying there for more than a month. Around 40,000 returnees have been sent to the quarantine centres at Srikakulam, Tekkali, Palasa and other places. Some of them have been kept at the temporary facilitation centres created in government schools and colleges. Although the COVID-19 test results were negative for a majority of the returnees, officials did not want to take any chance in view of the rapid spread of the disease. Varying results Many who tested negative initially tested positive in the second and third tests. “We are retaining them in the quarantine centres since their family members will be at risk if they show symptoms later,” said a senior official. However, he admitted that the government was unable to provide facilities at the temporary centres. Collector J. Nivas directed officials to listen to the grievances of the labourers since the feedback would be useful to improve the conditions in other centres also.
24 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||APTF bats for digital classes||Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation State president K. Bhanumurthy has urged the government to introduce online classes for government school students also since they lag behind the children studying in private and corporate schools which accorded top priority to the digital mode of teaching. Mr. Bhanumurthy on Tuesday strongly objected to the government’s order for the compulsory attendance of all teachers to their respective schools from Tuesday. “As many as 2,500 teachers came to schools with much difficulty in the absence of the public transport system. There is no specific work for teachers in the absence of students. All teachers are willing to conduct online classes if the government is able to provide equipment to schools. It should also give laptops and smartphones for students so that they would attend online classes. The government can utilise the ‘Amma Vodi’ funds for the purpose,” Mr. Bhanumurthy told The Hindu . Federation State body councillor Sadasivuni Sankara Rao asked the government to give top priority to digital classes. “Many parents may not send students to schools. So utilisation of technology will certainly help the children of government schools,” he added. The teachers, who work in the rural areas, strongly oppose the re-opening of schools only for teachers. Lack of any transport facility to villages causes much inconvenience to women teachers. Normally, many teachers travel by RTC buses and catch auto-rickshaws to reach their respective schools. APSRTC is operating buses only to a few destinations in the district. Auto drivers are not operating vehicles fearing COVID-19. The Commissioner of School Education has said that attendance of teachers has been made compulsory to rectify several lapses in the Unified District Information System for Education. All headmasters and teachers are advised to fill the data accurately as zero data with regard to enrolment of students and training programmes will lead to many complications.
24 June 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||With spike in cases, officials to focus on home quarantine||With the district expecting a spike in COVID-19 cases from the first week of July, the administration is gearing up to handle the situation. The cases are already on the rise with the district recording over 350 cases in the last 30 days and to keep it under check, the administration has designed a four-pronged strategy with special emphasis on home quarantine or home isolation model. Speaking to The Hindu , District Collector V. Vinay Chand, quoting the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) report, said, “95% of the cases are asymptomatic or mild symptomatic in the country and as well as in our district.” According to him, asymptomatic or people with mild symptoms, who have no facility at home for isolation, will be shifted to COVID Care Centres (CCC), and the people who can afford or has facility at home will be recommended home isolation. “Doctors and paramedical staff will monitor such patients at home. The team of doctors will be linked to the telemedicine facility. But in most cases it has been seen that people with mild symptoms or asymptomatic need no specific treatment. But if there is an emergency he or she will be immediately moved to a COVID hospital. The team of doctors will comprise MBBS doctors and pulmonologist, and we are also trying to rope in psychiatrists,” he said. Containment zones Monitoring the containment zones has been the key approach and it will be continued to break the chain of spread. The testing will be more focussed for people over 60 years with co-morbid conditions, 60 years without any co-morbidity and below 60 with co-morbidity. All these three are categorised as high-risk groups and there will be 100% testing. “This is the approach we are adopting at places such as Appughar and Jalaripeta, where there is an outbreak. This method proved successful in Dandu Bazaar and Anakapalle, he said. So far there has been over 66,000 tests conducted,” the Collector said. The other area of focus is creation of CCC (COVID Care Centres). Anticipating a spike in the next few days, the district administration has set up a target for creating at least 5,000 beds. ‘Well prepared’ As far as beds in hospitals are concerned, according to him the district is comfortably placed. “The estimate is to keep 6,000 beds ready and we already have 7,000 ready, with 2,000 critical care beds that has the three-line oxygen supply and about 800 ventilators are ready,” he said. In tune with the Chief Minister’s order of screening all people, teams are being developed with ANMs, doctors and ASHA workers. “The screening is going to be more scientific, as each team will equipped with a BP meter, glucometer, clinical thermometer and a pulse oximeter. The data will fed into the central server and high-risk groups will be monitored from time-to-time,”he said.
24 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Community transmission threat looms over temple city||With 36 of the 50 wards in Tirupati getting the ‘COVID-19 containment zone’ tag, fear gripped the denizens about the possibility of the temple city inching towards community transmission. Even medical administrators suggest that it is bound to happen slowly. Mortality rate As the coronavirus sweeps across several States, the number of cases is consistently on the rise in Andhra Pradesh. The mortality rate is just 3.3% and the recovery rate is thankfully improving. Lockdown rumours The recent announcement by Municipal Corporation of Tirupati (MCT) Commissioner P.S. Gireesha on the likelihood of going for a second round of lockdown has given enough indication on the seriousness of the situation. The proposal has been forwarded to District Collector Bharat N. Gupta, who is expected to take a call any time on the issue, in consultation with the State government. Though another round of lockdown is not expected to control the rise of the pandemic, but experts concur that it can actually slow down the spread of the virus and prevent mortality. “COVID-19 cases witnessed a quantum jump in Tirupati, first when the liquor outlets were opened, and then after Tirumala temple was opened for public. The TTD took samples from the visiting pilgrims, but did not reveal the results. The officials should divulge the details so as to assess the likely spread,” demands Congress spokesperson P. Naveen Kumar Reddy. “The infection is asymptomatic in 70% of cases. Only 15% are moderate, 10% severe and only 5% are very severe in nature. Only the last two categories may lead to death,” says G. Ravi Prabhu, head of Community Medicine at Sri Venkateswara Medical College. The department is holding a series of meetings on how to tackle the situation. Best strategy Though ‘Favipiravir’, ‘Remdesevir’ injection and plasma therapy appear to be promising in future, Dr. Ravi Prabhu still bets on prevention through physical distancing, wearing mask and hand hygiene. “As of now, this is the best strategy in the absence of consistent and reliable supply of drugs,” Dr. Prabhu added.
24 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Demand to pay salary to university staff||Sri Venkateswara University(SVU) management should pay salary to all the teaching assistants pending for May and June, demanded M. Prabhu, State president of Ambedkar Army. Hard times Even as the State Government has directed all universities to pay their salary in full to their employees, especially in the hard times caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the university had desisted from paying full salary to the teaching assistants, Mr. Prabhu alleged. “An image of a corporate school teacher in Nellore selling bananas to tide over the economic crisis due to non-payment of salaries was circulated on the social media a few days before. Our teaching assistants should not face a similar situation,” Mr. Prabhu appealed.
24 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||People throng mobile centres rolled out for COVID-19 tests||The government has rolled out 10 mobile COVID-19 test centres in the district on Tuesday in order to reach out to the people having COVID symptoms. People thronged the centres in the city which were strategically placed near COVID hotspot areas. Named as Intelligent Monitoring Analysis Services Quarantine (IMASQ), the centres housed in specially designed buses were parked at six locations in the city. Four were placed elsewhere in the district. At some locations like Gunadala people had to climb on chairs and benches to offer their swab samples to the paramedics collecting it from within the buses. Each centre has two sample collection teams and each bus has 10 counters. The centres operated from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. and people who had prior appointment visited the centres and gave their samples. Registration People with symptoms who want to undergo the test have to register by calling 9963112781 or online athttps://covid-andhrapradesh.v erahealthcare. com/person/register In the city, the centres will be available at Krishnalanka, Gandhiji Municipal High School (One Town), IGMC Stadium, Basavapunnaiah Stadium (Ajith Singh Nagar), Bishop Grassi High School (Gunadala) and railway station. In the district, the centres will be available in Machilipatnam, Nuzvid, Jaggaiapet and Ibrahimpatnam.
24 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||8 more deaths, 462 new cases in State||The State witnessed eight new COVID-19 deaths in the past 24 hours, the highest single-day spike so far. The toll has gone up to 119 as three deaths occurred in each of Krishna and Kurnool and one each in Guntur and Kadapa. In the past five days, 27 deaths were reported, and Krishna continued to register the highest deaths at 40, 37% of the total COVID deaths in the State with a mortality rate of 3.7% . Kurnool with 38 deaths amounts to 32% of the State’s toll. Meanwhile, the State reported 462 new cases after 20,639 samples were tested during the past 24 hours. Of the total, 407 fresh cases are of locals. The tally mounted to 9,834, including 7,858 local cases, and 4,592 patients have recovered . East Godavari alone reported 87 new cases and Anantapur reported 68 new cases. They are followed by Kurnool (53), Guntur (50), Krishna (33), West Godavari (31), Chittoor (26), Kadapa (24), Visakhapatnam (21), Nellore (7), Prakasam (5), Srikakulam (1) and Vizianagaram (1). The State has so far tested 7.14 lakh samples. Meanwhile, with a high incidence of cases Anantapur overtook Guntur and is now the third most affected district after Kurnool and Krishna. The district tallies of local cases are as follows: Kurnool (1407), Krishna (1096), Anantapur (938), Guntur (852), East Godavari (706), West Godavari (635), Chittoor (617), Nellore (484), Kadapa (454), Visakhapatnam (326), Prakasam (172), Vizianagaram (91) and Srikakulam (60).
24 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. using CID to target TDP sympathisers, says Lokesh||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national General Secretary N. Lokesh on Tuesday accused the YSRCP government of misusing the CID to implicate and arrest TDP sympathisers in the name of defamatory social media posts. In a series of tweets, Mr. Lokesh used actor-turned-politician and Hindupur MLA Nandamuri Balakrishna’s dialogue ‘no police’ while launching a scathing attack on the government. Condemning the arrests of TDP sympathisers, Mr. Lokesh said, “There was no CID when the YSRCP mafia was rearing its head to plunder sand resources. There was no CID when large-scale corruption was taking place in land acquisition for the house sites. Also, there was no CID, when the J-tax collections rose to a peak in liquor,” he posted on his Twitter handle. Mr. Lokesh alleged, “The YSRCP is supplying cheap liquor which is more dangerous than poison, but there is no CID action so far. A huge scam took place in 108 ambulances and atrocities are continuing against women. There are attacks on freedom of expression and non-stop plunder of mines.” He alleged that the Crime Investigation Department ( CID) had turned into social media harassment department. “Who gave the YSRCP the rights to usurp the freedom of speech and expression?” he asked, tagging Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in a tweet.
24 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CMO seeks to clear air on ambulance purchase||Improvements to the 108 and 104 systems have been one of the core focus areas of the expert committee formed to assess various aspects of the health sector, said a statement released by the Chief Minister’s Office on Tuesday. Explaining how the tender process for procurement of vehicles for 108 and 104 services was followed, it said: “It is wrong to indicate that single tender has been finalised. Due procedure of judicial preview was followed and tenders were finalised in the second and third calls.” Elaborating on the price difference between the previous service provider (BVG) and current service provider (Aurobindo Consortium) for 108 services, the statement said: “It is wrong to mention that reverse auction did not happen in service provider tenders. The process of reverse auction and negotiation resulted in combined overall reduction in price of about Rs. 399 crore from 108 and 104 services over seven years. Service provider issue Referring to the change of the service provider, it explained that the government entered into an agreement with BVG on October 7, 2016, valid till November 6, 2019. However, due to delay in the handing over of the vehicles to the service provider, the service started from December 13, 2017, and the contract extended till December 12, 2020. Due to performance issues, the government served notices on BVG and decided to change the service provider for smooth functioning of the services. Accordingly, the BVG officially communicated to the Director, Health and Family Welfare that it would withdraw from the existing contract agreement in good faith whenever new service provider is appointed by the government. In respect of 104 services, the contract services expired in March 2019 and the government was operating the services.
24 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panel chief’s assurance on pvt. teachers’ salaries||Chairman of the School Education Regulatory and Monitoring Commission Justice Kantha Rao has responded favourably to a plea by MLCs belonging to the Progressive Democratic Front (PDF) to look into the financial woes of teachers working in private schools who have not been paid salaries since March. In a memorandum to him on Tuesday, PDF MLCs K.S. Lakshman Rao, I. Venkateswara Rao and R. Suryarao said the teachers were in a financial distress on account of the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown necessitated by it. They appealed to the commission chief to impress upon the government to solve the problems of the 1,20,000 teachers working in private schools across the State. Mr. Kantha Rao said he would release orders in a couple of days asking private schools to pay the pending salaries to teaching staff. Private Schools’ Association leader Ramanna, Student Federation of India leaders Prasanna Kumar and Koti and the Centre for Indian Trade Union’s Mahesh were also present.       Govt. teachers upset  Meanwhile, the government directive asking State teachers to visit their schools daily to complete works related to the Unified District Information System for Education (U-DISE), a data capture format that mandates collection of information from all recognised and unrecognised schools imparting formal education from classes 1 to XII, has not gone down well with the teaching fraternity. In a statement, State president and general secretary of the United Teachers’ Federation (UTF) Shaikh Sabji and P. Babu Reddy said the government should reconsider its decision in view of the sharp rise in the COVID-19 cases. Instead, they said, as the information sought by the government was pending from only a few schools, their representatives could be asked to come and complete the unfinished tasks. They said it was difficult, especially for women teachers from remote villages, to reach schools as transport was not yet fully restored. While the Secretariat staff were asked to work from home, teachers were not being spared even in this pandemic times, they said.
24 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu alleges Rs. 408-cr. corruption in contract||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has said the onus lies on the government to explain whether the recipient organisation of ‘108’ ambulances contract belongs to its MP Vijayasai Reddy’s son-in-law. Mr. Naidu said that the government resorted to harassment for questioning whether the ambulance contract was awarded to a firm owned by Mr. Vijaya Sai’s son-in- law. “The contract was awarded in violation of the laws . On the top, the government was serving notices on whistleblowers and letting out the tainted persons. Corruption to the tune of Rs. 408 crore took place in the ambulance contract,” he alleged.
24 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Strong nursing team in the making||The Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) plans to create a 25,000-strong force of nurses to help the government tackle COVID-19 cases effectively. Corporation Managing Director and CEO Arja Srikanth said the Skill Development Corporation was introducing an online training programme in nursing in partnership with Generation India Foundation (GIF). Mr. Srikanth, along with the CEO of GIF S. Arunesh, inaugurated the online training programme on Tuesday. Key areas Mr. Srikanth said the training would focus on key aspects like the factors that contribute to the spread of the virus and steps for containing it, use of the Personal Protective Equipment, self-protection while treating a COVID-19 patient and the treatment to be given to a COVID-19 positive patient. He said the four-hour course would include practical classes. Interested candidates can register their names on the websitehttps://apssdcnurses. mgedinso.com/ loginfree of cost. Certificates would be given by the Trained Nurses Association of India at the end of the training. Mr. Arunesh said the training would be of immense use in these times of coronavirus to treat the patients.
24 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spurious pesticide racket busted, 6 held||In a major operation, sleuths of the Police Commissioner’s Task Force (CTF) busted a spurious pesticide manufacturing and selling racket, which was deceiving farmers, and seized stocks worth about Rs. 4.5 crore. The accused, all natives of Guntur district, were allegedly preparing the spurious products by using some raw material and were marketing the stocks on the pretext of a noted pesticide manufacturing company. The gang was manufacturing the labels and procuring the raw material from Hyderabad and Guntur, and was selling the pesticides in different States, said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. Disclosing this to the newsmen here on Tuesday, the Commissioner said the accused Nagularam Ramu was working as clerk, and Lakshminarayana was working as godown manager of Syngenta Agro Chemicals Private Limited, at Guntur. They were allegedly manufacturing the spurious pesticides by using some plant growth promoters, chemicals and other raw materials in a godown at Auto Nagar in Guntur. They were allegedly procuring the raw material from from a person, staying at L.B. Nagar in Hyderabad. The gang was manufacturing plastic tins, bottles and caps from Fortune Home Care Industrial, owned by one G. Venkata Shiva Ramakrishna Anand Kumar, of Guntur. Fake labels on the name of Syngenta company were being printed by Abdul Kareem in Hyderabad. The modus operandi of the accused was to collect outdated stocks and damaged bottles from the dealers, fill them with fake products and sell them on the pretext of the original company products, Mr. Srinivasulu said. Six products CTF Additional DCP K.V. Srinivasa Rao said the gang was manufacturing six products in the name of original company and were selling them in the market. They sold the spurious products to many agriculture and horticulture farmers, Mr. Rao said. “Two sales promoters, Kotari Nageswara Rao and K. Praveen Kumar, of the gang were arrested. We are trying to find out whether any others are involved in the racket,” the Police Commissioner said.
24 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social media activist arrested||The CID officials on Tuesday arrested a social media activist, Chigurumamilla Krishna Rao from Krishna district for allegedly posting unverified comments in various social media groups. The CID officials, who reportedly gave an arrest intimation to Mr. Rao, took him into custody, and produced him before a court. They also questioned the accused a few days ago for allegedly posting comments on government schemes and writing comments against some people’s representatives.
24 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State should press Centre for rollback of fuel price: CPI||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has urged the State government to mount pressure on the Central government to slash the prices of petrol and diesel. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday, the CPI State secretary K. Ramakrishna said the Centre increased the prices of petroleum products for the 16th time in a row. As the YSR Congress Party was extending support to the Centre on all issues, the State government should exert pressure to see that the prices were brought down, he said. At a time when crude oil prices were falling, the petrol price increased by Rs. 9.07 per litre and diesel price by Rs. 8.49 in the last 17 days. In addition, the State government levied a VAT of Rs. 2.76 per litre on diesel and Rs. 3.07 per litre on petrol putting an additional burden of Rs. 3,900 crore on the transport sector. This would escalate the prices of essential commodities. The State government should withdraw VAT, he said.
24 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Permanent facility for Greyhounds taking shape||The establishment of a full-fledged training centre-cum-residential facility for the elite Greyhounds force appears to be finally taking shape. The establishment of a Greyhounds facility was mentioned in the A.P. Reorganisation Act 2014, as the existing training facility prior to bifurcation of the State was at Premavathipeta in Hyderabad and it had become part of the Telangana state. There is a facility at Thimmapuram in Visakhapatnam and the government has identified 385 acres of land at Jagannadhapuram village of Chandaka panchayat of Anandapuram mandal, to set up the new facility. The land was inspected by Principal Secretary (Revenue) Usharani and District Collector V. Vinay Chand on Monday. This has been long-pending, as it was part of the A.P. Reorganisation Act and the Ministry of Home Affairs has already sanctioned Rs. 200 crore for its establishment, said Mr. Vinay Chand. The initiative for the new facility was passed by the Cabinet and a G.O. has been passed and efforts are on to the work on a war-footing, say officials. Some part of the land, estimated to be around 145 acres, has been encroached upon by local farmers and a three-member committee comprising the CCLA, Principal Secretary (Revenue) and District Collector, has been set up to look into the matter. The Greyhounds force was set up in 1989 by former IPS officer K.S. Vyas, and it is said to be one of the finest commando forces in the country that specialises in jungle warfare and counter-insurgency operations. Its success has prompted many States to set up similar units to tackle the CPI (Maoist) such as the Special Operations Group of Odisha and C-60 of Maharashtra. The existing facility at Thimmapuram is spread over 300 acres, and its natural setting adds up as perfect simulation for jungle warfare training. Sources say that the present facility is good, but the operational or useable land is only spread over 50 to 60 acres. The land identified at Anandapuram can be utilised fully and will have a firing range too and can also house the training facility for Octopus. However, once the facility is shifted to the new premises, what will become of the existing facility is a question that is doing the rounds.
24 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rath Yatra a low-key affair at ISKCON temple||Jagananth Rath Yatra was organised on a low-key in view of the COVID-19 at the ISKCON temple at Sagar Nagar on Beach Road here on Tuesday. The temple priests placed the idols of Sri Jagannadha Swamy along those of Subhadra and Balabhadra on the chariot, and performed pujas. ISKCON city president Samba Das swept the floor before the chariot with a golden broom, broke a coconut and offered harathi. A small number of devotees pulled the chariot within the temple precincts and later the idols were replaced at their original place in the temple. Mathaji Nithai Sevini and others participated. Meanwhile, special pujas were performed at Sri Jagannadha Swamy temple on the main road.
24 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held over social media posts on YSRCP leaders||The CID officials have arrested Nalanda Kishore, said to be a TDP supporter, over the ‘objectionable contents’ on YSRCP leaders he allegedly posted on a social media platform. Mr. Kishore (68) allegedly shared several ‘objectionable posts’ on the social media against Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao and YSRCP MP V. Vijaya Sai Reddy. It is learnt that the CID officials served notices on Mr. Kishore three days ago. He was arrested at around 1 a.m. on Tuesday and shifted to the CID regional office. Cases under Section 505 (b) and 120 (b) have been registered, said sources. Ms. Kishore is said to be close friend of former TDP Minister Ganta Srinivasa Rao. Condemning the arrest, Mr. Ganta Srinivasa Rao said that the YSRCP government, if it wanted, could target him directly, not people close to him. ‘No notices served’ “Mr. Kishore just forwarded the posts which were sent to him by somebody. He did not post the contents intentionally. Moreover, the posts do not target any YSRCP leader. The CID arrested the 68-year-old man post midnight as if he had committed a major crime,” said Mr. Ganta Srinivasa Rao. He also claimed that the CID served no notice to Mr. Kishore. “The CID officials questioned Mr. Kishore about the posts a few days ago, when he clearly told them that the posts were sent to him by somebody,” said the TDP leader. ‘Law will take its course’ Meanwhile, Mr. Vijaya Sai told the media that facts would come out after the CID investigation. “We have faith in the law and it will take its course,” said the YSRCP MP.
24 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 46 new cases, tally crosses 500-mark||The number of COVID-19 cases crossed 500-mark with 46 new cases being reported from the district on Tuesday. It may be noted that 100 cases were reported in the last three days. This is also said to be the biggest single-day spike the district. The district also reported one more death taking the death toll to four. A 63-year-old person from Srikakulam, who had a travel history to Hyderabad and was admitted to a private hospital in Visakhapatnam with several health issues, died on Tuesday. With the new cases, the total count goes to 530, which include 303 active cases. The total number of discharges stands at 223, as 11 persons who were being treated have tested negative on Tuesday. Among the cases registered, 16 cases were reported from Peda Jalaripeta and eight from Appughar. Apart from them, two cases were reported from Anandapuram, two from Gajuwaka, two PG doctors and a nurse from KGH also tested positive. Cases were also reported from Arilova, G.K Veedhi, Kailash Nagar, Ramachandra Nagar, Bheem Nagar, Chaitanya Nagar and a few other areas. ‘40 very active clusters’ According District COVID Special Officer P.V. Sudhakar, the total number of very active clusters stand at 40, while active clusters are 42.
24 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man arrested, 70 liquor bottles seized||Officials from the City Task Force (CTF) conducted a raid and caught a person while he was allegedly found in possession of liquor bottles without having valid licence, near Boyapalem under Anandapuram police station limits, here on Tuesday. Police seized 70 liquor (180 ml) bottles from him. The person D. Appala Reddy, who hails from Kapuluppada, and the seized property were handed over to police station concerned. In another case, two persons, who hail from G Madugula mandal were arrested while they were allegedly found in possession of 17 kg ganja with them near Dandu Bazaar area.
24 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rice cards’ distribution to be completed in 2 days||Joint Collector M. Venugopal Reddy has said that the distribution of rice cards in the district will be completed in two days. Civil Supplies Commissioner Kona Sashidhar held a video conference with Joint Collectors to take stock of the distribution of rice cards, biometric attendance and door delivery of essential commodities. Mr. Reddy apprised the Commissioner that 11,74,568 cards were received in the district of which 1,94,243 were yet to be distributed. The distribution would be completed in two days. He said that 17,567 applications were received regarding the five services being rendered through village/ward secretariats in the district. Of these 10,000 issues were resolved. Around 20 % of the households were located in narrow streets, where tractors could not reach with the essential commodities. He said that a detailed report would be submitted on it.
24 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rowdy-sheeters counselled||Assistant Commissioner of Police, City Task Force, Visakhapatnam City, A. Trinad Rao conducted counselling for the rowdy-sheeters of One Town Police Station at the CTF station here on Monday. The rowdy-sheeters were warned not to indulge in any criminal activities. He said that a close watch will be kept on their daily movement.
24 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ICMR study sought on gas leak impact||The Praja Arogya Vedika has appealed to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct a study on the impact of the styrene monomer vapour leak on human life and the environment.  The PAV leaders sought a study on the long-term affects of styrene monomer vapour on the health of the people and the environment in the affected area, impact of inhaling styrene for long duration, its impact on pregnant women, children and senior citizens.
24 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Utsab Cultural Association’s gesture||The Utsab Cultural Association has donated Rs. 25,000 towards Chief Minister Relief fund Andhra Pradesh for its fight against COVID-19 and Rs. 1 lakh, towards Amphan Cyclone victims relief in West Bengal through social organisation, Bharat Sevashram Sangh. The donations were handed over by Executive Member Alok Mazumdar, president P.K. Dutta and secretary Hiranmoy Barai.
24 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Faculty development programme organised||Visakha Government Degree College for Women conducted one week faculty development programme on Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCS) and Swayam from June 15 to 21. Regional Joint Director David Kumar Swamy Rapaka highlighted the importance of digital education during this pandemic. Principal S. Shobha Rani said that the programme was designed as per the necessity of present scenario to train the faculty.
24 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bank customers feel the pinch of COVID-19 norms||Customers are being forced to stay under the scorching sun at several branches of banks in Vizianagaram district as the authorities allow only a few of them into the premises to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Though the intention is good, customers have to wait for long in the social distancing circles and queue lines. The customers at the a bank near Vizianagaram Fort stay at least half an hour under the sun. Same is the case with the customers at many branches located at Old Maharaja Hospital, GT Road, Minerva theatre area and Ring Road where many bank branches are located. “It is the minimum responsibility for bank authorities to provide basic facilities for their customers. A small tent will protect customers from rain and sunlight,” said Y. Srinivasa Rao, a customer. Andhra Pradesh Right to Information Act publicity committee convener Bhisetti Babji said: “Banks always say the customer is their king. But the customers’ basic rights are ignored. Reserve Bank of India and government authorities should issue guidelines to ensure safety and comfort for customers. Otherwise we will file a case in court against banks and bring the issue to the implementing authorities of RTI Act,” he added. Cooperation sought Meanwhile, bank staff argue that the government is issuing show- cause notices in case they allow customers in big numbers. “In spite of the COVID-19 threat, employees are working. The customers have to cooperate with them and come to banks only for the emergency work. In such a case, the problem is solved automatically,” said a senior manager of a public sector bank.
24 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector’s office sanitised||A special sanitation drive was taken up on Tuesday at the District Collector’s office after a Deputy Tehsildhar tested positive for coronavirus. The lady officer who works in Bobbili had visited the Collector’s office for review meetings and interacted with several officials. In this background, the district administration took up the special drive and sanitised all the offices on the premises.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister seeks suggestions on conduct of UG, PG exams||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Tuesday invited suggestions and advice on conduct of the examinations of degree and post-graduate courses in view of the rising number of Coronavirus cases. In a video conference attended by the officials of the Department of Higher Education and Vice-Chancellors of various universities across the State, the Minister said after weighing the pros and cons of the views presented on the issue by different sections, they would be conveyed to the Chief Minister Y. S. Jagan Mohan Reddy who would take the final decision. It may be noted here that the government had already cancelled the SSC public exams and Intermediate supplementary exams due to the spike in COVID-19 cases. Additional Chief Secretary to the government P.V. Ramesh, Special Chief Secretary Satish Chandra, Chairman of Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education Hemachandra Reddy, Commissioner of the Collegiate Education M.M. Nayak and others participated.  ‘Do away with exams’ Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan has urged the government to cancel the degree final year exams along with PG and other tests in view of the pandemic. In a statement, the JSP chief said the situation was clearly not conducive to conduct the exams and keeping the health safety of students, the government should cancel all exams, on the lines of SSC exams.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||All Haj pilgrims to get refunds in full||The Andhra Pradesh State Haj Committee is making arranagements to refund the amount paid by pilgrims after the Saudi Arabia government banned international pilgrims from undertaking the journey to the holy city of Mecca this year in the wake of coronavirus pandemic. “The entire amount paid for the pilgrimage will be refunded without any cancellation charge or other deductions. Arrangements are also being made to return the passports to the pilgrims,” a release issued by A.P. State Haj Committee said on Tuesday. About 2,930 pilgrims were selected from the State, the committee said.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will CID arrest a person sans evidence, asks Minister||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao on Tuesday criticised TDP MLA Ganta Srinivasa Rao for ‘finding fault with the CID for arresting Nalanda Kishore over his ‘objectionable’ social media posts against the ruling party leaders. “Why did the TDP MLA sit in the CID regional office seeking release of the accused?,” the Minister asked while addressing the media here on Tuesday. The Minister said that the TDP MLA was worried as he could be the next target. Mr. Ganta Srinmivasa Rao alleged that the CID had arrested Mr. Kishore without sufficient ground. In response, the Minister asked, “Will the CID arrest a person without prima facie evidence?” The Tourism Minister alleged that TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu and his party colleagues were trying to create hurdles for the smooth functioning of the government by opposing all its decisions, by approaching various institutions. ‘SEC held secret meeting’ He also alleged that State Election Commissioner N. Ramesh Kumar held a ‘secret meeting with some followers of Mr. Naidu in a hotel. “Mr. Ramesh Kumar should come clear on the agenda of the secret meeting,” said the Minister.
24 June 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||VRO trapped taking bribe||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on Tuesday trapped village revenue officer (VRO) of Yanambail in Palvancha mandal G Padma while allegedly accepting Rs. 7,000 bribe from a woman for processing her Kalyana Lakshmi application, according to ACB sources.
24 June 2020||Chintalapalem,TELANGANA||Tremors felt in Suryapet district||An earthquake of magnitude 3.0 on the Richter Scale was recorded at 1.04 p.m. at Vellatur village here, jolting areas in the neighbouring districts on Tuesday, scientists of National Geophysical Research Institute, Hyderabad confirmed. Its tremors were felt in parts of Nalgonda and Guntur districts as the village is located on the border of the two districts. “The epicenter of the quake was identified seven kms deep near Vellatur. These are caused due to tension between rocks in the earth’s crust, which is very common,” NGRI Chief Scientist Srinagesh D. said. Mr. Nagesh said seismological observatories had been set up at Dondapadu in the mandal and at Kothapalli of Achampeta in Guntur district in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, and the situation was being monitored regularly. The NGRI scientist urged residents not to panic when the earth shakes or tremors are felt and asked people to step out of their houses and stay away from buildings, electrical wires and walls.
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||879 fresh coronavirus cases in Telangana||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana is surging towards the 10,000 mark as 879 more swab samples tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday taking the total number of cases to 9,553. Along with cases, the Test Positivity Rate (TPR) is also increasing. The daily TPR, which is percentage of samples which tested positive, ranged between 17% and 25% from June 16 to 21. It shot up to 29.2% on Tuesday. This indicates that more samples are testing positive. The cumulative TPR ((March 2-June 23) is 15.1%. The 879 new cases include 652 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 112 are from Medchal, 64 from Rangareddy, 14 from Warangal Rural. Of total 9,553 cases, 5,109 are active cases, 4,224 were discharged.
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State raises another tranche of development loan from RBI||The State government is apparently struggling to mobilise finances, which showed steep decline since the outbreak of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic in early March. The government had raised Rs. 2,000 crore from the Reserve Bank of India on Tuesday as State Development Loan (SDL) with tenure of 10 years and cut off yield of 6.6%. This is the second SDL raised from the RBI in the current month with the government raising Rs. 2,500 crore on June 9 to overcome the challenging financial conditions post COVID-19. While the government had to fulfil the commitments of payment of salaries, pensions and other heads of accounts, it had ensured that Rs. 7,000 crore is kept aside for payment of Rythu Bandhu, the farmers investment support scheme, to close to 60 lakh farmers. With Tuesday’s Rs. 2,000 crore SDL, the total market borrowing during the current financial year reached Rs. 12,500 crore till date. The government had initially contemplated to opt for open market borrowings of Rs. 9,000 crore for the first quarter of the current financial year going by the indicative calendar of market borrowings released by the RBI at the end of the previous financial year. The borrowings, however, reached Rs. 12,500 crore till date with government opting for loans in six tranches — five tranches of Rs. 2,000 crore each (April 13 and 21, May 21 and 26 and June 23) and one of Rs. 2,500 crore (June 9). The borrowing comes at a time when the Department of Expenditure of the Union government had fixed the ceiling for open market borrowings by the State for first nine months of the current financial year at Rs. 15,051 crore. The Centre, however, permitted the Apex Bank to make necessary arrangement in consultation with the State government to raise the open market borrowing limits and further consent for raising the OMB should be processed after receiving complete information from the State government. The State continues to face difficult times on financial front as could be seen from the fact that its borrowings and other liabilities crossed the budgetary estimates during the previous fiscal too. According to the website of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, budget estimates for the fiscal 2019-20 pegged borrowings and other liabilities of the State at Rs. 24,081 crore while the actuals reached Rs. 26,659 crore by the end of February indicating the stress on the finances.  Indebted to COVID-19 State borrowed Rs. 12,500 crore in six tranches  On April 13, 21, May 21 and 26, June 23 Rs. 2000 crore On June 9 Rs. 2.500 crore
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Emergency rail quota to move migrants||The South Central Railway (SCR) on Tuesday agreed to make arrangements for transportation of stranded migrant workers from Secunderabad to Bihar, after Telangana High Court grilled its top official in a batch of PIL pleas. SCR Secunderabad Divisional Railway Manager Anand Bhatia, who attended the hearing through video-conferencing having been summoned by the HC the previous day, said the out-station workers could be provided berths under emergency quota in passenger trains. While 34 berths would be available in sleeper class, 20 would be available in AC-III tier in each passenger train, the officer explained. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing the pleas, said actually there were 49 workers from Bihar waiting for a train to go back to their villages. All of them can be sent in a single train. The DRM, however, said the requisition for the berths should come from the District Collector concerned. Meanwhile, lawyer Vasudha Nagaraj, counsel for one of the petitioners, said the arrangement of providing berths in this manner should be continued for some more days as non-local workers keep arriving at Secunderabad railway station from different parts of the State to reach their destinations. The DRM agreed to the proposal. During the previous day hearing, the CJ had asked the SCR counsel to convince the officials to attach a single bogey to any Patna-bound train from Secunderabad so that the stranded migrant workers were shifted to their villages. The SCR counsel said it was not possible since not more than 24 bogies can be attached to a train. Expressing dissatisfaction over the counsel’s response, the CJ summoned the DRM for appearance stating that he would directly speak with the officer on the matter. When the hearing began on Tuesday, the CJ sought to know why a single additional bogey could not be attached to a train for transportation of the workers. The DRM replied that there were circulars not to accept such requests and it required permissions from general manager or chief operations manger. Observing that the issue of migrant workers getting stranded in different parts of the country during lockdown due to coronavirus pandemic was a “human tragedy”, the CJ said if the “railways was kidding or what”. If it required permission from higher-ups, let it be taken, the bench told the DRM. When the officer explained the technical difficulties in attaching the bogey to train and the procedures involved, the bench remarked why the SCR had become hyper-technical. As he said the authorities in Delhi need to give permission to attach bogies for Delhi-bound trains (each of which has 20 bogies) from Secunderabad, the bench said they should be spoken with. Let the workers reach Delhi from here and from Delhi arrangements can be made to shift them to Bihar, the bench said. Finally, the DRM said arranging berths for the workers under emergency quota was a better option to which the bench agreed.
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Isolate at home, keep hospital beds free for critically-ill patients’||Mildly symptomatic and asymptomatic COVID-19 patients have been urged to stay under home isolation instead of getting admitted at private hospitals to keep beds available for those critically-ill and in need of urgent medical attention. These points were stressed by the Telangana Super Speciality Hospitals Association (TSSHA) members at a press conference here on Monday in what was their first interaction with the media since the COVID outbreak. They said every person need not undergo coronavirus tests except when one develops symptoms and the situation warrants it. They also assured that they will not overcharge patients and stick to the rates fixed by the State government, unless one requires additional services. The TSSHA members spoke about reasons for scarcity of COVID beds at private hospitals, services on offer for those in self-isolation at home, preparedness in the face of rising cases and charges for treatment among other aspects. TSSHA president B. Bhaskar Rao, who is also the managing director of KIMS Hospitals, spoke at length to drive home the point that critically-ill COVID patients might struggle to find beds if mild or asymptomatic get admitted to hospitals. He said 95% to 96% of patients who recovered from COVID-19 were asymptomatic owing to their immunity or vaccines that they took for other diseases. “If the asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic stay at home, we can provide treatment to the patients who need hospitalisation, who have severe symptoms and need oxygen support,” said Dr Rao. All major corporate hospitals in Hyderabad have started to offer ‘Home Quarantine’ package for people isolating at home. Patients might have to visit the hospital once. The packages include a medical kit including a digital pulse oximeter, digital thermometer and others. Vitals, oxygen saturation, and other indicators of health condition will be monitored virtually. Doctors would offer consultation through phone or video call. For better recovery in asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic patients, Dr Rao suggested complete rest, sleeping in prone position, gargling with salt water in the mornings and evenings, apart from steam inhalation. On June 15, Telangana government issued an order capping prices for COVID treatment at private hospitals, and mentioned excluded charges such as high-end diagnosis, Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and COVID-19 testing. TSSHA general secretary R. Govind Hari said they are prepared to provide the best treatment at lowest rates. “We won’t fleece the patients. Government has fixed rates, we will charge only that much. If someone wants extra facility, we will provide it at a cost,” he said. Regarding coronavirus tests, the association members said it is required only if someone has symptoms, or when a patient has to undergo a medical procedure. TSSHA executive member Anil Krishna Gundala and vice-president Suresh Kumar were also present.
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lack of ventilators, workforce crunch keep beds out of bounds||Reacting to news reports about scarcity of COVID beds at corporate hospitals in and around Hyderabad, Telangana Super Speciality Hospitals Association (TSSHA) members said the need for maintaining social distancing inside hospitals, workforce crunch and lack of ventilators have restricted them from putting to use all the beds available with him. TSSHA president and managing director of KIMS Hospitals, B. Bhaskar Rao said while 600-700 patients could be admitted to 1,000-bed hospitals earlier, they are now able to accommodate only 200 to 250 patients to observe distancing norms. It was published in these columns that 11 out of 23 private or corporate hospitals listed in Telangana government’s website (covid19.telangana.gov.in) did not have COVID beds as on June 22 while six were not admitting COVID patients. Three others did not respond to calls and two hospitals did not get back with a response. Beds for coronavirus patients were available only at one of the 23 hospitals. Since calling up all 23 hospitals in times of distress can be a harrowing experience, it was suggested that an online or offline platform be created to display live status of bed availability in private and government hospitals. Giving a rough idea of distribution of beds in a 1,000-bed hospital, the TSSHA president said around 100-150 will be single room beds, another 100-150 are isolation beds, rest are on twin sharing and general ward beds. While two to three patients could be admitted in general wards earlier, only one patient is admitted now. “So the bed count has come down by one-third, or by half,” Dr Rao said. Healthcare professionals, including ward boys, nursing staff, senior and junior doctors, cannot be made to work for 30 days at a stretch now as they have to be under quarantine for a week after duty to prevent exposing their families to risk. Even if beds are available, the workforce would not be available, and social distancing has to be maintained, reasoned Dr Rao. “Currently, severe patients (those with severe symptoms) need ventilator support. Even if treatment has to be provided, sufficient ventilators are not available. That is why we are forced to say beds not available,” he added. One of the solutions floated is to keep the beds available by isolating asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic COVID patients at home. Corporate hospitals have announced home quarantine packages too. The association members said they are planning to take over hotels to keep people under quarantine in case one does not have the required space or facilities at home. However, the low workforce is a challenge they have to resolve. Regarding distress among patients in enquiring about bed availability, Dr Rao said they do not mind sharing a phone number on which that information can be given out, twice a day.
24 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRS blames BJP for spread||The ruling TRS continued its attack on the BJP with Ministers and MLAs questioning the party’s commitment in dealing with the pandemic and accusing it of indulging in politics instead of reaching out to the States. Speaking to reporters, Animal Husbandry Minister, T. Srinivas Yadav said State BJP leaders were trying to gain mileage by staging protests at the hospitals. “If you want to play politics, we are also ready. Let’s start with Gujarat,” he said, referring to Telangana BJP president Bandi Sanjay’s protest. He also took a dig at BJP national president J.P. Nadda, asking him to explain why the Cobas 8800 molecular testing machine was diverted from Telangana to West Bengal. At a separate press conference, Chevella MP Ranjit Reddy and Armoor MLA A. Jeevan Reddy said if TRS MLAs were infected by the virus, it reflects they have been on the ground, working with people. They said Gujarat was way ahead in terms of COVID cases and it was the ‘Namaste Trump’ programme led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi that contributed to the situation. “How can the BJP leaders here accuse us of neglect,” they asked. “Our Chief Minister deposited money in farmers’ accounts even during the pandemic,” they said.
24 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Rythu Bandhu extended only for less than 5 acres’||Congress MLC T. Jeevan Reddy accused the government of misleading people about release of Rythu Bandhu assistance and asking them to go for regulated farming without assuring the farmers of remunerative and minimum support price. In a letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao, he said Rythu Bandhu was released in Yasangi for holdings with less than five acres and now farmers are being threatened of no such assistance if they don’t follow regulated farming as directed by the government. On the other hand lakhs of farmers are yet to receive passbooks, thus being denied of Rythu Bandhu support. “It is unfortunate that the Chief Minister himself is threatening the farmers after promising Rythu Bandhu for every farmer during elections,” he said adding that nowhere in the country does such forced farming exists. Mr. Reddy claimed that farmers were forced to underweigh 5 to 10 kgs per quintal to the millers during the paddy procurement. He said if farmers are forced to go for fine variety with lesser yield the government should announce minimum support price in advance. The Congress leader also alleged that the government failed to utilise the subsidy given by the Central government for promoting horticulture and drip irrigation as State’s share was not released. There seems to be a concerted effort to destroy the horticulture sector with outsourcing employees, he alleged. Accusing the government of going back on its farm loan waiver promise, he said even after two years the process of waiving off just Rs. 25,000 has started. Previous governments used to bear 4% interest rate on farm loans and Central government bearing the remaining 3% to give relief to farmers on the loans. However, that practice has been stopped forcing the farmers themselves to pay the interest, he said.
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘TS attracted over Rs. 1.96 L cr. investments in five years’||Telangana attracted over Rs. 1.96 lakh crore investments in the five years since the launch of its TS-iPASS industrial policy. Of the 12,021 projects approved under the policy, 9,021 or 75% have commenced operations. The projects have provided employment to about 13.90 lakh people, according to 2019-20 annual report of the State’s Industries and Commerce Department. In the pipeline A release from the office of Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao, who released the report on Tuesday, said upcoming mega investment projects worth Rs. 45,848 crore, with a potential to generate 83,000 employment opportunities, are in the pipeline across sectors, including information technology, automotive, textiles, electronics, life sciences, construction components and food processing. Mr. Rao said the cumulative investments attracted by TS-iPASS is Rs. 1,96,404 crore and the State continued to undertaken Ease of Doing Business (EODB) reforms. The Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation allotted 1,520 acres to 526 industries during the fiscal with an expected investment of Rs. 4,859 crore and employment for nearly 8,500 persons. Growth rate According to the report, Telangana’s Gross State Domestic Product, at constant (2011-12) prices, grew 8.2% in 2019-20 to an estimated Rs. 6.63 lakh crore. At current prices, the GSDP grew 12.6%, year on year, to an estimated Rs. 9.70 lakh crore. In doing so, the State continued to clock a rate of growth well above the national average, which in 2019-20 is estimated to be 5% growth at constant prices and 7.5% at current prices. The rate of growth, however, was less compared to the 2018-19 rate which was 9.5% at constant prices and 14.3% at current prices. This despite the GSDP in value terms being higher as compared to the previous fiscal. The contribution of primary sector to the Gross State Value Added (GSVA) was 18.6%, while that of secondary was 16.2% tertiary sector the remaining 65.2% to the GSVA in 2019-20. The share of Telangana’s economy in national GDP increased by 21 basis point to 4.76% (4.55% in 2018-19). The per capita income of the State was Rs. 2,28,216, while the national average is Rs. 1,34,432 at current prices. Telangana share of exports from the country went up from 10.61% in 2018-19 to 11.58% in 2019-20. Listing out major investments across sectors, the report said with more than 800 pharma, biotech and medical technology companies in the State, Telangana has a combined enterprise value of $50 billion. The State government has envisioned to grow the industry from $50 billion to $100 billion and create 4 lakh new jobs by 2030. In the food processing sector, projects with investments of over Rs. 3,000 crore are under implementation. Mr.Rao said in the recent months “we have been going through very unusual and difficult times due to the spread of COVID-19 virus. This situation is unprecedented for all of us. However, Telangana government is well prepared and handling the situation with aplomb. Although there has been very little economic activity countrywide, in the last 1-2 months, we are fast reaching a situation where bulk of the activities are being normalised.”
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||20-crore target for Haritha Haaram||Tamarind saplings will be given preference for plantation in the sixth phase of Haritha Haaram programme, with a vision to reduce import of the daily essential in Telangana kitchens. As per the directives from Chief Minister K.Chandrashekhar Rao, tamarind saplings should be planted on large scale, a note from the Forest department said. Accordingly, 24.5 lakh saplings will be supplied from the Forest department, and 81.69 lakh have been grown in nurseries by the village panchayat, the note said. Preference will also be given for teak, bamboo, casuarina, flowers and fruit plants. Besides, 37 fruit-bearing species have been identified to be planted in forest areas, for prevention of monkey menace in villages. On the whole, a total of 21.16 crore saplings have been raised in the nurseries of GHMC, HMDA and Panchayat Raj, and a total of 24.74 crore saplings are readily available for planting. Of these, 2.16 crore plants are large sized, which are supplied by the Forest department. Plantation targets of five crore for HMDA and 2.5 crore for GHMC have been fixed by the government, while all other urban local bodies are to plant five crore more. As part of the Haritha Haaram, a total of 155.77 crore saplings have been planted in the last five years. An additional 30.97 crore have been planted in forest areas for regeneration, taking the total to 182.74 crore. For 2020-21, the target is about 20 crore. Miyawaki method is being encouraged for faster and thicker growth of plantation in less areas, the note said.
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sand extraction back in full swing in Telangana||Telangana State Mineral Development Corporation (TSMDC) has done a record sand sale of up to 16.89 lakh cubic metres and earned a high of Rs. 108.61 crore in May. This is despite total shutdown of operations from March-end and entire April. The development also comes in the backdrop of construction work being drastically affected during lockdown and large scale movement of migrant labour. During the same time in May last year the corporation had sold 14.96 lakh cubic metres earning Rs. 96.66 crore when the construction and real estate industry were functioning at absolute normalcy! It shows that construction work, with online sales topping as per the department data, is slowly but surely picking up. TSMDC Managing Director G. Malsur informed that entire sand procurement process picked up as soon as offices started functioning from May with revenues touching Rs. 182.82 crore and extraction reaching a high of 29.5 lakh cubic metres till this week. “While construction activity seems to have picked up, this could also be due to the demand accumulated in the last couple of months when everything was shut down due to the pandemic,” he said. Sand is extracted mainly from the Godavari river bed from districts of Jayashankar-Bhupalpally, Bhadradri-Kothagudem, Mancherial and others, including from Annaram, Medigadda and Dummugudem barrages and others with 76,891 cubic metres extracted daily and four crore cubic metres available in stockyards. The corporation was allocated 42 desilting areas and 61 patta lands in 15 districts. The Corporation’s success story of garnering revenue of Rs. 2,415.35 crore between 2014-15 to 2018-19 from almost nothing has already been well documented. The trend seems to be continuing with sales garnering upto Rs. 800 crore till March and already closing onto Rs. 200 crore mark now. Sand extraction is free for local use for construction of houses for weaker sections or for the low cost sanitation, said Mr. Malsur. Booking is online stockyard-wise — www.sand.telangana.gov.in. “We have been able to increase sand extraction without much ado only because of involvement of the local populace in the work, engaging them in levelling sand or spreading of covers, Villagers in about 40 habitations are getting Rs. 10 lakh per day,” he claimed. When 3,000-odd vehicles move about daily into and outside the villagers the roads are bound to be affected so efforts are also being made to maintain roads and sprinkle water to prevent dust rising. “We also make use of local people for indirect social audit to cross check way bills and lorries number,” he added.  Sand Sales in May  Online: 13.81 lakh cubic metres - Rs. 90.15 crore Irrigation Works: 1.82 lakh cubic metres - Rs. 10.90 crore Two-bedroom Works: 1.26 lakh cubic metres - Rs. 7.56 crore
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||NABARD assures funding to State welfare schemes||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) has assured its continued support to Telangana in its endeavour towards the welfare and development of the farming community. In a telephone talk with State Planning Board Vice-Chairman B. Vinod Kumar, Chairman and Managing Director of NABARD Chintala Govinda Rajulu assured on Tuesday that the apex agriculture bank was ready to extend necessary support based on the proposals from the State government. Mr. Govinda Rajulu spoke to Mr. Vinod Kumar ahead of his scheduled visit to Hyderabad. He is expected to meet Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao during the visit. Meanwhile, Chief General Manager of NABARD here Y. Krishna Rao along with other officials of the bank met Mr. Vinod Kumar on Tuesday and discussed the farmer welfare measures being implemented in the State. He complimented the State Government for implementing schemes such as Rythu Bandhu and Rythu Bima and mobilising farmers through farmer producer organisations (FPOs) and now rythu bandhu samithi (RBS). Mr. Krishna Rao hailed the efforts of the State government in procuring the agricultural produce worth Rs. 20,000 crore from farmers at village-level itself.
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||R&B set to plant saplings along highways||With the sixth edition of the Telangana Ku Harita Haaram scheduled to start from June 25, the Roads and Buildings department has focused attention on developing nurseries along the national highways. To be named as Highway Nurseries, these nurseries would be set up at 20 places along the highways under the control of the National Highways Authority of India and another 25 places along the roads under the control of the R&B department. R&B Minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy instructed the officials of the department to identify suitable locations for developing nurseries along the highways in line with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s vision of promoting green cover along the national and State highways. Ensure survival The Minister who reviewed the arrangements that are being made for the conduct of the Harita Haaram with senior officials on Tuesday exhorted them to take up plantation of saplings in a big way and ensure their survival. National Highways Authority of India Regional Officer Krishna Prasad informed the Minister that that plans were afoot to plant 3.3 lakh saplings along the 800 km roads passing through Telangana under the national authority. Plans ready R&B Engineer-in-Chief Ganapathi Reddy said the department had firmed up plans to ensure plantation and protection of 75,000 saplings — 50,000 along the 300 km stretch of roads under the control of the department and 25,000 saplings at 1,000 saplings in each of the 25 district collectorates across the State. In all, the R&B department had chalked out plans for planting 9.97 lakh saplings along the 2,458 km roads under its control. Mr. Prashanth Reddy wanted the officials to ensure plantation of saplings along the roads abutting villages through the respective gram panchayats utilising funds under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme while the Forest department should be entrusted the responsibility of planting and protecting saplings in the areas away from the habitations. The R&B, Rural Development and Forest department officials should work in close coordination to ensure the success of the State government afforestation programme and the department should make superintendent rank officials responsible for plantation and protection of saplings at the district level.
24 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Govt. dubs data on virus transmission in TS as dubious||Hours after releasing a graphic that projected ‘risk of community transmission’ at a stunning 122% for Telangana, the makers of the infograph issued a clarification about the data. The graphic went viral, triggering fear and anxiety in the city as well as the State. Delhi’s community transmission was projected at an even higher 143%. The clarification issued by India in Pixels, the makers of the graphic, stated: “The formula is only a rough metric comparing quarantined to positive cases, it is not a prediction. The data is based on Aarogya Setu app which is self-reported and it assumes the figures to be correct.” The formula factored non-quarantined people as spreaders of the disease. The app data accessed on Tuesday by this reporter showed 7,802 confirmed cases and 2,933 people under quarantine in the State. There were 46,573 people in quarantine and 0,444 households in containment zones, according to State data. “The authenticity of the formula and data are both questionable. There is no such formula to our knowledge to assess the risk of community transmission,” read a statement issued by the Director of Public Health and Family Welfare. An ICMR-conducted sero-surveillance in the State in May and concluded the prevalence is 0.3% in rural areas and 3% in GHMC area, and declared that there is no community transmission. In another statement, the State government dismissed the map as ‘plain mischief’. “The person who designed it himself says it is a not a prediction of ‘severity’ and does not make any claim about ‘spread’. Hence this is complete misinterpretation of data,” said Dileep Konatham, Director, Digital Media, Telangana in a social media post. In the clarification, the infograph makers say: “If there is any takeaway here, it should be that Telangana and Delhi need to increase the number of quarantined people compared to other States like Kerala and Odisha.”
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PIL plea on steel bridge dismissed||A PIL plea on construction of steel bridge near Punjagutta junction close to a graveyard was dismissed by Telangana High Court on Tuesday. Punjagutta Hindu graveyard local body committee president wrote to the HC, raising objection to construction of the steel bridge apprehending that it would disturb the tombs and graves. Taking up the letter as PIL petition, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy issued notices to the government. Lawyer Vedula Srinivas was appointed amicus curiae in the petition. The GHMC, in its report, said the bridge was being built ensuring that no part of the graveyard was disturbed. The amicus curiae also, in his report, stated that construction of the steel bridge had in no way affected the graveyard. Taking the reports into consideration and observing that the bridge was being built in the interest of public, the bench dismissed the plea.
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pay full salaries, pensions for June: CM||In a decision that should bring relief to the State government employees and pensioners, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has taken a decision to pay full salaries to the government employees and pensions to the retired persons for the month of June. The Chief Minister announced this in view of State revenue improving slowly. He instructed officials to pay full salaries to the employees for the month of June. It may be recalled that the government had deferred the payment of salaries of government employees by 50 % barring health and police department employees and pensions by 75 % to retired employees. It also brought an Ordinance recently much to the consternation of employees and pensions permitting deferment of salary and pension in view of financial stress due to adverse impact of lockdown due to COVID-19 which impacted economy and revenues of the government.
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Allow Aarogyasri for COVID treatment: BJP||Telangana BJP once again urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to include COVID-19 treatment in the State government’s ‘Aarogyasri’ health insurance scheme or allow the Centre’s health insurance scheme of ‘Ayushman Bharati’ to be utilised for citizens in private hospitals. “The intensive care facilities and staff are insufficient at Gandhi Hospital to handle increasing number of patients and in fact, people are scared of getting themselves admitted there. The government should immediately throw open the Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences in Gachibowli,” former party president K. Laxman said during a digital press meet.
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||File affidavit on shelter homes: HC||Telangana High Court on Tuesday directed professor P.L. Vishweshwar Rao, whose letter on the plight of street children and the homeless during coronavirus pandemic was taken up as PIL plea, to file a detailed affidavit on the points he had raised. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy was hearing the plea along with another letter written by a lawyer S. Nanda and taken up as public interest litigation (PIL) petition. The bench asked the professor to explain the Act under which it was mandatory for the government to establish Old Age Homes in every district of the State. Mr. Rao contended that such homes were only available in Hyderabad and Karimnagar but not in all other districts of the State. The professor told the bench that the government had created shelter homes for migrant workers at different parts of GHMC area during the lockdown. Along with non-local workers, even street children and homeless individuals were also provided accommodation and food in such shelter homes. With majority of the out-station workers leaving the city, these homes were closed down. As a result, the street children and the homeless had no place to go and were becoming vulnerable to coronavirus as they had to come onto the streets to live, the professor contended. “It is the State’s duty to look after the street children and the homeless during such crisis,” the petitioner said. He told the bench that he had visited two shelter homes in Musheerabad and L.B. Nagar only to find them closed. The bench posted the pleas for July 5.
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSRTC meet cancelled over virus scare||A meeting between officers of the State transport undertakings of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh scheduled for Tuesday was called off after it came to light that an officer’s wife tested positive for COVID-19, sources said. Sources said the meeting was to discuss resumption of bus services run by Andhra Pradesh State Transport Corporation and Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC). “The wife of a senior TSRTC officer tested positive. So, the meeting was cancelled,” said the source. Six employees of the section, headed by the officer, were directed to get tested. The reports are awaited.
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||OGH junior doctors call off strike||The 27 General Medicine PG students (junior doctors) at Osmania General Hospital have called off their strike and will resume duty from Wednesday after a decision was taken to also have post graduates from other departments to attend COVID patients at the hospital. They had boycotted duty on June 20 demanding support from other departments to share the COVID workload. They also alleged insufficient infrastructure was leading to deaths of suspected patients. Officials earlier said they have installed 40 oxygen ports by Monday, and tender for 500 more oxygen lines has been floated.
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two held for ruckus at hospital||The Panjagutta police on Tuesday arrested two persons for allegedly creating nuisance after they were unable to get a patient admitted to a corporate hospital in Banjara Hills. The duo were identified as Salman Khan (29) and Syed Ayub (29). Both run a Facebook page called Hyderabad Youth Courage and, according to police, were involved in social service. On June 20, they brought a 55-year-old woman from Yakutpura for treatment at Care Hospitals, Banjara Hills. However, the hospital management claimed that due to a large number of COVID – 19 patients admitted at the hospital, there was a shortage of beds and no more patients could be admitted. Police said the accused did not relent and trespassed into a restricted area and tried to ‘instigate’ those present there. The also allegedly argued with the hospital staff and threatened them. They accused allegedly abused an officer of duty. A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Section 3 of the Medical Service Persons and Medical Service Institutions Act of 2008 and Section 3 of Epidemic Disease Act of 1897 was booked against the accused.
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Elected to GHMC panel||Fifteen members have been unanimously elected to GHMC standing committee, which is set to meet on June 25. They are Aruna A., Kolanu Lakshmi, Gandham Jyothsna, Juweria Fatima, Mohd. Naseeruddin, B. Dhananjana Bai, Mohd. Majid Hussain, Mir Basith Ali, Mirza Mustafa Baig, Muta Padma Naresh, Srinivasa Rao Mudraboina, Sabitha Kishore, Sama Swapna, V.Sindhu, and Sunnam Raj Mohan.
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man murdered||A 38-year-old man was stabbed allegedly by his nephew in the Hammalwadi area under the Shalibanda police station Limits. He died at the Osmania General Hospital. According to police, the victim is Mohammed Khaled, a driver, and a resident of Hammalwadi. The incident took place around 12.30 am on Tuesday. The victim and accused Shaik Abdul Aslam (24) had an argument over a family dispute. The victim allegedly tried to rough up the father of the accused. In a fit of rage, the accused allegedly took a knife and stabbed the victim.
24 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Man convicted for sodomy||A 32-year-old Urdu-Arabic teacher of a private school was awarded 10 years rigorous imprisonment and a fine of Rs. 2,000 for sodomising a minor boy. The verdict was given by the I Additional Metropolitan Sessions Judge Suneetha Kunchala. In November 2015, Md. Muneeruddin sodomised the 12-year-old victim.
24 June 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Sindhu mural on stadium an eye-catcher||The exteriors of the badminton indoor stadium in this fort town turned into a canvas with an imposing painting of champion shuttler P.V. Sindhu by famous artist couple from Hyderabad, Vijay and Swathi. The duo has earned wide acclaim for painting impressive murals on public spaces as part of a wall painting project funded by Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC). Their artistic doodles turned the walls of the town-based Naya Bazar Government School into virtual art galleries creating an environment conducive for holistic learning. They embellished the basketball indoor stadium at Pavilion Grounds here by painting the giant portrait of the basketball icon Kobe Bryant earlier this year. The fort town is set to turn into a hub of mural art thanks to the artistic endeavour of the duo. Their works of art inspired by an array of contemporary social themes earned them accolades from art aficionados. The impressive painting of international badminton star Sindhu, the first Indian to win gold at the world championships, will help inspire budding badminton players to excel in the game, said District Youth and Sports Officer M Parandhama Reddy. The wall painting project is being implemented under the supervision of Collector R.V. Karnan. A plan is on the anvil to get the exteriors of Sardar Patel stadium painted with pictures of India’s best known woman athlete P.T. Usha and athletics superstar Usain Bolt of Jamaica, he added. The striking painting depicting Sindhu in action with the racquet in her hands will serve as a source of inspiration for young badminton players, who are aiming to scale new heights in the game, asserted Pavan Kumar, the badminton coach at the SP stadium. The painting with 3D effect is a gift to sports-lovers.
24 June 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Police bust inter-State spurious cotton seed racket, 23 arrested||The Nalgonda police on Tuesday nabbed 23 persons for allegedly producing and selling spurious cotton seed to farmers in parts of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. A total of 15 quintal seed worth Rs. 30 lakh was seized from them. Superintendent of Police A.V. Ranganath produced the accused before media, and said the suspicions were aroused when four such packets were sold in Munugode police station limits, this led to a deeper investigation and breaking the of the syndicate now. Based on inputs, the banned BG-III cotton seed and other seed variants were traced to Nandyal in Kurnool of Andhra Pradesh. And the trail led to Nagarkurnool, Mahabubnagar, and several mandals in Nalgonda. “Through a rigorous investigation we zeroed in on persons producing the foundation seed, those developing them, the distribution network and the retailers. Soon the prime accused in the syndicate will be booked under PD Act,” Mr. Ranganath said. The district police, the SP said, was conducting awareness programmes with agriculture stores across Nalgonda, on spurious seeds, fertiliser and other farm inputs. Empty packets, weighing machines, cellphones and vehicles were also seized by the police. Search for more persons involved in the racket is on.
24 June 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Sircilla will be a model for the nation: KTR||Minister for IT and Municipal Administration K. Taraka Rama Rao reiterated on Tuesday that he would strive to transform Sircilla Assembly, which gave him his political life, into a model segment in the entire country. He also promised to take measures for the development of all the Assembly segments in Telangana. Mr. KTR along with TSCAB chairman Konduru Ravinder Rao, ZP chairperson N. Aruna, and Collector Krishna Bhaskar inaugurated the model integrated Rythu bazaar, constructed at Rs. 5.15 crore in the town, opened a municipal park at Rs. 41 lakh and laid the foundation stone for construction of a check dam on the shores of the Manair.
24 June 2020||Sangareddy,TELANGANA||3 Cong. corporators join TRS||Three Congress corporators joined the TRS here on Tuesday in the presence of Finance Minister Harish Rao, who said that people were getting attracted by the development works taken up by CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao and the entire nation was looking at Telangana.
24 June 2020||Mumbai,||State must respond to needs of the poor||An interim report on the ‘Access to Entitlements and Relief among the urban poor in Mumbai Metropolitan Region during Covid-19,’ prepared by Youth for Unity and Voluntary Action (YUVA) highlights the prevailing and continued anxiety over survival amongst the poor. The question marks over future livelihood, distressed families in debt, and lack of any savings further adds to their uncertainties. “YUVA has been actively engaged in relief work for past three months of lockdown across the Mumbai Metropolitan Region in the urban poor section. This interim report is based on the survey of 7,515 households in this region,” said Roshni Nugehalli, executive director, YUVA. A detailed report, with results of survey of over 15,000 households, will be released next month. In the interim report, recommendations have been made to the three levels of governance — central, State and local — keeping in mind relief packages that have already been announced, with pointers to enable access and plug gaps in implementation. Immediate actions by local and State governments to respond to immediate needs of the poor in the region are suggested, along with medium-term and long-term measures for the post-COVID situation. “The Government of India must bring out a central mandate to allow provision of emergency ration cards in an attempt to universalise the Public Distribution System (PDS). There are a large number of workers and families who do not possess ration cards in their current place of residence,” the interim report said. For the State government, it recommended a fast-track process at every Fair Price Shop (FPS) / ration shop to issue emergency ration cards issued based on current place of residence which will help millions of poor workers in securing food. “These can be for six months, and with these ration cards, people can access the benefits announced by the Government of Maharashtra under the PDS,” the report recommended. Local civic bodies can ensure FPS shops register individuals, families or groups of migrant workers living together and issue them a single ration card. Each FPS should have a jurisdiction of slums and low income neighbourhoods for this fast-track emergency ration card preparation to avoid duplication, the interim report says. The Maharashtra government has announced a direct transfer of Rs. 2,000 into the accounts of all construction workers registered under the Building and Other Construction Worker’s (BOCW) Welfare Board. “The Board has currently over Rs. 7,482.33 crore collected through building cess. Those who are unregistered must be encouraged to do so through a simple non-bureaucratic process and the government should disassociate the 90-day work certificates as proof to be registered. It will be of enormous help to construction workers,” it said. The report has also recommended measures such as expanding the scope of central government’s scheme of direct cash transfer; ensuring Ujjwala gas access to all poor households; loan benefits under National Urban Livelihoods Mission (NULM) to be spread through self help groups; waiver on rentals in all slums for three months; child protection committees at the ward level under the leadership of the corporators for the well-being, nutrition and protection; and municipal and private schools to make arrangements for free access to technology if the lockdown persists for educational institutions.
24 June 2020||Mumbai,||State reports 3,214 new cases, 248 deaths||Maharashtra reported 3,214 new COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, with the cumulative number of cases in the State reaching 1,39,010. The State also reported 248 deaths, taking the total fatalities due to the virus to 6,531. While 75 e deaths took place in the last 48 hours, the remaining 173 had taken place earlier but were not attributed COVID-19 then, a health official said. The COVID-19 mortality rate in the State is now 4. 69%. Of the total cases, 62,833 are active, while 69,631 patients have been discharged till now, health officials said. On Tuesday, 1,925 patients were discharged. So far, the State has tested 8,02,775 people for COVID-19. Currently, 6,05,141 people are in home quarantine and 26,572 people in institutional quarantine. There have been 68,410 COVID-19 cases in Mumbai alone with 3,844 deaths so far. The Thane division, which includes Mumbai city, has reported 1,01,496 cases and 4,781 deaths so far. Nashik division has reported 6,417 cases and 432 deaths so far. Pune division has reported 20,120 cases with 879 deaths, which includes 14,036 cases and 534 deaths in Pune city alone. There have been 1,720 cases and 44 deaths in Kolhapur division. Aurangabad division has reported 4,428 cases and 217 deaths, Latur division 807 cases and 33 deaths, Akola division 2,241 cases and 110 deaths, while Nagpur division has reported 1,664 cases and 15 deaths. In all, 117 people from other States tested positive in Maharashtra, including 17 deaths.
24 June 2020||Mumbai,||Reply to petition against reinstating suspended policemen: HC to State||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to reply to a contempt petition filed by the mother of Khawaja Yunus, who allegedly died in police custody in 2003, against reinstating suspended police officers in the case. On June 12, Khwaja’s mother, 72-year-old Asiya Begum sent a contempt notice to Param Bir Singh, Commissioner of Police and chairman of the review committee set up for review of suspension orders of various officers of the city police. On June 6, assistant police inspector Sachin Hindurao Vaze and constables Rajendra Rajmani Tiwari and Sunil Vasant Desai took charge in the local arms unit and constable Rajaram Nikam resumed duty in the motor vehicle department. They were all suspended in 2004. Khwaja, then 27, was arrested by the Powai Criminal Investigation Department (CID) on December 25, 2002, following the Ghatkopar bomb blast. Two days later, when his brother visited him in Mumbai, he found Khwaja weak and unable to stand. On January 6, 2003, the accused either died in custody at Powai or while being taken to Aurangabad. The petition filed through advocate Chetan Mali quoted the HC’s April 2004, judgement, which said, “till date no disciplinary action has been taken against Sachin Vaze and three absconding police constables. We find from the record that the investigation conducted by the State has been totally shoddy and improper.” The State government was then directed to suspend all the three constables and Mr. Vaze immediately, and start a disciplinary inquiry against them as they were prima facie found to be involved in the offence. The petition also said the State government had moved court seeking to recall the order, however HC refused to do so. The court had said, “Under these circumstances, we find no ground whatsoever to recall our earlier order whereby we had directed the State CID to treat the statements of eye witnesses Dr. Mohammad Abdul Matin Abdul Basit made before the learned Special Judge under Prevention of Terrorism Act as FIR and register a separate case for the offences under Sections 302 (punishment for murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of the Indian Penal Code. A Division Bench of justices S.S. Shinde and Abhay Ahuja adjourned the matter to July 3.
24 June 2020||Mumbai,||BEST starts terminating employees for remaining absent in May||The Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) Undertaking has started terminating the services of drivers and conductors on the grounds of absenteeism during the month of May. It had earlier issued chargesheets to nearly 2,000 workers and the latest action is a result of the same. Union sources said the administration had started issuing termination orders from Monday and until Tuesday, seven drivers and one conductor had been dismissed. The dismissed workers are attached toWadala, Backbay, Dindoshi, Dharavi and Deonar depots. On June 13, over 15,000 workers shocked to find that their May salaries had been slashed by the undertaking. A total of 6,419 ground staff, such as drivers, conductors and ticket checkers received salary as they were not present for a single day throughout the month. Senior BEST officials said it is very rare that workers are dismissed on the first instance of a chargesheet and the previous track record of the worker. “The chargsheets are all one sided and did not take the workers’ realities into consideration. Many of them were out of the city under the lockdown and could not come back, while some had health issues,” Shashank Rao, general secretary, BEST Workers’ Union, said. The passenger load of BEST has been steadily increasing over the last couple of weeks, with many private companies functioning at 10% capacity. Despite starting of suburban trains in the city, the average ridership of BEST has increased by around two lakh in the last week. On Monday, it earned Rs. 77.52 lakhs by transporting 7.78 lakh passengers on 2,786 buses. BEST spokesperson Manoj Varade said they had used all forms of communication to ask workers to report to work, yet many continued to be absent and they could not run more buses to cater to the rising demand.
24 June 2020||Mumbai,||HC refuses interim stay on RBI order cancelling cooperative bank’s licence||The Bombay High Court has refused to grant an interim stay on operation of the order passed by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) cancelling the licence of the CKP Co-op Bank and observed that there was no fundamental error in the decision. In an order passed in the last week, a Division Bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and S.P. Tavade noted the RBI had taken the decision with an objective of protecting the interests of depositors and other stake-holders.  ‘Attempt to cover up’ The court was hearing a petition filed by Thane resident Vishwas Utagi challenging the April 24, 2020 order of the RBI cancelling the licence of the cooperative bank. Mr. Utagi said he had filed the petition on behalf of the 500 share-holders, account-holders, depositors, employees and other stake-holders of the CKP Co-op bank. He said the RBI order was an attempt to cover up failures of the members of the Board of Administrators who were nominated by the State government to run the cooperative bank from May 2012. He also alleged that the RBI overlooked the interests of the bank’s depositors and other stake-holders. The Bench noted that before the licence of the bank was cancelled, it was preceded by various notices and inspections by the RBI which revealed several irregularities. “The RBI has the power of superintendence over the banks in the country in the interest of the banking policy. Various powers are available to the RBI under the Banking Regulations Act,” the HC said. “The financial position of the bank (CKP) deteriorated from time to time. The RBI found that the affairs of the bank were conducted detrimental to the interest of the depositors and public,” the court said. ‘No fundamental error’ It is in this background that the RBI formed an opinion that the order cancelling the bank’s licence had to be passed, the Bench said. “The steps taken by the RBI are for the benefit of the depositors. The RBI is entrusted with powers to take necessary steps in the interest of depositors, banks and public,” the high court said. The court added that prima facie it did not find any fundamental error in the approach of the RBI. The HC refused interim relief and directed that the petition be heard when normal court resumes.
24 June 2020||Mumbai,||Set up board to examine minor rape victim: HC||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday called for a medical board to be set up to examine a minor rape victim who moved court seeking permission to terminate her 21-week pregnancy. Accused arrested A Division Bench of justices R.D. Dhanuka and Madhav Jamdar was hearing a plea filed by a minor’ mother through advocate Meenaz Kakalia. The minor is a rape victim and the accused, an acquaintance, has been arrested under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act after an FIR was filed on June 9 at the RCF police station. The court directed to constitute a medical board/committee comprising of doctors from KEM Hospital to give an opinion under the Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act, 1971. The board will comprise the hospital’s dean, the head of departments of psychology, paediatrics, cardiac surgery and radiology, and two other doctors suitable for the examination, as chosen by the dean. Next hearing on June 26 The medical team is expected to submit its report on or before June 25 and the matter will be heard a day later, on June 26.
24 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Navi Mumbai crosses 5,000-case mark||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) reported 111 fresh COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, taking its total number of cases to 5,072. With nine more deaths, the toll has gone up to 177. Of the 111 cases reported on Tuesday, 73 were men and 38 women. In some good news, the NMMC recorded more recoveries than cases during the day. With 151 patients discharged, the city’s recovery rate increased from 57% to 59%. The total number of recoveries now stands at 3,001. The NMMC currently has 1,894 active cases and a mortality rate of 3.4%. Till date, the corporation has tested 17,604 people for COVID-19, of which 11,643 have tested negative, while reports of 889 are pending. A total of 39,431 people under NMMC have completed home quarantine till now. Cases rise in Panvel The Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC), meanwhile, reported 53 new cases, pushing its total number of cases to 1,435, while five fatalities raised its death toll to 63. With 56 patients discharged, the total number of recoveries went up to 979 and the recovery rate rose to 68% from the earlier 66%. There are now 393 active patients under the PMC, while its mortality rate is 4.3%. In Panvel rural limits, 10 new cases pushed the total to 646, while one person died, taking the COVID-19 toll to 15. Nine recoveries increased the number of patients discharged so far to 456. Panvel rural currently has 175 active cases, and a recovery rate of 70.5% and mortality rate of 2.3%.
24 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Panvel civic body seals 57 shops for violating COVID-19 safety norms||The Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) has sealed 57 shops in its jurisdiction over the last two days for violating safety guidelines laid down to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Most shops were sealed for not ensuring physical distancing among customers at the shop, not following the odd-even formula to reopen, not making available sanitiser, and for entertaining customers who are not wearing masks. Municipal Commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh said, “As per the notification issued on June 3, the guidelines are clear for shopkeepers. The customers waiting outside the shop need to be in a queue to follow physical distancing. It’s also the shop owner’s responsibility to make sure that no one crowds around the counter. With the lockdown relaxed, many have started feeling that the pandemic is over. People might be wearing masks, but yet are seen hugging shop owners they are meeting after a long time.” He said that as per the Epidemic Diseases Act, the PMC has the right to penalise those not following norms. “We will take stricter action if people are found flouting norms more often,” Mr. Deshmukh said. Twelve shops have been sealed in Kharghar (ward A), 11 in Kalamboli (ward B) and 17 each in Kamothe (ward C) and Panvel (ward D). “The shops can be opened after the owners submit an affidavit mentioning that they will not flout the norms henceforth and will abide by the government’s notification. If they are found flouting norms again, we will file a case with the police against them as permitted under the Epidemic Diseases Act,” deputy municipal commissioner Jamir Lengarekar said.
24 June 2020||Raina Assainar Navi Mumbai,||Four held for robbery on JNPT highway||The Panvel police have arrested four people for robbing a truck driver, supervisor and a watchman on JNPT highway on June 11. The accused, Najare Aalam Mohammad Jareef Aalam Ansari (21), Shamsuddin Sahabuddin Ansari (19), Mohammad Nohid Mohammad Umed Khan (21) and Shahid Mohammad Rais Khan (19) were arrested on June 21. According to police, they are history-sheeters and have records with the Shivaji Nagar, Deonar and Kherwadi police. “The gang consists of seven accused of which four have been arrested, one is a minor and two others are in custody of Kherwadi police,” senior police inspector Ajay Landge said. The accused had approached the parked truck on bikes and asked for directions. While one was asking for directions, the others carried out the robbery They were booked under Sections 392, 395 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code.
24 June 2020||ThanE,||COVID-19 facility set up at college campus in Thane||The Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC) has set up a 700-bed COVID-19 treatment facility at a campus of an educational institute in the city, following an increase in cases, an official said on Tuesday. The TMC has converted 70 classrooms in seven buildings of the Vidya Prasarak Mandal (VPM) into the healthcare facility. The Maharashtra Navnirman Sena, meawhile, has opposed the move and warned the TMC against setting up COVID-19 hospitals in educational institutions. The party’s Thane-Palghar district president Avinash Jadhav said that educational institutions should not be used as healthcare facilities and the civic body can instead acquire event halls and reserve more beds in big hospitals. VPM chairman Dr. Vijay V. Bedekar also criticised the decision and said that educational institutions should not be used for any other purpose. He said that as per the norms of the National Centre for Disease Control, COVID-19 facilities should be set up in a single building and not in multiple structures, as it will hamper the management of the disease.
24 June 2020||Thane,||3 new civic chiefs in Thane||In light of the rise in COVID-19 cases in Thane district, the government has replaced three civic chiefs in the region, a district official said on Tuesday.  While former Palghar collector Abhijit Bhangar will head the Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation, Dr. Mantada Raja Dayanidhi has been appointed municipal commissioner of Ulhasnagar. Dr. Vijay Rathod has been put in charge of the Mira-Bhayandar Municipal Corporation.
24 June 2020||Bhopal,||A Chinese veteran pleads for peace||The resentment of not being able to see his mother one last time has stayed with Wang Qi, 81, a Chinese soldier during the 1962 war with India. He says he accidentally crossed into the Indian territory, and has remained here since. “I fought for my mother, whom I could not see after the war ended,” Mr. Wang said in broken Hindi. “People on both sides will have no benefit from fighting. Yeh acha baat nahi hai. Samjhauta karo ! [This is not a good thing. Come to an agreement]. Why let people die over a piece of land?” A surveyor in the People’s Liberation Army, Mr. Wang strayed into Arunachal Pradesh while on a stroll from his camp in January 1963. Tired and hungry, he hailed a Red Cross vehicle, only to be blindfolded and handed over to the Indian Army. The next seven years he was jailed in Ajmer, Delhi, Bhopal, Jabalpur and finally in Balaghat district of Madhya Pradesh before being freed. On the ongoing border conflict, Mr. Wang, who joined the Army at 21, said: “I am just a former soldier…I have been away from my homeland. This is what conflict brings. People only lose. If border tension escalates, I will never be able go back to China.” Upon his release, Mr. Wang began working at a flour mill in Tirodi village. “They even named him Bahadur,” recalled his son Vishnu Wang. Soon, he won over the trust of his employer, who arranged his marriage to a local woman in 1975. “Every night, I cried remembering my mother. The war split us forever,” said Mr. Wang. However, his heart pined for his homeland. “I told the Indian government that they could keep me here, but at least allow me to visit my home once,” he said, recalling the requests he had made over years. When Rajiv Gandhi was the Prime Minister, Mr. Wang sent an air letter to his family members in Shaanxi province, who were relieved to know he was alive. Only in 2017 could he visit them for three months along with Mr. Vishnu, his wife and daughter, on a trip sponsored by the Indian government. At his hometown Xianyang, crowds cheered for him holding banners that read: “Welcome home soldier, it has been a rough journey”. It was too late by then; his mother died in 2006. The Indian government promised him a piece of land but to no avail, said Mr. Vishnu. His two sisters depend on the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act for work. While the rest of his family have Indian citizenship, Mr. Wang never got one. He instead secured Chinese citizenship in 2013, and lives with his family here on visa. “It expired in March. We have requested the government to extend it as we can’t travel for renewal owing to the lockdown,” said his son.
24 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana to give Rs. 1,500 for transport to workers||Haryana Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala on Tuesday announced that the government would bear the transportation cost of the migrant labourers who are willing to return to the State. He said the government would provide financial assistance of Rs. 1,500 as transport fare to each construction labourer. The decision was taken during the meeting of the Labour Welfare Board in Panchkula. The Board also decided to launch schemes for the welfare of the labourers at the directorate level. Minister of State for Labour-Employment Department Anup Dhanak, Minister of State for Social Justice and Empowerment Om Prakash Yadav and members of the Board were also present in the meeting. Later, speaking to newsmen in Chandigarh, Mr. Chautala said the companies in the building and other construction sectors want to bring back migrant labourers for which the State government would not only provide all basic facilities but would also bear the transportation expenditure worth Rs. 1,500 of each labourer. Mr. Chautala told that this amount would be given as subsidy whenever they reach here and the facility would be offered for the next two months. He said the government can also facilitate its buses to the bring such labourers back to the State. The Deputy CM added despite prevailing crisis due to COVID-19 pandemic, the State government has disbursed Rs. 154 crore to 3.10 lakh labourers at around Rs. 1,000 per week per head. Mr. Dhanak said that to bring transparency in the welfare schemes of the labourers, the sanction would be given at the directorate level. He said there were numerous complaints regarding delay in giving relief to the labourers in various schemes and labourers were forced to visit the district offices of the department but the decision was taken in the meeting that the directorate would be the sanctioning authority for these schemes. 9 COVID-19 deaths Nine coronavirus deaths, six of them from worst-hit Gurgaon and Faridabad districts, were reported from Haryana on Tuesday while the total number of cases in the State rose to 11,520 with 495 fresh infections, officials said. Faridabad and Gurgaon reported three deaths each, while one fatality each was from Sonipat, Rohtak and Jind districts, according to the State health department.
24 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||‘Workers who jumped quarantine not our staff’||Automobile major Maruti Suzuki issued a statement on Tuesday clarifying that 17 workers who had jumped quarantine after testing positive for COVID-19 a week ago are not its employees but contractual vigilance staff. An FIR had been registered against the 17 persons at the instance of the medical officer at the Primary Health Centre in Bhangrola. The workers were found positive for COVID-19, but many of them had left for their native places in Rajasthan and Haryana even before the test results came. Assistant Commissioner of Police Hitesh Yadav said they were traced after the employer provided their address and were directed to be in home isolation. Mr. Yadav claimed they were tested before joining duty. The company, in a press statement, said: “The people in question are not Maruti Suzuki employees. They are outsourced / contractual vigilance staff deputed with Maruti Suzuki. The company is following all the government guidelines and directives and will extend all assistance and cooperation wherever required.”
24 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Illegally made disinfectant spray seized||An inventory of disinfectant spray worth over Rs. 18 lakh was seized during a raid by Haryana Foods and Drugs Administration team at Sector 35 here on Tuesday. The spray was being manufactured illegally as Ayurvedic Proprietary Medicine and not the valid drugs licence. Gurugram Drugs Control Officer Amandeep said a raid was conducted at the manufacturing unit of the spray at Sector 35 and the inventory was seized. Mr. Amandeep said that manufacturing of the disinfectant required licence under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act. He said the complaint would be filed before the Chief Judicial Magistrate after the investigation. The raid was conducted a day after the samples of the disinfectant spray were seized from a shop at DLF Phase-IV Supermart following a tip-off. The department had also lodged a FIR against a shopkeeper in DLF Phase-I on Monday for overcharging for hand sanitiser.
24 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Pollution panel revokes OIL well closure order||The Pollution Control Board, Assam (PCBA) has revoked its June 19 closure notice to Oil India Limited (OIL) with certain conditions after the latter gave an undertaking to respond to queries concerning its operations. The withdrawal letter issued late on Monday night by PCBA Member-Secretary D.N. Das followed discussions between OIL’s Chairman and Managing Director Sushil Chandra Mishra and PCBA Chairman Y. Suryanarayana. Soon after receiving the closure notice, OIL had asked PCBA to withdraw the order that was “technically not feasible” to comply with. The exploration major had also threatened to go to court to stay the order. The five conditions that the PCBA seat included “submission of a detailed time-bound environmental management plan” within 15 days of receiving the withdrawal letter for “environmental mitigation and extinguishing of the fire” at the Baghjan oilfield. The other conditions set by PCBA pertain to the disposal of hazardous waste by adhering to the Water (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1974, and the Air (Prevention & Control of Pollution) Act, 1981. The PCBA had in its closure notice said OIL had not taken environmental clearances to operate in the Baghjan area. This was among 10 conditions it said OIL had violated while operating in the area for more than eight years. OIL has been producing a sizeable quantity of crude oil and almost 29% of its natural gas in eastern Assam from the Baghjan Oilfield. Meanwhile, the Gauhati High Court has postponed to July 13 the hearing of a PIL against the Centre’s approval to OIL for drilling at seven locations under the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park. The drilling, OIL said, is through the sophisticated extended reach drilling technology that will allow them to explore horizontally from spots beyond the park.
24 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||One drowned as floods hit Assam again||One person drowned in eastern Assam’s Sivasagar district on Tuesday as heavy rainfall triggered another wave of floods in the State. “A person died in Nazira as fresh floods displaced 36,707 people in four districts with 1,071 of them moving into relief camps,” a spokesperson of the Assam State Disaster Management Authority said. The flood-hit districts are Dhemaji, Dibrugarh, Jorhat and Sivasagar. Dhemaji is the worst affected followed by Sivasagar. Officials said river Brahmaputra was flowing above the danger mark in Jorhat and Dhubri districts, rivers Dikhow and Disang in Sivasagar district, Dhansiri in Golaghat district and Jia-Bharali in Sonitpur.
24 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Two Assam villages still under curfew||Two villages near eastern Assam’s Dibrugarh town on Tuesday continued to be under curfew after the murder of a 20-year-old man on June 19 sparked communal tension. A team of the State Disaster Response Force had fished out the body of Saurav Das from a river on the night he was allegedly murdered by members of the family of a girl he was said to be dating. On June 20, people of Lezai area blocked the highway to Dibrugarh, demanding punishment to the accused persons belonging to a different faith. It was the second such killing after that of Rituparna Pegu, who belonged to the indigenous Mising community, in Guwahati on June 12. “The situation has improved compared to two days ago after a meeting with all the stakeholders at the Deputy Commissioner’s office on Monday. Apart from the district administration handing over a compensation cheque to the victim’s family, a peace committee was formed,” Dibrugarh district’s SP Sreejith T. told The Hindu on Tuesday. He added the curfew in Lezai and Dewanbari areas, imposed on June 20, was still on. “We have arrested three people so far and are awaiting the post-mortem report,” Mr. Sreejith said.
24 June 2020||JAIPUR,||Special kitchen scheme for poor to be launched in Rajasthan||A new kitchen scheme named after former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi will shortly be launched in Rajasthan for providing nutritious food to the poor and needy twice a day at concessional rates. The State government will spend Rs. 100 crore every year on the scheme’s implementation.  Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said the Indira Rasoi Yojana would fulfil the State government’s promise of “no one sleeps hungry”. The local non-government organisations will be roped in for running the scheme and its effective monitoring will be done with the help of information technology. Mr. Gehlot made the announcement while inaugurating an awareness campaign on COVID-19 through videoconferencing from his official residence. While the prices for the meals are yet to be finalised, the food will be prepared keeping in mind the requirements and tastes of every municipal area. The previous Bharatiya Janata Party government in the State had also launched a subsidised meal scheme, Annapuran Rasoi Yojana, in December 2016, offering breakfast and lunch for Rs. 5 and Rs. 8 respectively on the lines of Tamil Nadu’s Amma Unavagam (Mother’s Canteen). Awareness drive Mr. Gehlot released five different types of posters, audio jingles and video films on the awareness drive and flagged off five mobile vans loaded with publicity material and equipment provided by the National Health Mission and the United Nations Population Fund.
24 June 2020||Mumbai,||State notifies Tillari forest as conservation reserve||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday declared the Tillari forest area in the Dodamarg and Sawantwadi range in coastal Sindhudurg district as a conservation reserve area. The total area of this forest reserve will be 29.53 square km, and it will be the 13th such reserve in the western ghats. The Revenue and Forest departments on Tuesday issued a notification of the first such reserve in Sindhudurg district, and the 62nd in the State. Tillari conservation reserve is located near the border of Maharashtra, Goa and Karnataka, connecting Mhadei sanctuary in Goa and Bhimgad in Karnataka. “This could be an important route for tigers’ trail in the area,” said an official from the Forest department. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said that the government will not neglect the protection of biodiversity of the State while taking it on the path of development. “The State will always give preference to save the biodiversity,” he said. Environment Minister Aaditya Thackeray said that it will add a small pug mark in the effort to protect wildlife, biodiversity, and the tiger. According to officials from the Forest department, the region is known for tigers, elephants, leopards, bison, sambar deer, barking deer and chaushinga. “The announcement will ensure that the biodiversity of the area is protected,” they said. A committee will soon be set up for the management of the reserve. Maharashtra has 62 conservation reserves, of which 13 are in the western ghats. Tillari reserve has semi-evergreen forest, tropical moist deciduous forests, and a number of unique trees, butterflies, and flowers.
24 June 2020||Mumbai,||Taloja jail to submit ex-IL&FS official’s health reports||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday directed the Taloja jail authorities to submit medical reports of Hari Sankaran, former vice-chairman of Infrastructure Leasing and Financial Services (IL&FS), to show if he is vulnerable to COVID-19. A single Judge Bench of Justice Revati Mohitedere was hearing an interim application filed by Mr. Sankaran, seeking to vacate the stay on the bail granted by the sessions court. On April 28, Mr. Sankaran was granted temporary bail for a period of eight weeks by the trial court on furnishing a surety of Rs. 50,000. However on May 5, the HC had cancelled the temporary bail after Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) counsel Hiten Venegavkar had said that Mr. Sankaran’s bail application itself was premature as the HC had stayed its own order of quashing criminal proceedings against him and other auditors for eight weeks. He was arrested by the SFIO in April 2019 in connection with an IL&FS case for alleged irregularities.
24 June 2020||Mumbai,||Family to be informed in 48 hours if prisoner tests positive, govt. tells HC||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Tuesday that prison authorities will inform the family members of a patient if he or she tests positive for coronavirus within 48 hours of getting test results. The government made the submission before a Bench led by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta during the hearing of a bunch of Public Interest Litigations (PILs). Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni submitted to the court revised draft guidelines for safeguarding the health of inmates of prisons across the State, in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. All the inmates will be allowed to contact their lawyers through phone and email, the draft guidelines said. Last week, the government submitted a detailed draft of guidelines that provided for daily thermal screening of all the inmates, creation of temporary quarantine and COVID care centres at requisitioned buildings across 26 districts, and a regular health check-up of inmates with co-morbidities. On Tuesday, the government said it had added more provisions, such as informing the inmate’s kin within 48 hours if he or she tests positive for coronavirus, and updating them about the inmate’s health status. The court was hearing PILs filed by the People’s Union for Civil Liberties and some others. The PILs, filed through senior counsel Mihir Desai, demanded that the government ensure safety of inmates of the Arthur Road Jail in Mumbai and prisons across Maharashtra, as there were reports of several inmates and staff members testing positive for coronavirus at the Arthur Road Jail. Last month, the government told the HC that it had applied to courts concerned seeking permission to release 14,400 inmates to free up spaceinside jails. The next hearing before the HC will be on Friday.
24 June 2020||Mumbai,||Will consider taking measures to keep COVID-19 at bay in jails: State to HC||The State government told the Bombay High Court on Tuesday that it would like to adopt measures on testing and creating temporary prisons recommended by advocates, to keep COVID-19 at bay in prisons across the State. One of the suggestions is that the State should create separate quarantine facilities for asymptomatic and COVID-19-positive prisoners, and instruct police officers not to arrest the accused “unless custody is inevitable.” Senior advocate Mihir Desai along with advocate Isha Khandelwal presented a document before a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice M.S. Karnik as suggestions to a draft circulated by the advocate general with respect to testing inmates and creating temporary prisons. Among other things, the advocates’ suggestions relate to documenting the number of beds available, the total square foot area available per inmate, the list of inmates in temporary prisons, the number of rooms and prisoners per room, as well as the number of bathrooms. “Prisoners must be tested before being shifted from one jail to another. Where other inmates have been diagnosed as COVID-positive, all the prisoners and staff from such correctional facilities (temporary prisons included) must be tested,” says the document of suggestions. Testing can be done in a phased manner, and priority should be given to inmates and staff over 50 years of age, and those with co-morbidities, it says. Every prisoner should be allowed one call per week to contact either the family or lawyer for 10 minutes at a go, as opposed to two minutes earlier. Prisons should update the family members and lawyers of those who are asymptomatic but COVID-19 positive with mild, moderate or severe symptoms, it says. Prison population The capacity of prisons in Maharashtra is 24,032 while the prison population as on March 23, as per the first High Powered Committee (HPC), is 37,192. The ideal prison population to maintain physical distancing, the State says, is 16,000. As on May 11, 5,105 undertrials were granted bail while 2,229 convicts were granted emergency parole. On May 23, the prison population reduced to 29,762. On June 19, according to the State, prison population was at 28,950, including 22,588 undertrials and 6,362 convicts.
24 June 2020||Mumbai,||Bhima-Koregaon: Centre seeks time to reply to plea against transfer of probe||The Union government on Tuesday sought time to file its reply before the Bombay High Court in response to a plea filed by two accused in the Bhima-Koregaon violence case, challenging the transfer of investigation to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and Abhay Ahuja was hearing the petition filed by advocate Surendra Gadling and journalist Sudhir Dhawale on June 19. They were arrested on June 6, 2018, for their alleged links with the Communist Party of India (Maoist), and are currently lodged at Taloja jail. They moved the HC through advocate Madhavi Ayyappan, challenging the Centre’s decision to transfer the investigation into the case from the Pune Police to the NIA, on the grounds that the transfer is contrary to provisions of the NIA Act. Their petition said, “There is no provision that empowers the Central government to transfer the investigation after completion of the probe and filing of the charge sheet, particularly when there were no compelling circumstances necessitating the transfer. The transfer of investigation to the NIA amounts to re-investigation.” The 190-page petition further said in order to keep the false implications and wrongful incarcerations of innocent people unconnected with the Bhima-Koregaon case, the investigation was transferred by the Central government to the NIA, immediately after the Bharatiya Janata Party lost power in Maharashtra. “The allegations that Mr. Dhawale of Kabir Kala Manch was making provocative statements, performing inflammatory street plays and songs, and distorting the history as per the agenda of the CPI (Maoist), were vague and cryptic, and it is not possible to infer from such allegations that the petitioners are organisers of Elghar Parishad,” the plea said. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh sought time to file an affidavit. The matter will be heard on July 14.
24 June 2020||Mumbai,||CRPF jawan from Solapur killed in J&K||The CRPF jawan killed in an encounter with militants in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir on Tuesday hailed from Solapur in Maharashtra and authorities are working to bring his mortal remains to his native place. An official from Solapur confirmed that CRPF jawan Sunil Kale, a resident of Pangaon village in Barshi tehsil of the district, was killed in the encounter. He joined the service in 2000 and had been posted in Jammu and Kashmir since some time. “The process to bring his body to Solapur is being worked out with the authorities concerned,” he said. Besides the CRPF jawan, two unidentified militants were killed in the encounter, the police said. Security forces launched a search operation at Bundzoo on Tuesday morning after receiving information about the presence of militants.
24 June 2020||Mumbai,||HC to hear on Friday Sudha Bharadwaj’s bail application||The Bombay High Court will hear on Friday a bail application filed by activist Sudha Bharadwaj, an accused in the Elgar Parishad case. Ms. Bharadwaj, who was arrested in August 2018, moved the HC last week against the order of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) court in Mumbai, which rejected her interim bail plea on May 29. The case was scheduled for hearing before a Bench led by Justice S.S. Shinde on Tuesday, but the hearing was adjourned to Friday as the NIA, the prosecuting agency, was yet to be served a copy of the petition by Ms. Bharadwaj’s lawyers. Shehas sought bail on health grounds, citing high risk of the spread of COVID-19 in Byculla women’s jail.
24 June 2020||Mumbai,||India needs to be self-reliant to take on China: Sena||Amid the border standoff with China, the Shiv Sena on Tuesday said India will have to become ‘self-reliant’, and not depend on U.S. President Donald Trump, to take on the neighbouring country. An editorial in Sena mouthpiece Saamana also said doing business with China will be an insult to sacrifices made by the 20 brave soldiers, who were killed in a violent clash with Chinese troops at Galwan Valley in Ladakh last week. “If we want to fight China, there should be less of politics and more of national interest. For that, we don’t require President Trump. We need to become atmanirbhar (self- reliant),” it said.
24 June 2020||Pune,||‘8,900 workers reached Pune in few days’||Over 8,900 labourers have arrived in Pune in the last few days and the labour department is monitoring the movement of migrant workers who are returning to the city, district Collector Naval Kishore Ram said. After the lockdown was enforced in March and COVID-19 cases started increasing in Pune district, scores of migrant labourers working in various industrial belts, construction sites, hotels and other commercial establishments, went back to their home towns. Following the resumption of rail services recently on some key routes, 144 trains crossed the Pune railway station and nearly 23,000 passengers deboarded, the Collector told reporters on Monday.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Helping hand||
24 June 2020||Washington DC,||Tech giants slam visa curbs||U.S. President Donald Trump’s executive order on Monday suspending new H1-B visas till the end of the year in an effort to ease unemployment will impact both IT firms like TCS, Cognizant and Infosys as well as big tech companies like Google, Apple, Amazon and Facebook, who use the H-1B programme for their staffing needs. Each year, the U.S. issues 85,000 new H-1Bs, most of which go to Indians. “While the May [unemployment] rate of 13.3% reflects a marked decline from April, millions of Americans remain out of work,” the presidential proclamation on Monday said. The order’s impact would save 5,25,000 American jobs by the end of this year, a senior administration official told reporters. Nevertheless, unemployment rates in ‘computer occupations’ was just 2.5% in May 2020, according to Bureau of Labour Statistics analysed by the National Foundation for American Policy, a non-partisan research organisation. The decision has been criticised both in the U.S. and India with tech leaders voicing dismay. Tesla founder and former Trump adviser Elon Musk said the skillsets brought by visa holders are net job creators. “Visa reform makes sense, but this is too broad,” he tweeted. Google CEO Sundar Pichai, who immigrated to the U.S. from India, underscored the importance of immigration in Google’s journey. “Immigration has contributed immensely to America’s economic success, making it a global leader in tech, and also Google the company it is today. Disappointed by today’s proclamation — we’ll continue to stand with immigrants and work to expand opportunity for all,” Mr. Pichai tweeted.  “The H-1B programme in particular plays a crucial role in addressing our dangerous shortage of health care professionals while also providing other key sectors of our economy with talent from around the world to not only fill jobs, but create new ones,” Indian-American Congressman from Illinois, Raja Krishnamoorthi said.
24 June 2020||Beijing,||China warns risk of naval conflict with U.S.||The U.S. military is deploying “unprecedented” numbers to the Asia-Pacific region, raising the risk of an incident with China’s Navy, a senior Chinese official said on Tuesday. Tensions between the two superpowers have soared on multiple fronts since President Donald Trump took office in 2017, with both countries flexing their diplomatic and military muscle. ‘Freedom of navigation’ The United States’ regular “freedom of navigation” operations in the South China Sea — where China and neighbouring countries have competing claims — angers Beijing, and China’s Navy usually warns off the U.S. ships. For its part, Beijing has infuriated other nations by building artificial islands with military installations in parts of the sea. “The U.S. military deployment in the Asia-Pacific region is unprecedented,” said Wu Shicun, president of the National Institute of South China Sea Studies, a government think tank. “The possibility of a military incident or an accidental shot fired is rising,” Mr. Wu said. “If a crisis were to erupt, the repercussions on bilateral relations would be catastrophic.” Mr. Wu spoke at the presentation of a report by his institute on the U.S. military presence in the region. The report said the U.S. has deployed 3,75,000 soldiers and 60% of its warships in the Indo-Pacific region. Three US aircraft carriers have been sent to the region. During former President Barack Obama’s eight years in office, the U.S. Navy conducted four freedom of navigation operations while there have been 22 of them under President Trump, Mr. Wu said. The two militaries “Should step up communication” in order “to prevent strategic misunderstanding and miscalculation”, according to the report. High-level military meetings should resume, a direct phone line should be opened and joint naval manoeuvres should be done, it says. The report says China does not regard the United States are a potential rival or “envisage a new cold or hot war with the U.S.” The document warns that “deteriorating military relations would substantially increase the possibility of a dangerous incident, a conflict or even a crisis.”
24 June 2020||Riyadh,||Only 1,000 pilgrims can attend Haj||Saudi Arabia on Tuesday said only around 1,000 pilgrims of various nationalities already in the kingdom will be allowed to perform a dramatically scaled-down Haj, as it battles a coronavirus surge. The decision to exclude pilgrims outside Saudi Arabia, a first in the Kingdom’s modern history, sparked disappointment among Muslims worldwide. The reduced number is a far cry from the 2.5 million who attended the five-day ritual last year and it remains unclear what the selection process will be for this year’s Haj, scheduled for the end of July. “The number of pilgrims will be around 1,000, maybe less, maybe a little more,” Haj Minister Mohammad Benten told reporters in Riyadh. “The number won’t be in tens or hundreds of thousands” this year, he added. The pilgrimage will be limited to those below 65 years of age and with no chronic illnesses, Health Minister Tawfiq al-Rabiah said. The pilgrims will be tested for COVID-19 before arriving in the holy city of Mecca and will be required to quarantine at home after the ritual, Mr. Rabiah added.
24 June 2020||Dubai,||Pandemic ‘accelerating’ as cases top 9 million||Global coronavirus infections topped nine million as the World Health Organization (WHO) warned the pandemic was accelerating. Europe has steadily eased its travel lockdowns in recent weeks, and France on Monday took its biggest step back to normality by allowing millions of children to return to school. But many parts of the world, including Latin America and South Asia, are only beginning to feel the full force of the pandemic, while other regions are being hit with second waves. “The pandemic is still accelerating,” the WHO’s director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus told a virtual health forum organised in the United Arab Emirates. Mr. Tedros said the greatest threat was not the virus itself, which has now killed over 470,000 people, but “the lack of global solidarity and global leadership.” “We cannot defeat this pandemic with a divided world,” he said. “The politicisation of the pandemic has exacerbated it.” Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro is one of the leaders to have repeatedly played down the threat, comparing the virus to a “little flu” and arguing the economic impact of shutdowns is worse than the virus itself. More than 50,000 people have been confirmed to have died from the virus in Brazil, with the true number believed to be far higher. Brazil’s official death toll is second only to the U.S., which has recorded 120,000 fatalities, and President Donald Trump’s handling of the crisis has been widely criticised as erratic and chaotic. Mr. Trump on Monday said the American toll could surpass 1,50,000, as two more members of his team that helped organise a controversial weekend rally for him in Oklahoma tested positive. Mexico, Peru, Chile and Argentina are also coping with crises — Mexico City being forced to delay plans for a broad reopening of the economy as the country’s death toll raced past 20,000. With a vaccine still far away, the WHO has called for a rapid increase in production of the steroid dexamethasone, which has been shown to have life-saving potential. French celebrations Thousands of French people danced and partied in the streets well into Monday for an annual music festival, in the first big blowout since the lockdown. Many felt the authorities were too lax. “This is not what a gradual end to the lockdown looks like,” said Dr. Gilbert Deray. “I understand that the Festival of Music is something of a liberation, but did we really have to have it this year?”
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Paris deal was a charade that gave leeway to India, China’||Former U.S. National Security Adviser (NSA) John Bolton’s book, The Room Where It Happened, was officially released in the U.S. on Tuesday but much has been written about it in the press already. India finds a few mentions in the book, none of them positive, many neutral, and several as a country that has not fallen in line in the context of international treaties. For instance, Mr. Bolton calls the Paris Agreement a ‘charade’ that has given ‘leeway’ to countries like China and India, leaving them “essentially unfettered”. He talks about the threat the U.S. allies and others face from the INF (Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces) treaty because a number of countries such as China are not party to it. “China, for example, had the greatest proportion of its large, growing, already-deployed missile capabilities in the INF-forbidden range, endangering U.S. allies like Japan and South Korea, as well as India and Russia itself, a fine irony,” Mr. Bolton writes. He goes on to add India to the list of countries, along with Iran, North Korea and Pakistan whose nuclear arsenal was poised to expand. The U.S. quit the treaty in August last year, having announced its intention to leave six months prior to that. On the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, Mr. Bolton notes that “other nuclear powers” like India and China have neither ratified nor signed the treaty. “...Unsigning the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty should be a priority, so the United States can again conduct underground nuclear testing.” Six-month exemption In November 2018, India was one of eight countries that got a six-month exemption from U.S. sanctions on the purchase of Iranian oil, after the U.S. decided to unilaterally pull out of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), an international treaty signed deal during the Obama years that sought to limit Iran’s nuclear programme. Mr. Trump, “while oscillating on any given day on any given issue,” in Mr. Bolton’s telling, was “vibrating increasingly” on the side of the scale that favoured ending the waivers after six months. “In a phone call with Pompeo, Trump had not been sympathetic to India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi, saying, ‘He’ll be okay.’ I recall a similar conversation reflecting Trump’s indifference to notifying allies about waiver decisions,” Mr. Bolton writes, adding that while India’s arguments for continuing waivers was understandable, it was ‘incomprehensible’ to him [Mr. Bolton] that the U.S. bureaucrats would echo these so sympathetically. India had been concerned, Mr. Bolton writes, about finding new suppliers to replace Iran and worried that it would have to pay market prices — Iran had been charging below market prices to get rid of its oil. On Afghanistan, Mr. Trump was complaining, as per Mr. Bolton, about how the U.S. was spending all these resources and that it was time to withdraw. “We’ll never get out. This was done by a stupid person named George Bush,” he told me. “India builds a library and advertises it all over,” Mr. Trump had allegedly said. On the India-Pakistan crisis in early 2019 (the Balakot air strikes following the Pulwama terror attack), Mr. Bolton questions whether there was a real crisis at all. He talks about phone calls with U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, then acting Secretary of Defence Patrick Shanahan and then Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Joseph Dunford: “After hours of phone calls, the crisis passed, perhaps because, in substance, there never really had been one. But when two nuclear powers spin up their military capabilities, it is best not to ignore it. No one else cared at the time, but the point was clear to me: this was what happened when people didn’t take nuclear proliferation from the likes of Iran and North Korea seriously.”
24 June 2020||Washington,||Anti-racism protests turn spotlight on icons of U.S. history||As the wave of anti-racism protests rocking the U.S. brings down monuments to figures linked to the country’s history of slavery, the spotlight is shifting to historic characters long considered untouchable. Although protesters initially focused on removing statues of Confederate generals, the movement has begun to turn its focus to icons of U.S. history, including the nation’s founders Thomas Jefferson and George Washington, and President Theodore Roosevelt. The death of George Floyd, a black man, in Minneapolis police custody on May 25 has sparked debate around statues and monuments honouring people central to the U.S.’ slave system, some of which have been pulled down or vandalised. The ongoing protests are “a battle over the narrative of American history in the realm of statues,” Carolyn Gallaher, a professor at American University in Washington, told AFP. “In the South, people decided to venerate confederates. Protesters are saying, ‘No more.’” In Virginia, where some of the first English colonies were established before becoming the heart of American slave country, protesters have called for the removal of a statue of General Robert E Lee, the leader of the Confederate army. . In Washington, a statue of Confederate general Albert Pike was torn down last week. Increasingly, other figures who hold large places in American history are also not safe, and on Monday evening a crowd tried to topple the statue of Andrew Jackson, the seventh President, in Lafayette Park, close to the White House. President Donald Trump has defended the Confederate monuments and said that removing them would destroy U.S. history and culture.
24 June 2020||WASHINGTON,||After Tulsa, Trump heads to virus hotspot Arizona||Regrouping after a humbling weekend rally, President Donald Trump faces another test of his ability to draw a crowd during a pandemic Tuesday as he visits Arizona and tries to remind voters of one of his key 2016 campaign promises. Mr. Trump’s weekend rally in Tulsa, Oklahoma, was meant to be a sign of the nation’s reopening and a show of political force but instead generated thousands of empty seats and questions about the President’s campaign leadership and his case for another term. The low turnout has sharpened the focus on Mr. Trump’s visit to Arizona, which doubles as both a 2020 battleground state and a surging coronavirus hot spot. First, the President will travel to Yuma to mark the construction of more than 322 km of wall along the U.S.-Mexico border, an issue that he built his campaign on four years ago. Later, he will address a group of young Republicans. Throughout the trip, the COVID-19 pandemic will shadow Mr. Trump. The Democratic Mayor of Phoenix raised safety concerns. “Everyone attending tomorrow’s event, particularly any elected official, should set an example to residents by wearing a mask,” said Mayor Kate Gallego. “This includes the President.”
24 June 2020||London,||British police to further quiz terror suspect||British counter-terrorism police have been given until June 27 to question a suspect in an attack which saw three people stabbed to death in a park, officers said.  A 25-year-old man, identified as Libyan Khairi Saadallah, was arrested near the scene of Saturday’s attack in Reading, west of London. Detective Chief Superintendent Kath Barnes said the investigation into the attack was “continuing”.
24 June 2020||DUBAI,||Saudi Arabia says it intercepts Yemen rebel drones, missiles||Saudi Arabia said on Tuesday that it destroyed ballistic missiles and bomb-laden drones launched by Yemen’s Houthi rebels. The Houthis claimed they targeted the headquarters of Saudi Arabia’s Defence Ministry, the King Salman air base and an intelligence building in the capital, along with other military buildings in the regions of Najran and Jizan in the kingdom’s south.AP
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Arrest the virus of arbitrary power||In the early days of the lockdown, when COVID-19 cases began to rise, we witnessed a second virus spreading equally rapidly in the country — the virus of communalism. But there is a third virus around which is less spoken about; a virus eating into and severely corroding our democratic structure — the virus of arbitrary power. There is no better evidence of this than the denial of bail to a pregnant student-activist, arrested for creating disorder on an ‘unprecedented scale’ when all she appeared to have done was actively participate, like many others, in a protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, proposed by the government. Tyranny and slavery This arbitrary use of power, implied by the absence or selective use of law, is deeply troublesome. More so, when exercised by a democratically elected government. Frequent arbitrariness in the political domain leads to tyranny, quite like when persistently present in the social sphere, it leads to slavery. Either way, it tramples upon basic freedoms. But what, one might ask, is the connection between arbitrariness and the loss of freedoms? Individuals, communities or citizens cannot function freely without a stable set of expectations. By stabilising expectations, laws enable significant freedoms, even as they restrict some others. To take just one example, once it is widely known that I am legally restricted to driving only on the left, I drive with greater freedom, knowing that headlong collision is unlikely. I regulate the speed of travel and calculate the time to get from home to office. This helps me schedule my work for the day and coordinate with others who likewise make their own schedules. By jointly accomplishing our goals, we enhance our freedom. Laws enable our actions and interactions to become broadly predictable. Many of our freedoms require that the arbitrary, by which is meant ‘unpredictable, random or unexpected’ does not throw us off balance. The arbitrary blocks freedom. However, an even more basic feature of arbitrariness, one that produces much greater harm, is to be at the mercy of the whim or fancy of someone else, especially the powerful. Return to the traffic example. Suppose that two vehicles stop at the traffic light but just beyond the zebra crossing. The policeman, embodying the entire might of the state, issues a ticket or a challan to one but not the other. Worse, instead of fining the violators, he seizes the driving licence of a careful driver, who has stopped a good metre behind the crossing, merely because he dislikes the make of his car. Surely, this arbitrary implementation of the law is grossly unjust. This shows that the minutest aspect of daily life — travelling to work — can be dependent upon the arbitrary opinion of someone else. When power is exercised arbitrarily by the state, a person is made to act not in accordance with a legitimate, general rule but at the pleasure of state officials. The most extreme example of this is political enslavement, when an entire people are colonised, subjected to the will of the colonisers, where laws, good or bad, flow from the like and dislike of colonial masters. This is equally true of the arbitrary exercise of social power, for instance under social slavery. A slave must comply with any, just any whimsical order of his master. Since the master owns him, the master is legally permitted to do just about anything with the slave. The slave breathes at his pleasure, sits or stands at his pleasure, eats, works, sleeps at his pleasure. Slaves can be awakened and asked to work in the field at an unearthly hour of the night, if the master so desires. They are never sure of what to expect from the master. One moment, objects of affection or charity, at the very next, they are treated with utter disdain, sold, even killed. After all, the master can dispose of his property at will. Such arbitrary power was routinely exercised by the patriarch in the family and continues even today. Likewise, unbridled capitalism is marked by an absence of laws to regulate labour; workers can be hired or fired at the will of the employer and no fixed hours of work exist. Unregulated wage-labour works pretty much like slavery. Are not domestic workers still treated in many homes like slaves? The Emergency and now These examples strengthen my point about an inverse relation between arbitrary political power and freedom. In dictatorships, entire populations are subject to the whim of the supreme leader or a tiny elite. Who did not fear the midnight knock in the regimes of Hitler and Stalin? While the devastation they caused is well chronicled, smaller tyrannies abound in our world too. Even democracies contain authoritarian spaces within them where the law can be used to continuously harass opponents. Anyone who has lived through the Emergency knows that Opposition leaders were thrown in jail on the false charge of conspiring against the state and thereafter a small crack unit began to arbitrarily control the activity of anyone politically significant. Surely that experience should have sufficed to make all of us realise the supreme value of freedom from arbitrary rule. However, with the number of first information reports (FIRs) being filed at the behest of random persons, on unsubstantiated complaints and little explanation, largely uncontested by a tired, silent political Opposition, one begins to wonder if we are headed in that awful direction once again. Upending rights Consider the arrest of activists. Article 21 of the Constitution gives every citizen the right of basic liberty and security. No one can be deprived of liberty, held without properly following procedures prescribed by law. Article 22 requires that anyone arrested and detained must be informed of the ground for such an arrest and must be brought before a competent legal authority within a prescribed time frame. Legal scholars have rightly pointed out that the best interpretation of this Article requires that the grounds of arrest and detention must be reasonable. The grounds of preventive detention, to be used in very rare cases, must likewise assume that the suspicion of offence is well-grounded, based on available evidence, on relevant information that satisfies any objective observer, and not on mischievous allegations. But reality seems to confirm what every other Indian movie has shown about police acting on the caprice of a ruling leader, and the law being used to harass citizens. Is suspicion always supported by available facts? Is the ‘offender’ really a threat to internal security, or merely present at the scene of the ‘crime’? Whatever the facts of the case, was the offence committed by a pregnant student-activist so grave that bail could not be granted until yesterday, on her 4th attempt? If ordinary persons could smell arbitrariness here, why could not the sessions judge? Anyhow, why fill our coronavirus-infested jails with what are largely political prisoners, when other countries are releasing even non-political inmates? Minimum lock-up during lockdown should be the political slogan in our catastrophic times. Arbitrary curtailment of liberty existed under previous State and central governments. This is deplorable. Yet, what is worrisome today is its frequency and brazen partisanship. We should remind ourselves that participants in the anti-corruption movement of 2011-12 were not thrown in jail. Nor was the media muzzled when it went after the central government of the day, Why are political activists and journalists charge sheeted today for simply doing their job? The Emergency, whose anniversary falls tomorrow, was meant to be a watershed in the life of Indian democracy, a brief, critical phase when the Indian political system could have gone either the way of authoritarian rule or mature as a democracy. By restoring faith in democracy, India appeared to have passed one of its crucial tests and firmly taken the second route. But are we on the verge of giving up the gains from that chastening experience? Has the struggle against the suspension of democracy been in vain? Have a small section of its victims now become perpetrators? Rajeev Bhargava is Professor, Centre for the Study of Developing Societies (CSDS), Delhi
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The sharp end of military power||In 1962, an uninformed political leadership, dominant Army brass, and diffident Air Force leadership ensured that a reasonably potent offensive element of the Indian Air Force (IAF) watched from the sidelines as the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) rolled into Ladakh and down the Sela Pass into Bomdila. Swayed by the assessments of a British Operations Research expert, Patrick Blackett, and the U.S. Ambassador to New Delhi, John Kenneth Galbraith, then Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru baulked at the idea of using the IAF to stem the Chinese tide. IAF fighter pilots posted at air bases that could impact operations in Ladakh and the Tawang Sector (Pathankot and Tezpur) recall that they were battle ready and waited for the call to action that never came.  Defensive and offensive strategy Fast forward to the winter of 1986 and the summer of 1987. Following the establishment of a camp at Wangdung grazing grounds in the Sumdorong Chu Valley (northwest of Tawang and in the same area where Indian forces were overwhelmed in 1962), the trio of General Krishnaswamy Sundarji, Lieutenant General Narahari and Major General J.M. Singh put together a logistically viable envelopment strategy that spooked the Chinese with numbers, firepower, and aggression without needless confrontation. An important element of this strategy was the use of helicopters and transport aircraft to facilitate and sustain this deployment. That was not all. They even developed an offensive strategy to take the battle to Le, the forward most PLA base in the sector. There was close coordination between 4 Corps in Tezpur and the fighter base close by and training was stepped up in the valleys to support offensive operations if required. In an interview with the author, Major General J.M. Singh was emphatic that air power held the key in operations on the Tibetan Plateau. He argued, “‘We must have the capability to gain and maintain a favourable air situation for limited periods of time, and carry out interdiction to back shallow multi-pronged thrusts across road-less terrain to outflank the Chinese build-up that will take place on the existing road and rail networks.” The IAF’s advantage On June 15, 2020, there was a violent clash at Patrolling Point 14 in Galwan. The ground situation across the entire Line of Actual Control (LAC) is largely one of parity and for any tangible gains or tactical advantage to be gained on the ground the Indian Army needs a numerical superiority of at least 5:1. Therefore, if there is any asymmetric advantage to be gained, it is air power that will prove to be decisive in depleting the PLA’s combat potential before it is applied along the LAC. By all recent operational assessments including one by the Harvard Kennedy School, the IAF currently enjoys both a qualitative and quantitative advantage over the People’s Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF) across the LAC. It’s fighter fleet of 4th Generation Aircraft (Su-30 MKIs, Mirage-2000s and MiG-29s) are superior in almost every respect to the PLAAF’s J-10s, J-11s and SU-30 MKKs. The IAF has more operational bases than the PLAAF close to the LAC. There is reasonable redundancy and survivability to withstand an initial attack on IAF bases by the PLA Rocket Force (PLARF). There are, however, two areas of concern. The first is a strong ground-based air defence network strung up by the PLAAF in Tibet comprising the S-300, S-400 and HQ-9 systems that the IAF will have to contest during its offensive operations. The second is the advantage that the PLAAF has in long-range air delivered cruise missiles (500-3,000 km) from the H-6 bomber. As compared to this, the IAF’s Su-30 MKI has just been cleared to carry the BrahMos land attack cruise missile with a range of 300 km which could be a significant force multiplier against targets in Aksai Chin and Tibet. The other area of significant advantage enjoyed by the IAF is in the aerial mobility department where the IAF transport fleet of C-17s, Il-76s, An-32s and C-130s are as proficient in diverse roles as the best air forces in the world. Whether it is rapid troop induction into major bases or at Advance Landing Grounds like DBO, Nyoma or Mechuka, or inter-valley transfer and insertion of special forces with helicopters like the recently inducted Chinooks and the versatile Mi-17 series, these are areas that will provide great confidence to the Indian Army. After initial setbacks in Afghanistan, the U.S. Army has figured out a way to exploit the lethal firepower of the Apache Attack Helicopter at altitudes of 12,000-14,000 feet. It would be reasonable to expect that the IAF’s Apaches would add significant firepower in Ladakh. Finally, in the area of surveillance, China possesses a large complement of the Yaogan series of low earth orbit surveillance satellites that offer it an almost persistent stare capability over areas of interest. To counter this India must leverage its existing space-based surveillance assets and airborne surveillance platforms to support wide-spectrum operations and provide better situational awareness. The importance of air power Unless there is vision and an acceptance of the importance of air power in what has been till now a significantly land-centric operational philosophy across the LAC, there is a clear and present danger. In the next decade or so, the IAF will lose its competitive advantage with the PLAAF as the latter has invested heavily in modernisation and is continuing to do so. On the other hand, with deep budgetary cuts and the likelihood of the slowing down of the induction of cutting-edge platforms and weapon systems, the choice is not about what the IAF wants but what the country needs in the prevailing complex security environment. Air power represents the sharp end of contemporary military power. We need to ensure that it does not get blunt. Arjun Subramaniam is a retired Air Vice Marshal from the IAF and a military historian
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||A tribute to a quintessential finance man||Intellectual bureaucrat — an oxymoron? Perish the thought. B.P.R. Vithal (BPRV), who passed away at 93 last week in Hyderabad, was a stellar example of a true blue Renaissance man whose scholarship straddled a host of disciplines — economics, philosophy, theology, physics, history, literature, and political science, just to cite a few. And he had the erudition to combine all that into a worldview that was at once humane and pragmatic. BPRV was a quintessential finance man. He was the Finance Secretary of Andhra Pradesh for over a decade (1972-82). In some sense he defined the job and the job defined him. In a career in the Indian Administrative Service (IAS), where flitting from one job to another and one department to another is the norm, that BPRV had such an extended stint as Finance Secretary was a testimonial to his exceptional personal and professional traits. Having been Finance Secretary myself, both in Andhra Pradesh and at the Centre, I know that an occupational hazard of a finance job is having to say “no” most of the time. Ministers and colleagues approach the Finance Secretary with projects and initiatives to seek funding. Charged as the Finance Secretary is with balancing the government’s books, saying “no” becomes unavoidable, no matter your inclination to be positive. But how you say ‘no’ makes a difference. It is here that BPRV stood out. He heard out everyone’s proposal with an open mind, gave them the benefit of the doubt and took a final view balancing the merits of the proposal and the finances available. And even when he said “no”, he did so in such an agreeable way that the other party left his office possibly disappointed but never disgruntled. It was these traits — professionalism, pragmatism and an open mind — that earned him the confidence of stalwart Chief Ministers, the respect of colleagues and made him a role model for junior officers posted in the Finance Department. And he was such a colossus that even Finance Secretaries of other States looked up to him for advice and guidance on critical public finance issues. A balancing act BPRV was a member of the Tenth Finance Commission (1992-94). As many might know, the Finance Commission is a constitutional body appointed by the President every five years to make recommendations on sharing of taxes between the Centre and the States. It is an unenviable job, having to balance between the genuine and decidedly vociferous demands of States for a higher share and the plea of the Centre to leave enough for it to take care of critical national needs including defence and security. Recall that was also a time when stalwart Chief Ministers like NTR, Ramakrishna Hegde and Jayalalithaa rode into office on strident anti-Centre platforms. NTR even famously said “the Centre is a conceptual myth”, meaning that if you looked at the map of India, it was filled completely with States; so where was the need for any money for the Centre? I was the Finance Secretary of Andhra Pradesh at the time and had occasion to interact with BPRV quite frequently as we had offered him office space in our premises to facilitate his work. I suspected, and honestly even hoped, that BPRV would be biased towards the States, especially as he was steeped in State finances. I was proved wrong. I was impressed by how he was able to combine his appreciation of the States’ needs with his firm nationalistic outlook that you cannot have strong States without a strong Centre. For a full day last week after I got the sad news of his passing, I was engrossed in going though our e-mail correspondence going back over more than two decades. It was nostalgia but it was also an intellectual tour de force — a reminder of his sharp intellect and wisdom. As goes with wise people, he also had remarkable wit. Here is just one example. The bank seal The Reserve Bank of India (RBI), set up in 1935, celebrated its platinum jubilee year in 2009-10 and I was privileged to be the RBI Governor at that time. To mark the occasion, the RBI brought out a special edition of Without Reserve , its in-house magazine, pulling together snippets from its history. One of the items there was about the RBI seal which was adapted from the East India Company’s gold mohur, with the lion there changed to a tiger. Sir James Taylor, the Deputy Governor at the time of RBI’s establishment, was unhappy with the tiger on the seal which did not quite look like a tiger! “The Tiger,” wrote Sir James, apparently inclined to be a bit ribald, “looks like some species of dog, and I am afraid that a design of a dog and a tree would arouse derision among the irreverent.” I sent a copy of the magazine to BPRV and he sent me the following e-mail reply: “A dog and a tree on the RBI seal! The Governor should get a sketch of a dog actually doing what Sir James was thinking of and leave it to the viewers to imagine what the tree stands for, the dog — watchdog — being the RBI, of course! Whenever the dog is upset with its master, this is the least it can do!” When news of his passing came, I was not surprised; age had been showing up on his health for the last few years. But there is a deep sense of vacuum for having lost a teacher, guide, well-wisher and someone who had genuine affection for me. A remarkable man in many respects, BPRV will be long remembered for the dignity and distinction with which he served the government, society and the nation. Duvvuri Subbarao is a former Governor of the Reserve Bank of India
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Transforming education||COVID-19 has knocked down economies, stranded people, hit education, work and travel, and cut short people’s lives. If the pandemic has one lesson for humanity, it is that people, places and non-human entities and processes are connected. These connections have long been ignored in most spheres, including economic landscapes, food systems and pedagogies. At this time, there has been a lot of talk about investing in a “green economy” with more renewables, reduced motorised transport or travel, and more working from home. These are all good ideas but they could also be interpreted as mere tinkering at the edges. In another 15-18 months, perhaps with a vaccine in place, the understanding we have gained during the lockdown may be all but forgotten. The green economy, as promising as it could be to tackle climate change, may leave the discourse on development untouched. If we want long-lasting and transformational changes to connect sustainably with the web of life, we have to think about how we educate ourselves. A different education We must recognise, at an early age, the interconnectedness of the natural world with our everyday lives, and with the well-being of the planet. To accomplish that, education in history, geography, economics, biology and chemistry, for example, would have to be very different. Instead of presenting each discipline as distinct and separate, we ought to integrate their domains with the natural world. History is set in periods divided by wars and victors, but should include ecological changes to the landscape in a region as part of the lesson. Just as there was a movement in history to include narratives of the subaltern, we need integration with ecological connections and changes. What were the consequences, for instance, of the British building railways across the country for better extraction of resources? Trains were earlier powered by wood from deforestation. Where did the wood come from and what was the local effect on people and forest cover? Similarly, geography must describe the land and the forests, how cities develop and what these changes do to the coast and the hinterland, water bodies and the commons. There is a renewed interest in using more illustrations and models to enliven learning in the sciences. Biology and chemistry need not begin with the periodic table, reactions and cells, but start by framing the organism and cells as located within a milieu where materials, energy and information are exchanged. Chemistry could begin with cycles such as the nitrogen, carbon, phosphorus, and water cycles, which link together the biosphere, rocks and minerals. This type of teaching and learning will not do away with previously taught knowledge. It introduces a holism where there is reductionism, and the foundation would be the linkages across human and non-human entities. Small beginnings Such new learning would set the grounds for understanding climate change from rising anthropogenic greenhouse gases. There has been a small movement to include the anthropogenic changes we have wrought on the earth into fields of inquiry such as literature, culture studies and history. Still, this inclusive thinking is not mainstream. A significant level of unlearning will have to be done along with new learning. Curriculum developers will have to restructure and rebuild materials used to impart knowledge. In Unruly Waters , historian Sunil Amrith describes the subcontinent’s history by looking at the rain, rivers and coasts. He writes how water was studied, managed and divided as a result of human activity through political and economic development. In Indica , Pranay Lal teaches geology and natural history simultaneously. Amitav Ghosh’s The Great Derangement is about imperialism and its role in climate change. The economic historian, Prasannan Parthasarathi, is preparing new materials to teach modern history incorporating ecological changes, and novelists and poets are beginning to integrate the Anthropocene in their writing. The initial waft of change we see in some areas of knowledge will have to deepen and spread. The Gaia hypothesis put forth by James Lovelock is an ecological theory proposing that living creatures and the physical world are in a complex interacting system that maintains equilibrium. One might imagine the COVID-19 crisis as Gaia giving us a warning, showing how flimsy human life and the structures we rely upon are. Unchecked rapaciousness has been unleashed by policies that support “growth at any cost”. It will ultimately fail since all goods used in any economy arise from the natural world. Our educational system needs to lay down the bricks for this understanding. Sujatha Byravan is a scientist who studies technology, science and development policy
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Crop of ironies||It is ironic that it took a devastating pandemic to force the government’s hand for long-overdue agrarian reforms. Amendments have been made to the Essential Commodities Act, 1955. The Finance Minister has urged States to dismantle the Agricultural Produce Market Committees. Several long-term changes have been made to the agricultural sector, such as fair pricing and e-trading, along with liquidity measures. The Centre has also encouraged the State governments to adopt three model laws on contract farming, agricultural land leasing, and marketing. These developments came as the Indian agriculture sector was impacted by lockdowns across States following the COVID-19 outbreak. Migrant farm workers fled the fields en masse, unable to sustain their livelihoods. Crippling bottlenecks in the supply chain resulted in prices sky-rocketing in consumer markets, even as farmers, stuck with inventory, started dumping them at throwaway prices. Many remained hungry even as the Food Corporation of India’s godowns overflowed with grain stock at three times the buffer stock norms. It is an irony that many migrants to the cities who come from farming backgrounds sought the city for a better life but it is the same cities and their employers that have forced them to return to their homes. What India has been witnessing over the past few months is a historic reverse migration. It is an irony that the very people who ensure food security in this nation are being made to go hungry now. It is equally an irony that the lockdown was imposed to contain COVID-19 but migration of the poor and vulnerable might be taking the virus to the hinterland of India. While the concept of One Nation, One Ration Card has potential, people are concerned about immediate relief for the hungry. This is being provided with the release of fixed quantities of free foodgrains and pulses to the migrants, even to those without ration cards, for the months of June and July. Implementation needs to be seen through. India has always struggled to fill the gap between policy prescriptions and implementation. Just as rabi crops were set to be harvested, unseasonal rain and hail arrived at the beginning of the year. Parts of the country reeled under a pernicious locust invasion. Looming loans could push farmers into a tailspin of poverty. The Reserve Bank of India announced an extension of the moratorium on loan EMIs by three months, but given that many farmers rely on a system of informal borrowing, this negates the intended effect. The government has also hiked the MSP of 14 kharif crops, but some argue that this may not offer the intended extent of relief due to a lack of manpower, working capital, machinery (stuck in other States) and storage. Steps that economists suggest are to switch from cash to food crops; listen to the Prime Minister’s ‘go local’ message and invest in redirecting supply chains locally; increase government allocations to poor farmers through the PM KISAN scheme by including everyone, even those who do not own land; ensure timely availability of seeds and fertilizers for the next season by roping in gram sabhas to verify claimants; and involve Farmer Producer Organisations in the process to ensure the safeguarding of farmers’ rights. The world observed World Hunger Day on May 28, 2020. India was ranked 102 out of 117 qualifying countries on the Global Hunger Index. Although agriculture accounts for around 17% of India’s GDP, nearly 50% of the country’s population depends on farm-based income. The Prime Minister’s vision for doubling farmers’ income in two years seems a distant dream in the wake of the pandemic. Climate scientists warn about climate change. The resilience of Indian farmers has meant that the nation was fed even through multiple lockdowns. Now, it is our turn to give them a brighter day. Madhurika Sankar is a Chennai-based writer
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Undesirable acquittal||There is understandable disbelief and shock over the Madras High Court’s judgment acquitting a man found guilty of ordering the heinous murder of a Dalit youth married to his daughter. While the lower court, after an expeditious trial, had awarded the death sentence to B. Chinnasamy in the sensational Udumalpet Shankar murder case, the High Court has ruled that no conspiracy has been proved. It is indeed disappointing that an emblematic case of murder against a member of the SC in the name of preserving the honour of a dominant caste has been reduced to a narrative without an author. None other than five hirelings unknown to the victim has been found guilty. Their death sentences have been commuted to a life sentence without remission for 25 years. V. Shankar had succumbed to as many as 33 injuries inflicted under the gaze of CCTV cameras at a busy marketplace at Udumalpet town in Tamil Nadu in March 2016. The assailants grievously attacked his wife Kowsalya, Chinnasamy’s daughter. Fortunately, she survived and her courageous deposition against her parents and fellow members of the dominant Thevar community led to the trial court sentencing her father and five assailants to death. The verdict was a shot in the arm for progressive sections concerned about the rising trend in murders and attacks related to caste pride. The exoneration of Kowsalya’s family impedes the social agenda of protecting the freedom of women to make marital choices. The failure to prove the conspiracy charge reflects poorly on the investigation and prosecution. The main question that arises is who had sent the assailants to eliminate the couple, if not Kowsalya’s parents. It is indeed true that a conspiracy ought to be proved through an unbroken chain of circumstances, and that strong suspicion cannot take the place of proof. However, it is unfortunate that the court treated a peaceful parting of ways in the family soon after their temple wedding in 2015 — when Kowsalya gave a written statement before the police that her parents did not interfere with her marital life and her father’s complaint that Shankar had ‘abducted’ her was closed — as evidence that her father could not have plotted to attack them. It is not beyond human nature to suppress one’s anger in public and strike at a more opportune time. It is possible to say the court could have taken a different view of the call records that showed Chinnasamy being in contact with the assailants and withdrawing money close to the crime. Despite some flaws in its case, the prosecution is expected to appeal against the verdict. It will be in the society’s interest that the Supreme Court gets to examine the full dimensions of this horrific crime.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Downing the shutters||The White House has made a proclamation restricting the issuance of non-immigrant work visas across the board, purportedly to clamp down on American jobs going to foreign workers, a consistent policy priority of the Donald Trump administration. The broad-brush order includes the H-1B visa for skilled workers, which is widely garnered by Indian nationals, the H-2B visa issued to seasonal workers in the landscaping and hospitality industries, the L-1 visa for intra-company transfers, and the J-1 visa for students on work-study summer programmes. It will also impact the H-4 visa for dependents of H-1B visa holders. The proclamation will enter into force on June 24 and be applicable until the end of the calendar year, which notably includes the November 3 presidential election. It is intended as a follow-on order reducing the number of foreigners entering the U.S., as it comes on the back of the 60-day halt in legal migration that began on April 23. While a broad swathe of workers is likely to be affected by the latest pause in visa processing, the latest restrictions will not apply to visa-holders who are already within the U.S., or those who are outside it and have already been issued valid visas. The reasoning offered by the White House is that the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has “significantly disrupted Americans’ livelihoods,” to the extent that the overall unemployment rate in the country nearly quadrupled between February and May 2020 to 13.3%. There is little doubt that the policies of the Trump White House are likely to genuflect to the broader requirements of the 2020 presidential campaign, one of which is a sharp focus on “America First,” or in this case the need to project aggressive action against American jobs allegedly being lost to foreign workers. This week’s proclamation offered data to bolster that claim, noting that between February and April, “more than 20 million U.S. workers lost their jobs in key industries where employers are currently requesting H-1B and L workers to fill positions”. It also observed that similar or higher numbers could be found in the other listed visa categories. However, Mr. Trump may find that the blowback from America Inc., the employers of millions of non-immigrant foreign workers, is speedy and savage. Already Google CEO Sundar Pichai has responded by tweeting, “Immigration has contributed immensely to America’s economic success, making it a global leader in tech, and also Google the company it is today. Disappointed by today’s proclamation — we’ll continue to stand with immigrants and work to expand opportunity for all.” If more captains of the Fortune 500 companies strike this note of disappointment — and lobby quietly behind closed doors to boost the prospects of Mr. Trump’s rival in the November election, former Democratic Vice-President Joe Biden — this might be the straw that breaks the back of the Trump campaign juggernaut.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||U.K. to resume arms sales to S. Africa||Mr. Heath’s new Conservative Government gave itself a bad start to-day [June 23, 1970] with its reported decision to resume arms sales to South Africa at an early date. The sales though selective and strictly controlled, would still be contrary to the spirit of the 1963 U.N. Council resolution, which the Wilson Government had respected. The proposed sale is said to cover supply of, and repairs to, armaments from Britain. It was meant primarily to let Britain use a South African naval base within a general concept of keeping the seaway around the Cape of Good Hope open to free navigation. Although the Russian naval presence in the Indian Ocean has recently increased, it cannot be seriously contended that shipping around the Cape of Good Hope is threatened. Even NATO sees a Russian naval threat in the Mediterranean and not in the Indian Ocean around South Africa. The scope of the Simonstown agreement had been interpreted by South Africa to include naval and other arms supplies to that country to strengthen its capacity to safeguard the seaway. Whether the Tories agree with this interpretation of the agreement is not clear.
24 June 2020||Belgrade,||Djokovic tests positive for COVID-19||Novak Djokovic tested positive for the coronavirus on Tuesday after taking part in a tennis exhibition series — the Adria Tour— he organised in Serbia and Croatia. The World No. 1 is the fourth player to test positive for the virus after first playing in Belgrade and then again last weekend in Zadar, Croatia. His wife also tested positive. “The moment we arrived in Belgrade we went to be tested. My result is positive, just as Jelena’s, while the results of our children are negative,” Djokovic said in a statement. Criticism Djokovic has been criticised for organising the tournament and bringing in players from other countries amid the pandemic. There were no social distancing measures observed at the matches in both Serbia and Croatia. Earlier in the day, Viktor Troicki had said he and his pregnant wife had both been diagnosed with the virus. Grigor Dimitrov, a three-time Grand Slam semifinalist from Bulgaria, on Sunday and Borna Coric, on Monday, had also tested positive. The Serb defended the exhibition series. “Everything we did in the past month, we did with a pure heart and sincere intentions,” Djokovic said. “Our tournament was meant to unite and share a message of solidarity and compassion throughout the region.” He apologised to anyone who had been infected as a result of the series.  Timeline of events  May 26: World No. 1 Novak Djokovic announces the Adria Tour, across five locations in the Balkans, with fellow top players Grigor Dimitrov, Alexander Zverev, Borna Coric and Marin Cilic as invitees  June 13: At the first leg in Belgrade (June 13-14), Djokovic is severely criticised for allowing thousands of fans to congregate with scant regard for distancing norms and without wearing masks  June 14: Djokovic defends himself saying the Tour was following “Serbian government regulations” and since Serbia has “better numbers,” it’s very difficult to think of “international standards”  June 16: Videos emerge of Djokovic, Zverev and Dimitrov dancing at a packed party hall in Belgrade  June 21: Tour moves from Belgrade to Zadar and Dimitrov announces that he has tested positive for COVID-19 after returning to his base in Monaco. “I am so sorry for any harm I might have caused,” he says The final of the Zadar leg, between Djokovic and Andrey Rublev, is cancelled  June 22: Coric announces that he has tested positive too. Zverev and Cilic say they tested negative. Zverev apologises to “anyone that he has potentially put at risk by playing this tour”  June 23: Djokovic tests positive on his arrival in Belgrade  Compiled by N. Sudarshan
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,||KGA suspends activities at club||The Karnataka Golf Association (KGA) suspended golf activities and shut the club premises here after a member tested positive for COVID-19. An official stated that the member, who played a round at the club on June 13, tested positive on Tuesday. The member’s family contacted KGA and informed it of his condition. The club then communicated to all members that the facility will be shut as a “precautionary measure”. The premises will be thoroughly disinfected and sanitised and a decision on resumption of golf activities will be taken at a later date.  The club is making an effort to identify and inform the people who may have come in contact with the infected golfer — be it fellow members, caddies or club staff.  Around a month ago, KGA and other golf clubs like Prestige Golfshire and Eagleton were among the first sports facilities in the city to reopen since the lockdown came into effect. The clubs had secured permission from the State government to resume operations, and put in place several precautionary measures to keep golfers safe. Safety measures At KGA, golf bags were sanitised on arrival, and caddies were educated about the safety protocols and given disposable gloves for use. Social distancing was implemented, and hygiene precautions were followed in the food and beverages area. Prestige Golfshire and Eagleton, meanwhile, will continue to conduct golf activities as normal. Both clubs have safety measures in place, and see no cause for alarm. If anything, the clubs will tighten the already strict precautionary norms.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Sharath, Sathiyan and Neha to raise funds||India’s top table tennis stars Sharath Kamal and G. Sathiyan and Olympian Neha Aggarwal have come together to champion the cause of paddlers, coaches and support staff whose lives have been affected by the pandemic. The campaign, backed by GoSports Foundation, seeks to raise Rs. 10 lakh for 100 beneficiaries. Working together Inspired by the recent success of Olympic Gold Quest and GoSports Foundation in raising more than Rs. 20 lakh for struggling junior hockey players, the three paddlers put their heads together to get the work started, thanks to the initiative taken by Neha. “We have carefully curated the list. We are supporting everyone in the table tennis fraternity who needs help. We have already raised funds for 20 people,” Neha told The Hindu on Tuesday. Sharath said the idea was to “share the burden” of individuals whose lives depended on table tennis. "COVID-19 has affected sports in a big way,” he said. “The inspiration [for the initiative] was also partly the work done by paddlers from Tamil Nadu who raised money for deserving coaches.” Sathiyan said they have zeroed in on trusted people in different regions to identify players, coaches and support staff in need of help. “We don’t want to lose the momentum at a time when TT is on the rise,” he said.
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Smart planning is very important, says Sindhu||World champion P.V. Sindhu feels it is very important to plan the tournament schedule smartly whenever it is viable to resume. “Yes, we all wanted to play in the 2020 Olympics which was just two months away when the COVID-19 crisis hit hard globally. Will be ready “But, then again, it is a question of one year and, hopefully, we will all be ready for the Games if everything goes fine,” the 24-year-old Sindhu said during a live interaction on Instagram as part of the Olympic Day Workout on Tuesday which featured 21 top athletes from across the world. “It is very important to plan smartly the tournament schedule once the action begins on the circuit. I know every individual has a different mindset. But the key will be to stay positive,” she said. “The next big event scheduled for us is Chinese Taipei in September this year if everything is fine. Yes, definitely waiting for that to happen,” Sindhu said.  “These are hard times and it is equally important to keep oneself busy to stay positive,” she said. “This lockdown also helped us learn new things in life,” she added. “Life comes first so the emphasis right now is on safety and that is the reason I have been training at home to stay in touch with the game,” she replied to a query. “Fitness is obviously the priority during this phase and I am glad that I am in the right frame of mind,” she added. The Rio Olympics silver medallist also said that she is ready and keeps believing in herself. “I have five medals in the Worlds — two bronze, two silver and a gold — but definitely eager to win some more. Working really hard and will give my best,” she said with a big smile. Sindhu also gave a glimpse of her fitness consciousness, saying, “I do yoga, meditation apart from the regular exercises to keep my body fit as they help us stay focused.”
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The quiet champion who just kept playing||Can a player be called ‘great’ — that most misused term in sports — if he hasn’t performed at the highest level? Or won the most important tournament in his sport? Does not having won Wimbledon make Ivan Lendl or Ken Rosewall lesser players, or are they ‘great’ regardless? Barry Richards was a fabulous player, probably the best batsman of his time, whose Test career was restricted to four matches owing to South Africa’s policy of apartheid which caused them to be banned from international cricket. He finished with a Test average of 72.57, but is that enough for ‘greatness’ alongside his 28,000 runs in first class cricket (average 54.74)? It takes a leap of faith to imagine that consistent performers at the domestic level would, given the opportunity, excel at the international level too. National selectors have to make the leap all the time — sometimes they see in their mind’s eye a successful career for a player despite a modest domestic record, and at other times they intuit that a statistically significant record in domestic matches is no guarantee of success at the highest level. Being human, they get it right sometimes, and mess it up at other times. Had the late Rajinder Goel been born in any other country or even in India at another time, he might have qualified for the title of ‘great’. He might have been — one can never be sure of these things that require a leap of faith — the finest spin bowler never to have played Test cricket. In a warm and generous tribute, Bishan Bedi, the man who kept him out of the Test side, said that when he made his debut, Goel was the better bowler but Bedi himself got the lucky break. But Goel himself always conceded that Bedi was superior. There was another inflection point some eight years later when Bedi was dropped for the Bengaluru Test against Clive Lloyd’s West Indies and Goel was in the squad. Skipper Tiger Pataudi didn’t insist that Goel play on that turner, a decision that might (leap of faith again!) have swung the game in India’s favour. “Had Goel played,” Bedi said later, “India would certainly have won the Test.” It was difficult to shake off the feeling that Bedi was being protected by the powers that be. It was, said Dilip Doshi, a successor to Bedi, a cowardly decision. The point is not whether Goel would have finished with more wickets than Bedi’s 266 or led India — but that he was not given the opportunity. Unbelievable motivation Amazingly, and that was the kind of person he was, Goel was less troubled by all this than most people who followed the game. It took unbelievable motivation to keep bowling over after over, day in and day out, year after year knowing that the big prize was not within grasp any more. Goel, four years older than Bedi was still playing four years after the Test man had retired. On his Ranji debut, Goel played against Lala Amarnath, and in his final match dismissed Sanjay Manjrekar. There are a few generations who played in-between! They were different types of bowlers (Goel flatter and quicker through the air) and different types of men (Goel diffident, agreeable, even deferential, words you never associated with Bedi!). Both men were given the C K Nayudu Lifetime Achievement Award by the Board of Control for Cricket in India. Goel seemed almost embarrassed by the honour, but that evening at the ceremony you could see the pride in his eyes. It was validation for a player who never sought validation. He was happy he had taken more wickets in the national championship than anybody else. Statistical quirk It is a statistical quirk that only one of six batsmen with the highest aggregates in the national championship has played Test cricket while only one of the top six bowlers hasn’t. Goel, that lone bowler, didn’t dwell on this too much. He came, he bowled, he conquered. He wore out the batsman, he seldom bowled a loose ball. He was a captain’s delight, a foot soldier who made no demands, who was happy with the field he was given. No one had a harsh word for him, which in the competitive world of sport is an achievement in itself. Was he a great bowler? Perhaps. That greatness might have existed in potential, but did not have the chance to assert itself over a career spanning 27 years. In the end, he came up against a better bowler and a future captain, understood his role and made his peace with that. There is a lesson here for the easily disappointed who complain about unfair treatment by selectors anywhere.
24 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Reinvention key in post-pandemic phase’||Olympic medallist and 18-time Grand Slam champion Leander Paes is a reservoir of knowledge. Ever willing to share his rich experience, the 47-year-old, addressed as ‘forever young’ Paes by Radhakrishnan Sreenivasan in his chat show, addressed a few salient points. Stressing that adapting to the new normal would be the way forward in the post-pandemic world, Leander said that he had reinvented himself multiple times in his three decades as a professional. “We have to reinvent ourselves. Many have to look at other opportunities for a living. The world is going to be different. Maximising your skill-set is the call of the day,” said Leander, about the stark realities of the impending future. Conceding that he has had a “blessed career”, Paes said that he was able to appreciate the time on hand in the current scenario and be with his family. “No matter how good, a hotel is only four walls and a TV,” he said, looking back at those 40 odd weeks in each year that he spent travelling. In a sport that is so rich in competition across the world, Paes said that he had to maximise on his 'God-given talent', with hard work and a strong mental attitude. Channelising time “I sleep only about five to six hours a day. I channelise the time to train myself to be better. So, when I compete with the others, I am physically and mentally sharper,” said Paes. Stating that he had a collection of nearly a thousand racquets that can trace his career graph, Paes said that he resumed playing tennis recently with a wooden racquet to take up the challenge of hitting the sweet spot within a small frame. Learning from the best was his mantra, Paes said, and observed that “creativity and learning skill will move you to the forefront.”
24 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Need to overhaul training in Sports Hostels stressed||The declining standards of Sports Hostels and the need to overhaul the selection process and trainees’ training were the key points raised by panellists in the webinar ‘Nurturing talent post COVID-19’, organised by the Kerala Olympic Association (KOA) as part of the Olympic Day celebrations. The webinar was inaugurated by Kerala Assembly Speaker, Sreeramakrishnan. S. Rajiv, secretary of KOA and FINA referee, said a foolproof selection process was vital in order to ensure that the trainees were selected only on merit. He revealed that quite often trainees were selected on recommendation, affecting the quality of sportspersons produced by these hostels. Rajiv said that Kerala, a pioneer in establishing sports hostels in the country, has seen a sharp decline in standards while the other States have stolen a march over it. Improve infrastructure Padmini Thomas, Arjuna awardee and former Kerala State Sports Council president, called for an improvement in infrastructure at the grassroot level. She said many panchayats in the State lacked basic sports infrastructure. She requested the Government to put in place a proper mechanism to monitor the functioning of Sports Hostels, adding that the squalid living conditions and poor quality of food were forcing the trainees to stay away from these hostels. Radhakrishnan Nair, deputy coach of the Indian athletics team, said burnouts was becoming a common phenomenon among the junior athletes. He said that many coaches working with the junior athletes were ignorant of this and wanted quick results. He also felt that the media hype over achievements in the short-term could prove disruptive to the long-term progress of the athletes. Faulty technique Wilson Cherian, International swimmer and Arjuna Awardee, pointed out the faulty technique of the swimmers emerging from the Sports Hostels in Kerala. He wanted the Government and Sports Council to conduct refresher courses in all disciplines to enlighten the coaches about the latest trends. P. Anil Kumar, secretary, Kerala Football Association, stressed the need to catch them young. He said it was time Kerala followed the scouting methods adopted by the European countries to tap talent. Jiji Thompson, former DG of SAI, moderated the discussion.
24 June 2020||Kochi,||Best time to correct mistakes: Bobby Joseph||Locked down in their homes, Kerala’s table tennis players may have been out of action for more than two months but they did not appear very anxious when they returned to the sport. There was no sense of urgency too to make up for the lost time too. “We resumed training two weeks ago and most of them were sure there would not be any tournaments this year, so they were relaxed,” said Bobby Joseph, who produced a steady stream of talented players from his base in Alappuzha, in a chat with The Hindu . The SDV Table Tennis Academy in Alappuzha, where Joseph is now the head coach, resumed training two weeks ago and the number of players is just about 40 per cent of the pre-lockdown figure. Best players “Most of the players in our academy are in the eight to 12 years age-group but we did not invite the under-12 players when we restarted training. However, we did include three girls, above 10, who performed very well in the mini cadet section last year,” said Joseph whose best players Maria Rony and Seraha Jacob are now playing for Karnataka and Tamil Nadu respectively. “Actually, some parents are still scared and are not sending their children. And we did not want to force parents because if one gets infected, then the responsibility will be on us.” With no tournament goals this season, Joseph feels that players could now work on correcting their technique. “Basically, this is a good time to correct mistakes and for skill improvement more than tactical training,” he said. The players may have been a bit rusty when training resumed but fitness was not an issue. Online fitness “We had online fitness and action practice sessions during the lockdown. And Maria Roni and Seraha Jacob gave service training through Whatsapp to the beginners and the intermediate group. And the players used it to try it on the bed or the dining table at home,” said Joseph. Joseph feels that tournaments would begin only when there is no quarantine for people travelling from place to place. And when competition resumes, the Alappuzha players would be keen to try out the new tricks they have picked up.
24 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Will fully cooperate with NADA: RFI||The Rowing Federation of India (RFI) has taken the matter of an Adverse Analytical Finding being issued against 22 junior rowers seriously and is committed to drug-free rowing and will fully cooperate with NADA in ensuring the same, M.V. Sriram, RFI secretary-general said. “This Adverse Analytical Finding being issued against 22 junior rowers, who attended the national training camp held at Hyderabad in July 2019, is being looked at seriously,” Sriram said in a statement on Tuesday. “We are also given to understand that the rowers have waived the testing of the B-Sample in light of their inability to travel to Doha due to COVID-19 related travel restrictions,” the RFI official said. “The Federation is speaking to the stakeholders who were involved in organising and conducting the camp and will not tolerate any mischief or misdemeanor in relation to the sport in India. “The matter is pending before NADA and involves minor rowers, therefore, we assure complete co-operation in ensuring that the proceedings are held in a fair manner to ensure effective governance of the sport in India,” Sriram added. Wrongdoing denied “We also deny any wrongdoing, as an Institution, as alleged in some papers and would like to state that NADA officials have been regularly visiting our coaching camps and interacting with out attendees.”
24 June 2020||Manchester,||Man City routs depleted Burnley||Manchester City thrashed Burnley 5-0 to ensure Liverpool will not be able to clinch the Premier League title when it faces Crystal Palace on Wednesday. Phil Foden and Riyad Mahrez scored twice, while David Silva grabbed one. A bad night for Burnley on the field was compounded by a banner flown over the stadium at the start of the match reading: “White lives matter Burnley”. In a statement, Burnley said: “Those responsible are not welcome at Turf Moor. This, in no way, represents what Burnley Football Club stands for.” The disparity of resources between the sides was shown even before kick-off as Burnley boss Sean Dyche could not even fill his bench, while Pep Guardiola was able to make eight changes from a 3-0 win over Arsenal on Wednesday.  The results:   Premier League: Manchester City 5 (Foden 22, 63, Mahrez 43, 45+2, David Silva 51) bt Burnley 0.   Serie A: Bologna 0 lost to Juventus 2 (Cristiano Ronaldo 23-pen, Dybala 36); Fiorentina 1 (Pezzella 29) drew with Brescia 1 (Donnarumma 17-pen); Lecce 1 (Mancosu 54-pen) lost to AC Milan 4 (Castillejo 26, Bonaventura 55, Rebic 57, Leao 72).   LaLiga: Villarreal 2 (Alcacer 18, Pau Torres 45+4) drew with Sevilla 2 (Escudero 39, Munir 63).
24 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Checkmate Coronavirus programme is a big hit||World chess governing body FIDE’s novel initiative to take on the novel coronavirus has proved a roaring success. The month-long Checkmate Coronavirus programme had aimed to have 1,500 online chess tournaments, but it exceeded the target by a long margin. As many as 2,762 tournaments were played over the last one month on portals like chess.com , chess24.com and lichess.org . There were 520,000 entries and 120,000 unique players from 140 countries. They played for 720 hours non-stop. Those numbers are no doubt impressive. FIDE thinks it must be a World record. It clearly has succeeded in taking the mind-sport to more people. Top players take part What made the programme special was that players of different levels took part. It was not just the beginners or those view chess as a hobby that competed as 20% of the world’s Grandmasters and 10% of all the titled players played. Among the male top stars were Ding Liren, Anish Giri, Wang Hao, Peter Svidler and David Navara. Four women who have been the World champions — Hou Yifan, Alexandra Kosteniuk, Antoaneta Stefanova and Tan Zhongyi — also competed. The winners were aged between nine and 64 and they were from 37 different countries, including India. They would also get to play mini matches with Grandmasters and receive training.
24 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Swimming Bulletin’s 40th edition released||The swimming pools across the country remain closed due to COVID-19, but the 40th edition of the VK Pahuja Swimming Bulletin came out as per schedule. Compiled by Meenakshi Pahuja, Asst. Professor of Physical Education, Lady Shri Ram College, the book was released by former Union Minister Maneka Sanjay Gandhi at her residence here on Tuesday. Only Meenakshi’s sister Dr. Supriya and brother Priyank were present at the release. The book, released on June 23 every year, has packed a lot in 440 pages. Divided into six sections, it has interesting articles on diet, sports injuries and physically challenged children written by doctors, lecturers and swimmers. There is also a special feature on the eight Indian swimmers who have achieved the ‘B’ qualifying standard for the Tokyo Olympics. The bulletin was started by Pahuja, international water polo player and coach.
24 June 2020||Bengaluru,||KSCA U-19 camp from next week||A conditioning camp for the core group of under-19 State cricketers will commence at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium here on Monday. This will mark the first instance of official cricket activity authorised by the Karnataka State Cricket Association (KSCA) since the coronavirus-affected lockdown was imposed. Players will train in batches, focusing mostly on yoga, fitness and fielding drills. Indoor nets will be held. Players will not be able to use the gymnasium and the swimming pool at the KSCA, as the State government mandates that both remain shut. Precautionary measures like social distancing, temperature checks and regular sanitising will be in place. The KSCA has worked out a camp schedule for the senior State players as well, which will be announced at a later date. At present, most Karnataka cricketers are training at their respective clubs.
24 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Paine plays down the impact of crowds||Skipper Tim Paine has downplayed the impact of the crowd during Australia’s home series against India later this year. “I don’t think it (no crowd) should affect anyone. Once you go out there, it very quickly narrows down to what’s happening on the pitch,” said Paine. The Australian government had earlier announced that some venues will be able to host up to 10,000 spectators for sporting events from July. Paine, however, chose to focus on the controllables. “Most players tend to forget the crowd once they’re in the heat of the battle. So crowd or no crowd, it’ll all boil down to performing and executing your skills better,” added Paine. Paine was also of the view that the outcome of the Test series against India will largely depend on how the Australian batsmen fare against a potent bowling attack. “We certainly struggled against them last time. That said, they (India) played really well. I’m sure we’ve learnt a lot from playing against them last summer... we think we are a better team now than we were then.”  Meanwhile, there has been a spike in coronavirus cases in Victoria and Paine said “all options are on the table” as far as the venue for the Boxing Day Test is concerned. It is traditionally held at the MCG.
24 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Prannoy apologises to BAI||Shuttler H.S. Prannoy, who was critical of the Badminton Association of India when his name was not recommended for the Arjuna Award recently, submitted an unconditional apology to the BAI on Tuesday. In response to the show-cause letter, Prannoy apologised for the remarks he made about the country, federation and any other person he may have hurt with his statement. BAI general secretary Ajay Singhania said BAI has received the letter from Prannoy while president Himanta Biswa Sarma said the apology has been accepted. “It was unfortunate to witness something like this. Going forward, we hope players reach out to the federation if they have any concern,” a BAI official said.
24 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Harikrishna crashes out||P. Harikrishna exited from the $150,000 Chessable Masters with a final-round defeat to Alexander Grischuk on Monday. Harikrishna, who started with the day with a loss against overnight leader Vladislav Artemiev, held Carlsen, Dubov and Nakamura before losing to Grischuk. The Indian scored three points from 10 round-robin rounds to finish last in the six-player Group A.  The results: Group A: 10th round: Alexander Grischuk (Rus, 5) bt P. Harikrishna (3), Magnus Carlsen (Nor, 6) drew with Vladislav Artemiev (Rus, 6), Hikaru Nakamura (USA, 5) bt Daniil Dubov (Rus, 5), Ninth: Harikrishna drew with Nakamura, Dubov lost to Carlsen, Artemiev drew with Grischuk.   Eighth: Harikrishna drew with Dubov, Artemiev drew with Nakamura, Grischuk drew with Carlsen.   Seventh: Carlsen drew with Harikrishna, Dubov bt Artemiev, Nakamura drew with Grischuk.   Group B: Sixth round: Anish Giri (Ned, 3.5) drew with Maxime Vachier-Lagrave (Fra, 3.5), Ding Liren (Chn, 3) drew with Fabiano Caruana (USA, 3), Teimour Radjabov (Aze, 2) bt Ian Nepomniachtchi (Rus, 3) .
24 June 2020||Los Angeles,||Director Joel Schumacher passes away||Costume designer-turned director Joel Schumacher, known for helming films including “St Elmo’s Fire”, “Falling Down” as well as two “Batman” movies, has died after a year-long battle with cancer, his publicists said. The native New Yorker passed away on Monday morning. He was 80, reported Deadline. Schumacher started off as a costume designer for 1970s films such as Woody Allen directorials “Sleeper” and “Interiors”, along with “Blume in Love”, “The Prisoner of Second Avenue” and “The Last of Sheila”. He also was a production designer on the 1974 telefilm “Killer Bees”. Schumacher then turned writer in the late ‘70s and made his directorial debut in 1981 with sci-fi comedy “The Incredible Shrinking Woman”.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The Lord’s incarnations||The Gita explains the purpose of the Lord’s incarnations as primarily to protect the good, destroy the evil and to establish dharma in the world. The Lord can accomplish all this out of His mere Sankalpa even without taking an avatar. The Lord is ever free, unattached, distinct, birthless and deathless. But He chooses to be born out of His power of Maya. When He takes a human form as in Rama and Krishna avatars, it is not owing to any karma as is the case with jivatmas, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. Like a doctor visiting a hospital to cure the patient, the Lord comes to the world to rid the samsara burden of the jivatmas. The sickness does not pertain to the doctor. To quote another analogy, the Lord’s avatars can be likened to the frequent visits of the official in charge of prisons, who, unlike the prisoner, is not a resident in it. Depending on the exigencies of the situation, there is variety in the ways He appears and the forms He assumes. He comes as Matsya, fish, Kurma, tortoise, and Varaha, boar, to save the Vedas and Dharma. He has taken an avatar as half lion and half man Narasimha to save His devotee Prahlada from Hiranyakasipu’s wrath. He comes out of a pillar in the most astonishing manner and makes true the child’s belief of the Lord’s omnipresence. He explains to Arjuna that He too has assumed many forms in various births just as other jivatmas but out of His own divine Will. He is also fully aware of all the births of all jivatmas while the jivatmas are limited in their understanding of their own past births. Their births are controlled by their prakriti, ignorance and karma. Many eons ago in the hoary past He had instructed Vivaswan these truths which He now explains to Arjuna.
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 09:20 IST,||Sudoku - June 24, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The day after tomorrow||During the lockdown, 21-year-old Kiran wrote a children’s book titled Hope which  won the D’Source Corona Design Challenge, an international competition organised by Indian Institute of Technology - Bombay. Kiran’s work was selected from 1,254 entries from over 2,000 participants in 52 countries. “The book is aimed at creating awareness among kids on COVID-19. I did not expect to win the competition. I had tears of joy when I heard the news. In addition to a certificate and trophy, my book will also be published online by IIT Bombay,” says the postgraduate student from DJ Academy of Design. Set in a rural backdrop, Hope tells the story of a community getting over the pandemic. “It centres around a young girl who teaches the villagers the importance of maintaining social distancing and personal hygiene to tide over the situation.” It took Kiran 10 days to come up with the story and do the illustrations. “I worked from 9.30 am till night. I took breaks only for food. It was challenging, but I thoroughly enjoyed the process.” Her illustration is inspired by kalamkari art. “My professor Sandesh Gaundalker suggested that I use Indian art. So I researched on various art forms like Toda embroidery and kolam designs before I fixed on kalamkari. I think the style has a beautiful feel that goes well with the setting,” she says. Kiran pencil-sketched the illustrations and later used Adobe Photoshop and Illustrator to make the final tweaks. “I am not formally trained in art. All I know is from what I learnt in school and college. I did three drafts before I came up with the final one,” she says. Once the illustrations and story were done, she forwarded them to a few parents of young children. “I wanted to know if it went down well with the kids. Knowing that the children loved the book increased my confidence. The parents also gave me a few suggestions that I incorporated into the book,” she says.  Hope is Kiran’s second book. Her first book called The Bear and a Crab was done as a part of her course. “I downloaded the story from the Internet and drew illustrations to go with each scene. The designs in it are inspired by Toda embroidery and I used the traditional colours of the art — red, black and white in it,” she says. Kiran follows the works of illustrator Jon Klassen known for his book, I Want My Hat Back . “I admire his style and artistic approach. His works inspire me to get over my creative blocks.” Kiran dreams of pursuing graphic designing as a career. “I plan to set up my design studio and this award has boosted my confidence.”
24 June 2020||June 24 2020 00:00 IST,||'Don't be a Sleeping Beauty waiting for Prince Charming'||On the very first day of shooting Bulbbul , actor Rahul Bose thought he was going crazy. The Netflix film, with an 1880s Bengal milieu, features a lavish haveli and equally extravagant costumes. “I didn’t know whether it was my imagination or not, but I saw a woman from that era,” recalls the actor who firmly declares he’s a non-believer of the paranormal. The apparition would only make an appearance when the cameras were rolling no one else seemed to be bothered by the strange woman. Had Bose began his slow descent into madness? A crew member identified the supposed poltergeist. It was director Anvita Dutt decked in beautiful Banarsi saris with a solid red tikka adorning her forehead. “Directors are normally fat men or women, usually unshaven, wearing sneakers with wrinkled socks and a lack of deodorant,” laughs Bose. Inner journeys In addition to crushing Bose’s archetypes, Dutt also looked like a character straight out of her directorial debut Bulbbul . The film – starring Bose along with Avinash Tiwary, Tripti Dimri, Paoli Dam, Rahul Bose and Parambrata Chattopadhyay – slowly unravels a strange mystery. While men indiscriminately drop dead like flies in this Bengali village, sinister events grip the family that lords over the hamlet’s inhabitants. A murderer is on the loose and no one is safe. “When it came to actually writing a story for myself to direct, I sat down and it turned out to be fantasy. If you give me a bird, chances are, it will peck out your eyes.” says the 48-year-old Dutt who voraciously devoures the works of Ursula K. Le Guin, Neil Gaiman and Terry Pratchett. “ Bulbbul started with a vision of a pair of muddy feet with alta (red vermillion), retreating under a sari in fear.” Feet would become a central motif in Bulbbul , taking on supernatural elements and signifying greater social issues that are evident for the clever amongst us to spot.  Distinctive voices For Bose, the film was a no-brainer, not simply for his own complex character, but because of Dutt. “I’ve worked with 11 first-time directors,” he says. “If a director has a calm, assured voice, it automatically puts the audience at ease.” Bose foresees a long, successful career for his director, who will surely create a signature style in Bollywood. In Bulbbul , Dutt’s nascent albeit signature aesthetics lend themselves to her film’s narrative and pace. In spite of the promise of horror, justice and mystery, she doesn’t allow the film to descend into chaos and turbulence. Even Dutt’s protagonist, the eponymous Bulbbul, embodies the virtue of self-assuredness. “There were days, that I was a 20-year-old, then 25-year-old; going back and forth between different zones,” says Tripti Dimri whose character transitions from child bride to matriarch of the household. “I had to focus on my inner journey, to become a person who is comfortable in her own skin.” Against a fictional backdrop intended to entertain, Dutt juxtaposes an important message for women everywhere. Her personal journey, traversing close to five decades, has instilled the importance of agency, being still and complete in oneself regardless of the impact of others. “Those are things you learn and pay a price for,” she says, adding that sub-consciously her protagonist too embarked on a similar course which takes on a brutal and savage approach. But it’s an antithesis to Dutt’s real-life experiences. “I don’t want girls out there to live those 20 extra years to get here,” she asserts. “I want to seed the thought, that it is possible to wake up now. Don’t be sleeping beauties waiting for princes’ kisses. No. Wake up now!” Bulbbul premières on Netflix today
24 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Employer raises Rs. 3.5 lakh after help’s husband dies||When 26-year-old Sapan Shah found out that his domestic help’s husband died of COVID-19 at a private hospital in Saket and she was handed over a bill of Rs. 6.5 lakh, he decided to help raise funds for her. Mr. Shah, a consultant from south Delhi’s Alaknanda, has been raising money for Rangamma (40), a resident of Dakshinpuri. The woman’s 48-year-old husband Selvaraj, a contractual worker with the South Delhi Municipal Corporation, was admitted to Max Super Speciality Hospital in Saket on June 10, where he died last Saturday. Their daughter Divya (23) told The Hindu that her father had been going to work throughout the lockdown period. He had a fever in the first week of June and when he complained of breathlessness, the family took him to a private hospital in Ashram. “They conducted tests and said he might have COVID-19. They refused to admit him and asked us to take him elsewhere. We brought him home,” she said. The next day, Selvaraj was taken to the hospital in Saket. “We knew we couldn’t afford it but my father asked us to take him to a better hospital. He had heard about the conditions of government hospitals and how patients were not treated properly. At the time, we only thought about his well-being,” she added. Remembering one of the last conversations with her father, Divya said that Selvaraj — a diabetic — told them that the hospital was not giving him medicines for his sugar levels. The family said whenever they asked doctors or staffers at the hospital about his health, they told them that he was fine. “We spoke to him on June 17 via video call. The next day he just said he wasn’t able to talk due to breathlessness,” she said, adding that it was the last time the family spoke with him. On June 20, Divya said the hospital handed them a bill of Rs. 6.5 lakh for the 10 days. The hospital allegedly told the family that they had to pay at least Rs. 3.5 lakh before they could take the body. The remaining can be paid in instalments, the hospital authorities told the family. Spokesperson of Max Super Speciality Hospital did not respond to several calls. ‘Used up savings’ “We used my father’s savings, which he had kept for me and my sister’s wedding. We also took loans from relatives and friends,” she said. Initially, Mr. Sapan was clueless about the situation. “I called her to ask if she was doing fine and she told me her husband was in hospital. A few days later, my cook told me that he had died.” Mr. Sapan said that when Rangamma told him about the bill, he along with his flatmate pooled in Rs. 50,000 and decided to raise funds online. By June 23, they had raised Rs. 3.5 lakh. “She’s been working at my place for a year and has been taking care of the house, it’s natural that we take care of her,” he said.
24 June 2020||New Delhi,||DU holds online open house for aspirants||Delhi University held its first ever online ‘open house’ session for aspiring students on Tuesday. The students and parents were apprised of the admission process and encouraged to ask questions. Earlier, the webinar was meant to be conducted over a conference call with prior registrations. However, registrations were closed after over 6,000 people applied. Dean of Admissions Shobha Bagai said that it was then decided that the webinar would be carried out in the form of a live stream. Over 4,000 participants joined on Facebook Live. The staff of the admissions branch went step-by-step through the registration process and answered queries posted by viewers. Applicants were told there would be no separate registrations for merit-based courses and that all of them would be registered for all merit-based courses. This has been done so that grievances related to changing colleges do not arise later, an official said. With regard to questions on the “best of four” subjects required for particular courses, applicants were advised to look up the table provided in the bulletin of information. As such, there have been no changes made in the requirements for admission to particular courses compared to last year, an admissions official said. However, this time, all colleges have been requested not to impose a 5% penalty on students switching from different streams into Bachelor of Arts. Uploading of marks Regarding uploading of marks, officials said the admission portal would re-open after marks from various school boards were finalised. They also said that cut-off lists would depend on as when the boards publish their marks. Other questions pertained to why ECA quota was disallowed and general inquires on other quotas. Students also raised questions about procuring latest certificates for those from EWS, given that district official who would issue these were deployed in COVID-19 duty. Ms. Bagai said EWS applications could also be done online and that the university could not make exemptions for this on its own. The university plans to hold more such webinars.
24 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Monsoon likely to advance over city within 2 days, forecasts IMD||The Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) on Tuesday afternoon said that the Southwest Monsoon has further advanced to Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand and that conditions are favourable for it to advance to Delhi in the next 48 hours. Ahead of the arrival of the monsoon, the maximum temperature was two degrees below normal at 37 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature settled at 27.8 degrees Celsius. Humidity hovered between 63% and 86% but no rainfall was recorded. The impact-based forecast for heavy rainfall shows that moderate rain/thundershowers accompanied by gusty winds (30-40 kmph) is expected to occur till Friday, with heavy rain likely at isolated places on Thursday. The forecast added that major traffic disruption on roads, increased chance of vehicle accidents and water accumulation in low-lying areas and on roads are expected. “Check for traffic congestion on your route before leaving for your destination. Follow any traffic advisories that are issued in this regard. Avoid going to areas that face waterlogging problem often,” the IMD said. The forecast for Wednesday reads: “Generally cloudy sky with light to moderate rain/thundershowers accompanied by gusty winds. Maximum and minimum temperatures should be around 35 and 26 degrees Celsius respectively.”  Desilting of drains Meanwhile, East Delhi Mayor Anju Kamalkant met officials of various departments to review the desilting of drains as part of preparations for the monsoon season. At the meeting with officials of the Public Works Department, Irrigation and Flood Control Department, Delhi Development Authority and municipality, the Mayor asked them to ensure speedy desilting. During the meeting, most of the departments under the Delhi government claimed that they met had their target of desilting, a statement from the East Delhi Municipal Corporation read. Civic body officials also identified certain hot spots where waterlogging during the monsoon tended to be a problem. These included areas such as Vikas Marg, Karaval Nagar, Shiv Vihar and Chand Bagh.
24 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Woman alleges rape on court premises||The Delhi police on Tuesday arrested an orderly of Rouse Avenue Court in central Delhi for allegedly raping a woman on the court premises. The police said they received a PCR call on Monday from a 38-year-old woman accusing a court staffer (ardali) of raping her inside a room in Rouse Avenue Court. The medical examination of the complainant has been conducted, said the police. The accused, Rajendra Singh, a resident of the Kalyanpuri area, has been taken into custody, said the police officer. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said a case has been registered under Section 376 of Indian Penal Code at the IP Estate police station. The statement of the woman has been recorded before a magistrate, said the police.
24 June 2020||New Delhi,||Farooq’s reply sought on plea against his bail||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday sought response from Faisal Farooq, principal of Rajdhani Public School, on the police’s plea challenging bail granted to him in a connection with a north-east Delhi riots case. Justice Suresh Kait asked Mr. Farooq to submit his response within four days and listed the case for further hearing on July 1. The court on Monday had stayed a trial court’s order granting bail to Mr. Farooq on police’s plea. Mr. Farooq was arrested in connection with a north-east Delhi riots case and have been charged under Sections ranging from 307 (attempt to murder), 395 (dacoity), 436 (mischief by fire or explosive substance) amongst others. The police have challenged the trial court’s June 20 order granting bail to Mr. Farooq on the ground that it was prima facie not established that he was present at the spot at the time of incident. In the order granting bail to Mr. Farooq, Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav had pointed out that in none of the CCTV footages installed at Rajdhani Public School, the presence of Mr. Farooq is recorded.
24 June 2020||New Delhi,||Man dies at metro site||A 44-year-old supervisor was killed after a streetlight mast allegedly fell on him while he was working at a Delhi Metro construction site in Jagatpur on Tuesday, said officials. Dilip Kumar Chowdhary was employed with one of DMRC’s contractors, working on the Majlis Park-Maujpur metro corridor of Phase-4. DCP (North) Monika Bhardwaj said an FIR under IPC Section 304 A (causing death by negligence) has been registered.
