24 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Railways to run 2,600 Shramik Specials over the next 10 days||The Railways on Saturday said it would run an additional 2,600 Shramik Special trains in the next 10 days as per the needs of the State governments. This is likely to benefit 36 lakh stranded migrants across the country, Railway Board Chairman V. K. Yadav said. Noting that since May 1, 2,600 such trains had been run, carrying about 35 lakh passengers, Mr. Yadav said the Railways would continue to run such trains as long as they were needed. As per data shared by the Railways, of the 2,600 trains run so far, a maximum of 1,246, or 48.5%, terminated in Uttar Pradesh, and 804, or 31.3%, terminated in Bihar. Four crore migrants As per the last Census figures, more than 4 crore people migrate for work in the country, Punya Salila Srivastava, Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Home Affairs, said during the briefing. She said that in addition to those travelling on the Shramik Specials, more than 40 lakh migrants had travelled on inter-State buses. Mr. Yadav said the Railways had decided to use about 50% of the 5,000 ‘COVID care centre’ coaches for the Shramik Specials as their capacity was currently idle. Replying to a query on a U.P. bound train from Maharashtra reaching Odisha, the Railway Board Chairman said that with 80% of Shramik Specials going to U.P. and Bihar, there was network congestion on the routes; hence, the Railways had diverted some trains to run on alternate routes.
24 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Seven health workers among 62 new cases||Kerala continued to report an increase in COVID-19 cases with 62 persons, including 49 expatriates and Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) from other States, testing positive on Saturday. The rest 13 are cases acquired through contact with known or unknown sources of infection. They include seven health-care workers. Palakkad district accounted for 19 cases, Kannur 16, Malappuram 8, Alappuzha 5, Kozhikode and Kasaragod 4 each, Kollam 3, Kottayam 2 and Wayanad 1. Eighteen cases were reported in persons who came from abroad, including Gulf nations, Singapore and the Maldives, while 31 persons had come from other States, primarily, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Three persons were reported to have recovered from the disease. The exponential increase in COVID-19 cases in the State, following the massive influx of expatriates and NoRKs from various parts of the country where disease transmission is intense, is threatening to swamp the public health system. At present, 275 patients are undergoing treatment in various hospitals in the State. Till date, Kerala has reported 794 cases, with 515 having recovered from the disease. Kerala so far had 88,640 arrivals from abroad and other States. Nearly 7,000 more people were added to the COVID-19 surveillance list by the State, taking the total number under quarantine to 91,084. Of these, 668 persons are under observation in isolation wards in hospitals and 90,416 persons are in either home or institutional quarantine. So far samples from 52,771 persons have been tested, of which 51,045 yielded a negative result. As part of the sentinel surveillance for assessing community transmission, another 7,672 samples have been tested so far. Of these, 7.147 samples have been negative. Nine more areas in Palakkad and Kannur districts were designated as hotspots. At present, there are 37 hotspots in the State.
24 May 2020||New Delhi,||International flights could take off by mid-June: Puri||Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Saturday that commercial international flight operations could start as early as the middle of June if the situation improves and the “virus behaves in a predictable manner”. He said the Centre was in touch with the State governments to solve the problems faced by passengers, who are also “taxpayers”, in reaching airports and said “keeping the lockdown in continuation is not the answer”. He said India went into a lockdown straight and revealed that in one of the meetings, he had argued that “if the lockdown is going to come into effect on day X, I need two-day notice for the U.S.” so that Air India planes could come back. Ambitious goal “As an optimist, I would say why wait till August or September; if situation eases or improves, if the virus behaves in a predictable manner, we get used to the idea to co-exist with the virus and make arrangements … Let us say we have an ambitious goal, why not start in middle of June, end-June or July? I know you will say lockdown is till May 31…nothing is written in stone…we are starting the domestic flights from May 25, we are prepared,” he said. In a live chat on Facebook, Mr. Puri said pricing of tickets is a commercial matter between an airline and the consumer, and the government’s role was limited to issuing advisories. He said airlines have to carry on with “minimum economic viability” and as he keeps getting suggestions and complaints on the issue, he asked a Member of Parliament in a lighter vein whether the “airline operation should be handed over to the Delhi langar society”. Air India requires Rs. 600 crore cash infusion every month and India was currently running Vande Bharat flights to evacuate stranded passengers from 50 countries. He said if private airlines are used for the Vande Bharat mission, then the price of tickets would be capped. In the wake of the pandemic, all domestic and international flights were suspended on March 23, a day before the first phase of the lockdown was imposed. Mr. Puri said 33% of domestic flights would start operating from May 25 and a meeting was under way with the State governments to decide the quarantine process. Some States have insisted on mandatory 14-day institutional quarantine for all incoming passengers.
24 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka records 216 new cases; one death reported||The number of people testing positive for COVID-19 in Karnataka per day crossed the 200 mark on Saturday. The total cases in the State rose to 1,959, with 216 testing positive on Saturday. This is the highest number of cases reported in Karnataka in a single day, the highest earlier being 149 on May 19. The highest number of cases on Saturday were reported in Yadgir where 72 tested positive. The second largest number of cases was reported from Raichur at 40.  Another COVID-19 related death was reported in the State on Saturday. The patient is a 32-year old male resident of Bengaluru Urban, who was admitted in a designated hospital on May 19 and had breathing difficulty and other co-morbid conditions. He passed away on Saturday owing to a cardiac arrest. Travel history An analysis of Saturday’s 216 cases shows that 186 of them (86%) had a travel history from Maharashtra. The analysis of all 1,959 cases in Karnataka shows that majority of the infection source is from domestic travel. This includes 920 cases. The next highest source of infection is through contacts and 781 patients have got COVID-19 after they came in contact with a patient who tested positive earlier. On Saturday the State government issued Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for PG accommodations. They include avoiding common bathrooms, sharing of food and water, and maintaining two-metre distance between beds. All PG staff and residents have also been told to download the Aarogya Setu app and Apthamitra mobile app. They will be screened every time they re-enter the premises.
24 May 2020||MANGALURU,||Two Mangaluru hospitals get ICMR nod for COVID-19 testing||Father Muller Medical College Hospital in the city and K.S. Hegde Hospital in Deralakatte have received approval from ICMR for conducting COVID-19 sample tests. The laboratories at both the hospitals have begun conducting RT-PCR method of testing for COVID-19. Experts from both the hospitals have undergone special training at NIMHANS, which is the mentor institute for COVID testing in the State, the hospitals said in separate press releases. The release from Father Muller Medical College Hospital said that the test will be done only for suspected cases as per ICMR protocol on prescription by physicians with proper documentation using ICMR RT-PCR app. A dedicated kiosk for sample collection is also available at the hospital for out-patients. Specimens are transported to the laboratory through proper cold chain and safety protocols, the release said. K.S. Hegde Hospital said that Amit Kelgi from its Department of Microbiology has been appointed as the Nodal officer of the testing facility The Viral Transport Medium would be provided to all recognised health centres free of cost to collect the throat swab sample. Tests will be done at affordable cost as per government guidelines and test results will be reported by expert staff on the same day, the release said.
24 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||CM: fill vacancies in govt. hospitals, PHCs||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has ordered that all vacancies in government hospitals and primary health centres (PHCs) be filled at the earliest in order to check spread of COVID-19. He has also asked officials to increase the number of beds at COVID hospitals in Anantapur, Kurnool, Chittoor, Nellore, Vijayawada, Guntur, Kakinada and Visakhapatnam. In a review meeting on COVID-19 containment measures at his camp office on Saturday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked all departments concerned to be prepared to handle any contingency likely to be created by the possible influx of a large number of people from other States in the wake of the resumption of trains and flights. He also stressed the need for a “door-level reporting” structure that enables the government to quickly respond to the evolving situation. The Chief Minister pointed out that if people facing the high risk of being infected got themselves tested in advance, deaths could be prevented. Village clinics He reiterated that the fight against COVID-19 was going to be a long-drawn affair as the virus would not vanish overnight, and called for a realistic approach. Village clinics would be helpful in rendering healthcare services at the grass root level, he observed. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney and Special CS (medical, health and family welfare) K.S. Jawahar Reddy were among those who participated.
24 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS reports 52 new COVID cases, 1 death||The State on Saturday recorded 52 COVID-positive cases as well as the death of a patient. This is the fifth consecutive day on which a death has been reported. On Friday, there were three deaths. With another one reported on Saturday, the total number of fatalities now stands at 49. The number of positive cases reported till date is 1,813 with 1,068 having been discharged. After a long gap, the State government released figures of positive cases of those who returned from other countries. On Saturday, at least four foreign evacuees, from Kuwait, tested positive for the novel coronavirus. The bulletin released on Saturday said a large number of migrants is entering the State by road and rail, and they were being screened for symptoms. There were as many as 15 migrant workers who returned from Maharashtra and tested positive. According to the bulletin, the total number of migrants who are COVID-positive now stands at 119.  The Health department also released a special advisory in which it has noted since the relaxations on May 16, there is a lot of movement of people of different age groups and that there has been a surge of positive cases in the past few days. The advisory says those less than 10 years of age and over 60, especially those with morbidities like diabetes and hypertension, should avoid going outdoors. Those going out should wear masks and maintain physical distancing. Workspaces should arrange for handwashing facilities and sanitisers. Citizens have also been advised not to travel unnecessarily and seek medical care in case of flu or influenza-like symptoms.
24 May 2020||New Delhi,||Capital reports 23 COVID-19 deaths, biggest jump in a day||Delhi on Saturday recorded the biggest jump in number of COVID-19 deaths in a day with 23 fatalities, taking the total to 231. All the deaths, however, did not happen over a span of 24 hours. The Delhi government’s health bulletin also reported 591 novel coronavirus infections in the Capital in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 12,910. This is the second-highest number of cases reported in a day in the city. Of the 12,910 cases, 6,267 people have recovered and there are 6,412 active cases.  The first case of COVID-19 was reported in the city on March 2 and around May 8, it was reported that the number of deaths reported by the Delhi government is less than the fatality figures from hospitals. According to the Delhi government, all hospitals send death reports to an audit committee appointed by it which sifts through them and certifies only the ones that fulfil criteria mentioned in the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines as COVID-19 deaths. For more than two months, from March 2 to May 8, only 68 deaths were reported in the city by the Delhi government. After the mismatch in figures was highlighted, from May 9 to May 23, 163 more deaths were reported in less than 15 days. The Delhi government said the number of deaths increased due to audit of the data on deaths not sent earlier by hospitals. From May 14, the Delhi government has stopped releasing hospital-wise COVID-19 deaths in the city.
24 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Boy living in a park reunited with family||A 12-year-old boy, allegedly thrown out of his rented house by the landlord and forced to spend two months in a public park, was finally reunited on Saturday with his parents who were stuck in Bihar because of the lockdown. The reunion involved several benefactors, including a dog lover and two IPS officers, and the almost inevitable role in these times of social media. A woman named Yogita Kumari (25), who lives in Dwarka Sector 1, was feeding dogs in a park in Sector 7 about a month ago when she spotted Vishal lying next to a stray dog. She kept noticing him on several visits until she finally quizzed him sometime in May first week why he doesn’t go home. “He told me he was thrown out of his house  and has been staying at public places. His parents had gone to Bihar’s Samastipur a few days before lockdown and got stuck there,” she said. A potter’s family living near the park was providing him meals for chores in return, he told her. Vishal’s saga became an Instagram story for Ms. Kumari, drawing the attention of an Azamgarh resident named Snehlata Singh, who got in touch and posted the story on Twitter tagging Arun Bothra, an Odisha-cadre IPS officer who in turn called his batchmate Sanjay Kumar, Inspector General of Sashastra Seema Bal’s Bihar sector. The SSB IG alerted his officers in Samastipur, who arranged to put Vishal’s father Santosh Pathak and mother  on a special train running from Bihar to Delhi on Friday. An SSB officer received Mr. Pathak, a security guard by profession, at the New Delhi railway station on Saturday and took him and his wife in a cab to Vishal. “I am happy meeting my son but saddened to see him extremely weak,” the relieved father told The Hindu .
24 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||List of new exam centres published||The State government has sanctioned new examination centres for students appearing for the SSLC, higher secondary, and vocational higher secondary examinations who had applied after getting stuck in other districts and selected the correct medium and course in their application. The students who had selected schools without their courses as their examination centre have been allotted the nearest schools with their subject combinations. Of the 10,920 students who had applied, as many as 677 Plus One students and 440 Plus Two students are learnt to have been allotted centres other than what they had applied owing to this reason. The remaining students have been granted the centre they had preferred. The list is available onhttps://sslcexam.kerala. gov.in,www.hscap.kerala. gov.in,www.vhscap.kerala. gov.inon the link ‘Application for Centre Change.’ The slip allowing the centre change is available by clicking the link ‘Centre Allot Slip.’
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||One more death, 47 new cases in State||The State witnessed one more death due to COVID-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the toll to 56, which was 2.06% of the total cases so far. With 47 fresh cases, the positive cases’ tally reached 2,714, including 153 migrants, and 48 persons recovered during the past day. Five of the fresh cases were linked to Koyambedu wholesale market, the bulletin by the Health Department said. While 1,804 persons recovered so far, 854 were in hospitals. Excluding the migrant cases, 2,561 positive cases were reported so far and 727 patients were undergoing treatment. New cases are being reported daily in large numbers without respite since the past several days, even as the lockdown has been relaxed. At the same time, the Health Department has stopped revealing details of new cases in the districts, and some of the district administrations too stopped issuing details about cases officially. Average deaths The State has witnessed an average of one death per day during the past one month due to COVID. The latest was reported from Krishna district, which is the third most affected district in the number of cases and second in terms of deaths. Also, in the past one month, the State witnessed an average of 61 cases per day, and the 1,901 cases detected in the past month account for 70% of the cases.
24 May 2020||GUNTUR,||Jagan successful in balancing welfare and development: Sajjala||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was successful in steering the State out of the woods by balancing development and welfare of the people, Sajjala Ramakrishna Reddy, adviser, public affairs, Government of Andhra Pradesh, said on Saturday. Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy was addressing the media after taking part in the celebrations organised in connection with the YSRCP government completing one year in office. The celebrations at the party central office at Tadepalli were a low-key affair as the Chief Minister asked the partymen to stay away in view of the COVID-19 lockdown. The leaders, therefore, confined themselves to garlanding the statue of the former Chief Minister, Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy, and distributing sweets to the local workers. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy was able to tide over many crises in the last one year, Mr. Ramakrishna Reddy said, and added, “ After naming the first year as ‘welfare year’, the Chief Minister has set his sights on restarting the economy post COVID-19 lockdown.” The year that had gone by would be remembered, as the government focused on revamping key sectors of education and health by introducing schemes such as Amma Vodi, Nadu-Nedu and Vidya Deevena. “ As for me, I will give 100% rating to the performance of the government in the last one year,” he said.
24 May 2020||UDUPI,||Udupi buses to give a free ride from May 25 to 30||Private city bus operators will operate their buses free of cost on seven routes from May 25 to 30. Raghupati Bhat, MLA, told presspersons here on Saturday that the free service will be sponsored by the Kadiyali Sarvajanika Ganeshotsava Samiti and the Asare Charitable Trust. Safety measures including maintaining social distance and sanitisation of the buses will be taken up. It will be a limited service. As many as 12 buses will play on seven routes, including Brahmavar. “The aim of the free service is to generate confidence among the people to take up bus travel,” he said. The buses will be available on the following routes: Hoode-Thottam-Malpe-Udupi-Manipal-Parkala; Hoode-Kemmannu-Santhekatte-Cherkady-Pethri-Brahmavar; Sampige Nagar-Kadekar-Ambalpady-Udupi-Manipal-Parkala; Alevoor-  Korangrapady- Udupi-Manipal-  Rajatadri-Udupi-Diana-Alevoor; Pragati Nagar-Manipal-Udupi-Kalsank-Gundibail-Doddanagudde-Perampalli Church; Malpe-Gardimajalu-Santhekatte-Udupi; Kalathur-Santhekatte-Cherkady-Pethri-Brahmavar. Kuilady Suresh Nayak, president of City Bus Operators’ Association, said that the association will be introducing a ‘Chalo Card’ on an experimental basis to promote cashless travel for passengers from June 1. The cards will be given for free to passengers in the buses. The passengers will have to touch the card to a machine installed on the buses. The conductor will then give them a printed ticket. The cards can be recharged online or through recharge centres, which will be started in different parts of the city soon, he said. “If there is good response from people, we will increase the number of buses from June 1,” Mr. Nayak added.
24 May 2020||CHENNAI,||DMK MP Bharathi held under SC/ST Act||DMK Rajya Sabha member R.S. Bharathi was on Saturday arrested by the Chennai Central Crime Branch under the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act for his remarks on appointment of Dalits as judges in February. He was arrested from his house in Alandur. However, Principal Sessions Judge R. Selvakumar granted him interim bail till May 31. The judge took into account the fact that the DMK leader’s family members were doctors and the consequent risk of COVID-19 infection that he posed to jail inmates, if remanded. At an indoor meeting of the Kalaignar Reading Circle in February, Mr. Bharathi, referring to the appointment of certain persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes as judges of the High Court, said, “If they become judges, it is alms given by the Dravidian movement.” A video clip of his remarks was shared widely on social media. Following this, on March 12, acting on a complaint from Kalyanasundaram, president of the Adi Tamizhar Makkal Katchi, the Teynampet police registered an FIR against him under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The case was then transferred to the Central Crime Branch. The DMK MP had earlier argued in the Madras High Court that the leaked remarks could not be read in isolation without listening to his entire speech. He had also prayed for a direction to the Principal Sessions Court to consider his bail application on the day he surrendered. The High Court had adjourned the case to May 27. Following Mr. Bharathi’s arrest, he was produced before the Principal Sessions Judge for remand. Opposing the remand, his counsel also submitted that Mr. Bharathi’s wife and son were doctors and he himself was under home quarantine on account of their profession. The judge held: “A remand can be refused only if there is no prima facie case made out from the prosecution records. Under such circumstances the court finds no reason to refuse the remand. Hence, the accused is remanded to [sic] judicial custody till June 5.” However, the judge added that in view of the COVID-19 situation, there was a possibility of infection of jail inmates if Mr. Bharathi was sent to prison. Besides, since a petition filed by him in the High Court had been adjourned to May 27, “it is better to grant interim bail till May 31”. The judge asked the MP to surrender before the court on June 1, subject to the verdict of the High Court.
24 May 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. goes past 15,500 cases, toll climbs to 103||On a day when Tamil Nadu’s COVID-19 tally breached the 15,000-mark and Chennai recorded its sharpest single-day spike, the toll rose to 103 with the death of five persons in the State. The 759 fresh cases took the State’s total to 15,512* on Saturday. Of this, Chennai reported 625 cases, taking its total to 9,989. Another 363 persons were discharged from hospitals. With this, a total of 7,491 persons have been discharged, leaving the State with 7,915 active cases. All five deaths were reported in Chennai. A 67-year-old man with chronic kidney disease died in a private hospital on May 20, while a 75-year-old woman died at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. Two men — a 68-year-old and 54-year-old — died at RGGGH, while a 53-year-old man died at Govt. Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate. The State’s mortality rate stood at 0.66%. The majority of deaths among COVID-19 patients was due to respiratory distress and respiratory failure. Senior government doctors said that the involvement of both the lungs was the major cause of death among patients. “When the lungs are affected, the oxygen saturation in the blood reduces. There are cases of asymptomatic hypoxemia among COVID-19 patients. In cases of COVID pneumonia, many patients are unaware that they are sinking. This is why we check patients with finger pulse oximeters, segregate those with low oxygen saturation levels, and monitor them frequently,” a doctor explained. Apart from Chennai, Chengalpattu reported 39 cases, Tiruvallur 17 and Kancheepuram 13 cases. There were six new cases in Tiruvannamalai, four in Villupuram, two in Tenkasi, and one each in Cuddalore, Madurai, Pudukottai, Ranipet and Theni. In addition, 49 persons, who had returned from other States and countries, tested positive for COVID-19. Of this, 24 persons, who returned from Maharashtra, tested positive in Cuddalore, Salem, Tiruvannamalai, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Virudhunagar. Six persons from Rajasthan, three from West Bengal and one each from Delhi, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh also tested positive. Seven persons, who had returned from London, and five persons, who returned from the Philippines, tested positive during exit screening. A total of 12,155 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 3,97,340. One more private laboratory — Vivek Laboratories, Kanniyakumari — was approved for COVID-19 testing. As of now, there are 68 testing facilities in the State. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
24 May 2020||Bhopal,||Workers left without food, water on stranded trains||Passengers in at least two Shramik Specials were forced to drink water from toilets as their trains remained stuck for hours at stations without basic facilities in Maharashtra. In a domino effect, congestion at stations in Uttar Pradesh choked tracks further south, delaying several trains a day after the Railways announced a doubling of their frequency. “Even fetching toilet tap water became difficult after a point. People were fighting over it. Forget food, we wanted water. Sharir me paani nahi gaya tha, kamzoori aa rahi thi (With dehydration, we felt weak),” said Lav Kumar Sahni, 18, on a train bound for Ballia in U.P.
24 May 2020||Vijayawada,||Action taken against 23 policemen during lockdown||Action has been taken against 23 police personnel, including a DSP-rank officer, on the basis of complaints of high-handedness and corruption made against them during the lockdown in Krishna and Guntur districts. Director General of Police D. Gautam Sawang said Deputy Superintendent of Police D. Sravan Kumar, attached to the DGP office, who was on bandobust duty in Guntur district, was suspended. “The DSP, who was posted at a picket, allegedly behaved in a high-handed manner with the public. Following a complaint and based on an inquiry, he has been suspended,” the DGP said. ASI Balaji Naik, working in Guntur rural, was arrested on extortion charge. “The ASI allegedly collected Rs. 15,000 from a flour mill owner for allowing him to run his business,” DIG and Guntur Urban SP P.H.D. Ramakrishna said. The court remanded him to judicial custody.
24 May 2020||MYSURU,||Zoos ready to welcome visitors, wait for govt. nod||The managements of zoos in Karnataka, including the century-old Mysuru zoo and the Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) in Bengaluru, are awaiting the State government’s nod for reopening to visitors after nearly two months. Mysuru zoo was shut since March 15 as a measure to combat COVID-19. Other zoos in the State were also closed down on the government’s directive which was followed by the national lockdown. The governing council of the Zoo Authority of Karnataka (ZAK) had met in Bengaluru recently and given its consent to the proposal for reopening the zoos amidst austere compliance of the standard operating procedures (SOPs) and safety guidelines for the visitors, staff and the animals. Mysuru zoo was asked to prepare comprehensive SOPs including social distancing among visitors, wearing of masks and so on to be followed post-COVID-19 lockdown and the same was shared with other zoos. SOPs had been separately prepared for the safety of visitors, staff, and animals based on the advice of health authorities and the vets. So far, no tourist destination had been permitted to open in the State. Following relaxation of curbs, the ZAK hopes to make a new start reopening the zoos although it was not certain of footfall in the current situation. The zoos’ survival was entirely based on the visitors’ entry fee. For example, the maintenance cost of the Mysuru zoo comes up to Rs. 2 crore a month which covers animal feeding, staff salaries and other operating costs. The governing council, headed by the Additional Chief Secretary, Department of Forests, has resolved to seek the government’s nod and sought to know any additional SOPs to be incorporated for the reopening. “We are awaiting government directives on our proposals. The Forest Department has consented. The Health Department and the disaster management authority may be consulted before a decision was taken. The decision rests with the government and ZAK is prepared for reopening by enforcing strict safety norms,” said B.P. Ravi, Member Secretary, ZAK.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Water relief||
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||No child’s play||
24 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||No let-up in tension along LAC with China||India is “closely monitoring the situation and taking appropriate steps”, sources said a day after Army chief General Manoj Naravane visited the Leh-based 14 Corps headquarters to review the “overall situation on the ground,” even as reports indicated that Chinese troops remain in areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh that are patrolled by India. More troops “Situation remains tense at Pangong Tso, Galwan Nalah and Demchok. It is being closely monitored,” sources said. More troops are being moved to the areas of conflict in Sikkim and Ladakh. In particular, sources told The Hindu that Chinese troops were maintaining positions at 3-4 points along Galwan Nalah, from “point 14 to Gogra mountain”.
24 May 2020||BHOPAL,||‘Thrashing’ of lawyer: panel seeks report||The Madhya Pradesh Human Rights Commission has sought a report from the Betul Collector and the Superintendent of Police in two weeks on the reported thrashing of a lawyer by the police, who later told him that they mistook him for a Muslim because he sported a beard. Commission Chairman Narendra Kumar Jain on Friday took cognisance of the incident on March 23, when Deepak Bundele, who is a diabetic, was on his way to hospital. Only prohibitory orders were in force then, ahead of the lockdown. After the incident, Mr. Bundele, who suffered bruises and was left with a bleeding ear, went to a hospital, where he was treated and a medico-legal report was prepared. The Betul police had on Wednesday told The Hindu that the thrashing never took place, and there were no witnesses.
24 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Gear up for more cases: Health Ministry||India must gear up for at least two more months of COVID-19, a summary of a meeting on Saturday involving top officials from the Health Ministry suggests. “Health care infrastructure needs to be ramped up for the next two months with focus on isolation beds with oxygen, ventilators and ICU beds,” said a PIB press note. About 70% of India’s cases are emerging from 11 “municipal areas” in seven States: Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan, the Ministry said in a statement.
24 May 2020||Chennai,||New formal sector jobs in T.N. fell by 56% in March||New jobs created in Tamil Nadu’s formal sector plunged nearly 56% in March. According to data collected through the Employees Provident Fund Organisation, around 58,948 joined the workforce in March compared with 1,32,499 in February.
24 May 2020||SALEM,||T.N.’s loss estimated at Rs. 35,000 crore, says CM||Tamil Nadu is likely to suffer a revenue loss of Rs. 35,000 crore against the backdrop of the lockdown, according to an estimate prepared by the Finance Department, CM Edappadi K. Palaniswami said on Saturday.
24 May 2020||Chennai,||Govt. hoping MGNREGS turnout will touch 12 lakh||With no COVID-19 cases being reported from benefi- ciaries or officials of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme in the past month, the Tamil Nadu government expects the turnout of beneficiaries to touch the average mark of 12 lakh soon, a pressnote issued here today said.
24 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Butterflies swarm green spots||As reports of animals and birds uncommon to urban areas being spotted during the lockdown period briefly lifted up forlorn spirits across the world, the garden city too has witnessed a burst of colour from butterflies n green oases that have had a reprieve from humans.
24 May 2020||UDUPI,||Kollur temple suffers revenue loss of Rs. 14 cr.||The Sri Mookambika Temple at Kollur in Udupi district, which suffered a huge loss of revenue due to lockdown, has urged devotees to book for ‘sevas’ online. A release here on Saturday said that the entry of devotees was prohibited by the government on account of the COVID-19.
24 May 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Average of 17 days for patient to get discharged’||A COVID-19 patient in Karnataka, so far, has taken an average of 17.48 days to be discharged after testing positive, according to analysis of data given by the State government in daily bulletins between March 9 and May 22.
24 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fire in COVID-19 hospital in south Delhi, 8 rescued||A fire broke out on the third floor of a private hospital designated for COVID-19 patients in south Delhi on Saturday evening, fire officials said. Eight patients were rescued by the firemen. A Delhi Fire Service official said the information regarding the blaze was received at 5.54 p.m. and it was brought under control within two hours.
24 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||FIR against Daati Maharaj for lockdown violation||The Delhi police on Saturday registered a case against self-styled godman Daati Maharaj and his accomplices for allegedly violating social distancing norms while performing a ceremony at a temple in Maidan Garhi area. The police found some photographs of the ceremony at Shanidham Mandir in Asola.
24 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Rise in COVID-19 positive cases in Kerala; 5 more deaths in TN||The southern States focussed on travellers who had arrived from outside to check for COVID-19 infection, while Andhra Pradesh and Telangana each reported one death on Saturday. Kerala had a fresh increase in cases with 62 persons, including 49 expatriates and Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) from other States testing positive. The other 13 were cases who had “contact” with known or unknown sources of infection. These include seven health-care workers. Palakkad district accounted for 19 cases, Kannur (16), Malappuram (8), Alappuzha (5), Kozhikode and Kasaragod (4 each), Kollam (3), Kottayam (2) and Wayanad (1). Eighteen persons who came from abroad, including the Gulf nations, Singapore and Maldives tested positive, as did 31 persons from other States, primarily, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu. Three persons were reported to have recovered. As of Saturday, 275 COVID-19 patients were undergoing treatment in various hospitals and Kerala’s overall case tally stood at 794 cases, with 515 having recovered. Kerala had 88,640 arrivals from abroad and from other States. The death of one person in Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh raised the toll to 56, representing 2.06% of total cases. With 47 fresh cases, the State case tally touched 2,714 including 153 migrants and 48 who recovered during the past day. Five cases were linked to Koyambedu in Chennai, the Health Department said. As of Saturday, 1,804 persons had recovered and been discharged, while 854 were in hospitals. Excluding migrants, 2,561 positive cases were reported and 727 patients were under treatment. The State said 9,136 samples were tested in the past day and 2.92 lakh tests were done in all. Tests per million population at 5,486, was the “highest” nationally. The death in Telangana marked the fifth consecutive day of fatalities. The State toll was 49 and positive cases 1,813, with 1,068 discharged. Four people from Kuwait and 15 migrant workers from Maharashtra tested positive. In all, 119 migrants tested positive.  Five deaths in T.N. On a day when cases of COVID-19 breached the 15,000-mark in Tamil Nadu, and Chennai recorded its highest single-day spike, the toll rose to 103 with the death of five more people in the State. The tally rose by 759 new cases of COVID-19 to 15,512 on Saturday. Chennai reported 625 cases, taking its total to 9,989. Another 363 persons were discharged from hospitals. With this, a total of 7,491 persons were discharged, while the State had 7,915 active cases. All five deaths were in Chennai. The State’s mortality rate stood at 0.66%. The majority of deaths among COVID-19 positive patients were due to respiratory distress and respiratory failure.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Chennai and Hyderabad Bureaus)
24 May 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata pegs cyclone damage at Rs. 1 lakh crore, toll rises to 86||The death toll in West Bengal due to cyclone Amphan has risen to 86 and the State has suffered a loss of about Rs. 1 lakh crore, Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Saturday. “More than 86 persons have died. 70% people are directly affected, 30% are indirectly affected,” Ms. Banerjee told journalists at the State Secretariat. On the restoration of essential infrastructure and services, the Chief Minister said that the situation was more than a national disaster and the State government was doing all it could. Ms. Banerjee explained that because of the COVID-19 outbreak only 25-30% of the workers were working. She said that about 1,000 teams were working on the ground, adding that the State had requested help from Jharkhand and Odisha. “This is not the time to do politics. Those who are trying to provoke people are wrong,” she said. The Chief Minister touched on the issue of return of migrants to the State and said that the migrants could return after May 27. The State government had written to the Railways to suspend the trains till May 26. The Chief Minister urged the migrants to give an undertaking that they would make their homes their quarantine centres. Earlier, the Chief Minister held an administrative meeting at Namkhana in the badly hit South 24 Parganas and spoke to the district authorities. She directed that any damage to ‘katcha’ houses should be treated as “fully damaged”. Ms. Banerjee said that 10 lakh houses had been damaged in South 24 Parganas district alone. She also met the officials of the Calcutta Electric Supply Corporation, a private company, at their office in central Kolkata accompanied by the Police Commissioner and requested them to work at full capacity. She made similar requests to a State-run power company, as well those in charge of power distribution in the districts. Meanwhile, senior Minister Subrata Mukherjee said the State was “not a rich government and thus everything cannot be corrected in a day”. Appeal for Eid The Chief Minister urged people to maintain social distancing and stay away from religious gatherings on the occasion of Eid-ul Fitr. “The Disaster Management Act bans any religious gathering. The minority brothers and sisters are respecting the Act. I appeal to everyone that in these exceptional times people should pray from home,” she said, adding that she was pained by the circumstances that had prevented people from celebrating religious festivals. Separately on Saturday, BJP State president Dilip Ghosh asserted that he had been stopped from visiting the cyclone ravaged areas of South 24 Parganas. BJP supporters accompanying Mr. Ghosh are reported to have had an altercation with the police. Mr. Ghosh alleged said that while Trinamool Congress leaders were visiting cyclone affected areas, the rule had changed for BJP leaders.
24 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Gear up for more cases: Health Ministry||India must gear up for at least two more months of COVID-19, a summary of a meeting on Saturday involving top officials from the Health Ministry suggests. “Health care infrastructure needs to be ramped up for the next two months with focus on isolation beds with oxygen, ventilators and ICU beds,” a PIB press note summarising the meeting notes. Municipal pockets About 70% of India’s cases are emerging from 11 “municipal areas” in seven States: Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Rajasthan, the Ministry said in a statement. “The major challenge lies in those corporations having shorter doubling time, higher mortality rate and a higher confirmation rate than the national average.” This was part of a meeting convened by Secretary, Health Ministry, Preeti Sudan, in which the Health and Urban Development Secretaries, Municipal Commissioners and officials from these 11 areas had participated. On Saturday, India posted yet another record high of 6,654 confirmed cases taking the number of confirmed cases, according to the Ministry, to 1,25,101, a few thousand below Iran. There were 3,720 deaths as of Saturday with 137 since Friday. The Ministry said 1,15,000 tests were conducted from Friday-Saturday and 2.8 million tests across the nation. It said 51,784 have so far recovered. However, according to the State Health departments, 6,724 tested positive on Saturday, taking the total tally to 1,31,310. Active cases stand at 73,068, while the total death toll is 3,868. Testing needed to be increased in certain municipal areas to ensure early case detection and a reduction in the fatality rate, the Ministry said. There were also lacunae in sample collection, establishing partnerships with private hospitals to increase bed capacity, disinfection of positive areas and management of camps for migrant labourers. Mumbai would soon start a public portal displaying bed availability with unique ID numbers for each bed and a GPS-backed ambulance tracking system, the PIB said.
24 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Dengue, JE strike as Assam battles COVID-19||Misfortunes never come alone, Assam has found out through a series of viral and pest attacks. By 6 p.m. on Saturday, the State’s COVID-19 positive count touched 239 with the addition of 70 infected persons to Friday’s figure. Officials attributed the highest single-day spike to returnees mostly from western and southern States. Around the same time, the Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) said two districts – Barpeta and Lakhimpur – have been affected by flood while the National Health Mission (NHM) updated the number of people under treatment for more familiar viral diseases caused by mosquito bites. “Districts from different parts of Assam have so far reported 14 cases of dengue and 79 cases of acute encephalitis syndrome. There have been three cases of Japanese encephalitis with two having been discharged while one woman is stable but with multiple infections,” NHM State director Lakshmanan S. told The Hindu . “We are facing innumerable challenges with floods starting and the COVID-19 cases spiking,” he said. The State government launched the Assam Community Surveillance programme on May 7 to screen people for diseases associated with the pre-monsoon and monsoon seasons. The programme was initially planned for all but five of the State’s 33 districts where COVID-19 cases had not been reported. “This drive has been affected with almost all districts now reporting COVID-19 cases after the arrival of migrant workers, students and others from elsewhere in the country,” a senior Health Department officer said, declining to be quoted. Two rivers rising An ASDMA official said the heavy rainfall in the northern parts of the State had seen two rivers – Jia-Bharali and Puthimari – flowing above the danger mark. “The damage from this year’s first wave of flood is minimal now with 2,980 people across three villages having been affected. But the challenge is of adhering to COVID-19 protocols while dealing with the flood-affected people who might have to be evacuated to relief camps soon,” she said. A major worry for the Animal Husbandry department is preventing African swine fever (ASF) from getting to domestic pigs in flood-prone areas. ASF has so far claimed more than 17,000 pigs across 10 districts, including Lakhimpur where the flood has affected 105 hectares of cropland while a bridge collapsed and river embankment breached. Agriculture and Veterinary Minister Atul Bora said the year had been tough for villagers, some of whom grappled with fall armyworm attack while a section of more than 7 lakh pig farmers lost their source of income because of ASF.  No home quarantine Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Saturday talked tough, asserting that nobody arriving from outside the State would be allowed to go for home quarantine without undergoing seven days of institutional quarantine. “It is advisable to stay where they are. We have transferred Rs. 2,000 each to many of the stranded people and will provide more financial assistance,” he said.
24 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Proof of HCQ’s efficacy will be available in July||Proof of whether hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), the controversial anti-malarial drug, can stave off COVID-19 infection will be available by July, a senior scientist of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), leading a large trial of the drug in healthcare workers, told The Hindu . In the largest Indian study of its kind, 2,000 doctors, nurses, paramedical workers, lab technicians and sanitary workers at five Indian hospitals are part of this trial, which began in May. The aim of the observational study is to check if at all, and to what extent, a regimen of HCQ will shield these healthcare workers, who work in dedicated COVID-19 hospitals and therefore at a high risk of contracting the novel coronavirus. The participants were first confirmed negative. ‘Ideal situation’ Ideally the efficacy of a drug ought to be measured through a double-blind randomised clinical trial. “That’s the ideal situation,” said Suman Kanungo, scientist, ICMR-National Institute for Cholera and Enteric Diseases, who is coordinating the study. However, the ICMR “settled” for an observational study because it would be “unethical” to deny someone the medicine if there was even a slight beneficial effect and secondly, because participants were already on the medicine the trial organisers could not find a control group. While not recommended for the public as a preventive, the ICMR’s default position, since March 21, has been to allow the use of HCQ in people at a high risk of contracting the virus. These include asymptomatic healthcare workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed COVID-19 cases and asymptomatic household contacts of laboratory confirmed cases. On May 22, it expanded it to include asymptomatic front-line workers, such as surveillance workers deployed in containment zones and paramilitary/police personnel involved in COVID-19-related activities. There are caveats though: the drug is inadvisable in those with retinopathy, cardiac rhythm disorders and pre-existing cardiomyopathy. Coincidentally, this was also a day when a study of 96,000 hospitalised SARS-CoV-2 patients across six continents, published in The Lancet , found no benefit — even additional harm — in those being treated with HCQ and related chloroquine. Dr. Kanungo said he was aware of this study but it was still important to wait for observational data from India. Like the Lancet study, several others have shown HCQ not to benefit moderately sick or those severely ill with COVID-19. There are yet no studies — though several are in the pipeline internationally — that can definitely rule out if it works as a preventive in those apparently healthy. “There are mixed results from all over and the process of establishing efficacy is ongoing. At some point, we will do a meta-analysis that will examine all studies to determine the effect. In the meantime, the drug is being prescribed with adequate safeguards. Remember, this is not an antiviral. It doesn’t kill the virus, only modulates the immune system (to mount a measured response to the virus). The cardiac problems have been observed when HCQ is given in a combination with azithromycin. In our study, we are using it as a single dose drug,” he added.
24 May 2020||KOCHI,||‘Smaller films can opt for direct-to-digital premiere’||Producers of small and medium-budget movies can opt for a direct-to-digital premiere to recover their investments following the uncertainty over the reopening of cinemas amid the pandemic, according to the Kerala Film Producers Association (KFPA). The producers’ body is of the view that such movies may face a sub-optimal showcasing when cinemas reopen in view of the considerable backlog of movies awaiting release. “The OTT (over-the-top) release will not be feasible for big-budget movies, taking into account the gaps in the return on investment compared to a theatrical release,” said B. Rakesh, treasurer of the KFPA, on Saturday. “Smaller films will be in a better position to recover the investment while going for a direct release on the digital platform,” he added. “The direct OTT release of smaller movies will not have a major dent on the prospects of the exhibitors. Majority of the producers agree that the cinematic experience of a theatrical release cannot be replaced by the digital platforms,” said Mr. Rakesh. G. Suresh Kumar, former president, KFPA, said there had been no official confirmation yet on the direct-to-digital release of Malayalam movies, except for Sufiyum Sujathayum . “It seems discussions are being carried out by intermediaries on behalf of the producers who are ready for a direct digital release. The intermediaries will also claim a share of the pie once the OTT deal is secured,” he said. On the financial impact of the COVID-19 outbreak, Mr. Rakesh said movies worth more than Rs. 350 crore in investment had been affected. “Nearly 20 movies are ready for release when the cinemas open. Twenty-five to 30 films are in various stages of post-production,” he said. Mr. Rakesh said the Kerala Film Chamber of Commerce had convened a meeting of producers, distributors, and exhibitors on May 27 to chalk out the way forward and to seek relief from the government to tide over the COVID-19 crisis.
24 May 2020||New Delhi,||Mayawati blames exodus of migrants on Congress||The Congress is responsible for the plight of migrant workers in the entire country, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) leader Mayawati said on Saturday. The BSP stayed away from a meeting of 22 Opposition parties hosted on Friday by the Congress to discuss the COVID-19 pandemic and its economic fallout. “The Congress is the real culprit in the plight of crores of migrant workers in the entire country due to the coronavirus lockdown. Had it provided enough employment opportunities, no worker would have left his home State. There would have been no exodus today,” she wrote on Twitter. Referring to the video of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi interacting with migrants in Delhi, Ms. Mayawati said that instead of indulging in theatrics, “it would have been better had the Congress told how many people it had genuinely helped...” She also urged the BJP not to follow in the footsteps of the Congress. “If the BJP government, instead of following in the footsteps of the Congress, arranges livelihood for these returning workers and makes them self-reliant in their villages, perhaps they will never have to face such a crisis again,” she said. Meanwhile, Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said that the party had so far helped nearly 67 lakh people. She said Congress workers had worked tirelessly in the last 60 days to arrange ration, cooked food and medicines for those who were stranded or walking home. Rattled by the good work of her party, the BJP government arrested party State president Ajay Kumar Lallu, she said.
24 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Corona fee’ on liquor helps Delhi fill its coffers||The Delhi government has collected Rs. 600 crore in revenue from May 1 to 22, which is considerably higher than Rs. 400 crore collected during the whole of April. The increase is mainly due to revenue from liquor sales and opening up of a part of the economy, according to officials. “Tax from vehicle and property registration is very less even in May,” an official said. In April, all liquor shops in the city were shut, and in May the government initially opened 160 vends. More vends are set to open. In May, the government also levied a 70% special fee on the MRPs of all brands of alcohol. According to Excise Department records, over Rs. 110 crore was generated from the ‘special corona fee’ on such products between May 12 and 21. The government also increased the VAT on petrol and diesel to 30% from 27% and 16.75%. This has also helped to increase the revenue. But the revenue collection is still less, compared with the same time in 2019.
24 May 2020||Bhopal,||Shramik Specials stalled for hours on choked tracks||Railways Minister Piyush Goyal’s announcement on May 19 that the number of Shramik trains would be doubled to 400 a day over the next two days has overwhelmed routes to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, where 80% of the trains are headed. There was congestion on the Itarsi-Jabalpur route in Madhya Pradesh as the North Central Railway (NCR) wasn’t accepting more trains as there was congestion near Prayagraj, said an official of the Bhusawal Division. On Friday, at least 23-24 shramik trains were stuck between Bhusaval and Khandwa, 130 km apart. Eighteen-year-old Lav Kumar Sahni who left Goa on May 21, remained stuck in a train on the Bhusawal Division of Central Railway for hours. Though the train left Bodwad station at 1 a.m. on Saturday, the 1,300 passengers got their first meal of biscuits and water near Nagpur around 11 a.m. after more than a day, the workers said. On another train bound for Rewa in Madhya Pradesh from Sindhudurg in Maharashtra, which barely moved for 18-20 hours on Friday, Vimlesh Chitram, 43, said, “There was nothing to eat or drink in the train. I was anyway starving without work. It would have been better to die back there than board this train.” Mr. Chitram claimed many passengers on the train began drinking water from the taps in the train’s toilets. “It was only after several phone calls and pressure, the Railways provided them food,” said Mohammed Saqleen, a social worker in Odisha, who has been coordinating food arrangements for the train passengers.
24 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha sends help to battered Bengal||The Odisha government has sent 500 personnel of the Odisha Disaster Rapid Action Force (ODRAF) and the Odisha Fire Service to West Bengal ravaged by Super Cyclone Amphan. They left for West Bengal on Saturday and would begin road clearance on Sunday morning, said Pradeep Kumar Jena, Managing Director of the Odisha State Disaster Management Authority. “Cyclone Amphan is one of the worst disasters to hit West Bengal. The people of Odisha stand by West Bengal during this unprecedented crisis. Odisha has sent a team of 500 members, including 300 fire personnel & 10 ODRAF teams to assist in relief & rescue operations,” Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik wrote on Twitter. The Odisha government said the State had not lost a single human life to the cyclone. According to a damage assessment report finalised on Saturday, the districts of Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapada, Jagatsinghpur, Mayurbhanj, Cuttack, Jajpur, Keonjhar, Khordha and Puri were affected. More than 2 lakh people were shifted to shelters. Balasore, Bhadrak, Kendrapada and Jagatsinghpur districts were severely affected. A population of 44,44,896 was affected in 9,833 villages in these 10 districts. “About 500 houses have been fully damaged. Crops have been damaged on about one lakh hectares. The assessment is...expected to be completed by Tuesday,” said Mr. Jena. Electricity supply has been restored to 85% of the consumers and 90% of the total mobile phone sites have been made functional. The Ministry of Home Affairs released Rs. 500 crore for Odisha, as announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi after he undertook an aerial survey of the affected districts on Friday.
24 May 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra’s tally crosses 47,000||Maharashtra recorded 2,608 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday, the second-highest single-day surge, pushing the tally to 47,190. The State also recorded 60 deaths, taking the death toll to 1,577. Almost 61% of Maharashtra’s cases and 60% of fatalities have been contributed by Mumbai. Extending beyond Mumbai, the entire Mumbai Metropolitan Region including Navi Mumbai, Thane and Mira-Bhayandar has emerged as a hotspot with almost 36,000 cases and more than 1,000 deaths reported from the wider region. Of the 60 deaths reported on Saturday, 40 were from Mumbai, one from Vasai-Virar, one from Thane, 14 from Pune, two from Solapur, one from Satara and one from Nanded. State health officials, however, clarified that 42 of these deaths were from the last 24 hours while the rest were reported over the past fortnight. Of the latest victims, 41 were men while 19 were women. Almost 60% had co-morbid conditions like diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, which made their recovery difficult. Doctors say that one of the crucial problems is that many of these patients have uncontrolled blood sugar levels, blood pressure and other parameters as they have not been taking medication or their condition is yet to be diagnosed. When the novel coronavirus attacks such patients, they deteriorate rapidly. State officials said that the recovery rate was also showing improvement. On Saturday, 821 patients across Maharashtra went home.
24 May 2020||KOCHI,||All backup data deleted: Sprinklr||All backup data of COVID-19 patients and those under surveillance stored in the server of the U.S.-based data analytical firm Sprinklr Incor have been permanently deleted, according to an affidavit filed by the company before the Kerala High Court on Saturday. The company has asserted that no data, whatsoever received by the company prior to the High Court directives on the issue passed on April 24, remain with the company. The affidavit said that, in fact, the government had asked the company to destroy all processed backup data in response to its clarification letter. It had sought clarification on the issue as the High Court did not specifically direct the company to delete all backdata from its server. The company also pointed out that deletion of data without authorisation of the State government would have been an irretrievable process and potentially a violation of the terms of the contract inked between the government and the company. The State government, in its reply letter, said that as the entire data have been transferred to the government-owned cloud web space in Amazon Web Services, managed and controlled by the Centre for Development of Imaging Technology ( C-DIT), the backup data should be destroyed. The company also sought to withdraw a clarification petition filed before the High Court in this regard. The State government, in an affidavit, had submitted that no data had been shared with Sprinklr after it was transferred to the C-DIT cloud space by April 20 and that the company did not have access to the system. The government had also submitted that the Director of the Kerala State IT Mission (KSITM) and Registrar of C-DIT had been directed to ensure that all data collected and collated were anonymised before these were shared with any third party service provider or used with any software for processing it. The government pointed out that it was yet to receive any positive reply from the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY) to its letter seeking to provide details of the information system application available with the National Informatics Centre or other agencies so that it could meet the functional requirements of the COVID-19-related activities.
24 May 2020||KOLLAM,||‘Distancing’ norms hit drug seizures||MDMA (methylenedioxy methamphetamine), the synthetic drug known by street names such as ‘X’ and ‘ecstasy’, resembles coarse flour or raw sugar with a hint of colour. The rock crystals can be powdered and easily sewn into a double-layered cotton face mask. A person carrying half a gram of ecstasy can be remanded, but in these days of physical distancing, such ingenious means of concealment are bound to hamper the Excise Department’s attempts to apprehend carriers. With the relaxation of travel restrictions as part of the current lockdown, the department is anticipating a surge in drug supply, but officials admit to limitations in conducting thorough body searches since the COVID-19 protocol is in place. A team quarantined “They will cleverly hide the drug in parts of their clothing or body. The carriers are usually from Tamil Nadu or Karnataka. Recently a person from Bengaluru was booked in Thrissur, but the entire team that arrested him from the hotel room was instructed to go in quarantine,” says an official. “During raids at illicit liquor dens during the lockdown we could find a lot of evidence including brewing equipment, sealing machines and fake holographic stickers. But drug cases require physical contact and it is not possible to question or search any random person since there is a high possibility of getting infected. During the lockdown there was a dip in drug-related cases and the reason is this,” he adds. Checking travel history Even if the department arrests a person, it is not an ideal time to extend the investigation to several others. “Usually one person will lead us to others who are part of the network. But now we first need to cross-check their travel history and if they recently had any contact with COVID-19 patients.” Vegetable trucks Of late, the rackets have been using vegetable trucks from Tamil Nadu to transport drugs, but it is not easy to search all vehicles, especially when many of them are from hotspots. “In Ernakulam and Thrissur we could seize some vehicles with the help of tip-offs, but it is not practical to go for extensive drug busts and check every vehicle. Our informants are also not in a position to track the dealings with precision nowadays,” he adds.
24 May 2020||Belagavi,||Confusion prevails on Karnataka’s border with Maharashtra||There seems to be much confusion over the entry of migrants and other persons from Maharashtra into the border district of Belagavi in Karnataka. On Monday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa announced at a press conference that travellers from high-prevalence States, including Maharashtra, would be allowed in a “staggered manner”. However, this was widely perceived to be a “ban” on travel from these States, and officers on the Maharashtra-Karnataka border appear to be treating it as such. Especially so, since a large number of those testing positive for COVID-19 in Karnataka have travel history to Maharashtra over the last few days. Valid e-pass Officers have sealed the inter-State border at Kuganoli on Kolhapur Road. They say they are allowing only those who have a valid e-pass issued by Karnataka. However, the issue of passes appears to have stopped for now. A group of 35 migrants from Hassan and Mandya who had returned from Mumbai and Pune complained that they were not issued passes though they had uploaded documents on May 11. They were sent home only after the Chief Minister issued special permits. This is significant as the Kuganoli checkpoint is the lone entry point for 20 districts of middle and south Karnataka. Officers who are stopping migrants from Maharashtra say they are doing so based on the “oral instructions” of senior officers. “This has been mentioned more than once. But there is neither a separate order nor a guideline,” a district officer said. However, Inspector-General of Police (Northern Range) Raghavendra Suhas argued that there was no need for specific written orders to regulate the movement of travellers from Maharashtra or any other State since the e-pass issued by the Deputy Commissioner of the receiving State was mandatory. “The DC issues the passes as per the guidelines of quarantine and other rules,” he said. However, travellers caught at the checkpoint complained that e-passes were not being issued. Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli said, “We are allowing travellers who have passes. We are issuing passes based on our capacity to absorb migrants who can be quarantined in institutions such as hotels and hostels.” Another officer from the Health Department said lack of written orders was leading to confusion. “Since Monday, we have been receiving so many calls from the border districts seeking a clarification on the movement of migrants,” he admitted.
24 May 2020||Kolkata,||Amid protests, Army deployed in Bengal||The Army was deployed in Kolkata and neighbouring districts of West Bengal on Saturday for restoration of essential infrastructure and services in the wake of the destruction caused by Cyclone Amphan, a defence official said. The West Bengal government had sought help from the force after protests erupted in certain parts of Kolkata and suburbs over the power and water crisis. Five columns of the Army were deployed in different parts of the city and North and South 24 Parganas districts. These three parts of the State reported the maximum damage due to the cyclone. Army personnel equipped with road and tree clearance equipment were deployed at Tollygunge, Ballygunge and Behala in south Kolkata, the official added. Army columns were also deployed for restoration work at New Town in North 24 Parganas district and at Diamond Harbour in South 24 Parganas district, he said. The State government's Home Department had posted a message on social media on Saturday, adding that Railways, the Kolkata Port and the private sector have also been requested to supply teams and equipment. The government added that drinking water and drainage infrastructure were being restored fast.  (With inputs from PTI)
24 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Special train to U.P. pulls in at Odisha station||Migrant workers who boarded a Shramik Special Train to Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh from Vasai Road in Maharashtra were baffled on Saturday when their train pulled in at Rourkela in Odisha. “The train was going to Gorakhpur and I have to get off at Kanpur. But, we don’t know how it entered Odisha. We have no idea when the train will reach its destination,” said a passenger. Railway authorities said it was a planned diversion. “The main route between Mumbai and Gorakhpur via North Central Railway is heavily congested... so we had to divert some trains,” said Sanjay Ghosh, Chief Public Relation Officer of South Eastern Railway. “It will continue for one or two days,” Mr. Ghosh said. “There is nothing to worry. All divisional railway managers have been instructed to provide food and water to passengers wherever Shramik Special trains stop,” he said. The train that was diverted to Rourkela will resume its journey through East Central Railway to reach Asansol, from where it will take the Howrah-Delhi route.
24 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Mizoram govt. gives industry status to sports||The Mizoram Cabinet has granted industry status to sports, a move aimed at generating employment. Chief Minister Zoramthanga said the government followed the policy in many countries for the approval. “We seek to invest more in sports for the generation of employment and increasing value. The industry status should help us meet the requirements of sportspersons and others involved in the sector,” he said. Sports Minister Robert Romawia Royte said the Sports and Youth Services department had advised the State government to grant the status.
24 May 2020||Mumbai,||Details of 2.90 crore job seekers on dark net||Personal details of about 2.90 crore Indian job seekers have been found dumped on the dark net, raising concerns among cyber crime agencies and experts in India over a massive data breach. The data leak was uncovered on Friday by Cyble, Inc, a U.S.-based cyber intelligence firm founded by global cybersecurity expert Beenu Arora. On Saturday morning, Cyble posted an update on its official blog that the names, addresses and contact numbers belonged to job seekers from cities such as Mumbai, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Pune and Bengaluru. The data is available for free download in a 2.3-gigabyte compressed file, according to the blogpost. Screenshots of the leaked data, which are in The Hindu ’s possession, mention two well-known job portals: Naukri and Times Jobs. The blogpost said, “This breach includes sensitive information such as email, phone, home address, qualification, work experience, etc. Cybercriminals are always on the lookout for such personal information to conduct various nefarious activities such as identity thefts, scams, and corporate espionage.” Mr. Arora told The Hindu that while Cyble hasn’t been able to attribute the source of the leak yet, they can say with a high degree of confidence that the leak appears to have occurred from a resume aggregator service. Mr. Arora said, “A Russian-speaking threat actor is responsible for the leak, and it is likely that the data has been floating on the dark web for some time, unnoticed ... it’s possible that the leak was made to get attention and rapport in the dark web markets. This reminds us of the same strategy recently deployed by ShinyHunters, a known cybercriminal responsible for Tokopedia, Unacademy, Wishbone, Mathway, and other leaks.”
24 May 2020||New Delhi,||RBI should tell govt. to take fiscal steps: Chidambaram||Congress leader P. Chidambaram on Saturday hit out at the government following the Reserve Bank of India’s (RBI) statement that growth in 2020-21 is headed towards negative territory. In a series of tweets, Mr. Chidambaram questioned RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das on why, knowing well that demand had collapsed, the bank was “infusing more liquidity”. “He should bluntly tell the government ‘Do your duty, take fiscal measures’,” Mr. Chidambaram tweeted. In a jibe at the government, he asked if, after the RBI statement, the government would still laud itself for a “package that has fiscal stimulus of less than 1% of GDP?” ‘Economy already in red’ “RSS should be ashamed of how the government has dragged the economy into negative growth territory,” said Mr. Chidambaram. Critical economic parameters were in the red even before the country went into a lockdown, the Congress claimed. Excessive supply side measures and very few demand-driven initiatives had completely derailed the economy, the party said.
24 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha allows home delivery at 50% premium||The Odisha government on Saturday imposed a 50% ‘Special COVID Fee’ on the maximum retail price of liquor while allowing home delivery of alcohol in the State from Sunday. Existing liquor shops situated in areas other than containment zones, shopping malls and food aggregators can undertake home delivery of liquor between 7 a.m. and 6 p.m. “The government has introduced a Special COVID Fee by amending the relevant excise rules and increased the MRPs of all types of foreign liquor and beer by 50% of the MRP prevailing last year (2019-20),” the State Excise Department said in a statement. The revenue generated would be used to meet the expenses incurred by the State government in the treatment of COVID-19 patients, it said. The delivery charge has been fixed at Rs. 100 for orders up to Rs. 1,000 and thereafter Rs. 25 for every additional Rs. 500 in order value. The delivery charge should not exceed Rs. 300, it said.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Tension along LAC continues with China||This is a big concern at this point, as these run close to the 255 km Darbuk-Shyok-Daulat Beg Oldi (DSDBO) road, a vital link for the military. According to the sources, at each of these points, the PLA has stationed troops, dug in tents and even bunkers. The situation has been escalating since initial incursions in mid-April, after Indian and Chinese soldiers exchanged blows and inflicted injuries. Another worry, said an officer previously posted in the area, is the fact that skirmishes took place at so many points, indicating a more coordinated push by the PLA. “Normally stand-offs happen in a local area, but are resolved at the local level,” a former Northern Army Commander, (who also asked not to be named), told The Hindu , adding that the current situation, which indicates planning at a “higher level in China” must be resolved at the diplomatic and political level. The Ministry of External Affairs declined to comment on reports of the Chinese incursions. “Established mechanisms are used to resolve such situations,” the MEA spokesperson said, when asked if national Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval, or External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar had been in contact with Chinese Foreign Minister and State Councillor Wang Yi.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Railways to run 2,600 Shramik Specials||“We have a train operation protocol... we are monitoring 24x7 and taking decisions on every train,” Mr. Yadav explained. “We diverted some trains... if we run trains on the same route, no train will be able to reach; it is better to run trains on routes which have less traffic. This procedure is followed even in normal times,” he added. Asked about the impact on Railways revenues, Mr. Yadav said while freight loading was at 70% compared to the same time last year, passenger revenues had been zero for the past two months. “We are trying to restore passenger services and return to normalcy… For the 200 trains that are to run June 1 onwards, till now 17 lakh passengers have booked tickets.” He said while 30% of the overall berth capacity had been booked till now, there were trains in which bookings had exceeded 90%. “So we keep analysing the demand, and depending on these trends we will introduce more trains,” he said. Mr. Yadav added that the Railways was charging the normal pre-lockdown fares for these special trains. Responding to a query on a letter by the West Bengal government asking that all migrant trains to the State be suspended till May 26 in the wake of cyclone Amphan, Mr. Yadav said: “The Chief Secretary wrote to me that restoration work is under way and they will tell us soon when they will be able to receive the trains. As soon as they give us clearance, we will run trains.”
24 May 2020||Hyderabad,||TS EAMCET from July 6||The test for entry into engineering and agriculture courses in Telangana (EAMCET) will be held from July 6 to 9, according to Education Minister P. Sabita Indra Reddy. At a meeting with senior officials here, she discussed the conduct of all other entrance exams for entry into various professional courses in Telangana. Accordingly, the PGECET for entry into PG engineering courses will be held from July 1 to 3; TSECET on July 4; TS LAWCET and TS PGLCET on July 10 for Law courses, TSICET on July 13 for management and computer application courses and TSEdCET on July 15 for education courses.  Safety measures The meeting discussed the safety measures to be taken in view of the the corona outbreak and decided to conduct the exams in accordance with instructions and directives of the Chief Minister. TSCHE Chairman T. Papi Reddy said that results would be declared within 10 to 12 days of the completion of the tests along with the ranks as the Intermediate results would be announced by then. As of now 2.10 lakh candidates have registered for the EAMCET in Telangana of whom about 1.35 lakh are for engineering and the remaining 70,000 odd are for agriculture courses. The TSCHE expects another 10,000 applying before the exam is scheduled. Students get an opportunity to apply with a penal fee till a few days before the exam is scheduled.  ICMR guidelines He said in view of the guidelines issued by the ICMR and other agencies for conducting the tests utmost care will be taken by the authorities. Students would be asked to carry disposable gloves, transparent water bottle and a sanitiser apart from a mask. The TCS, which has been entrusted with the job of conducting online entrance exam will ensure that the systems and the cubicles used by the students will be sanitised before every aspirant uses it. If the entrance tests were not postponed due to the lockdown the EAMCET would have been completed by now as it was originally scheduled to be held from May 4 to May 9 and the results too would have been declared by now.
24 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Pinarayi on Twitter: ‘We shall overcome’||Focussing on the role of the participatory, decentralised Kerala model in the State’s resistance against COVID-19, Pinarayi Vijayan affirms that the State will overcome the current crisis in a united manner. He was interacting with citizens as part of the first edition of Twitter India’s #AskTheCM series, in which Chief Ministers from various States will take questions regarding steps to control the pandemic. Mr. Vijayan answered various pertinent questions regarding the early detection and steps to control COVID-19, return of Non- Resident Keralites (NoRKs), labour issues, climate change-related issues being faced by the State, interventions in the agriculture sector, and precautions being taken for easing the lockdown and during the SSLC examination. Several questions were on the finer aspects of the Kerala model, which has gained much appreciation from world over for arresting the spread of COVID-19. He spoke at length on the steps taken by each department and the coordination between them that enabled efficient tracking. He said majority of the cases detected was among people returning from abroad, but it should be ensured that they were not stigmatised due to this, as the State belonged to them too. Speaking on the steps taken to ensure that migrant guest workers felt at home, he said in addition to providing shelter, food and groceries, steps were taken to address their emotional needs too by providing them television sets and other modes of entertainment in their relief camps. Mr. Vijayan sounded a note of caution saying that the State was not still out of danger and that all precautions should be followed strictly.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Thrashing’ of lawyer: panel seeks report||Further, they have denied Mr. Bundele a certified copy of the footage from the scene of the incident under the Right to Information Act, 2005, claiming he did not mention the purpose in his query, which was rejected under Section 8 of the Act, which provides for exceptions to disclosures. This runs contrary to a policeman’s remarks to The Hindu , who visited Mr. Bundele on May 17 to record a statement, “He looks like a Muslim. It was a confusion... He had a long beard. Sometimes, such incidents happen. “I made it clear that sometimes the police make mistakes, and for that we apologise. But he didn’t listen. And he went ahead with the statement.” Further, the lawyer had reportedly recorded the conversation with policemen on the day. “The police, whenever there are Hindu-Muslim riots, always side with the Hindus, even Muslims know about this. But this incident happened; it was a mistake. We are left with no words,” one of the policemen is heard saying in the recording, now public and based on which the police suspended one of them.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||International flights could take off by mid-June: Puri||On being asked on the need for testing everyone for COVID-19 before they are allowed to fly, Mr. Puri said it was not a practical solution. “If you have an Aarogya Setu app and you are clear, do you want another test? India is conducting around 1 lakh per day…if you do not have any symptoms or did not come in contact with a COVID-19 positive person then what is the use of test? The test result will come in 7 hours…you take the test and wait for the result and then wait for another two hours before the boarding?” asked Mr. Puri. He said the Aarogya Setu app was preferable but airlines have not made it mandatory. “If you check several boxes, can give a self declaration…Why will the State want to quarantine you after these facts. It is a new situation, States will get used to it. Within next day or two we will have clarity,” the Minister said. He said food will not be allowed on domestic flights. “All domestic sectors are short duration from 40 minutes up to 3 hours, have a good meal at home and then come. Water will be available at the point of entry and in the jacket of your seat,” he said. On the one-year-valid visas for outbound passengers, Mr. Puri said the government was not the one prescribing it. “As long the visa is valid at the point of entry….we are trying to avoid a situation that the passenger is deported….democracies have this great ability. A visa doesn’t mean that it gives you unrestricted rights….recently four students with valid visas who wanted to board a flight to the U.S. were stopped as the airline was informed that all college and institutions were shut over there,” he said. On being asked, why most flights under Vande Bharat were destined for Kerala and not other States, Mr. Puri said State governments will have to take the lead and some were more proactive than others.
24 May 2020||Srinagar,||J&K resumes recruitment for govt. jobs||The recruitment process for over 80,000 posts halted on August 9 last year — the day the Centre revoked J&K’s special status — has resumed in the Union Territory for all domiciles, including eligible non-locals and Pakistani refugees as per the amended domicile laws. Lieutenant Governor Girish Chandra Murmu on Friday evening chaired a high level meeting “to review the progress made for accelerated recruitment at various levels in the government with particular focus on Class-IV and Class-III vacancies”. A government spokesman said the Accelerated Recruitment Committee (ARC) submitted its preliminary proposals for recruitment to over 10,000 posts. “Weightage would be given in forthcoming recruitment to Class-IV vacancies to widows, destitute, divorced women and single mothers and candidates of those families from where there is no family member (parents or siblings) in government job. The Domicile Certificate would be required after a candidate gets selected to a particular post,” the spokesman said.
24 May 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. releases film on Rahul’s interaction||The Congress on Saturday released a documentary film on Rahul Gandhi’s interaction with a group of migrant labourers last week, demanding justice for such workers who are walking hundreds of kilometres to their homes amid the COVID-19 lockdown. At the end of the documentary, Mr. Gandhi says the government should immediately give Rs. 7,500 to the 13 crore needy families through direct cash transfer. Mr. Gandhi had interacted with a group of migrant labourers near the Sukhdev Vihar flyover in Delhi last Saturday.   The documentary also shows Mr. Gandhi promising help to the workers, who are later seen being transported to their village near Jhansi in vans and cars. Upon reaching their homes, the workers and their families thank Mr. Gandhi. At the end, Mr. Gandhi is heard saying: “My migrant labourer brothers and sisters, you are the strength of this country ... The whole country wants justice for you. It is everyone’s responsibility to strengthen the power of this country.”
24 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||SCCL suffers a blow in production plans||After facing nearly 50% decrease in the targeted coal production in April following closure of the underground mines due to COVID-19 lockdown conditions, Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) has suffered a setback in its production plans for the current financial year with the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF) deferring clearance to expansion of Manuguru-II and IV opencast mines. Having set a production target of extracting 67.5 million tonnes of coal for 2020-21, the SCCL management was planning to make most of the expansion of the two mines having the extractable fuel-mineral of 96.75 million tonnes together planned to be mined over 11 years. An expert appraisal committee of the MoEF that had video-meet earlier this month to consider the SCCL proposal for recommending environmental clearance to the expansion of the two mines, but deferred the proposal for want of information on several counts. The panel has also pointed out several violations in the compliance of conditions set while giving clearance to the two mines originally. One of the major violations pointed by the expert panel is non-installation of conveyor belt system from the pit head to the coal handling plant (CHP) and the coal extracted was still being moved by trucks and dumpers. While deferring the proposal for expansion of the two mines amalgamation, the expert panel also highlighted the need for compliance of all conditions pertaining to the earlier environmental clearance (EC) with strict time-lines as no commitment on the compliance was given at the virtual meet held due to the lockdown conditions. On the expansion proposal, the panel observed that environmental impact assessment and management plan reports were not prepared properly. According to SCCL officials, the amalgamation of Manuguru OC-II and OC-IV expansion named as Prakasham Khani OC was proposed with 9.75 million tonnes per annum capacity in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district. The mine lease area has a geological reserve of 402.01 million tonnes with 308.35 million tonnes of mineable reserves and 290.55 million tonnes of extractable coal. Out of it, 193.8 million tonnes have already been extracted in UG and OC and another 96.75 million tonnes is available for extraction in OC. The expert panel asked SCCL to upload the correct information about the proposal on the portal concerned, details on diversion of a supplementary stream of Godavari with time-lines and mechanisation for treating stored mine water to avoid any possibility of ground and surface water contamination among several other aspects.
24 May 2020||Chandigarh,||Will sit on ‘dharna’ if payments to farmers not cleared by June 1: Abhay Chautala||Indian National Lok Dal MLA Abhay Singh Chautala on Saturday said he would sit on ‘dharna’ if the Manohar Lal government does not clear outstanding payments to farmers for procuring their wheat and mustard crop.
24 May 2020||Bhadohi,||Ambedkar statue found damaged, tension in UP village||A statue of Dalit icon B.R. Ambedkar was found damaged in Lakshmana village in Uttar Pradesh’s Bhadohi district on Saturday, leading to tension in the area, the police said. The 6-foot statue, installed in Dalit Basti of the village under the Aurai police station limits, was found damaged on Saturday morning, Additional SP Ravindra Verma said. The incident led to tension in the area as people started gathering.
24 May 2020||Srinagar,||Former Indian footballer alleges he was detained by police while visiting ailing mother||Former Indian footballer Mehrajuddin Wadoo on Saturday alleged that he was detained for two hours in Srinagar during the lockdown, when he was heading to see his ailing mother. Mr. Wadoo, who represented the national team from 2005 to 2011, alleged that a constable abused him after he was stopped.
24 May 2020||Agartala,||Two jawans commit suicide in Tripura||Two members of paramilitary forces were found dead in Tripura in the past two days, in suspected suicides. While Swapan Tripura, a member of Tripura State Rifles was found hanging from a tree in Sepahijala, BSF officer Birbal Yadav, 47, was found hanging from the ceiling of an outpost building at Madhab Nagar. The police have started a probe in both cases.
24 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||FIR against Daati Maharaj for violating lockdown norms||The Delhi police, on Saturday, registered a case against self-styled godman Daati Maharaj and his accomplices for allegedly violating social distancing norms during a ceremony at a temple in Delhi’s Maidan Garhi area. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said that the police found out that some photographs of a ceremony at Shanidham Mandir in Asola have been circulated on social media wherein social distancing norms were not followed and a religious congregation was organised in contravention of the lockdown guidelines. “During preliminary enquiry, it was revealed that around 7.30 p.m. on Friday, chief priest of Shanidham Mandir, Daati Maharaj, along with some other persons, had performed a ceremony at the temple,” Mr. Thakur said. The police said that as Daati Maharaj and those visible in the photographs with him violated government guidelines on lockdown, prima facie, they have been found to have committed an offence and a case under Section 188 and 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 54 B of the DDMA and Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act has been registered at Maidan Garhi police station on Saturday. In 2018, a woman lodged a complaint at Fatehpur Beri police station, alleging rape and unnatural sex against the god-man, who is the founder of Delhi-based Shree Shanidham Trust. The complaint was lodged against Daati Madan Lal, alias Daati Maharaj, on June 7 and an FIR was registered on June 11. The police had on June 22 questioned the accused, who was charged with raping a disciple at his ashrams in Delhi and Rajasthan. He was later charge-sheeted.
24 May 2020||Chandigarh,||Compulsory home quarantine for 14 days for all those coming to State: Amarinder||The Punjab government on Saturday announced compulsory home quarantine for 14 days for all those coming to the State, including on domestic flights, trains and buses. The State recorded 16 COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 2,045, said the Health Department. A total of 1,870 patients has been cured. In the Union Territory of Chandigarh, six new cases took the tally to 225.
24 May 2020||Bhopal,||Congress arranges buses for stranded students||The Congress has arranged transport for students from Wayanad and other parts of Kerala, who were stuck in the Madhya Pradesh capital due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown, a party leader has said. “One such bus carrying students left for Kerala on Saturday,” Madhya Pradesh Congress media cell in-charge Jitu Patwari said on Saturday.
24 May 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Shepherd, 50 sheep killed||A shepherd and 50 sheep were run over by a speeding car at Vennankuzhi near here on Saturday morning. The accident occurred when Kamaraj (30) of Devamangalam was guiding a herd of 260 sheep along with four others from Sethiathoppu in Cuddalore district to Devamangalam in Ariyalur district. When they were coming near Vennankuzhi on Chennai-Kumbakonam Highway, a car rammed them. It is said the car driver lost control after a dog apparently tried to chase a group of sheep. Kamaraj and 50 sheep died on the spot. Two more persons, including the car driver, suffered injuries. They were admitted to the Government Hospital here. They were said to be be out of danger. Meensuriti police have filed a case.
24 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bharathi’s arrest ruse to divert people’s attention, says Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday alleged thatthe arrest of party’s organisation secretaryR.S. Bharthi under The Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, was actually a ruse to divert the people’s attention from Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s administrative failure and corruption at the time of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr. Stalin said it was highly condemnable and a shame that the government had resorted to an early morning arrest. “The action of the government is atrocious since it has decided to make the arrest three months after Mr. Bharthi made a speech in a closed hall meeting. He had already given a clarification and expressed regret. It is a shame that Mr. Palaniswami has failed to respect the judiciary as two cases are pending before the Madras High Court,” Mr. Stalin said in a statement. He felt that the government had targeted Mr. Bharathi because the latter had submitted petitions to the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC) against the Chief Minister, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and Municipal Administration Minister S. P. Velumani. Mr. Stalin said the Chief Minister could not suppress the fact that his government had failed to contain the pandemic in Chennai and stood thoroughly exposed. MDMK general secretary Vaiko also said the AIADMK government had arrested Mr. Bharathi because it could not find solutions to the thousands of problems staring at it during the pandemic. Tamil Maanila Congress president G.K. Vasan said the arrest of Mr. Bharathi was a legal action and there is no need to give a political or vendetta colour to it. Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi leader Thol. Thirumavalavan said that though the AIADMK government and the BJP-led government at the Centre never bothered to prevent atrocities against the SC/STs, they had used Dalits as pawns in their political games. In a statement, he said Mr. Bharathi had been arrested because he had filed cases against the AIADMK government. CPI(M) State secretary K. Balakrishnan said though his party would not agree with the views expressed by Mr. Bharathi, his arrest was a dishonest act since he had expressed regret for his views.
24 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No community transmission in city, insists Chief Minister||Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and top officials on Saturday insisted that there was no community spread of COVID-19 in Chennai. As per the WHO guidelines, there has been no community transmission. The link for every COVID-19 case is being traced, recorded and followed up, according to a top official of the Greater Chennai Corporation. In Salem, Mr. Palaniswami told journalists that more cases were reported from containment areas, where six-seven persons were living in cramped houses. “If they had been taking necessary precautionary measures, this transmission would not have happened. As far as Chennai is concerned, only certain areas are affected,” he said, ruing that people had ignored government’s safety advisory. Launching a slum outreach programme with the involvement of 97 NGOs in the city to fight the pandemic, Chennai Corporation special nodal officer J. Radhakrishnan said that it could not be community transmission if the links could be traced and recorded. For example in Tiruvottiyur, one case in a group of 15 was traced to a bank. “If the links are known, it is stage 2. If they are not known, it is stage 3,” he said. Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash said the corporation had an army of health workers who were doing contact tracing. “We do it within 24 hours. There is no difficulty in tracing the contacts. We know where the transmission is coming from from our analysis,” he said. “In Chennai, 14,000 tests have been done per million. The continuance is severed when the chain of positive cases is cut,” he added. “With the permission of the infected, we trace the contacts through phone numbers and check within 24-48 hours,” Mr. Radhakrishnan said. The way forward is to prevent transmission, he said, adding that there were still 15 to 20% of the people in the containment zones who do not follow discipline. “While 98% of people understand, the change in habit hasn't come,” he said. NGOs involved Both the officials launched the slum outreach programme at Nochi Nagar involving 97 NGOs to reach out to nearly 2,000 slum areas. “In Chennai, there is a concern when the number of cases comes out in the evening. But there are a few positives. The net live cases are only 1,461 as 3991 have been treated and discharged. The death rate is 0.7 percentage,” he said reiterating the need for discipline in containment zones. Mr. Prakash said the Corporation will identify those with diabetes, lung and kidney diseases to protect them from the virus. The programme has started in all the slums and the situation will stabilise in a week, he said.
24 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Job creation plunged 56% in March||New jobs created in Tamil Nadu’s formal sector plunged nearly 56% in March, as compared to February, payroll data released by the Union government showed. According to data collected through the Employees Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO), around 58,948 joined the workforce in the State in March when compared to 1,32,499 in February. This was measured in terms of the number of new net enrolments made with EPFO. More bad news According to experts, the number would fall further in April, when a complete lockdown was imposed. In Tamil Nadu, the less than 18 age group saw a 63% dip in enrolments in March, while the 29-35 and the more than 35 brackets saw a drop of 58.9% and 56.5%, respectively, from February. K.E. Raghunathan, former national president, All India Manufacturers’ Organisation, said things might get worse with an additional expected drop of 20% in April and 10% in May amid the lockdown. “What is worrisome is the drop in the 29-35 age category, which is middle management level. The financial commitments of this age group are more and it would be difficult for them to find an alternative job,” he said.   Mr. Raghunathan pointed out that about 30% of the companies had restarted operations by May 18 and whether this was a short-term or long-term trend would be known when the June data came out. Aditya Narayan Mishra , CEO of staffing firm CIEL HR Services, pointed out that the economic activities had been on the decline in the second half of financial year 2020 and the fall was the sharpest in March. April and May would lead to a further drop, he said. Mr. Mishra also pointed out that many organisations had not filed their ECR (PF returns) for March.  What is worrisome is the drop in the 29-35 age category, which is middle management level K.E. Raghunathan Former national president, All India Manufacturers’ Organisation
24 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Salons to function in State from today||The State government on Saturday allowed salons and beauty parlours to function across Tamil Nadu, except within the Chennai police limits and COVID-19 containment zones, from Sunday, between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. In a statement, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said that salons and parlours must not engage employees living in containment zones and air conditioners should not be used. Customers and employees should strictly adhere to physical distancing norms and people must not be allowed entry if they have symptoms like fever, cold and cough, he added. The statement said that salons and parlours should be sanitised five times a day and customers should be provided with hand sanitiser. The owner must ensure that everyone wears masks and customers and employees must wash their hands with soaps regularly, it added. The government had allowed salons in rural areas to operate from May 19.
24 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teynampet becomes 4th zone to cross 1,000 COVID-19 cases||Teynampet has become the fourth zone of the Chennai Corporation to report more than 1,000 COVID-19 cases. The number of residents who tested positive had already crossed 1,000 in zones of Royapuram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar and Kodambakkam. The State has advised the Chennai Corporation to intensify containment measures in each street. “Corporation workers have been directed to focus on the zones where the number of positive cases has been increasing. The number of positive cases has reduced in some areas,” an official said. But eight zones in the city have been “badly affected” because of a rise in number of cases. Senior officials met on Saturday to adopt containment strategy in Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Anna Nagar, Teynampet, Kodambakkam, Valasaravakkam and Adyar. Officials have intensified measures to promote social distancing and mask distribution in the areas. They requested residents to cooperate and help contain the spread of COVID-19. In ward 127 of Kodambakkam zone, the Corporation began distributing herbal concoction last Saturday. According to the data, the number of positive cases in ward 127 was 445. In Sholinganallur, the number has been high in ward 195 with 58 cases. Of the 200 wards in the city, 16 wards located in eight different zones have reported more than 100 cases. A total of 28 wards have reported less than 10 cases. All the 200 wards of the Corporation have reported cases in the city. Corporation officials said a train carrying passengers from Mumbai was expected to reach the city on Sunday. At least 300 residents of Dharavi are expected to reach the city. The passengers will be screened and quarantined, an official said.
24 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ordinances provide relief to traders||Governor Banwarilal Purohit promulgated two ordinances, extending the time limit for traders for various statutory compliances, in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. One ordinance, the Tamil Nadu Goods and Services Tax (Amendment) Ordinance, has been issued to carry out an amendment to the GST Act, 2017, while the other, the Tamil Nadu Taxation Laws (Relaxation of Certain Provisions) Ordinance, covers a host of laws — Value Added Tax Act, 2006; Betting Tax Act, 1935; Entertainment Tax Act, 1939, and the Tax on Luxuries Act, 1981. The ordinances, which came into effect on Friday, provided more time to file statements of outward supplies; file refund claims and appeals; submit replies and applications, and furnish reports, returns, statements or documents, wherever necessary.
24 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Go ahead with the haircut, but take precautions, say health experts||With salons and beauty parlours all set to open across Tamil Nadu, except in Chennai police limits and containment zones, public health experts have called for extra precautions to prevent the transmission of COVID-19. Considering the risk of COVID-19 transmission at such places, both employees and customers should adhere to safety norms, they said. “Such facilities have to function at some point. How to function safely is important. The processes involved should be looked at. Customers should be allowed to enter one by one, depending on the number of chairs in the salon, and others should wait outside. They should wash hands before entering the salon, preferably with soap and water. If providing this is difficult, in the case of small outlets, then hand sanitisers should be made available,” said K. Kolandaswamy, former director of public health. It is important to disinfect the seat after the customer leaves. Employees should wash their hands after attending to a customer, he said. “These will help in infection control. Windows could be kept open for natural ventilation and surfaces should be cleaned regularly,” he added. Experts said that some of the commonly used things were combs, towels, shaving kits and scissors. Customers, if possible, could bring their own towels from home, the added. P. Kuganantham, former city health officer, said that all instruments used in the outlet should be sterilised. “There is a risk of transmission as persons come in close contact with each other. So both the customer and the employee should wear masks. In fact, employees can wear double-layer masks and gloves. Anybody with a cough, cold or sneeze should not go to salons or beauty parlours. Similarly, employees with such symptoms should not attend to customers,” he said. Physical distancing should be enforced while customers waiting outside the outlets, he said, adding: “Air conditioners should not be used.”
24 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court restrains police from acting against Baalu, Maran||The Madras High Court on Saturday restrained the Coimbatore police from taking coercive action against DMK MPs T.R. Baalu and Dayanidhi Maran till Friday in two different cases booked against them under the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act of 1989. Justice M. Nirmal Kumar granted the interim relief following petitions filed by the MPs to quash the cases and grant them anticipatory bail. While Mr. Baalu wanted the case booked by Thudialur police to be quashed, Mr. Maran insisted upon quashing the case booked by the Coimbatore city police. The judge held a special sitting from his residence through video conferencing on Saturday since the two MPs had rushed to the court following the arrest of another DMK MP R.S. Bharathi by Chennai city police in yet another case booked against him under the SC/ST Act. Senior counsel P. Wilson, N.R. Elango and AR.L. Sundaresan appeared for the two MPs while State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan argued for the police. In his petition, Mr. Maran said he, Mr. Baalu and other party leaders had met Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam at the Secretariat on May 13 with regard to COVID-19 relief activities. Later, while briefing the media about alleged humiliation meted out to them at the Chief Secretary’s office, “he (Mr. Maran) had unintentionally uttered the word ‘ Thazhthapattavargal ’ (a reference to Dalits) instead of ‘ Thaazhvaga (lowly).’ The entire speech would reveal the same. On the very next day, he had clarified the same and “stated that his intention was never to hurt anyone and if at all his words had hurt the feelings of anyone, he regrets the same. Having clarified, the said issue was put to rest.” Mr. Maran accused the complainant M. Jeganathan of having lodged a complaint with an ulterior motive on May 18. In his petition, Mr. Baalu said, he had not been listed as an accused in the FIR registered against Mr. Maran. However, acting on the basis of an identical complaint lodged by another individual named K. Sekar of Kavundampalayam, the Thudiyalur police in Coimbatore registered another FIR in which he too was included as an accused. Strangely, both the complainants had preferred identical complaints even without a change in comma and full stop, he claimed. The judge adjourned the hearing by a week with a direction to the police to maintain status quo till then.
24 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With no cases among MGNREGS workers last month, govt. optimistic||With no COVID-19 case being reported from beneficiaries or officials of the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) in the last month, the State government expects the turnout of beneficiaries at work sites to touch the average figure of 12 lakh shortly. On Friday, the turnout was 10.1 lakh, which was about 1.5 lakh short of the State-wide average for May 2019. In 10 of the 24 districts, where 100% of the workforce is allowed, the rate of attendance was higher now than a year ago. Tiruvarur registered 187% more than its average figure of workers for May 2019. It was followed by Tirunelveli-Tenkasi with 159% and Madurai with 156%. This time, the undivided Villupuram district (including Kallakurichi) saw almost four times the number of beneficiaries it recorded last May. Other districts with a higher rate of turnout this year, vis a vis last year, were Nagapattinam and Thanjavur in the central region; Ramanthapuram and Sivaganga in the south and Tiruppur and Namakkal in the west. In 12 other districts, the government has allowed only 50% of the registered beneficiaries to work at a time. Gradual increase Recalling that at the time of resuming scheme work on April 27, the turnout was around 65,000, an official in the Rural Development Directorate said that the figure had gradually gone up. Pointing out that the average rate of wage payment was Rs. 200 (against the year’s rate of wage of Rs. 256), the official said that assuming 10 lakh beneficiaries worked for six days, they would get Rs. 120 crore. “Ordinarily, 60%-70% of the money paid gets circulated in the form of consumption locally. The rural economy will get revived in a ‘big way’,” the official added.  G. Palanithurai, an expert in matters concerning village panchayats, said what was noteworthy about Tamil Nadu was that women constituted a major section of the beneficiaries of MGNREGS. The money paid to them was invariably spent “meaningfully” for their families, he said. Even if there was a delay in payment, the beneficiaries know that it is only a matter of time that they would get the money. Besides, their creditworthiness also would go up. However, Kalimuthu of Thangalachery village panchayat in Thirumangalam panchayat union in Madurai district, who has been running a voluntary body for seven years, focussing on self-reliance of villages, said that in his village, people were paid Rs. 100, on an average. Even though officials talked about adherence to physical distancing norms, there was a perception among people in his village that it could not be followed at worksites. There was much scope for improvement in the way the MGNREGS was being implemented, he added.  Although officials talk about adherence to physical distancing norms, there is a perception among people in my village that it cannot be followed at work sites Kalimuthu Thangalachery village panchayat
24 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Autorickshaws begin plying outside Chennai||Autorickshaws and cycle rickshaws resumed operations across Tamil Nadu, except in Chennai and containment zones, after nearly two months on Saturday, following relaxations in lockdown norms. However, patronage was largely limited on day one and there were complaints of drivers fleecing customers. With the government mandating that only one passenger can travel in an auto at a time, there were demands from autorickshaw unions to at least permit two passengers. In some places, autorickshaws carried more than one passenger, disregarding the norms. Protest held Members of the Madurai City Autorickshaw Drivers’ Association staged a demonstration in front of the District Collectorate, demanding that two passengers be permitted to ride a vehicle. A. Abbas, vice-president, Tiruchi District Autorickshaw Drivers’ Association, said that some drivers did not leave their homes on Saturday. “Why would a single person hail an auto? Most households have at least one two-wheeler, which they would much rather take. Only two or more people take a ride with us,” he said. Coimbatore District Association of All Auto Rickshaw Workers’ Union president P.K. Sukumaran said that the union passed resolutions, including demanding that at least two passengers be allowed, compensation of Rs. 15,000 for drivers and the withdrawal of fines levied on drivers during the lockdown period.   (With inputs from Madurai, Tiruchi and Coimbatore bureaus)
24 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ramadoss writes to PM||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Saturday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting relief measures for the print media industry, which is facing severe crisis owing to COVID-19 lockdown and the subsequent economic slowdown. “Though India has successfully prevented the major outbreak of COVID-19, its negative impact on our Indian economy is difficult to be prevented. Therefore, I draw your kind attention, through this letter, to the serious negative impacts faced by the print media sector, and also request you to bail them out,” he said. Mr. Ramadoss, in his letter, a copy of which was released to the media, pointed out that in the current situation, government advertisements are the only main source of revenue for the print media. “Both the Union and State governments have significantly reduced its advertisement expenditures in the name of austerity measures. This will prevent the media houses from getting government advertisements,” he said. On the other hand, as of now the Union and State governments have to pay an outstanding of around Rs. 1,500 crores to various print media houses, for their previous advertisements, Mr. Ramadoss said. He urged the PM to consider measures like full exemption of tax on newsprint, immediate release of outstanding payments for Union and State government advertisements and hike the government advertising tariff for print media by 100%.
24 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. workers sprinkle bleach on fish in Ennore||Tension prevailed on Ennore Expressway near Kasi Visalakshi Kuppam on Saturday after officials of the Chennai Corporation sprinkled bleaching powder on two baskets of fish. According to sources in the Fisheries Department, the incident happened as retailers were buying fish in the locality. “Civic body officials asked them not to crowd around the nets. But all of a sudden some officials sprinkled bleaching powder on two baskets of fish bought by one Pattamma, which was totally uncalled for,” said E. Selvamani, president of the Village Fishermen’s Cooperative Society. “They could have either imposed a fine or even seized the fish. But it wasn’t fair to spoil food at a time like this,” he added. Police step in A Fisheries Department source added that fishers got agitated and tried to beat up the officials, but were stopped by the police. “Around 50 kg of fish was dumped on the road after the incident. Corporation officials later apologised,” he added. Officials said physical distancing was not followed.
24 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Use of baggage trolleys to be minimised||Passengers flying out of the city after operations resume at Chennai airport may not be provided with baggage trolleys after the Ministry of Civil Aviation issued guidelines to minimise their use. Airport Authority of India officials said there were about 4,000 trolleys at Chennai airport and it would be a challenging exercise to sanitise all of them everyday. “If there are elderly, those with special needs and other passengers who desperately need them, they can request the airline staff for one,” an official said. Extra precautions Officials said they were looking at ways to disinfect trays used by passengers during security screening. All other areas of the terminals were being disinfected regularly and hand sanitisers would be placed at multiple points inside the departure and arrival hall. Also, before a passenger enters the terminal, he would have to place his feet over a mat that will soaked in bleach solution.
24 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Departures likely to resume on Monday||Departures are likely to resume at the Chennai airport on Monday, while arrival operations may be postponed, State government officials have indicated to the Airports Authority of India (AAI). A meeting to discuss flight operations will be held on May 24. AAI officials said there will be more clarity on the testing and quarantine procedures after the meeting. “We are fully prepared and have made all necessary arrangements. In addition, whatever else the State requires, we will facilitate those measures. We hope there won’t be any issues,” an official said. Though the Ministry of Civil Aviation announced the resumption of domestic flights, the State sought a deferment of the plan till the end of the month, when the lockdown was scheduled to be lifted. Earlier on Saturday, many who had booked tickets for journeys from and to the city were in a fix, not knowing whether flight operations would resume on May 25. Irate passengers took to social media to get this clarified from the ministry and the State government. Srihari, a passenger, tweeted, “Need to go to Mumbai and booked tickets for 27th May. Not sure why there is confusion. Trains are running so what is the fuss over domestic flights.” Passengers heading to other cities to catch international flights were worried about whether they would be able to make it there in time. Another source of anxiety was whether they would receive a refund if their flights were cancelled.
24 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Stadium to be quarantine centre||The Jawaharlal Nehru Indoor Stadium in Chennai will be turned into a quarantine centre, said Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam. After chairing a meeting with nodal officers for 15 zones of the Greater Chennai Corporation on Saturday, the Chief Secretary told The Hindu that the Stadium, on conversion into a quarantine centre, would be able to accommodate 500-600 persons. “In the last one week, more and more marriage halls were turned into quarantine centres as they have a provision for cooking,” he pointed out. Expressing satisfaction over the day’s meeting, he said several new ideas were being translated into action. Sensitisation of people in slums regarding physical distancing norms and detection of “strategic lapses” were among measures being undertaken for micro-level intervention. .
24 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctor’s burial mishandled: HC||There may not have been any problem in burying the body of a neurosurgeon, who died after testing positive for COVID-19, at the Kilpauk cemetery on February 19, if the officials concerned had handled the situation properly, the Madras High Court said. Justice M. Nirmal Kumar said: “It is seen that the petitioners and the local residents had been scared by the rumours about the spread of deadly virus and that is the reason they had expressed their reservation.” He made the observation while granting bail to as many as 12 people who had been booked by police for indulging in violence and preventing the burial.
24 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Id-ul-Fitr to be celebrated tomorrow||The Chief Kazi to the Government of Tamil Nadu, Salahuddin Mohammed Ayub, said that as the new moon for the month of Shawwal was not sighted on Saturday (May 23), Id-ul-Fitr would be celebrated on Monday (May 25), a release said.
24 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Autorickshaw drivers feel the pinch of one-passenger rule||With the State government allowing auto rickshaws to ply after nearly two months, many drivers in Coimbatore were left disappointed as they did not get sufficient number of rides due to the one-passenger rule on Saturday. A. Anbazhagan, an auto rickshaw driver for nearly 35 years, said that he did not take his vehicle outside his residence in Ramanathapuram after his friends told him that they did not get any rides since morning. “Who will hire autorickshaw for one passenger?,” he asked. The State government must allow at least two passengers, he suggested. Being a part of a popular taxi aggregator company, Mr. Anbazhagan said that he turned on the mobile application around Saturday noon in hopes of finding a ride. “I got one ride at 6.30 a.m. After that, there was nothing,” said S. Suganya, another auto rickshaw driver. She was part of the 10 women drivers who petitioned District Collector K. Rajamani on May 18 to allow auto rickshaws to function again as the livelihoods of the drivers were affected due to the nationwide lockdown. All COVID-19 precautionary measures such as use of hand sanitisers and masks have been implemented by the drivers across the city, she said. The State government must also consider providing compensation to the autorickshaw drivers as they were out of jobs for nearly two months,she said.  Salem Staff Reporter adds  In Salem and Namakkal districts, only a few autorickshaws were operated on Saturday. Salem District Auto Drivers Welfare Union president S.K.Thyagarajan said, “there are about 8,000 autorickshaws in the district and only 10% of those were hired by customers on Saturday. Governments must allow at least two persons to travel in an autorickshaw, only then public would be able to manage the fare. Also, passengers who are travelling to hospitals are generally accompanied by another person. We have requested the Transport Department officials here to extend the deadline for fitness certificate and road tax payment by another six months.” He added that the government must consider revising auto rickshaw fare Namakkal District AITUC president S. Manivel said that very few auto rickshaws turned up at the stands. “Train and bus services have not started and so there were not many takers for auto rickshaw services.”
24 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Newborn girl found abandoned in Tiruppur, rescued||A newborn girl found abandoned in Tiruppur city on Saturday morning was rescued by officials from the Childline helpline 1098. The baby was found in a bush at Periyar Colony in Anupparpalayam at 6 a.m. by C. Nandagopal, a member of the CPI(M) District Committee. According to Mr. Nandagopal, the baby was wrapped in a white cloth and was found among bushes a few feet away from a dustbin. The umbilical cord was still attached to the baby when she was found. “The baby must have been abandoned only an hour before we found it,” he said. Upon finding the baby, Mr. Nandagopal called 1098 Childline helpline and Tiruppur City Police. The police arrived at around 6.45 a.m. to the spot and the baby was taken to a private hospital nearby. “The baby must have been born on Friday night or in the early hours of Saturday,” said V. Chinnasamy, Childline team member. He was among the Childline officials who visited the private hospital to rescue the baby. Upon confirming that the baby did not have any injuries and cutting its umbilical cord, she was sent to Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital. “We have informed the District Child Protection Unit and they will decide on the adoption centre the baby will be sent to,” Mr. Chinnasamy said. A complaint was filed with Anupparpalayam police regarding this issue, he noted. Valli Sathyamoorthy, Dean of Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, said that the girl baby weighed 2.1 kg and was admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit. Although her condition was stable, she had mosquito bite marks and hence blood samples were taken for testing. The baby will be handed over to the District Child Protection Unit in one week if the blood test results are normal, Dr. Valli said.
24 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Arrangements ready at Coimbatore airport||Airport Authority of India (AAI), Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) and the Health Department have made various arrangements, including touch-free security check-in facility, at Coimbatore International Airport as domestic flight services are scheduled to resume from Monday. First procedure Medical screening will be the first procedure passengers will have to undergo at the departure and arrival sections. Those screened and cleared by the medical team can walk to a touch-free security check-in counter where CISF personnel will not check the flight ticket and identification card manually. Passengers need to hold their ticket and ID card before a camera, visuals from which will be checked stored by security personnel. Luggage of passengers will be scanned and passed through a UV sterilizer. A second check-in counter has also been readied for passengers come with cabin luggage alone. This counter will have a bar code reader where the bar code in the ticket needs to be shown for check-in. Sources with a domestic operator said that passengers were supposed to do online airline check-in during the prescribed time before travel to avoid the process at the airport. They added that passengers were also required to carry prints of boarding pass and check-in baggage tag by generating them online. Check-in baggage will be weighed as usual. Those coming without taking prints of these will be have to generate them from self check-in kiosks at the airport where airline staff who wear gloves will assist them. Detailed instructions regarding these are given in airline websites, they added. While carrying sanitizer was not allowed before COVID-19 pandemic, now one can carry maximum of 350 ml of sanitizer. Mask, gloves and registration of Aarogya Setu app (not for those aged below 14) are must for travel. As per a tentative schedule, IndiGo was planning to resume services to Delhi, Hyderabad, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Chennai while SpiceJet was to operate to Chennai from May 25. According to airport director R. Mahalingam, automatic sanitizer dispenser and pedal operated sanitizer dispenser at various points in the airport. Airport and premises will be disinfected at frequent intervals. Markings have been made on floors for the passengers to maintain physical distancing. Mats soaked with sodium hypochlorite will also be placed at some points where passengers can rub their footwear. Meanwhile, Citizens’ Voice Coimbatore appealed to Union Ministers for External Affairs,Civil Aviation and Railways to implement compulsory rapid test before boarding a flight and long distance train.
24 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corpn. revises testing strategy||Coimbatore Corporation is now testing only those persons who showed influenza like illness or symptoms of severe acute respiratory infection or those coming from other States or abroad, according to sources. The change in strategy followed the latest testing guidelines from the State Government. Now that the district was free of COVID-19 positive cases and had no containment zones, the Corporation had revised the testing strategy. Earlier, it was lifting random samples from various pockets in the city and from frontline workers and vulnerable groups. And in doing so it had a target. Now that was over. Given the revised guidelines, the Corporation did not have a daily target to lift samples, the sources said and added that the civic body would test people from other districts if they showed symptoms and all those coming to the city from other States and from abroad. It would not test people who had no symptoms but had anxiety that they could carry the coronavirus, the sources added. The Corporation, however, continued its disinfection operation.
24 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Three robbed of valuables||A five-member gang barged into a house at Vadavalli and robbed three persons of their jewellery, cash and mobile phones on Friday afternoon. Two special teams were formed to trace the robbers. Police said that the incident happened at the house of K. Shanthi (51) at Kamadenu Nagar near Vadavalli around 2.15 p.m. on Friday. M. Sathya (29), a self-help group member at Vadavalli, had gone to Santhi’s house around noon to borrow Rs. 10,000 to buy a two-wheeler. K. Pradeepkumar (37), an auto consultant, joined them around 2 p.m. According to police, as Pradeepkumar entered the house, five men wearing masks barged into the house and locked the door from inside. They robbed Shanthi, Sathya and Pradeepkumar of their 12.5 sovereign jewellery, Rs. 8,500 and three mobile phones. The accused also took photographs of Sathya and Pradeepkumar.
24 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy worker ends life||A 53-year-old man, employed as conservancy worker with the Coimbatore Corporation, ended his life by consuming poison on Friday.  The deceased, K. Palanisamy of VKK Menon Road, took the extreme step over family issues and alcohol addiction, police said.  Helpline Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies could seek help and counselling by dialling 'Sneha' 24X7 helpline at 044-24640050.
24 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man booked for assaulting policeman||Perur police on Friday booked a man on charges of assaulting a policeman and preventing him from discharging his duty. S. Dilip (33), a resident of Siruvani main road near Kalampalayam, was booked based on a complaint lodged by police constable Ragavendran (25) attached to Perur Station.
24 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||NGO distributes food to people||Nallaram Trust, a Coimbatore-based NGO, claimed that its members have been serving 1.5 lakh people every day across the district amid the COVID-19 lockdown. According to a press release, the food distribution initially aimed at providing food for 300 people with a single kitchen at Kuniyamuthur from March 24. Eight kitchens Later, the organisation expanded the distribution by setting up eight kitchens in places like Thondamuthur, Puliakulam and Perur. With 300 chefs involved in preparing the food, the members distribute the food in places such as Eachanari, Podanur, Singanallur, Ondipudur, Madukkarai, Irugur, Thudiyalur and Vadavalli, the release said. Apart from Nallaram Trust members, volunteers from Lions Club and Rotary Clubs also participate in distributing the food to the needy. 350 vehicles As many as 350 vehicles, including two-wheelers and four-wheelers, are being used for the distribution. Chief coordinator of the Trust’s ‘Emergency Food Distribution Team’ Suresh supervises the distribution process under the guidance of Nallaram Trust chairman S.P. Anbarasan, according to the release.
24 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two held for attempt to murder couple||Sirumugai police arrested two persons for alleged attempt to murder a couple over a petty quarrel in their neighbourhood late on Thursday. Police said that E. Sekar (23) and his wife S. Shobana (23) from Edugampalayam near Sirumugai, beat the grandson of their neighbours C. Ravi (45) and his wife Shantamani, after the boy allegedly tied a rope around the neck of Sekar’s pet dog. Following this, a quarrel broke out between the two families. Shobana’s brothers B. Ravi (45) and B.Jayaraj (25) from Karamadai attacked C.Ravi and Shantamani. While Sekar, Shobana, Ravi and Jayaraj were booked for attempt to murder, C. Ravi and Shanthamani were booked for hurting Jayaraj and Sekar. Police arrested B. Ravi and Sekar. Jayaraj and C. Ravi were admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for treatment.
24 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||Salem Division of Southern Railway operated two Shramik special trains from Coimbatore Junction on Saturday. The trains were bound for Balangir, Odisha and Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh. One left at 4 p.m. and the other at 6 p.m. Each train had 1,600 passengers, railway officials said. As of Saturday, 25 Shramik special trains have been operated from Coimbatore Junction.    Food Safety and Standards officials seized 70 kg of banned tobacco products and suspicious sweets from a godown at Chinnakarai in Tiruppur District on Saturday. The officials, led by FSSAI Designated Officer (Tiruppur) B. Vijayalalithambigai, inspected the godown and an adjoining shop based on a tip-off, a release said. The samples of the seized products were sent for laboratory testing and the godown was sealed, Dr. Vijayalalithambigai said in the release.
24 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Toy stalls damaged in fire||Several stalls selling toys and fancy items near Masani Amman temple at Anamalai were damaged in a fire on Saturday. The fire was put out by the Fire and Rescue Services personnel. No one was injured.
24 May 2020||Cumbum,TAMIL NADU||Begin e-auction, say cardamom growers||Appealing to the Prime Minister of India, members of Kerala Cardamom Growers Union here have urged for early resumption of e-auction of their produce both at Bodi and at Putthady in Idukki district, Kerala. In a mail sent to the PM, Union president T. K. S. M. Uthayakumar said on Saturday that the e-auction was suspended in March end due to COVID-19 pandemic. Since then, the industry has suffered huge loss. On the one hand, planters were unable to sell their produce as the e-auction centres were closed and on other hand many farmers could not visit their farms in Idukki district due to travel restrictions. With the Union government giving sops to many sectors following the COVID-19 pandemic, the cardamom planters too expect concessions as their livelihood was at stake, Mr. Uthayakumar said in the mail. On an average, 200 to 250 metric tons of cardamom would be sold through the e-auction centres every week and since the lockdown, the activity had come to a standstill. The Union members submitted a memorandum to Theni Collector M. Pallavi Baldev seeking intervention to re-start the e-auction in Bodi. On behalf of the Kerala Cardamom Growers Union members and four e-auction firms, a cheque for Rs. 10 lakh was handed over for COVID-19 relief works on the occasion.
24 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Schools warned against holding special classes for Class X students||School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan has said that action would be taken against schools if they were found conducting special classes for Class 10 students. Addressing media persons in Gobichettipalayam on Saturday, the Minister said that schools were not allowed to conduct special classes for students who are to appear for theirboard exams from June 15 to 25. “Action will be taken if special classes are conducted,” he said. The Minister added that only after the publication of Class 10 results can all schools admit students for Class 11 (Plus One) and warned of action in case of violations. Paper valuation He said that teachers had refused to evaluate exam papers in the districts of Chennai, Tiruvallur, Ariyalur and Kancheepuram as the number of COVID-19 positive cases are high in these districts. “Hence, the answer sheets were moved to other districts for valuation”, he added. The Minister said that if schools were found collecting fees before reopening, parents can lodge complaints with proof to the School Edcucation Department for necessary action.
24 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Contacts of COVID-19 patient being home quarantined in Erode district||After a 50-year-old man from Kavindapadi in Erode District tested positive for COVID-19 after he was admitted to the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College and Hospital in Salem for an orthopaedic problem, officials on Saturday began identifying the persons who were in contact with him to home quarantine them. Till evening, 45 families comprising 120 members were quarantined. The man, who works at a fast food outlet, suffered a fracture in his leg when he fell off his two-wheeler 10 days ago. He was returning from Mevani in Gobichettipalayam to his house at V.I.P. Nagar in Kavindapadi in Bhavani Taluk. A plaster of paris cast was put around the fracture area at Singiripalayam village and he later consulted a doctor at the Government Hospital at Kavindapadi who referred him to the District Headquarters Hospital in Erode. From there, he was referred to the medical college hospital in Salem, where he tested positive on Friday for COVID-19. On Saturday, five bone fracture treatment centres at Singiripalayam village were closed while officials continued to trace persons who were in contact with him. Sources said that the man’s son had returned from Chennai 10 days ago from whom he might have contracted the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Deputy Director of Health Services S. Soundammal told The Hindu that swab samples were lifted from the quarantined 120 persons and the results were awaited. The district had reported 70 positive earlier, and was in the green zone with no active cases since April 14.  Salem Staff Reporter adds:  Chief Minister Edappadi.K. Palaniswami on Saturday reviewed COVID-19 prevention measures at a review meeting with officials in his Assembly constituency, Edappadi. District Collector S.A.Raman, Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger, District Revenue Officer R. Divakar and other senior officials took part in the meeting. Mr. Palaniswami also reviewed the progress of Kudimaramathu works and drinking water supply schemes.
24 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Six fined for consuming deer head||Six persons who cooked the head of a spotted deer and consumed it in Talavadi Forest Range in Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) were fined Rs. 1.50 lakh here on Saturday. Based on information, a team comprising Talavadi Forest Range Officer S. Sivakumar, Diginarai Forester C. Narayanan, Forest Guards P. Nousier and A. Palanikumar inspected Kodamballi village near the border with Karnataka and found six persons at the spot. Inquiries revealed that a carnivore had killed the deer and eaten it, leaving out the head, on a revenue poromboke land. The officials said the six persons found the carcass, cooked the head and consumed it. They were taken to the range office and based on the direction from Hasanur Divisional Forest Officer and Deputy Director of STR, K.V. Appala Naidu, each were fined Rs. 25,000. The total fine amount of Rs. 1.50 lakh was collected from them.
24 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Autorickshaws begin plying again||After a gap of nearly two months, autorickshaws began plying on Madurai roads on Saturday. Though, this relaxation did not extend to areas within the containment zones. J. Raju, an autorickshaw driver from Mudakkuchalai, said that he was relieved to resume operations after several weeks. “With resumption of operations I hope to earn a decent income and start repaying the money I borrowed from money lenders,” he said. While most of the autorickshaws followed the norms and travelled with one passenger, a few autorickshaws were seen carrying two or three passengers, with total disregard to personal distancing norms. M. Arogyam, a autorickshaw driver near Periyar bus stand, said most were flouting the one-passenger norm as otherwise it was difficult for them to get passengers. “If we have to travel with one customer, then we have to charge higher fares. But, most of them are without any income,” he said. But, many autorickshaw drivers had doubled the fares due to low passenger footfall. S. Lakshmi, a sanitary worker from Samayanallur, said that she had to spend Rs. 60 for travelling to her workplace. “Earlier, it would cost only Rs. 20. With an income of Rs. 5,000 every month, it will be difficult for me to spend Rs. 120 for travel everyday. So, I have tocontinue walking eight kilometres to reach my workplace,” she said. In this backdrop, it was not financially viable to buy sanitisers for passengers and disinfect the autorickshaws thrice everyday, said S. V. Sekar, another driver. “We tell all our passengers to wear face masks. We also carry soap with us, so that we can wash our hands when we find taps. We wash our vehicles once in the morning and evening,” he added. Around 250 drivers affiliated to Madurai City Autorickshaw Drivers Association also staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate demanding that additional one person be allowed to ride in autorickshaws. Assistant Commissioner (traffic) Joseph Nixon said that cases were booked against auto rickshaw drivers who flouted the norms. “Only for a medical emergency, we allow an extra passenger to travel in an autorickshaw,” he said. Tirunelveli The restriction imposed by the State government on the number of passengers to be carried in an autorickshaw has affected the drivers. The drivers feel that the restriction was impractical and they support other precautionary measures to be ensured like use of hand sanitiser and spraying disinfectants after every trip. “We cannot take two passengers, even a couple, as per the restriction. This is unfair,” says driver Mani, who has stationed his vehicle near Palayamkottai bus stand. Though a few autorickshaws could be seen with two or three passengers in interior roads, others, fearing action from the authorities, were seen waiting for a lone passenger. Drivers also demand that buses and trains should be operated immediately. “Most of the passengers take autorickshaws from interior areas to reach the nearest bus stop or the bus stand. Since, public transport system is yet to resume, most of the autorickshaws are idle,” says driver Mariappan of Palayamkottai. Similar situation prevailed in Tenkasi and Thoothukudi districts and only a few autorickshaws could be seen on the road. “When a few drivers operated the autorickshaws in Thoothukudi before permission was granted, Collector Sandeep Nanduri had detained three autorickshaws and slapped fine on them. Fearing such a measure, most of us desisted from flouting the rule and have been waiting indefinitely for a single passenger,” said a driver from Poobalarayarpuram. Virudhunagar It is lack of patronage that has hit the auto drivers in Virudhunagar. “If buses and trains start running and people begin moving from one town to another, we will get passengers,” said C. Manikandan, a driver, who operates from the auto stand at the Old Bus Stand. Stating that he had already spent Rs. 350 on minor maintenance of the vehicle, he was sceptical whether he would recover even that investment. Another auto driver, R. Mariselvam, who operates from MGR Statue Stand, said that it was highly impractical to operate autorickshaws with only one passenger. “Most of the people come out to buy things or to go to hospital. And at least two persons have to be ferried. If we insist that only one passenger can be ferried, people would not engage auto at all,” he said. He added that only those who own autorickshaws have started driving. Others who take the vehicle on rent have not started work fearing that lack of patronage might lead to additional debts.
24 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||So many duties for too little pay||Village Health Nurses play a crucial role in preventing female infanticide in the State. They keep the record of antenatal mothers, pay weekly visits and provide post-natal care for at least the first six months, thus keeping mortality rate of mothers and newborns in check. In both the cases of female infanticide at Usilampatti in March and Sholavandan in May in Madurai district, they were the ones who played a crucial role in bringing the crime to light. Despite playing such an important role, they complain of poor salaries and allowances, heavy workload, unsafe working conditions, poor training and systemic gap. K. Chinnaponnu, a functionary of Tamil Nadu Village Health Nurses Association, works at a Primary Health Centre in Chellampatti block. A VHN there was taking care of the 31-day-old baby who was allegedly killed by her parents and grandfather in Usilampatti in March. Ms. Chinnaponnu says each VHN served a population of about 5,000 people. They begin their week by visiting pregnant women. They register new cases, give urine tests to confirm pregnancy and check on their health. “We visit four or five villages a week. Women line up at an anganwadi for check-up. In case of complication, we ask the women to come to the PHC the following day,” she says. A nurse says that post birth, they must complete seven visits in six months to monitor the health of mother and child. “During the visits, we come across family problems and know whether they can raise the child. If they cannot, we speak to them about giving their child for legal adoption. We strongly advise family planning,” she says. Rs. 5,500 as basic salary Ms. Chinnaponnu says this process of visiting and taking charge of PHC deliveries are taxing. The VHNs start with Rs. 5,500 as basic salary and have a Rs. 2,000 pay-scale increase based on experience. She says they are given meagre travel allowance. “We find it difficult to run the family with such a low pay,” she says. They have all learnt to navigate the new Pregnancy and Infant Cohort Monitoring and Evaluation (PICME) system created by the State government to keep track of antenatal mothers, all by themselves. Ms. Chinnaponnu says VHNs face problem while trying to convince parents to consider family planning. “The preference for male child has not changed much over time. When a woman has two or three girl children, we tell them not to continue trying. However, the fathers hurl abuses at us,” she says. Another VHN in Sedapatti block says, “Phones have made our job easier to conduct the checks instead of making field visits, though a personal touch is lost in the process.” On the recent infanticide, she says, “It is not at all shocking. We know their mindset. First they wanted the baby but changed the mind after they left the PHC.” High dowry demanded during marriage is one of the reasons for the prevalence of female infanticide, it is felt.
24 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Students develop sensor-based touch-free sanitiser dispenser||A group of students and trainers of the Entrepreneurship, Innovation and Career Hub (EIC Hub) of the Alagappa Institute of Skill Development, Alagappa University, have developed a cost effective sensor based touch-free sanitiser dispenser. This is an improved version of the touch-free dispenser made by the same group of students a fortnight ago. Vice-Chancellor of Alagappa University, N. Rajendran, congratulated the students. He said that the WHO, the Centre and the State Governments have advised public to use sanitisers to clean hands in order to control the spread of COVID-19. If people use the same sanitiser dispenser, it would not only lead to the possibility of spreading the virus, but also unnecessary wastage of sanitiser. The cost effective sensor based touch-free sanitiser would reduce the risk. One need not touch the dispenser to use the sanitiser and at the same time the amount of liquid dispensed was controlled by the programmed sensors, he added.
24 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctor tests positive||A 39-year-old doctor treating patients at the COVID-19 wing of Government Rajaji Hospital here tested positive on Friday making her the first medical professional to contract the infection in Madurai. Apart from her, another person arriving from Uttar Pradesh tested positive too. With these cases, the total number of cases from Madurai stands at 226. The 38-year-old returnee who tested positive came from Kanpur in a bus. After he tested positive, he was shifted to a quarantine facility at Madurai Kamaraj University. He will be returning to his home in Usilampatti after he tests negative, Collector T. G. Vinay said. Returnees’ effect Returnees from Maharashtra continue to jack up the number of COVID-19 patients in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts, which had 11 and 5 fresh cases respectively on Saturday. Interestingly, all these 16 cases detected at check posts on the borders of the two districts. Though Tenkasi added two new cases on Saturday, they were not from Mumbai and the district has 33 patients under treatment. While Tirunelveli district had 187 active cases as on Saturday, Thoothukudi had 111 cases after four patients from Kovilpatti were discharged from Government Medical College Hospital. Kanniyakumari district, which did not record any fresh case on Saturday, has 49 patients under treatment in Government Medical College Hospital at Asaripallam. While there were no fresh cases in Dindigul and Sivaganga districts on Saturday, one case from Theni and three from Ramanathapuram were reported. From West Bengal All the three cases in Ramanathapuram had travel history of having returned from West Bengal. They were sent for treatment to Sivaganga Government Medical College Hospital from where 13 patients were discharged. Now only three patients from Sivaganga district are taking treatment. The lone patient from Theni had contacts with persons with symptoms of COVID-19. Of the 102 persons who had tested positive so far, 54 had been cured and left for home, two died and 42 are taking treatment at the Theni GMCH, two in Cumbum GH, one each in Tiruchi GH and Madurai Government Rajaji Hospital. Towards three digits Virudhunagar district is just short of three to touch the triple-digit mark after it reported two new cases on Saturday. Of the 97 cases, 53 patients are taking treatment and 54 others have been discharged. Both the two fresh cases had come from other States – one each from Delhi and Maharashtra.
24 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘People indifferent to wearing face masks’||A health inspector at Melakkal Primary Health Centre (PHC) says that there have been several instances of people walking to nearby tea shops without wearing face masks. “When they walk on streets, they wear masks or at least wrap a towel around their mouth and nose. But when they work in farms they do not wear mask as they say that they find it difficult to breathe,” he says. In Melur block where a total of 17 COVID-19cases have been recorded till date, many people have been moving freely in streets without masks, says Panchayat Union councillor K. Kallampatti village G. Purushottaman. “Some residents were initially scared about people from other villages entering our area. We barricaded streets. Now, it seems like the disease is not as deadly as we thought it was. Everyone in Melur thought that if one gets affected by coronavirus they would die. But now we see that several people have returned unscathed,” he says. M. Ramalingam, a farmer from Kottampatti, says that though there is enforcement by authorities there is little or no fear regarding COVID-19. “Many people believe that they will not be affected by it,” he says. In Usilampatti and Kallikudi blocks, staff nurses say that they feel as if they are in danger as most do not have masks. Deputy Director of Health Services Priya Raj says that antenatal mothers have been given free masks through PHCs and mobile health units. She adds that officers from all departments have been attempting to seal shops that do not maintain social distancing. According to a statement from the district administration, 1,762 people have been fined Rs. 1,83,000 since May 20.
24 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Vaigai water will be diverted to Mariamman Teppakulam||Public Works Department (PWD) officials say that when water is released from Vaigai dam on May 25 for wetting of the river, the water will also be diverted to Mariamman Teppakulam through Panaiyur channel. Executive Engineer of PWD (Periyar-Vaigai Basin) T. Subramanian said that 216 million cubic feet (mcft) of water will be released in the river for three days. “When water reaches the check dam near Albert Victor Bridge, it will also be diverted to Mariamman Teppakulam through panaiyur channel. Though we will not be able to fill the tank to its brim, good storage of water at the tank will be possible,” he said. As a preparatory measure, Corporation workers cleared garbage dumped in the Panaiyur channel on Saturday. “During the annual float festival in February the Teppakulam was brimming with water and gradually the water storage level has gone down. Since the first week of May, the tank has been almost dry, said a Corporation official. The official added that storage of water in the tank will help to recharge the groundwater level especially during the summer.
24 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CM requests non-AC trains within State||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has requested the Centre to run non-AC special trains within Tamil Nadu, connecting important railway stations, other than Chennai Egmore and Tambaram. Based on the Chief Minister’s letter of May 21 to the Minister for Railways, the Southern Railway has sought permission from the Railway Board to run four trains. The zonal railways have sought permission to run Coimbatore-Mayiladuthurai Jan Shatabdi Special, intercity specials on Madurai-Villupuram, Tiruchi-Nagercoil and Coimbatore-Katpadi sections. Railway sources said that the train no. 12084/12083 has been proposed to be operated as Jan Shatabdi special train. The Chennai Egmore-Madurai Vaigai Express (12635/12636) has been proposed to be run between Villupuram and Madurai. The  However, officials in Madurai Railway Division said that they were yet to get any information on the proposals.
24 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects ‘kudimaramathu’ works||Collector T. G. Vijay inspected kudimaramathu works at different taluks in the district, here on Friday. He instructed officials to remove encroachments in channels, tanks and other waterbodies. A total of 56 kudimaramath works amounting to Rs. 31.21 crore have been taking place in the district, according to a release from the district administration. He visited villages in Madurai North and Vadipatti taluks and oversaw the works there.
24 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Low-cost purifying respirator system designed||Meenakshi Mission Hospital has designed a low-cost purifying respirator system that provides protection from COVID-19 infection for surgeons and other healthcare professionals in operation theatres. According to a press release, the product called ‘Tanjore Air Purifying Respirator (TAPR)’ delivers medical grade compressed air through their hood. A TAPR unit can be set up for Rs. 3,000 per person. In comparison, the conventional air purifying system, known as Power Air Purifying Respirator (PAPR), costs Rs. 1.2 lakh per person. “While surgical masks can block large droplets, they cannot provide a reliable level of protection from inhaling smaller airborne particles. For a higher level of protection, doctors use PAPR systems. This too possesses a risk of contamination. Our equipment has eliminated that,” says Chairman of Meenakshi Hospital, Guru Shankar. TAPR requires no cleaning and can work for long hours as it does not have a battery. He adds that Meenakshi Hospital was not planning to patent the design and wants to make it available for any hospital.
24 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Medicines distributed||Principal District Judge A. Nazeema Banu distributed homoeopathy medicines to 150 judicial officers and court staff of the Madurai District court, here on Saturday. The officers and staff were given guidance on the usage and the precautions to be taken in view of COVID-19 pandemic. The event was organised by the Madurai District Legal Services Authority and the medicines were arranged by Chief Judicial Magistrate T.V. Hemanandakumar. Following the distribution of medicines, a meeting was held with Dr. Satheesh of the Sarada Krishna Homoeopathic Medical College in Kulasekaram, Kanniyakumari district via video conferencing on its usage, for the benefit of the officers and staff.
24 May 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Statue installed sans nod covered with cloth||A Bharat Mata statue installed on the premises of Esakki Amman Temple at Kattuvilai Junction near Thenthaamaraikulam a week ago without obtaining permission was covered with cloth on Saturday. When a group of people opposed, the police asked the temple administrators to remove the statue. When they did not, the police covered it with a cloth. But a group of BJP cadre, led by party’s district president Dharmaraj, removed the cloth and garlanded the statue on Saturday. As the police covered the statue after they left, the cadre rushed to the temple again and picked up an argument with the police. They uncovered the statue again and staged a dharna. Since the police arrested the cadre, it triggered road roko at 15 places in which around 500 persons were arrested and released later. The police covered the statue once again.
24 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||3 more COVID-19 cases in U.T.||With three more COVID-19 cases reported in Puducherry on Saturday, the tally of infected persons in the Union Territory has gone up to 41. Of the total cases reported, 14 have recovered fully and there are currently 27 active cases, including two from Tamil Nadu admitted at Jipmer, a Health Department official said. The latest cases were reported from Vadamangalam, Kurumampet and Velmurugan Nagar. All three persons were under the watch of the Health Department after they came in contact with COVID-19 patients, the official said. The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has urged the government to declare Puducherry region a red zone considering the rise in number of patients.
24 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘State likely to suffer Rs. 35,000-cr. revenue loss’||Tamil Nadu is likely to suffer a revenue loss of Rs. 35,000 crore against the backdrop of the COVID-19 lockdown, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said, quoting an estimate prepared by the Finance Department. Addressing the media in Salem, Mr. Palaniswami said the State’s GST revenue had reduced significantly during the lockdown, spanning a few days in March and the entire months of April and May. “The Finance Department has estimated the loss to be Rs. 35,000 crore. The State government is taking various measures to manage the loss without stalling development projects. There will be job opportunities for the public only if there are development projects,” he said. When asked if the Centre had sanctioned adequate funds to Tamil Nadu, he said, “They are giving [funds] in instalments. But they haven’t given what we had asked for.” Noting that the entire world was facing an economic crisis, he said the Centre had promised to release GST dues to the States, and this was being done.  Stalin’s allegation The Chief Minister rejected DMK president M.K. Stalin’s allegation that the State had failed to effectively combat COVID-19. Reiterating that Tamil Nadu was leading the country in the implementation of COVID-19 preventive measures, he said, “In India, Tamil Nadu leads in testing, and we have the highest number of labs in the country – 67.” He appreciated the medical fraternity and allied workers engaged in countering the pandemic. He said that the State was taking the right measures to control the spread of the disease, in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Centre and medical experts. Defending the decision to hold SSLC board exams, he said that it was taken based on requests from the public. On the water front, he said that the State was geared up for the summer. Desilting work had begun in the delta region to ensure supply of water to farmers in tail-end areas, he said.
24 May 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Govt. had no role in arrest of Bharathi, says CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday denied that the government had any role in the arrest of DMK legislator R.S. Bharathi. He said the case against Mr. Bharathi was registered under the provisions of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act on a complaint filed by an individual at the Teynampet police station, alleging that the MP had spoken about SCs in a demeaning manner. The Chief Minister accused DMK president M.K. Stalin of spreading a rumour that the arrest was politically motivated. “Mr. Stalin is spreading rumours for political gain, and we strongly condemn this. As the Opposition leader, he should have condemned his party member for speaking in such a disparaging manner,” he said while addressing the media.
24 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Kumbakonam market to be reopened tomorrow||The wholesale and retail vegetable market complex at Kumbakonam will start functioning from May 25, according to the Collector M. Govinda Rao. Disclosing this in a press release, the Collector said that the market complex located on the banks of Arasalar was temporarily shut down following a goods carrier driver tested positive for COVID-19 virus. As the COVID-19 guidelines mandates that the place which was declared as containment zone following the identification of a coronavirus infection case, could be declared as non-containment zone if no fresh cases were reported from the zone for two weeks. As far as the Kumbakonam market was concerned no fresh case was reported and the goods carrier driver who had brought potato load from Mettupalayam to Kumbakonam and tested positive had also been discharged from the Thanjavur Medical College hospital on Friday after treatment. Hence, normal activity would resume at the market complex from Monday onwards, he added. At the same time, the goods carrier drivers and others visiting the market from other districts would continue to be subjected to COVID-19 screening tests to prevent spreading of novel coronavirus, he added. Meanwhile chairing a review meeting on measures taken to prevent the spread of COVID-19 at the Collectorate, Mr.Govinda Rao said that there was no steep increase in the number of cases in Thanjavur district for the past 23 days. However, he urged the officials to ensure that all those arriving from other countries were tested for the dreadful virus and undergo seven days of institutional quarantine even if there were no symptoms of infection. If they tested positive in the second screening, they should be immediately shifted to the COVID-19 Special Ward at the TMC for treatment. Else they should be allowed to reach their residence with a condition that they should remain in house quarantine for the next 7 days. As far as those arriving from other States, such persons should also be tested and if they test negative they should be allowed to proceed to their residence with the condition that they should remain in house quarantine under the surveillance of the health and revenue department personnel for 14 days. If they test negative but identified with fever, cough they should be retained in the institutional quarantine facility for seven days and subjected to the second test after seven days. They should be allowed to leave the institutional quarantine facility and remain in house quarantine for the next seven days if they test negative in the screening test.
24 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Plea to operate a ‘Ply sitting class train’||The Thanjavur District Rail Users’ Association has called upon the Ministry of Railways to consider operating the Mayiladuthurai-Tiruchi Express (train number: 16233/16234) as a second sitting class train for the benefit of regular travellers. In a statement issued here on Saturday, the Advisor, TDRUA, A.Giri, requested the Railway Ministry to consider the operation of the Mayiladuthurai-Tiruchi Express as a second sitting reserved special train instead of as an express train. Further, the association sought the downward trip timing of this train could be changed to 17.30 hours instead of 12.50 hours at the Tiruchi junction.
24 May 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Two buses seized for transporting migrant workers||Two omni buses with 30 migrant workers from Maharashtra were impounded and four persons, including the bus owner, were arrested here on Saturday. The police intercepted two buses at the border check-post on Madurai highway on Friday night. It was revealed that the two buses had brought passengers from Mumbai without any permit from competent authorities. The occupants of the buses were taken to an isolation centre and screened by a medical team. The police arrested bus owner Shanmuganathan, Manager Senthil Kumaran, drivers Ramiah and Pichaimani. A doctor at the Government Medical College Hospital said that only outsiders were importing COVID-19 virus into the district. Patients who were admitted in the recent times had travel history. Towards north As many as 688 migrant workers have left Theni in 21 government buses for Madurai from where they will leave by train to Maharashtra on Saturday night. In Theni district, 140 migrant workers were employed in Bodi, 23 in Theni, 433 in Periyakulam and 92 in Uthamapalayam. Already 180 migrant workers from the district had left for Uttar Pradesh, 256 for Bihar and 24 to Rajasthan. MP helps youth Thanks to efforts made by O.P. Raveendranath Kumar, the Theni MP, a youth stranded in Dubai could return to his house in Bodi on Saturday. Ganesh Kumar, 24, son of Selvam, went to Dubai in January for employment. He was down with jaundice within a fortnight of reaching there and his sickness continued through the COVID-19 lockdown. On hearing about his plight, the MP took steps for his return home in a special flight to Kochi. He travelled in an ambulance and got himself admitted to Theni GH.
24 May 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Two killed||In a hit-and-run case, two women - Murugeswari and Nagalakshmi - who were returning home after working in a farm were fatally knocked down by a car on the Chinnamanur-Theni stretch on Friday.
24 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||PPEs donated||The 1995-batch students of Government College of Engineering, Tirunelveli, have donated personal protective equipment (PPE) worth Rs. 1.35 lakh to Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. They mobilised funds and purchased N-95 masks and face shields and handed them over to the hospital recently.
24 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Desilting work gets under way||Canals and drainage channels for a total length of about 50.86 km would be cleared of silt under the Chief Minister’s Special Desilting Scheme in Tiruchi district this year at an estimate of Rs. 1.76 crore. This will be part of the 392 works sanctioned at a total cost of Rs. 67.24 crore in the seven districts of Tiruchi, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Ariyalur, Karur and Pudukottai. Twenty of these works would be executed in the Tiruchi district. The Public Works Department has begun the works and on Saturday State Ministers Vellamandi N.Natarajan and S.Valarmathi inaugurated the work the Kottai Vaical at Mekkudi in the district. The Kottai Vaical would be desilted for a length of about 3.6 km. Prominent among the works is the desilting of the Cholagampatti Vari (drain) for a length of about 3 km, sanctioned at an estimate of Rs. 36 lakhs. The drain passes through Cholagampatti, Thirunedunkulam and Vazhavanthankottai in Tiruverumbur taluk. The drain runs from Kanthalur reservoir and runs for a total length of about 10 km before draining in Vennar through the Kallanai Canal siphon. Surplus water from various tanks including the Keeranur big tank, Killukotai Big tank, Kannankudi, Thuvakudi and Pazhankanankudi Porani tanks flow in the Cholagampatti drain and feeds Vazhavanthankottai, Mangavanam, Sorakudi, Ayyanar Gurukal and Ponvilanjankudi tanks, benefiting about 1,790 acres of cultivable lands. The drain, which is of 50 metres in width, has been silted up at various places resulting in overflows during monsoon. Apart from these, 16 repair and renovation works on canals would be executed under the kudimaramathu scheme in the district this year at a cost of Rs. 4.12 crore.
24 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Rise in cement and steel price worries builders in Tiruchi||Sharp rise in prices of cement and steel has caused concern among the real estate promoters and those constructing individual houses in the city. It has come as a rude shock to the real estate developers, who have just resumed the construction activities after a gap of about two months due to the lockdown. According to industry sources, depending upon the brands, a bag of cement was sold between Rs. 370 and Rs. 390 before the lockdown. It has now gone up to Rs. 420 a bag in Tiruchi. Similarly, the rate of steel has also gone up. Before March 25, the price of a tonne of steel was hovering between Rs. 40,000 and Rs. 45,000. It is now priced between Rs. 45,000 - 48,000 a tonne. The rise in prices of cement and steel, essential material components of construction activities, has not gone well among the individual house promoters and flat promoters, who have already been hit hard due to poor demand for houses. It is claimed that the cost of construction will go up by 15% to 20% if the prices are not checked. ‘It is a worrisome factor. The price rise is sudden. We are forced to shell out Rs. 100 more per cement bag. It has affected the construction industry hard,” says P. Ravichandran, Managing Director, Royal Shelters, Tiruchi. He said that it would not only affect the flat promoters and individual house constructors but also those, who had undertaken government projects such as bridges, culverts and buildings. Mr. Ravichandran said that the industry had actually expected that the price of steel and cement would become cheaper at least by 5% to 10% due to zero construction activities for the last two months. But, the rates had been gone up. I. Shajahan, president, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India (CREDAI), Tiruchi chapter,said that if the price hike was 2% to 3% it was understandable. The developers had just begun to resume stalled projects after two months and the price was not justified. It would increase the cost of projects substantially and it would have cascading effects on the construction industry. Seeking immediate intervention of the State government on the issue, he said that the CREDAI had sent representation to the Chief Minister and senior bureaucrats in Chennai seeking steps to stablise the price rise.
24 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||6 discharged, 1 tests positive for COVID-19||Six people in the central region recovered from COVID-19 and returned home while one person from Pudukottai district tested positive on Saturday. No fresh case was reported in seven of the eight districts in the region. The lone positive patient, a 65-year-old woman from Aalavanpatti in Kulathur had returned to her home town from Maharashtra. The woman had returned on 22 May, when throat swab samples were lifted and sent for testing. She has been admitted to the Muthulakshmi Reddy Memorial Government Headquarters Hospital in Pudukottai town for treatment. The total number of active cases in the district is now seven. Five patients were discharged from the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital on Saturday. One patient hailing from Karur was also discharged from the Karur Government Medical College Hospital. The patients were sent off from the respective designated COVID-19 hospitals on ‘108’ ambulances. Hospital staff including doctors and nurses applauded them on their recovery and presented them with fruit baskets and asked them to self-isolate for at leas 14 days before venturing outdoors. Meanwhile, seven districts- Ariyalur, Karur, Nagapattinam, Perambalur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Tiruchi saw no positive cases on Saturday. Ariyalur district has not had a positive case in over five days. The last patient to test positive in the district was on May 18. The total number of active cases in the district is five of the total 355 COVID-19 cases. On Saturday, 46 new throat swab samples have been lifted from people who visited their nearest Primary Healthcare Centre or the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital with fever and cold symptoms. The swabs have been sent to the K. A. P. Viswanatham Government Medical College for testing. Collector D. Rathna on Saturday said that action will be taken on those flouting the lockdown norms. Tamil Nadu continues to be under lockdown and more than five people are not allowed to gather in a single place. Those found breaking the rules would be faced with legal action, she said, and that district authorities and police personnel would be on a round-the-clock watch. In Nagapattinam, the last patient to test positive was on May 19, while in Perambalur it was May 15. Although Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Karur and Tiruchi saw some positive cases over the last week, no new cases were reported on Saturday.
24 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Doctor designs transparent masks||With wearing face masks becoming the “new normal,” concerns have risen about its suitability for persons with hearing impairment who depend on lip-reading and facial expressions to communicate . To provide a possible solution, a young Tiruchi-based doctor has designed a transparent see-through face mask. The prototype has been submitted to the Tamil Nadu government for approval so that it could be mass-produced. A.Mohamed Hakkim, a 29-year-old emergency physician in the city, thought of the need for such masks as some of his patients struggled to communicate with him. “My mouth was covered by a face mask and because of it, the patients could not read his lips and understand what I was saying,” he said. Dr. Hakkim drew up a prototype using three layers of thick cloth, which N-95 masks are made of, and a biodegradable non-toxic plastic to make the transparent part. A key feature of the mask is that it is reusable, and is also fog-resistant as one’s breath could fog up the glass rendering the mask useless, Dr. Hakkim said. The material had to be chosen to ensure the feature. The cost of each mask will work out to be about Rs. 10 but Dr. Hakkim is looking to distribute at least 1000 in Tiruchi district for free. One must understand that along with a deaf and mute person, more importantly, their parents, teachers, friends, all those who communicate with them will require the transparent mask, he said. The shelf life of the mask too is long and can be reused for up to 100 days, Dr. Hakkim said. “We have conducted various real-time tests to ensure its functioning. Many have expressed their need for such a mask,” he said. The Tamil Nadu government has drawn up a plan to distribute 81,000 masks to 31,000 people through the Commissionerate for the Welfare of Differently Abled. Dr. Hakkim is looking to have the masks distributed through them and various NGOs.
24 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||CRS inspects electrified stretch||Commissioner of Railway Safety, Bengaluru, K.A. Manoharan, on Saturday conducted the mandatory inspection on the newly electrified broad gauge stretch from Tiruvarur to Karaikal. Accompanied by senior officials of the Southern Railway, Central Organisation for Railway Electrification and Tiruchi railway division, Mr. Manoharan commenced the inspection from Tiruvarur Junction at 8 a.m. He travelled onboard an inspection special and conducted checks along the 42-kilometre stretch inspecting the electrical masts, structures and earthing arrangements at various places, besides inspecting Keezhvelur, Nagapattinam and Nagore stations en route before reaching Karaikal in the afternoon. Later, he conducted a speed trial travelling in the special train from Karaikal to Tiruvarur. A senior railway officer said the speed trial run was carried out at the sectional speed of 75 km. The overhead electrification works was carried out by the Central Organisation for Railway Electrification. Only after obtaining the statutory clearance from the Commissioner of Railway Safety could electric loco hauled passenger trains be operated from Karaikal and to that station.
24 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Special train with migrant workers leaves for Haryana||A special train arranged by the Southern Railway to ferry migrant workers to Haryana departed with 308 workers from Tiruchi on Saturday afternoon. The train, which originated from the Tiruchi Railway Junction, had onboard workers who had been employed in 19 districts across Tamil Nadu. Administrations of 19 districts had approved their travel on the special train after workers had expressed an interest to make the trip and had applied for it. Special buses were arranged for them to reach Tiruchi Railway Junction to board the train. In Tiruchi, 308 workers from 19 districts boarded the train and were seen off by Tiruchi Collector S. Sivarasu and other officials of the Revenue department. Of the 308, 18 belonged to Tiruchi district while 26 came from Thanjavur, 13 from Tiruvarur, 27 from Ariyalur, three from Perambalur, one each from Pudukottai, Theni and Virudhunagar districts, 10 from Ramanathapuram and three from Erode, 26 from Coimbatore, six from Karur and Madurai, 36 from Namakkal, 20 from Salem, 12 Sivagangai, 47 from Tirunelveli, 25 from Tiruppur and 36 Thoothukudi district.
24 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Salaries paid, says Nest School||The management of the Nest Matriculation Higher Secondary School, Lalgudi, has said that it has paid the salary to all its staff for the month of April. Responding to the report “Private schools in Tiruchi withhold teachers’ pay,” the school correspondent, Rev.S. Maria Victor, said that Provident Fund contributions for March and April had also been paid by the school. There was no truth in the complaint that the school had withheld the April salary to its staff and instead offered an advance to them, he said in a statement.
24 May 2020||TIRUCHI/THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Conditions difficult to follow, say autorickshaw drivers||Autorickshaws began plying in Tiruchi on Saturday morning after over two months. Drivers were relieved to get back to work but found the stringent conditions imposed by the government were difficult to adhere to. O. Jayakumar, an autorickshaw driver, woke up early on Saturday morning, disinfected his vehicle and was ready at the auto stand near the Central Bus Stand at 7 a.m., the time stipulated by the authorities for the plying of autorickshaws. Even at 11 a.m., he had not gone on a single trip, he rued. The government had allowed the plying of the autorickshaws with the condition that only one passenger was allowed at a time, and that they would have to disinfect their vehicle thrice a day. They are also only allowed to ply from 7 a.m. to 7 p.m. The autorickshaw drivers, however, were clueless about where to get their vehicles disinfected. In Tiruchi, people travel to the markets and to temples, all of which are closed. With public transport yet to function, autorickshaws, which provide last-mile connectivity for travellers, are rendered useless, said Mr. Swamiraj. The one-passenger rule was flouted by some drivers across the city. Many autorickshaws on Saturday also hiked the fares due to low passenger footfall, claimed some passengers. “On an average day, a trip from my house to my office in Thennur would cost Rs. 40. Today, the driver asked for Rs. 80. I had no choice but to take the auto but will not be able to spend the amount every day” M. Bharathi, who works at a private company said. Thanjavur  Exultation eluded the autorickshaw drivers at major towns in Thanjavur district on Saturday, as most them had to idle their time at their respective stands looking for customers. Karthick of Thanjavur left his home around 6.30 a.m. to reach his stand opposite to the Old Bus Stand so as to be ready to serve the customers during the 12-hour-time slot fixed by the State government for the operation of autorickshaws. But much to his dismay, he could not able to get any a customer even beyond noon.  “The difficult time is all set to continue for us”, was the reaction from Munusamy of Kumbakonam who used to ferry passengers arriving at the mofussil bus stand heading for various temples in the town. Invariably he used to get one or two pilgrimage trips to destinations such as Oppilliappankovil or Thirunageswaram temples, Swamimalai, Patteeswaram and other places around Kumbakonam. But with public transport facility between the major towns yet to become resume, he and other autorickshaw drivers were pinning their hopes on locals for rides, but a majority of them had their own vehicles to commute within the town.
24 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man held for robbing gold loan company||The police on Saturday arrested a man who decamped with gold and cash from a gold loan company on Kumaran Road in the city, after threatening the staff with a sickle. Police said that C. Azhaguvel (34), entered the company’s premises on May 19 wearing a helmet and threatened the employees with a sickle. He demanded the employees to surrender gold jewellery weighing 81 grams and cash worth Rs. 29,270. Based on a complaint lodged by the company’s manager S. Thangaraj, Tiruppur North police registered a case under Section 392 (Punishment for robbery) of the Indian Penal Code. The accused was remanded in judicial custody. Further investigations revealed that the accused had stolen gold jewellery worth Rs. 1,07,500 from a house on March 2, for which Velampalayam police had registered a case. He sold those jewellery at the same gold loan company that he looted on May 19, according to police sources. All the cash and jewellery were recovered from the accused on Saturday, sources said.
24 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||More special trains sought||The State government must arrange for more Shramik special trains for Tiruppur to ferry the migrant workers to their home towns, said Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan here on Saturday. He said that Tiruppur and Coimbatore districts have the highest population of migrant workers after Chennai and the trains must have been operated accordingly.
24 May 2020||TIRUVANNAMALAI,TAMIL NADU||Newborn’s body exhumed; infanticide suspected||Revenue and health officials exhumed the body of a two-day-old baby and conducted a postmortem on Saturday. The police suspect it to be a case of female infanticide. The baby was the third child of J. Thavamurthi and Priya of Irumbuli village. The couple have a five-year-old daughter and a four-year old son. The complainant, Kalasamuthiram PHC medical officer C. Akshitha said that Priya gave birth to a girl at the PHC on Wednesday. After delivery, Priya went home with the child. The next day, the baby was brought back to the PHC with complaints of breathing difficulties. The newborn was referred to Government Vellore Medical College and Hospital where she was declared ‘dead on arrival’. The body was buried at Irumbuli on Friday. Acting on her complaint, the Kannamangalam police registered a case under Section 174 (unnatural death) of the Criminal Procedure Code. The body was exhumed in the presence of revenue officials. A medical team, led by medical officer Kamalakannan of Tiruvannamalai Government Medical College and Hospital, conducted a postmortem. The body was buried after postmortem. “An inquiry was ordered to check if any foul play was involved in the baby’s death and action would be taken based on the report,” said an investigation official.
24 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Woman tests positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris||The Nilgiris district administration confirmed that a 21-year-old woman who had returned to the Nilgiris from Chennai has tested positive for COVID-19. In a press release, the district administration said that the person, a resident of Fingerpost in Udhagamandalam, had returned to the Nilgiris on May 20 and that she had tested positive. She has since been taken to the ESI Hospital in Coimbatore for treatment. With the latest infection, a total of 15 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris, out of which 12 persons have recovered.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Train for Jharkhand leaves with 1,600 guest workers||Twenty-five-year-old Nazirull Islam had walked all the way from the inter-State border to the railway station hoping to board the train to Assam. that the train that was leaving on Saturday evening was the train to Jharkhand carrying 1,600 workers. Even as he stood disappointed having walked some 15 km with his luggage from the State border, he joined in to clap and cheer for the Jharkhand workers as the train rolled out of the platform. Nazirull Islam had come to Bengaluru just three days before the lockdown to work in a hotel. Since then, he has been struggling to go home. “Others had left in buses. But, I had no money. Someone told me there’s a train to Assam from Hosur station,” he said. There was no train as yet to Assam. Food supplied On Saturday evening, the train to Jharkhand left, once again carrying workers provided adequately with food supplies for the journey time by the Hosur administration and the volunteers. Earlier in the day, 10 Jharkhand workers were reluctant to leave even as they were desperate to go home, because their contractor had not paid their salary. They had one week's remuneration pending with the job contractor. They were unwilling to leave without their pay. Wages paid Sridhar, district president of the Democratic Youth Federation of India spoke to the contractor with the help of the Tahsildar Venkatesan and ensured wages were paid hours before the train left. “There are two more workers who will have to be paid. We will follow it up,” said Mr. Sridhar. In the meantime, Nazirull Islam was provided with a place to stay by Abdul Bari, one of the coordinators of the Muslim community youth. The day also witnessed a steady stream of migrants walking a few tens of km on hearing about a train and landing in different locations. The Tamil Nadu government had paid Rs. 795 per ticket for each worker, spending a total of Rs. 12.72 lakh. As the train left the station, tired officials and the volunteers were gearing up to prepare for the train to Bihar on Sunday that would carry some 1,400 workers.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. goes past 15,500 cases, toll climbs to 103||The State’s mortality rate stood at 0.66%. The majority of deaths among COVID-19 patients was due to respiratory distress and respiratory failure. Senior government doctors said that the involvement of both the lungs was the major cause of death among patients. Frequent monitoring “When the lungs are affected, the oxygen saturation in the blood reduces. There are cases of asymptomatic hypoxemia among COVID-19 patients. In cases of COVID pneumonia, many patients are unaware that they are sinking. This is why we check patients with finger pulse oximeters, segregate those with low oxygen saturation levels, and monitor them frequently,” a doctor explained. Apart from Chennai, Chengalpattu reported 39 cases, Tiruvallur 17 and Kancheepuram 13 cases. There were six new cases in Tiruvannamalai, four in Villupuram, two in Tenkasi, and one each in Cuddalore, Madurai, Pudukottai, Ranipet and Theni. In addition, 49 persons, who had returned from other States and countries, tested positive for COVID-19. Of this, 24 persons, who returned from Maharashtra, tested positive in Cuddalore, Salem, Tiruvannamalai, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli and Virudhunagar. Six persons from Rajasthan, three from West Bengal and one each from Delhi, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh also tested positive. Seven persons, who had returned from London, and five persons, who returned from the Philippines, tested positive during exit screening. One more laboratory A total of 12,155 samples were tested, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 3,97,340. One more private laboratory — Vivek Laboratories, Kanniyakumari — was approved for COVID-19 testing. As of now, there are 68 testing facilities in Tamil Nadu. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)  Seven persons who returned from London and five persons who returned from the Philippines tested positive
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||DMK MP Bharathi held under SC/ST Act||At an indoor meeting of the Kalaignar Reading Circle in February, Mr. Bharathi, referring to the appointment of certain persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes as judges of the High Court, said, "If they become judges, it is alms given by the Dravidian movement." A video clip of his remarks was shared on social media. Following this, on March 12, acting on a complaint from Kalyanasundaram, president of the Adi Tamizhar Makkal Katchi, the Teynampet police registered an FIR against him under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The case was then transferred to the Central Crime Branch. The DMK MP had earlier argued in the Madras High Court that the leaked remarks could not be read in isolation without listening to his entire speech. He had also prayed for a direction to the Principal Sessions Court to consider his bail application on the day he surrendered. The High Court had adjourned the case to May 27. Following Mr. Bharathi’s arrest, he was produced before the Principal Sessions Judge for remand. Opposing the remand, his counsel also submitted that Mr. Bharathi’s wife and son were doctors and he himself was under home quarantine on account of their profession. The judge held: "A remand can be refused only if there is no prima facie case made out from the prosecution records. Under such circumstances the court finds no reason to refuse the remand. Hence, the accused is remanded to [sic] judicial custody till June 5." However, the judge added that in view of the COVID-19 situation, there was a possibility of infection of jail inmates if Mr. Bharathi was sent to prison. Besides, since a petition filed by him in the High Court had been adjourned to May 27, "it is better to grant interim bail till May 31". The judge asked the MP to surrender before the court on June 1, subject to the verdict of the HC.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Gang attacks couples, takes away valuables||A four-member gang trespassed into a lodge near Sarvanampatti in Coimbatore and assaulted its staff and two couples who were staying there on Saturday. The incident took place around 4 p.m. in which four staff of the lodge were injured when they confronted the gang. They were admitted to the Coimbatore Medical. College Hospital. The gang reportedly took away cash, jewellery from the couples and the digital video recorder of the surveillance system at the lodge. The police have started investigation.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||As on May 23||Persons tested +ve so far: 146 (No fresh cases) Persons recovered: 145 Persons dead: 1 Active cases: 0    House quarantined: 1,718 Positive cases: 114 (No fresh cases) Discharged: 114 (No active cases)
24 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Shantadevi Kanavi dead||Veteran short-story writer and thinker Shantadevi Kanavi died at the KLE hospital in Belagavi on Friday. She was 88. She was the wife of writer Channaveera Kanavi. Her stories have been translated into English, Hindi, Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam. They routinely found their way into anthologies that became part of university textbooks. She hailed from Vijayapura and settled in Dharwad after marriage to Mr. Kanavi.She leaves behind nonagenarian Mr. Kanavi and five children.
24 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Relapse is no cause for worry’||There is no need to worry about the relapse of COVID-19 infection in a person who has tested negative, said Debprasad Chattopadhyaya, director, ICMR National Institute of Traditional Medicine. This is following panic in Belagavi after a person tested positive a week after he had tested negative in quarantine. The patient was readmitted in the district hospital and discharged after four days. Patient-298, who was “briefly discharged” after the first admission, tested negative twice before he tested positive again. The 50-year-old patient from Kudachi who was suffering from a heart ailment went to the hospital where he was advised a re-test. He tested positive and was readmitted. However, he is at home now, and a taluk medical officer from Raibag, said he was stable. “Relapse shows that the virus is losing its aggressiveness and pathogenic character. It is a positive sign. There is no need to worry about it,” said Dr. Chattopadhyaya. According to him, the virus can stay up to 37 days in the human body. However, its pathogenic quantum, referred to as viral load, can reduce or increase depending on immunity of the person. “It is possible that a person who tests negative can test positive again, depending on the multiplication of virus or a temporary reduction in his immunity,” he said.
24 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Residents gear up for 36-hour curfew||Residents in neighbourhoods across the city thronged shops and commercial establishments for last-minute shopping, hours before the 36-hour lockdown kicked off at 7 p.m. on Saturday. In a video message, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar said the conditions and restrictions will be similar to that of Lockdown 1.0. He urged citizens to remain indoors and reiterated that the lockdown would be enforced strictly. “Unless absolutely necessary, no one should step out of their homes. Except for some essential services, such as neighbourhood kirana stores, all other shops and establishments will have to remain closed on Sunday,” he said. Markets, too, will remain closed for the duration. Movement only in case of medical emergencies will be allowed.  Takeaways at restaurants to continue Hotels and restaurants that are already offering parcel and delivery services will continue to do so, said Madhukar M. Shetty, secretary, Karnataka State Hotels’ Association. “Citizens were anxious. Hotels and restaurants come under essential service and hence, parcel services will be available,” he said.   People coming into the city by train and flights on Sunday may have a tough time if they haven’t already made prior arrangements. Autorickshaws, taxis, BMTC and KSRTC will not be operating during the lockdown. However, BMTC said that they will operate only health and essential (railway) services on Sunday. Tanveer Pasha from the Ola, Uber Drivers and Owners’ Association, said that the authorities had only accorded them permission to ply the airport route. “We were told clearly that we could accept only airport trips. We will not be allowed to operate in the city for other trips,” he said. Private operators have not cancelled bookings already made for Sunday. Radhakrishna Holla, president, Karnataka State Travel Operators’ Association, said they will honour advance bookings. “The drivers will be able to produce the trip sheet. Passengers, who made bookings, will be answerable,” he said. Admitting that the hospitality sector was not consulted, he questioned the rationale behind the announcement of the 36-hour curfew. Mr. Pasha held a similar opinion, and pointed out that drivers had only recently re-started services after a nearly two-month long lockdown.
24 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Chaos at Palace Grounds after portal malfunction||Palace Grounds on Saturday was a scene of chaos and confusion as more than 9,000 migrant labourers from northeast India and Odisha on Saturday congregated at the venue. The number of people who gathered at the grounds, which is a transit centre for migrant labourers from where they are put on trains, exceeded capacity. “Malfunctioning of the Seva Sindhu portal led to the confusion,” senior police officials said. Those travelling on two trains — one to Manipur with a capacity to take 1,500 people and the other to Odisha with a capacity to take 1,600 people — were supposed to report at Palace Grounds where they would undergo a medical check-up before being taken to railway stations. However, over 3,000 people from north-eastern States and more than 6,000 from Odisha, who had registered on Seva Sindhu, were sent text messages asking them to report at the ground on Saturday. “As against a total capacity of just over 3,000 on the two trains, there were over 9,000 people congregated, making it a nightmare to manage,” said a senior police official. The crowd spilled onto the road, and there was a queue for over 2 km to even get into Palace Grounds. As social distancing was impossible to maintain, people became agitated when they realised all of them would not be able to secure a berth on the trains the same day. Medical Education Minister, in-charge for COVID-19 affairs, K. Sudhakar rushed to the spot and tried to pacify them. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar, who lives close by, also visited the ground and criticised the State of affairs. Eventually, all those who congregated at Palace Grounds on Saturday, were housed in the marriage halls on site, where the BBMP arranged them food. “An additional train to Odisha was arranged and 1,500 more migrants from the State were sent home. We will clear this backlog in the next three days,” a senior civic official said. Meanwhile, N. Manjunath Prasad, Principal Secretary, Revenue Department, nodal officer for travel out of the State, has written to Divisional Railway Managers saying the State government would deposit a lump sum amount with the Railways towards travel costs of migrant labourers leaving from Karnataka. The letter also states bus services of the State from their place of residence to railway stations will also be free for migrant labourers.  Eventually, all those who congregated at Palace Grounds were housed in the marriage halls on site
24 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Amid pandemic, a tough call on GP polls||It seems to be a catch-22-situation for the Karnataka State Election Commission as the ruling BJP and the combined Opposition (Congress and JD-S) are pulling it in different directions on holding elections to 6,025 gram panchayats (GPs), which form a key cog in the wheel of rural development, amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The tenure of rural local bodies, which play a role in providing jobs under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) and in supplying drinking water during the summer, is scheduled to end between June and August this year. The ElectionCommission admitted that its work related to the preparation of electoral rolls and reservation of seats as per the newly amended Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj Act has been severely hit by the lockdown as the State government hasdirected its staff in taluks and districts to address grievances related to COVID-19. Besides the COVID-19 work such as arranging trains/buses for migrants, supplying food to the poor, providing shelters to quarantine people, executing MGNREGA works, over 50% of the staff stayed home and did not come to office for nearly 60 days during the lockdown, t derailing the poll panel’s work. With the poll panel not showingany signs of announcing a calendar of events for holding polls, a tug war has ensued between the Opposition parties — the Congress in particular — and the BJP. Congress leaders have submitted a petition to the commission seeking that the elections be held as per schedule. TheCongress claims that the BJP government plans to gain entry into GPs by appointing its party workers as administrators through Deputy Commissioners, which is a blatant violation of the Constitution and the Karnataka Gram Swaraj and Panchayat Raj Act, 1993. The government is undermining the political process at the grassroot level, using the COVID-19 situation as an excuse, Congress leaders have claimed. Political motives The BJP, apparently, believes that putting off polls will enable it to tighten its hold on rural administration as GPs receive thousands of crores of rupees in funds from the Union and State governments. In fact, the government issued an order in March postponing elections to various cooperative banks/societies citing the spread of the virus.  The Congress, which has been submitting petition after petition to the government complaining about its lapses in handling the lockdown and about migrant sufferings, seems to believe that holding elections as scheduled will be advantageous to the party as anti-incumbency factor is expected to come into play. Party insiders say that the anger of the rural folk, particularly farmers, against the BJP government over its alleged failures in handling the lockdown is likely to work in favour of the Congress. Elections to GPs are apolitical and candidates cannot use party symbols, but political influences are clearly at play. Knowing well that the rural poor and farmers have been generally backing the Congress, particularly in the present circumstances, Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president-designate D.K. Shivakumar is keen on seeing theGP elections held on time. Mr. Shivakumar, who has been vocal in highlighting the government’s failures, believes that victory of a majority of candidates backed by the Congress will add another feather to his cap. In the 2015 elections to GPs, Congress was one up, with nearly 34,000 party-backed candidates emerging victorious in 21 districts. The then Chief Minister Siddaramaiah had attributed the victory to the various ‘Bhagya’ schemes of the government. The BJP then managed to gain only in five districts, while the JD(S) had the upper hand in three. The State Election Commission has sought the views of Deputy Commissioners on the viability of holding elections to GPs now. The commission is likely to take a final call based on their input.
24 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||On an average, it takes 17 days for a patient to be discharged||A COVID-19 patient in Karnataka, so far, has taken an average of 17.48 days to be discharged after testing positive, according to analysis of data given by the State government in daily bulletins between March 9 and May 22. The analysis was done based on the history of 565 patients. The details of 32 out of the total 597 patients discharged as on May 22 were unavailable. According to the Department of Health and Family Welfare, a patient is discharged when he/she tests negative twice in a period of 24 hours. On an average, male patients take marginally lesser time to be discharged compared to female patients. An analysis of patients based on age group shows that the highest number of discharges (24.44%) are in the 20-29 age bracket. In contrast, those aged above 70 constituted only 2.6% of the discharged. In terms of time taken, people over 70 years are faster to be discharged and spent an average of 16.86 days in the hospital. The highest mortality, however, is also in the same age group. Those in the age group of 60 to 69 spent the longest time in the hospital, around 18.46 days. C.R. Jayanthi, dean and director of Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, where several COVID-19 patients are admitted, said those discharged faster showed better immunity. She also said that those above 70 and discharged have lesser co-morbidities compared to others in the same age group. “Having other co-morbidities often causes delay in the discharge,” she said. Giridhara R. Babu, professor and Head, Lifecourse epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health, Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru, argued that the averages are misleading as fewer days in hospitals mean different things for younger people and the elderly. Need for balance “Most cases are asymptomatic or with mild symptoms. Keeping persons in hospitals for a long time, waiting for them to test negative is also challenging. They will be at higher risk of hospital-acquired infections. This might be manageable now but will change with surge in cases. The revised discharge policy of the GoI mandates earlier discharge once a person is asymptomatic. Hence, they need be home isolated given the virus shedding can continue for a week or two more,” said Dr. Babu. He advocated a balance between the alternatives — hospital-acquired infections versus transmissibility.
24 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Maintain two-metre distance between beds at PG hostels’||Paying guest accommodations, which are usually teeming with residents, will have to change the way they operate. The State government, on Saturday, issued Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) such as avoiding common bathrooms, no sharing of food and water, and maintaining two-metre distance between beds. All PG staff and residents have been told to download the Arogya Setu app and Apthamitra mobile app, and they will be screened every time they enter the premises. Those with high temperature, cold, cough, and breathing difficulties should be referred to the nearest fever clinic or hospital or call the Apthamitra helpline. The circular issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare states that they have to maintain a distance of more than one metre within the building. “Laundry clothes of inmates should be washed separately. There should be no common washing/use of washing machines,” read the circular. PG residents pointed out that many rules and social distancing was not possible in their accommodations. “The PG area is very small and 12 of us stay in a four-bedroom apartment, which has been converted into a PG. The beds are placed close to each other and we have common areas for everything – eating, washing, and bath. We are dependent on common toilets. We can only do what is feasible and cannot practice all the rules,” said Shruthi S., software employee who lives in a PG accommodation at BTM Layout. Visitors should be avoided, and entry and exit of all employees should be recorded in a register and CCTVs installed. The circular also states that if any employee or resident hails from a notified containment zone, they shall not be allowed into the accommodation till the containment zone is denotified.
24 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Butterflies swarm green spots||As reports of animals and birds uncommon to urban areas being spotted during the lockdown period briefly lifted up forlorn spirits across the world, the garden city too has witnessed a burst of colour from winged visitors in green oases that have had a reprieve from humans. Butterflies are being spotted in large numbers near lakes that have seen some improvement over the years, and in vast green spaces such as the Bannerghatta Biological Park. Butterflies are thronging the rejuvenated Puttenahalli lake, much to the joy of residents. Usha Rajagopalan from the Puttenahalli Neighbourhood Lake Improvement Trust (PNLIT) said the number of butterflies has been far more this year, probably due to the lake premises being closed off. In addition, planting a particular variety of weed appears to have paid off. “They are attracted to the Heliotropium indicum at the lake. We ‘discovered’ this plant last year. Before we could get the seeds, they got submerged. We would have got it removed if we hadn’t spotted the butterflies. This year, our gardeners were on the lookout and have planted them on the revetment. Our gardeners are watering and tending to these with great attention,” she said. The Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) too reported ‘tremendous migration of butterflies in and around BBP for the first time in recent years’. According to the park’s entomologist, this is the migratory period of some species such as blue tiger, dark blue tiger, glossy blue tiger, striped tiger, double branded crow and common crow butterflies. The park’s Executive Director Vanashree Vipin Singh said butterflies were seen in the zoo, parking area and other green spaces as the park was closed to the public. “Due to the lockdown, unprecedented numbers were seen. In addition to this, migration happens from the Eastern to the Western Ghats. We may witness this migration again during September-October,” she said. Better planning V. Ramprasad from Friends of Lakes said butterfly migration was happening in hoards in lakes such as Jakkur lake. “Due to lack of human interference, the bird population has also increased in the vicinity. The biggest learning from COVID-19 has been of seeing how much recreational space should be given in a lake. A classic example is the Malathahalli lake with a concrete wall running for 6-odd km and a toy train,” he pointed out. “DPRs are made keeping urban elitists in mind, not the life of butterflies and birds, and forget about livelihoods such as fishing, etc.,” he added. What we need now, he stressed, were ‘ecological DPRs’ and reorganisation of technical committees with ecologists, environmental engineers, hydrogeologists, etc., and not just civil engineers.
24 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||The spirit of charity remains strong||Social gatherings with family and friends, streets lined with vendors selling food, and shopping are some of the highlights of Ramzan. But this year, as Ramzan comes to a close, Muslim families in Bengaluru are looking at muted Id-ul-Fitr celebrations as the COVID-19 continues to spread across the country. With people tightening their purse strings, vendors and traders, too, have been hit in what should have been a profitable festive season. “Ramzan this year has been very different and unprecedented. We are celebrating in silence and as you see, the streets and shops are empty. Businesses have been hit badly as the purchasing capacity of people has reduced,” said Idrees Choudhury, a dates and dry fruits trader. During this time of the year, people buy new clothes, bangles, and celebrate. “But no one is spending,” Mr. Choudhury said. But the charitable spirit that marks the month remains strong. Maqsood Imam Rashadi, chief imam of Jumma Masjid at K.R. Market, said that apart from observing fast and offering prayers, it has always been customary to help the downtrodden during Ramzan. “Everybody is financially under great distress and it has reflected in their buying behaviour. But the charity work is somehow going on,” he said. Siddiq Alduri, who works with a Urdu newspaper, and other residents hold a similar view. “People have been offering prayers at home and sharing food with the poor. Many have donated their zakaat to COVID-19 related causes and some have given more than usual amount,” said Mr. Alduri. Ameen-e-Mudassar, a career counsellor, said, “Having a sumptuous meal and buying clothes is a part of Ramzan, but caring for those in distress is more important. Hence, many have cut their spending and have donated it to charitable organisations helping people who are in financial distress because of the lockdown.” Muslim religious leaders have also been appealing people to celebrate Id in a simple way. “We have advised people against spending on unnecessary things and help the needy instead. On the other hand, even people are not in a situation to spend,” an imam said.
24 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Food sector experts discuss post-COVID-19 challenges||Indian Institute of Plantation Management, Bengaluru, on Saturday, hosted an online panel discussion on “Emerging Actions for Food Industry in India: Post COVID-19”, in association with The Hindu . Experts from the food sector highlighted the challenges, and the ways to work towards sustainability. Chief Operations Officer of ICRISAT, Saikat Datta Mazumdar, spoke on the role of the food industry in promoting local production and consumption, and opportunities for the food-processing business through ICRISAT’s schemes. Other industry experts who participated in the discussion emphasised the role of digitizing agriculture for food security, efficiency and its growth, and the need for ultra-modern food-processing technologies like cryogenic food processing and frozen food. Industry CEOs P.C. Mustafa (ID Fresh Food), Pradboth S.H. (Marico), Saikat D.M. (ICRISAT), Madhu J. (Agrometric-USA), Sivakumar P. (NABARD), Devaraj U. (ATS F&B) and others served as panelists. Over 100 participants comprising students, academicians, researchers and practitioners of food technology and business participated in the event.
24 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Curfew will help check spread of virus, say doctors||Will the 36-hour curfew actually help check the spread of the pandemic? Yes, say medical professionals. According to V. Ravi, senior professor and head of neurovirology at NIMHANS, lack of exposure, even if it is just for one day, helps in checking the spread of the COVID-19 virus. “Generally, people venture out during weekends, especially on Sundays. With the curfew in place, people will have to stay indoors. This will indeed help and may even reduce the number of cases within 10 days,” he said. Concurring, city-based immunologist and cancer specialist U.S. Vishal Rao said that there usually is an increase in the number of social activities during the weekends. He pointed out that study of spread of the virus in Wuhan, China, and South Korea had shown that social gatherings on holidays and weekends had triggered the spike in the number of cases. “These were even called Super Spread Events. The curfew is to create awareness among citizens that the lockdown has been eased for economic activities and not for social and entertainment purposes,” he said.
24 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KIA to handle an average of 215 air traffic movements per day||Bangalore International Airport Ltd. (BIAL) on Saturday announced a revised interim summer schedule for 2020 with Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) set to resume operations from May 25. The revised schedule will be in effect till June 30. KIA will handle an average of 215 Air Traffic Movements per day with 108 departures and 107 arrivals, with reduced terminal capacity, to ensure social distancing norms. “Slots have been optimised in 10-minute intervals, spread over an hour through the day, to support passenger flow within the terminal, while maintaining both service standards and safe distances,” a BIAL release stated. Meanwhile, to ensure social distancing norms are strictly followed, BIAL has introduced ‘contactless’ journeys at KIA from parking to boarding. Aarogya Setu app a must at airport Passengers will also undergo thermal scans at the departure gates. Showing the Aarogya Setu app on the phone is a must along with a ‘you are safe’ message. CISF personnel will verify the necessary documents through a magnified glass screen. As directed by the DGCA, stamping of the boarding passes has been suspended and body scanning will be done using Door Frame Metal Detectors (DFMD). Hand sanitisers will be available before and after security and transit passengers will not be allowed out of the transit area. “At the boarding gate, airline staff will hand over a kit containing a face mask, face shield, and sanitiser to the passenger, who must put on the new mask and sanitise hands before boarding. The passenger will scan the boarding pass on the sensor. Airline staff will do temperature screening and then permit boarding,” the release further stated. BMTC buses will operate at 50% capacity and taxis can accommodate driver plus two passengers only.
24 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Residents file complaints after saffron flags are raised on shops||The city police is yet to register a case despite receiving three complaints that members of a right-wing Hindu organisation have allegedly raised saffron flags to identify shops in Vijayanagar market along religious lines in an attempt to create communal tension. On May 18, a member of the organisation reportedly raised saffron flags on the shops and went live on Facebook with the ‘event’. M.L. Shivakumar Gowda, Bajrang Dal leader who led the campaign, wrote about it on the social media page. “They tied saffron flags to petty shops and pushcarts of Hindu street vendors, but we removed all the flags as there are street vendors from all religions in the market and we do not want to be divided, especially in times of COVID-19 crisis,” said Babu, a street vendor from the area. However, right-wing Hindu activists again tied saffron flags to shops and pushcarts on the night of May 20. “This has created a sense of fear among traders and street vendors in the area,” Mr. Babu alleged. A resident, Sindhu, and advocate and activist Maitreyi Krishnan lodged complaints with the Vijayanagar police on Friday, alleging that there were attempts to create communal tension. “We got the flags on public property removed. Some shopkeepers told us they put up the flags voluntarily. So, we have written to the civic body asking whether permission was taken,” said Ramesh Bannoth, DCP (West). “The complaint alleges attempts to create communal tension. Even a cursory analysis of the videos the right wing activists have posted on social media and a visit to the market reflect this. But it is surprising that the police are silent on this,” said Ms. Krishnan. She said if the police failed to register an FIR, they would take up a legal fight.  We have got the flags on public property removed. Some shopkeepers have told us they put up the flags voluntarily. So we have written to the civic body asking whether any permission was taken. Ramesh Bannoth DCP (West)
24 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ranga Shankara streaming plays for children on YouTube||Staged@RS will kick off with plays for children that have been staged under Ranga Shankara’s acclaimed AHA! - Theatre for Children. Six plays will be streamed till May 27 at 5 p.m. online on Ranga Shankara’s YouTube channel. They will remain there for a week after premièring. ‘A good idea’ “We have always recorded our plays with one camera positioned in the 4th row. In these times of the lockdown, we thought it was a good idea to share these. We hope our viewers enjoy these while we all wait to get back to real theatre,” says Arundhati Nag, Artistic Advisor, Ranga Shankara. The plays have been chosen carefully to ensure viewers receive variety in terms of age, language and format. The plays All are favourites of both children and grown-ups. The list of plays includes: Fish Tree Moon, Circle of Life, Chippi The Chipkali, The Zapperdockel and the Wock, Robinson and Crusoe and The Garbage Mouse.
24 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Lion cub adopted at Bannerghatta park||Bannerghatta Biological Park (BBP) on Saturday announced that the owner of a city-based startup company had come forward to adopt a four-month-old lion cub, born to lioness Sana and lion Shankar, at the park. A release from BBP said that in addition to the cost of adoption for one year, 25% percent of the adoption cost was donated towards naming the animal, “G. Krishna”, and the funds would go towards the welfare of zoo keepers. The company donated Rs. 1.25 lakh towards the same.
24 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Limited functioning of courts from June 1||With COVID-19 lockdown restrictions being partially relaxed, the High Court of Karnataka has decided to commence limited functioning of all courts in the State from June 1. Announcing that a Standard Operating Procedure would be issued on May 26 for limited functioning of the courts, a notification issued on Saturday urged members of the Bar to send their queries on the Standard Operating Procedure to the Registrar General of the High Court by 11 a.m. on May 27. Meanwhile, the Chief Justice and the senior judges of the High Court will address office bearers of all Bar Associations across the State and the Karnataka State Bar Council in a web meeting on May 27 at 5 p.m., seeking the cooperation of advocates in commencing limited functioning of the courts, the notification said.
24 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Another city constable tests positive for COVID-19||A day after a traffic constable contracted COVID-19, another police official, this time from Chamarajpet station, has tested positive. The 34-year-old was working within a containment zone in Tipu Nagar and fell ill a few days ago. “He developed fever. We suspected it could be COVID-19 as he had worked inside the containment zone. Samples were sent for testing on May 20 and results came today,” said Ramesh Bannoth, DCP (West). The constable has been admitted to Victoria hospital. Eight police personnel from Chamarajpet police station, his family members, and others he had come in contact with near his house in Mahalakshmi Layout are in quarantine.
24 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Unions oppose new work rule||Employees’ unions of PSUs in Bengaluru opposed the new 10-hour daily work rule and will not follow it, said Suryadevara Chandrashekar, convener of Joint Action Force of PSUs in Bengaluru. The State government notified the new norms for factory workers for the next three months, until August 21. It stipulates that production units should work 10 hours a day and 60 hours a week, adding two hours a day and 12 hours a week.
24 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two new containment zones identified||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) on Saturday identified two more containment zones in the city. Puttenahalli in Bommanahalli zone and Marappanapalya in West zone reported one case each on Saturday. This takes the tally of containment zones in the city to 21.
24 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||400 random tests in Mominpura turn negative||The District Health and Family Welfare Department has confirmed that the COVID-19 tests done on 400 residents of Mominpura locality has turned out to be negative. A week-long random test, from May 12 to 20, was conducted as part of the ongoing surveillance to check the spread of the infection in the city. 3,235 screened Meanwhile, 3,235 people with symptoms of cold and fever were screened at 23 fever clinics set up across the Kalaburagi district. Of the 23 fever clinics, 15 were in Kalaburagi city. A total of 438 people have been put under quarantine. Nine quarantine centres with 579-bed capacity has been set up in city. Besides, two lodges have been converted into quarantine centres with a 52-bed capacity.
24 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Quarantined family assaults health worker||A quarantined family, who returned from Mumbai, assaulted a health worker and injured her for not serving them non-vegetarian food at Kinni Abbas village in Aland taluk of Kalaburagi district on Friday. Migrant worker Somnath Kamble and four other family members demanded non-veg food from ASHA worker Renuka Kudaki. Somnath and his family members assaulted Renuka after she refused to address their demand. Renuka suffered a fracture and has been admitted to the taluk hospital.
24 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Learning app for government school students launched||To help some government high schools in the city continue teaching during lockdown, Y. Bharath Shetty, Mangaluru City North MLA, and Rotary Bengaluru North are providing them with ‘Vidya Mitra’, a smart class app developed by Digilearn which enables learning in Kannada medium. The app will be used by around 1,500 students from classes 8 to 10 in 15 government high schools in Mangaluru City North Assembly constituency. Mr. Shetty told The Hindu that the app provides text for Science and Mathematics, for the three classes, in animation. This content can be displayed on the projectors given to each school. Each student can download the app on their smartphone and use the code given by the headmaster to access the content. “Students have begun downloading the app. This app will help teachers keep their students engaged during this lockdown,” he said. Pitambar, headmaster of Government Secondary School, Adyapady said the content in the app is as per the syllabi of the State government. It provides students tasks they need to do. Teachers will shortly have an orientation on the content and its usage, he said. During the launch of the app, MP and State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel said the use of digital medium for education is beneficial for students. “I had smart class facility in six government schools in Balpa [the MP’s model village in Sullia] two years ago. I see a great change in understanding of students since then,” he said. Lauding Mr. Shetty’s initiative, BJP national general secretary B.L. Santosh, in his address through videoconferencing, said Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts should show the model to be adopted to educate students in this trying circumstances. Mr. Shetty and Rotary Club (Bengaluru West) have given Rs. 25 lakh for this facility.
24 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Indigo, SpiceJet flights from Mangaluru to Mumbai, Bengaluru||Indigo and SpiceJet have announced resuming their daily flights between Mangaluru and Bengaluru, Mumbai from May 25. Indigo will also operate a flight between Mangaluru and Chennai. SpiceJet flight, SG 356, will arrive here from Mumbai at 8.35 a.m. and return as SG 353 at 9.05 a.m. Indigo flight, 6E 5327, will arrive here from Mumbai at 11 a.m. and will return at 11.40 a.m. as 6E 5328. SpiceJet flight, SG 1035, will arrive from Bengaluru at 9 a.m. and return as SG 1027 at 9.20 a.m. Indigo flight, 6E 0279, will land in the city from Bengaluru at 6.55 p.m. and take off as 6E 0388 at 7.35 p.m. Another flight of SpiceJet, SG 3743, will arrive from Bengaluru at 9.15 p.m. and depart as SG 3744 at 9.35 p.m. Indigo flight, 6E 7141, will arrive here from Chennai at 7.35 p.m. and return as 6E 7139 at 8.05 p.m., according to a communique from the airliners to the Director of Mangaluru International Airport on Friday.
24 May 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Auction of tobacco resumes||The auction of tobacco cultivated in Karnataka, which had been suspended due to lockdown in March, has resumed on auction platforms at Periyapatna and Chilkunda in Mysuru. The auction had to be abruptly suspended towards the end of the auction season, which had begun in September 2019 after transacting more than 102 million kg of the commodity. The auction process resumed on May 20 at three floors of the auction platform in Periyapatna and one floor in Chilkunda to clear the 2.5 million kg of tobacco. However, the process is expected to continue for another 15 to 20 days even for the relatively small quantity with the Tobacco Board implementing all the COVID-19 Standard Operating Procedures. To ensure social distancing is maintained, the Board is taking up less than half of the 1,000 bales, which are normally taken up for auction on every floor. Manjunath, regional manager of Tobacco Board, Mysuru, said representatives of all the major companies were participating in the auction process. The price of tobacco too had not seen much variation compared to the auction before the lockdown. The average price for bright grade is Rs. 176 per kg while the medium grade and low grade were fetching Rs. 138 and Rs. 90.42 per kg. However, much of the tobacco transacted in the resumed auction process was low grade. Meanwhile, President of Virgina Flue Cured Tobacco Growers Federation of Karnataka Javare Gowda said the tobacco farmers had begun plantation of a fresh crop of tobacco in Mysuru and parts of Hassan district. However, the Tobacco Board, anticipating a dip in demand for the commodity across the globe, reduced the crop size from 99 million kg to 88 million kg. The reduction in crop size had brought down the area under cultivation of tobacco.
24 May 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||‘Why no case against Godse anniversary fete?’||The former Congress MP R. Dhruvanarayan has sought to join issue with Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai over the FIR lodged by the police against Congress leader Sonia Gandhi by questioning the failure of the Chamarajanagar police to book a case against persons who celebrated the birth anniversary of Nathuram Godse, the assassin of Mahatma Gandhi. A day after Mr. Bommai justified the FIR by the Sagar police against Ms. Gandhi on the grounds that the Supreme Court guideline is to book a case whenever a complaint is made, Mr. Dhruvanarayan argued that the Congress leader, who is an MP and UPA chairperson, has the right to question the expenditure of funds collected to fight COVID-19 in the country. He questioned the rationale behind the refusal of Chamarajanagar police to take cognisance of a complaint given by the Youth Congress unit of the district against the celebration of Godse’s birth anniversary on Friday.The Chamarajanagar district police should take the complaint and book a case against those who organised the celebration, he said.
24 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Concern over proliferation of resorts around Bandipur||The Forest Department has urged the Chamarajanagar district administration to crack down on illegal resorts and homestays in the eco-sensitive zones (ESZ) around Bandipur Tiger Reserve. The Chief Conservator of Forests and Director of Bandipur Tiger Reserve T. Balachandra has written to the authorities, including the Tourism Department, to initiate action and stall the ongoing work. 123 villages under ESZ He said there are 123 villages coming under the ESZ spread over an area of 479.18 sq. km wherein construction of residential units are permitted but change of land use pattern from agricultural and horticultural to commercial use such as resorts is prohibited. “Only farm- and agriculture-related activities can take place in the ESZ which was notified in 2012 and even large-scale commercial agricultural and horticultural ventures by companies and commercial use of natural water resources are prohibited,” said Mr. Balachandra. “However, it has come to our notice that massive construction works for commercial purposes are taking shape in violation of the law and the same should be demolished,” said Mr. Balachandra in a a letter dated May 19, 2020 to the CEO of the Chamarajanagar Zilla Panchayat. He has also cited specific survey numbers in six villages and has urged the Tourism Department not to grant permission for construction of homestays and resorts on these plots located at Mangala, Elchetti, Chikka Elchetti, Hangala Hosahalli, Melukamanahalli, and Maguvinahalli. He told The Hindu that there are 14 constructions which are in violation of the ESZ norms as permission has not been sought from the ESZ Committee of which he in his capacity as the Chief Conservator of Forests, is a member and also an affected party. Also, the expansion of the structures that existed prior to 2012, is not allowed without permission from the ESZ Committee, he added. The official said influential persons were tryingto side-step the law and were bringing pressure to get clearances for new constructions. Some of the structures have swimming pools in an area which has severe water stress during summer, said Mr. Balachandra. Nod for four homestays A senior official in the Tourism Department said they have issued permission only for four homestays as per the government norms and was not aware of others. Sources said the law permits individuals to construct residential units within the ESZ after getting clearances as per the norm. But if the landlord starts renting out the premises, it amounts to commercial venture and is illegal but was difficult to detect or establish. Activists say the ESZ around Bandipur is critical for wildlife and proliferation of resorts and increase in human activity causes disturbance to animal movement.
24 May 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Two villages declared containment zones||R. Venkatesh Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, has said that after 39 fresh cases were reported in the district, it was decided to take all preventive measures. As a result, Maliyabad village in Raichur taluk, where a two-year-old baby tested positive although she does not have any travel history, has been declared as a containment zone preventing any person from entering or existing the area. He was addressing at a press conference here on Saturday. Mr. Kumar said that the district has reached up to 65 cases, including 39 (plus one which was reported in the evening bulletin) and therefore, people should cooperate with the administration by maintaining social distance and following the guidelines issued. He said that Singanodi village was also declared as containment zone after P-1837, a 42-year-old male, visited the village. Woman from A.P. In another incident, a 52-year-old woman from Prakasam district in Andhra Pradesh, had visited Idapanur village. Therefore, samples of the woman were collected and sent for examination, he added.
24 May 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Administrative panels for all GPs soon: Eshwarappa||K.S. Eshwarappa, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, has said that the State government would soon appoint administrative committees for all the 6,021 gram panchayats (GPs) in the State. “A decision to this effect was taken by the State government based on the opinion of the Law Department and the Advocate General. The Panchayat Raj Act has also provided provision for formation of administrative committee as an ad hoc arrangement if there is any delay in conducting the elections for the GPs,” he told presspersons here on Saturday. Brushing aside the allegations by the Congress leaders that the State government was deliberately postponing the elections, he said that in the wake of the prevailing COVID-19 situation, the State government had told the State Election Commission that it would not be appropriate to conduct elections at this juncture. “As the elections had to be put off, there were three options before the State government - to continue the tenure of the existing members; appoint an administrative committee as an ad hoc arrangement or appoint an administrative officer to the GP. After seeking the legal opinion, we decided to form administrative committees,” he said. Mr. Eshwarappa said that the nomination for the committees would be made as per the roaster system. Women, Backward Class, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes would get representation in the administrative committees as per the existing laws. The committees would cease to exist as soon as the elections are declared for the GPs, he said. Replying to a query, he said the Election Commission has sought the opinions of Deputy Commissioners of all the districts on conducting the elections for GPs.
24 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Kollur Mookambika temple suffers revenue loss of Rs. 14 cr.||The Sri Mookambika Temple at Kollur in Udupi district, which suffered a huge loss of revenue due to lockdown, has urged devotees to book for ‘sevas’ online. A press release issued by the executive officer of the temple here on Saturday said that the entry of devotees was prohibited by the government on account of the COVID-19. As a result, there was no income for the temple. The temple earned an income of Rs. 13 crore from March to May last year (2019). Due to lockdown, the income of the temple has gone down by about Rs. 14 crore. The devotees interested in donating to the temple could deposit their money to the savings back accounts of the temple. They should give their clear postal address. The receipts and ‘seva prasadam’ would be sent to their postal addresses. Devotees could deposit their amount to: Syndicate Bank (Canara Bank) Kollur Branch or Vijaya Bank (Bank of Baroda), Kollur Branch. For details, log on to the website: kollurmookambika.org
24 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||8,010 returnees in quarantine centres in Udupi district: DC||G. Jagadeesha, Deputy Commissioner, said on Saturday that 8,010 natives of Udupi district who had returned from other States were presently staying in quarantine centres in the district. Addressing presspersons here, Mr. Jagadeesha said that of the 8,010 persons, 7,226 had returned from Maharashtra alone. So far, the throat swabs of 3,617 persons had been taken and sent for testing for COVID-19. The reports of 1,208 persons had been received, while the reports of 2,409 persons were pending. Since the testing labs were facing heavy pressure with every passing day, the throat swabs were being sent to different labs, including Kasturba Medical College (KMC), Manipal; Yenepoya, Mangaluru; KMC, Mangaluru; SIMS, Shivamogga; and Wenlock Hospital, Mangaluru, for testing. Nearly 10% to 15% returning from Mumbai and Dubai, and under quarantine, were testing positive for COVID-19. So far, 47 persons had tested positive for COVID-19 in the district. Of them, one person had died due to cardiac arrest. Since the number of COVID-19 cases were expected to increase sharply in the district in the coming days, in addition to the designated COVID-19 hospital – Dr. T.M.A. Pai Hospital here, the administration would be starting new COVID-19 blocks at Karkala and Kundapur. A COVID-19 block of 125 beds had already started functioning on the premises of Taluk Government Hospital in Kundapur, while a separate 75-bed COVID-19 block would come up at the Taluk Government Hospital in Karkala. Two more COVID-19 blocks would come up in the district – SDM College of Ayurveda (100 beds) in Udupi, and Bhuvanendra Hostel (56 beds) in Karkala. These COVID-19 blocks would have 24x7 doctors and nurses. In addition to government doctors, private doctors too had been appointed for these blocks under the Epidemic Act. Additional nurses were being appointed through outsourcing, he said. “Natives of Udupi district in other States should stay where they are till May 31 as the testing of people who had already returned was yet to be completed. The quarantine centres should become free to accommodate more returnees,” Mr. Jagadeesha said.  People from Udupi district in other States should stay where they are till May 31 as the testing of people who had already returned was yet to be completed. The quarantine centres should become free to accommodate more returnees.G. JagadeeshaDeputy Commissioner
24 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||More Shramik Special trains||G. Jagadeesha, Deputy Commissioner, said on Saturday that the district administration would soon be requesting Indian Railways to run Shramik Special trains from Udupi to Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal. He said that there were about 5,000 migrant workers from these four States still in the district.
24 May 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Bait-ul-maal has greater significance now||This Ramzan, in the midst of COVID-19 pandemic, a system of collecting and distributing zakaat — called bait-ul-maal — is proving effective in helping those hit by the lockdown. While zakaat (mandatory charity) system is followed by all the faithful Muslims, bait-ul-maal is a centralised system of pooling zakaat money from the well-off Muslims and giving it to those who need the most. “Though we have been helping poor people every year with our bait-ul-maal , this year, more people will need financial assistance as countless daily wagers have reached penury because of the lockdown,” said Kaisar Inamdar who runs bait-ul-maal . This year, the amount collected is lesser than the average because many people have suffered financial losses during the lockdown, while those in need of money are many. Mr. Inamdar said, “Normally during Ramzan we used to receive around 50 applications, but this year the number of applications is about 150 because of the lockdown and the loss of livelihoods,” On the other hand, their total collection has reduced for the same reason. They hope to bridge the gap by asking for additional donations by those who can afford it. Ration and cash Al-Aqsa, one of the masjids in the city that has been running a bait-ul-maal for over a decade, has been offering ration and cash to poor people during the lockdown. “ Bait-ul-maal now has a bigger responsibility to help such people,” said Abdul Gafoor, who is one of the functionaries. Two educational institutions — Anjuman Degree College and SECAB Institute — have also set up their own bait-ul-maal . “We receive zakaat of around Rs. 2.5 lakh which we use to offer free tailoring training and sewing machines to around 30 women of poor families,” said Mohammed Afzal of SECAB. Anjuman College uses bait-ul-maal in a different way. “We receive zakaat of around Rs. 90,000 a year. We use this money to pay the college fee of poor students. Every year we bear the fee expenses of around 30 students to ease their financial burden,” said Sayed Istiyak Hamid, a lecturer of the college. The demand is higher this year.
24 May 2020||YADGIR/RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||112 new cases in Yadgir, Raichur||The highest number of positive cases of COVID-19 on Saturday was reported in Yadgir district. As many as 72 people tested positive and of them, 17 are children aged below 15. All have travel history to Maharashtra and returned to Yadgir district recently. The district administration has kept them under institutional quarantine. The total number of cases has reached 87 in the district. As many as 16 persons have preliminary and 216 people have secondary contact with these 72 persons. So far, officials have sent 718 samples for examination. The district administration has established 220 institutional quarantine centres across the district and kept 12,991 persons under observation. In Raichur district, 40 new cases were reported on Saturday. All have them returned from Maharashtra. Of the 40 cases, 32 are from Deodurga taluk followed by four each from Lingsagur and Raichur taluk. Five cases in Dharwad The number of COVID-19 positive cases in Dharwad district rose to 38 on Saturday with five more testing positive. One positive person was discharged from the hospital after getting cured. After discharge of the 57-year-old man from Shanthinagar in Hubballi from the designated hospital, the number of active cases in the district stands at 28. All the five persons who tested positive on Saturday had returned from Maharashtra and had been quarantined immediately on reaching Dharwad. Of them, four patients — 29-year-old woman, two-year-old boy, 49-year-old woman, and 58-year-old man belong to the same family and are residents of Hubballi. The other person who tested positive is a 51-year old man from Dharwad. Official sources have said that since all the five persons were quarantined immediately on their return, the chances of them spreading the infection was minimal. Three in Udupi Three persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in Udupi district on Saturday. According to a release here, the three persons include a 34-year-old woman who returned from Maharashtra recently, and a 40-year-old man and a 49-year-old man. All the three have been shifted to the designated COVID-19 hospital here, the release said. Five discharged in DK Five patients who have recovered from COVID-19 were discharged from the Government Wenlock Hospital here on Saturday. The discharged were a 51-year-old man and a 37-year-old woman from Boloor in the city and two women aged 60 and 70 and a man aged 30, all from Bantwal. Two COVID-19 positive cases were also reported in Dakshina Kannada on the same day. A woman aged 41 from Belthangady who was down with influenza-like illness and a 30-year-old man who had arrived from Maharashtra tested positive.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 lab opens in Madikeri||Kodagu got its own laboratory for conducting COVID-19 testing on Friday. The hi-tech laboratory has come up on the premises of Kodagu Institute of Medical Sciences in Madikeri. The throat and nasal swabs from suspected cases in Kodagu used to be tested at the VRDL in Mysuru Medical College. Now, the testing of samples can be done in the newly-opened lab which has been developed at a cost of Rs. 1.06 crore in the Department of Microbiology. Senior faculty Patkar inaugurated the lab in the presence of Minister in-charge of Kodagu district V. Somanna, MP Pratap Simha and others. The lab is equipped to test 100 throat and nasal swabs daily.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Vala clears Ordinance||Governor Vajubhai Vala has given his assent to the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Ordinance 2020, cleared by the State Cabinet a few days ago. The Act was amended to give boost to realty sector in the State. The amended Act enables the Planning Authority to permit development of layouts in phases.
24 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Five new cases in Alappuzha||The district reported five new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. These included a person who contracted the virus through contact and four imported cases. The person who got the disease through contact is the mother of a youth from Chengannur who came from Chennai on May 13 and tested positive for COVID-19 on May 21. It is the first case of local transmission of the disease in the district. Officials said of the four imported cases, two had come from Gulf countries and another two from Mumbai. “One of them, a youth from Chengannur taluk reached the district from Abu Dhabi in the UAE on May 17. The second person, a youth from Mavelikara taluk, came from Dammam on May 19. After reaching the district, they were both observing the mandatory institutional quarantine period at a COVID-19 care centre,” said an official. Of the two Mumbai returnees, one is from Kuttanad taluk and another from Chengannur taluk. “The Kuttanad native, a woman, reached the district by train on May 19. The youth hailing from Chengannur who came on board a train had been in quarantine at a COVID-19 care centre after reaching the district on May 19. All five patients have been shifted to Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha,” the official added. The district has so far reported 18 COVID-19 cases, of which 13 remain active. Among them, 12 are undergoing treatment at the MCH, Alappuzha, and one at Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri. Nine people were hospitalised with symptoms on Saturday, taking the number of people in isolation at hospitals in the district to 25. A total of 4,127 people are in quarantine/isolation in the district.
24 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Hartal against sand-mining at Thottapally||A dawn-to-dusk hartal will be observed in the coastal areas of Alappuzha on Monday by the Janakeeya Samara Samithi against mineral sand-mining at Thottappally. Dheevara Sabha general secretary V. Dinakaran said here on Saturday that the hartal would be observed between Valiyazheekkal and Pallithode. “The State government should shelve mineral sand-mining and protect the coast. Protests will also be held across the coastal regions in the State on Monday,” he said.
24 May 2020||Bhopal,KERALA||Congress arranges buses for Kerala students stranded in Bhopal||The Congress has arranged transport for students from Wayanad and other parts of Kerala who were stuck in Madhya Pradesh capital due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown, a party leader has said. “One such bus carrying the students left for Kerala on Saturday morning,” Madhya Pradesh Congress media cell in-charge Jitu Patwari said on Saturday.
24 May 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Lowest number of active cases in Idukki||No new cases of COVID-19 were reported in the district in two days. District Medical Officer N. Priya told The Hindu that Idukki, with two patients, recorded the lowest number of active cases in the State. She said 2,828 persons had reached Idukki from other States, and 167 persons from abroad. Those arriving from other States were screened at Kumily and shifted to quarantine centres. There were 2,466 persons in institutional quarantine, while the rest were in home quarantine. At present, there was no hotspot in the district, she said. The total number of COVID-19 cases so far was 26. The last person reported positive in the district was a Santhanpara resident who arrived from Mumbai on May 18. With Tamil Nadu reporting an increased number of cases, the State borders were closed, he added.
24 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Wayanad records one case||One more person, a 40-year-old man from Kalanadikolly near Pulpally who returned from Koyambedu market in Chennai on May 20, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Saturday. He was working in a wholesale ginger shop at Koyambedu. He was quarantined at the district hospital at Mananthavady the same day. Three more persons, including a seven-month-old, who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 and were undergoing treatment, recovered from the disease on Saturday. There are now 3,628 persons under observation in the district.
24 May 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Confusion as special train from Mumbai halts at Kannur||The district administration was caught by surprise when a special train from Mumbai with around 1,600 passengers stopped at the Kannur railway station on Saturday. As many as 152 passengers got down at the station. The district administration had no prior information about the arrival of the train, and had to make arrangements on a war footing after learning of the train’s halt at Kannur. Those who alighted at Kannur include 56 persons from Kannur, 17 from Kozhikode, five from Wayanad, one from Malappuram, 72 from Kasaragod, and one from Tamil Nadu. Many passengers arrived without having registered online, adding to the confusion. District Collector T.V. Subhash said passengers who had not registered online were made to register at the railway station. He added that necessary arrangements had been made at the railway station to check passengers. They were transported in the 108 ambulances and 15 KSRTC buses arranged at the station.
24 May 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||16 new cases in Kannur||Sixteen more people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Saturday taking the number of patients in the district to 166. Of them, 119 have been discharged from hospitals. Collector T.V. Subhash said of the positive cases, six were expatriates, six came from other States, and the rest contacts of infected persons. Of the expatriates, four persons came to Karipur from Dubai on May 7. They included a 64-year-old man from Panur, a 65-year-old man from Puzhathi, a 55-year-old man from Thalassery, and a 61-year-old man from Pinarayi. Other expatriates included a 21-year-old woman from Bakkalam, who reached Kannur from Qatar, and a 62-year-old man from Dharmadam, who came to Kannur from Riyadh on May 20. The Non-Resident Keralites who tested positive included a 48-year-old man from Perlassery, who came from Bengaluru, two children aged nine, from Maykunu and Cheruvancheri, a 57-year-old woman from Paniyannur, who came from Mumbai, a 67-year-old from Panur, who came from Ahmedabad, and a 65-year-old woman from Kannichara, who came from Uttar Pradesh. A 65-year-old man from Dharmadam, a 29-year-old man from Cheruvancherry, a 50-year-old woman from Uruvanchal, and a 55-year-old woman from Kuttali are the contacts of the infected persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2.
24 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Bev Q’ now awaits Google approval||The end seems nigh to the long wait of tipplers after the mobile app for virtual queue management, Bev Q, for opening liquor outlets in compliance with the physical distancing norms was finally submitted to Google for approval on Friday evening. Once approval is obtained, the app developed by Kochi-based start-up Faircode Technologies Private Ltd. will be available for download on Google Play Store. Notwithstanding the long queue for clearance with Google owing to the proliferation of the COVID-19-related apps globally, the developers expect a fast-track approval for the app. M.G.K. Vishnu, chief executive officer, Faircode Technologies, said there was no fixed date for the release of the app and the focus was always on delivering a foolproof product. Expected traffic The developers anticipate a traffic of 20 lakh concurrent users in a window of 15 minutes from the day the app is open for download. The Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) shot down the allegations over the delay saying that it cannot be treated like a staple ready-to-use app. “A huge spurt in load is to be anticipated when the app is opened for download and, therefore, it needed a lot of testing and encryption before it was submitted to Google,” said Saji Gopinath, CEO, KSUM. A testing agency recognised by the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team ran a two-level testing over four days for vulnerabilities before it cleared the app for submission to Google. Reason for selection The KSUM recommended Faircode Technologies after it emerged top out of the initially shortlisted five start-ups based on a valuation that gave 70% weightage to technical competence and 30% to financial competence. A committee chaired by the State IT Secretary, managing director of Bevco, head of State government's e-governance, director of the Kerala State IT Mission and CEO of the KSUM evaluated the start-up before issuing the work order last Saturday. Twenty-six start-ups with the unique ID of the KSUM and with products similar to the requirements of Bevco had participated in the bid.
24 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||KMRL, civic body bicker over drain work as monsoon nears||With Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) and the Kochi Corporation deflecting blame, the pavements on M.G. Road are likely to be left in a sorry state. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) had covered the pavements with slabs and interlocking tiles. But according to corporation officials, the agency had failed to provide holes to enable cleaning of drains beneath them. Corpn. begins work After having approached KMRL to help with removing the slabs and tiles on the pavements with no positive response, the civic body has begun work on removing the slabs and tiles to clean the drains. “The slabs will be put back, but the broken tiles will have to be taken care of by the Public Works Department later, since it is their road,” said P.M. Harris, chairman, corporation works standing committee. At a meeting held last month, it was agreed that KMRL would help lift the slabs and tiles, and the corporation would clean the drain, said T.J. Vinod, MLA. According to sources, any liability on the pavements will be taken up by the metro agency only within two years of it being handed over to the PWD in 2017. With that liability period expiring in 2019, the pavements are no longer the agency’s responsibility. “If the drains along M.G. Road are cleaned, we can resolve waterlogging to a certain extent. If not manholes, at least more hooks should have been provided to lift the slabs. So much was already spent on paving the footpaths, now they will have to be fixed again,” said K.V.P. Krishnakumar who represents Ernakulam South. Hand of help In a release on Friday, KMRL said it had assisted local bodies with respect to the drains and footpath on the Kaloor-M.G. Road stretch, improving the footpath on the Kaloor-Edappally stretch, and the construction of a cross-drain at Changampuzha Park based on decisions taken by the District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) at various meetings. District Collector S. Suhas said the work under Operation Breakthrough would be successful only if the drainage network in the city was cleaned up. The project will help avoid waterlogging to an extent, at least by around 40% to 50%, he added. Meanwhile, KMRL started the construction of a cross-stream drain connecting Changadampokku Thodu and Karanakodam Thodu near the Jawaharlal Nehru metro station on Friday. The roughly 145-metre drain and crossing will cost Rs. 30 lakh. The construction work was kicked off by the District Collector. He said KMRL was carrying out the work as per a decision taken by the DDMA. Waterlogging “We are planning to complete the construction by June 10. We hope the construction of the drain will ease waterlogging at the location,” said KMRL managing director Alkesh Kumar Sharma. The decision to go ahead with the project was taken at a DDMA meeting convened by Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar, who is in charge of Ernakulam district, on April 24. A special team of KMRL dedicated to pre-monsoon work is also assisting the Operation Breakthrough project of the district administration.
24 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||113 flights per week to be operated from Kochi||There will be 113 flights a week from the Cochin International Airport, with domestic services set to resume on Monday. The Directorate General of Civil Aviation has permitted all airports to operate at 30% capacity as part of safety measures being adopted to fight COVID-19. A communication from the airport said security, check-in services, and identity card examination would be manned by machines. According to the timetable for the first phase of normalising air operations between May 25 and June 30, there will be flights to and from Agati, Bengaluru, Kozhikode, Chennai, Delhi, Hyderabad, Kannur, Mumbai, and Pune. Air Asia, Air India, Alliance Air, Indigo, Spicejet, Vistara, and Air India Express will be operating services. Passengers will have to abide by the conditions set by the government on web check-ins, Arogya Setu app, and furnishing of personal information while reaching the airport. They will have to enter the terminal four hours before departure and report at least two hours before departure. Masks are compulsory, while web check-ins will be the order of the day. Face shields, masks, and hand sanitisers will be provided by the respective airlines at the boarding gate. Physical distancing norms have also to be strictly maintained.  Air Asia, Air India, Alliance Air, Indigo, Spicejet, Vistara, and Air India Express to operate services
24 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Parents want KV fee for April-June period waived||The Kendriya Vidyalaya Parents Association based in Ernakulam has opposed the move to collect fee for the first quarter (April 2020 to June 2020) of the 2020-21 academic session. No classes Kendriya Vidyalayas have held no formal academic classes during the lockdown period and no formal classes would be possible till May 31. Hence levying of tuition fee/computer fee and Vidyalaya Vikas Nidhi fee for the period is unjustified from an educational institution like the Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS), an autonomous body funded by the Centre, says Prakash Kesavan, president of the association, in a letter to the Union Minister for Human Resource Development.
24 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||War room to clear doubts||A district-level war room has been opened to clear doubts of students about the conduct of the remaining SSLC, higher secondary and vocational higher secondary exams. It has been set up at the office of the Deputy Director of Education. Phone: 0484 -2422210, 0484-2422227, 98950 42643. Vocational HSc (94470 26569) and HSc (82810 91563).
24 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||3 test positive in Kollam||Three persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kollam on Saturday. At present, the district has 13 active COVID-19 cases. Among the three new cases, the first person reached Kerala on May 19 on a Mumbai-Thiruvananthapuram special train and he was brought to Kollam on a KSRTC bus. The 58-year-old Thrikkadavur resident was in institutional quarantine and was later shifted to the Government Medical College (MCH), Parippally. A 32-year-old pregnant woman from Punalur and a 58-year-old from Thiruvananthapuram are the other positive cases.  Two centres in the district will now have TrueNat testing facilities that deliver faster results for coronavirus screening. Nasopharyngeal swabs would be collected for the test and the reports would be ready in an hour, said District Medical Officer Dr R. Sreelatha. At present, the facility is available at the MCH and Kollam District Hospital. The Health Department has also started the first-phase pool testing of expatriates and persons from other States in connection with COVID-19 containment. Samples of all other passengers were collected after six persons who travelled on IX-538 Abu Dhabi-Thiruvananthapuram flight on May 16 tested positive in the district.
24 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Two more persons test positive in Kottayam||Two more persons who returned to Kottayam from Abu Dhabi and Bengaluru tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 here on Saturday, taking the number of patients in the district to nine. Those who tested positive were a 47-year-old man from Karukachal who landed from Abu Dhabi on May 18 and a 23-year-old woman from Meenadam who returned from Bengaluru on the same day. Both were shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here in the evening. A two-year-old boy and his 29-year-old mother, who were being treated at the isolation ward in the MCH, were discharged after testing negative twice in succession. They will now remain in home quarantine. People from other States continue to return to Kottayam. Till Saturday, the authorities here issued 5,115 passes for inter-State entry. The district administration officials and the Health Department had a tough time coordinating the procedures for the unscheduled arrival of passengers from Mumbai on board a special train on Saturday night. The authorities received information only on Saturday afternoon about the train planning a stopover at Kottayam. The train reportedly did not have the authorisation of the State government. 200 passengers “Around 200 passengers, including people from Idukki and Alappuzha, are expected to get off at the station here. It was a race against time for us to arrange for the medical screening and other procedures at the station,” said a district administration official. The train from Mumbai will be followed by another from Bengaluru, which is slated to reach Kottayam by 8.30 a.m. on Sunday.
24 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Calicut airport ready for domestic flight services||After a two-month hiatus, the Calicut international airport will resume operation of domestic flights on Monday. At present, only Indigo has confirmed the operation of three flights a week in the Bengaluru-Kozhikode sector. The flights will be operated on Mondays, Thursdays, and Saturdays. The flight would arrive at 4.15 p.m. and depart at 4.50 p.m., Airport Director K. Srinivasa Rao told The Hindu on Saturday. He said Air India Express had also evinced interest to conduct services to Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi, and Mumbai. The subsidiary airline of the official carrier Air India planned to operate two days to Mumbai and weekly services to Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram. However, the schedule was yet to be confirmed, he said. Mr. Rao said the Ministry of Civil Aviation had laid down a standard operating procedure to be followed by airlines, airports, and passengers following the resumption of flights post-lockdown. Physical distancing Physical distancing norms would be strictly followed. The entire terminal complex had been disinfected, he added. He said passengers would be allowed into the terminal building only if their flights were within four hours. Only flyers with confirmed web check-in would be permitted to enter the airport. There would be no physical check-in, and passengers would be subjected to thermal screening. They would have to wear masks and gloves during the entire period of the journey, he said. The Ministry of Civil Aviation had said that only asymptomatic passengers would be allowed to travel. Besides, they would have to install the Aarogya Setu app.
24 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Four test positive in Kozhikode||The number of COVID-19 patients in Kozhikode rose to 20, with four persons, including three healthcare workers, testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. Two persons from Malappuram, and one each from Kasaragod, Kannur, and Wayanad are also being treated at the Government Medical College Hospital. Two healthcare workers attached to the General Hospital, Thalassery, Kannur, a 56-year-old native of Orkkatteri who returned from Chennai, and a 29-year-old native of Vattoli who was working as staff nurse at a private hospital in Mumbai are those diagnosed with the infection on Saturday. The number of those under surveillance stands at 6,444. 69 cases Eight more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Saturday, raising the total number of cases to 69. They include a 36-year-old man from Thennala who returned from Mumbai, a 37-year-old man from Eswaramangalam, Ponnani, who came back from Chennai, a 36-year-old man from Irimbiliyam who returned from Male, a 23-year-old man from Koottilangadi who returned from Singapore, a 35-year-old man from Veliyankode who came back from Abu Dhabi, a 39-year-old man from Palakkad who returned from Kuwait, and a 29-year-old man from Tirurangadi who returned from Kuwait. Additional District Magistrate N.M. Meharali said a 20-year-old man from Randathani who returned from Delhi was under treatment at the Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode.
24 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||In Quarantine, 9 artistes join COVID fight||There were no viewers or even a stage when nine Kathaprasangam artistes, including singers and instrumentalists, decided to do something creative to join the nationwide campaign against COVID-19. Their sole tool was their mobile phones which they used from their own homes to come out with Quarantine , a seven-minute storytelling performance meant for wide circulation. The story is prepared in such a way as to musically highlight all the campaign slogans and warnings associated with COVID-19 prevention. It revolves around the plight of a Non-Resident Indian youth settled in England who does not heed the safety protocol and defies warnings. The video was produced under the banner of Mount Heroes Koodaranhi, a village artistes’ collective. Jayesh Koodaranhi, a professional Kathaprasangam artiste and winner of State-level awards, led the performance based on the script and music by Koombara Baby. Organist Sony Joseph, guitarist Joshy Cheriyan, and tablist Shaji Augustin joined the performance from their own homes. Young editor Jobin Jose, Aneesh Thiruvambadi, and Emilin Shaji were the three supporting artistes who joined the team. The performances recorded from seven separate locations were later edited to perfection by a 15-year-old boy, Christo Robin. “We received the music done in the first phase by Mr. Baby. The other singers and instrumentalists made their additions separately after listening to it. The individual contributions were later merged into a single performance using a mobile software by our visual editor, who is a Class X student,” said Jayesh Koodaranhi, who presented the story. There was no expense for its production and it reached more than 10,000 viewers within just two days of the release, he said, adding that they were getting many calls from Kathaprasangam lovers across the State. Second production It was the second such video production made by the team sourcing the available resources and facilities in their village, located about 42 km away from Kozhikode city. The first attempt was Ammakkoru Geetham , a musical performance appreciating the leadership of Health Minister K.K. Shylaja. The team came out with the latest awareness attempt surmounting the frequent power failures, poor Internet connectivity, and other technical hurdles in their remote village.
24 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad sees surge in cases||Palakkad district witnessed a surge in COVID-19 cases with 19 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. They included six women and an 11-year-old girl. The number of COVID-19 patients under treatment in the district rose to 44. When eight of them returned from Chennai, two came from Mumbai, one each from Kuwait, Abu Dhabi, Gujarat and Kanchipuram. A health worker was suspected to have contracted the virus from the Walayar check-post. Two persons who tested positive were on the primary contact list of one of the patients. A 39-year-old man from Nellaya, Ottappalam, who returned from Kuwait on May 13 tested positive when he was under observation at Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri. A 56-year-old man and a 46-year-old woman from Chunangad, Ottappalam, who returned from Mumbai on May 20 tested positive on Saturday. The 11-year-old girl from Vellinezhi who returned from Gujarat on May 11 tested positive on Saturday. The eight positive cases that returned from Chennai included three from Chunangad, Ottappalam, and a person from Thottakkara, Elappully. The others who returned from Chennai included a 42-year-old man from Mundur, and a 50-year-old woman, a 53-year-old man and a 20-year-old man from Kadambazhipuram. Health worker The one who returned from Kanchipuram was a 36-year-old man from Ottappalam who came on May 6. The 30-year-old man who returned from Abu Dhabi on May 7 belonged to Vallapuzha. A 22-year-old health worker who was on duty at the Walayar check-post was confirmed positive. District officials said two women aged 32 and 36 whose samples were tested at the District Hospital here on May 22 were found positive on Saturday. However, it was not clear how they contracted the virus.
24 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||TDB move to farm on temple land opposed||The Sabarimala Ayyappa Seva Samajom (SASS) and many other Hindu organisations have opposed a move by the Travancore Devaswom Board to launch vegetable cultivation on Devaswom land near temples. In a statement recently, Akkeeramon Kalidasan Bhattathiripad, SASS president and Tantri, said the TDB was bound to get permission of the presiding deity before taking such decisions. ‘Permission of deity’ “As per law, judiciary (court) is the guardian of the presiding deity, who is regarded as a minor, and, hence, obtaining permission from the court is mandatory,” he said. Hindu Aikyavedi secretary K. Haridas too accused the TDB of violating temple custom by launching cultivation on temple land. Mr. Haridas and Mr. Bhattathirippad urged the TDB to drop the move. TDB stance Meanwhile, TDB president N. Vasu said the board’s farming project, Devaharithom, was aimed at fruitfully utilising nearly 3,000 acres of vacant land attached to temples. The TDB project was aimed at cultivating vegetables, fruit trees, coconut palms, flower plants, etc., on the Devaswom land, thereby making its contribution too to the government’s mission to make the State self-reliant in food production. He said the project had already been launched in Thiruvananthapuram district.
24 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Special trains to stop at Thiruvalla from Monday||Subcollector Vinay Goyal inspected the Thiruvalla railway station on Saturday to take stock of the arrangements there with Railways allotting stoppage for special trains at the station from Monday. Dr. Goyal said passengers alighting at the station would be screened for symptoms of COVID-19 . There would be only one exit gate at the station. As many as 250 Non-Resident Keralites may be reaching Thiruvalla on each train. The train would be arriving on platform-III and the passengers would be led to platform-I, ensuring physical distancing. Dr. Goyal said the municipal health wing and Fire and Rescue Services personnel would sanitise baggages and other belongings and check passengers for symptoms of COVID-19 on Platform-I. A Health Department team would collect samples from those with symptoms and refer them to corona care centres. All passengers would have to remain in quarantine for 14 days either at their home or at a corona care centre. Hospital quarantine A total of 31 persons, including eight COVID-19 patients, are in quarantine. No new case of SARS-CoV-2 infection was reported in the district. A total of 23 expatriates, 15 of them women, came to the district from Dubai, Manama, and Rome in the past 24 hours. Of this, 17 people were referred to the corona care centres.
24 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No lapses in water release: Collector||District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan on Saturday ruled out any lapses in the decision to raise five shutters of the Aruvikkara dam in the early hours of Friday. The shutters had to be raised on account of the unexpected heavy downpour in the region that generated inflow beyond the capacity of the small dam, Mr. Gopalakrishnan said in a Facebook post. His response came in the wake of allegations that the public was not alerted before the shutters were raised. The opening of shutters began by 3.30 a.m. after alerting the police and Revenue Department. Precautionary steps were taken before the operation, he said. Yellow alert “A yellow alert had been issued for the district from 1 p.m. on Thursday to 3 p.m. on Friday, which indicates a rainfall volume of 6 cm to 11 cm. However, we received 22.3 cm of rain,” Mr. Gopalakrishnan said. Moreover, the dam at Aruvikkara was not a storage dam, but one used to regulate water flow. The water levels in the Killi and Neyyar rose on Friday owing to the increased inflow into these water courses from the catchment areas, Mr. Gopalakrishnan said. On Friday morning, the Kerala Water Authority had warned people residing on the banks of the Karamana river to be on guard as the water release from Aruvikkara could trigger a rise in the water level.
24 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State to go slow on ICMR advisory||The Indian Council of Medical Research’s revised advisory on the use of hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) as prophylaxis for COVID-19, extending its use to asymptomatic health-care workers in non-COVID hospitals and those on the front-lines will be implemented by the State only after more evidence collection and detailed discussions. “The protocol regarding HCQ followed by Kerala is very different from ICMR’s suggestion. During an online meeting with the Centre on Saturday, since all States were at variance with each other, it was decided to meet again with more clinical details and evidence on the use of HCQ. Till then, there will be no change in our HCQ protocol,” a senior health official told The Hindu . In Kerala, HCQ is being administered only for confirmed COVID-19 patients who have definite symptoms and as prophylaxis for health-care staff working in COVID wards. The ICMR’s advisory issued in March had said that HCQ could be administered as chemoprophylaxis for asymptomatic health-care workers involved in the care of suspected or confirmed COVID-19 cases and for asymptomatic household contacts of lab-confirmed cases. On May 22, the ICMR sought to revise this advisory and extended it to health-care workers working in non-COVID hospitals and caring for general patients in COVID hospitals. It said that front-line workers such as the police, who are deployed in containment zones could be administered the drug as prophylaxis.  Longitudinal study The revised advisory comes a day after The Lancet reported the findings of a large longitudinal study on the use of HCQ in 96,000 patients in 671 hospitals. It reported an increased risk of mortality by 33-45% and increased risk of ventricular arrhythmia by almost five-fold in COVID-19 patients who were administered the drug. The study concluded that not only was HCQ of no benefit to COVID-19 patients, but it also brought more harm. However, the critical care physicians in Kerala who are involved in the care of COVID-19 patients choose to differ. “We have to go by a risk vs benefit aspect in choosing HCQ as a potential treatment till a definitive treatment for COVID-19 emerges. HCQ is an affordable drug. We have decades of experience using it and its safety profile is also well-established. Its ability as an antiviral against SARS-CoV-2 is quite promising and we have observed that early administration of HCQ prevents the patient from developing respiratory distress. In The Lancet study, HCQ administration seems to have been in patients who had already developed significant illness,” a senior clinician said. “We have a better recovery rate because we pick up and treat our patients early, before complications set in. As soon as they exhibit any symptoms, we start administering them HCQ. However, we are not quite confident about extending its use to the asymptomatic population as prophylaxis, other than for our nurses directly engaged in COVID wards,” a senior Health official said.
24 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||UG, PG seats set to increase this year||The considerable success achieved by the State in mitigating the COVID-19 problem, coupled with the glum situation in neighbouring States such as Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, is likely to prompt many aspirants of higher education courses to seek admissions in Kerala. Anticipating an increased demand, the government has decided to sanction a hike in intake in arts and science colleges for next academic year. While State universities normally increase the sanctioned strength for much sought-after courses such as BCom every year, the peculiar situation could lead to the creation of far more number of seats than usual, official sources say. Outflow may come down “While many youngsters from the State usually seek admissions for undergraduate (UG) and postgraduate (PG) programmes elsewhere, the student outflow could be much less this year with the pandemic-induced panic yet to subside. The move to hike the intake is bound to benefit many aspirants,” an official says. Most colleges have sanctioned strengths of 60 for UG arts and science courses, while a few institutions have been permitted to admit more students on the basis of their facilities. Similarly, the intake for PG courses usually hovers around 15 seats. The numbers of permitted seats is set to increase by nearly 15 depending on the facilities in the colleges. Onus on varsities The universities have been tasked with enquiring the willingness of the colleges and recommending the hike after ascertaining their laboratory, seating capacity and other facilities. Along expected lines, BCom, BBA, BCA, BSc Computer Science, BSc Chemistry and BA English are among the courses likely to be given prominence. Quota unchanged Official sources say the proportion of reserved and management quota seats will remain unchanged despite the seat increase. While they say the hike will be permitted under the special circumstances, it is yet to be known whether the colleges would revert to the previous sanctioned strengths the subsequent year. The government expects many takers for BTech seats this year. Only 27,208 out of the approved intake of 47,268 BTech seats were filled last year, leaving around 43% seats vacant. While welcoming the move, academicians urge the government to give priority to government and aided colleges while sanctioning additional seats. Adequate safeguards should be in place to prevent students from being exploited by private college managements at the time of crisis, they say.
24 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No new cases in capital district||The capital district reported no new COVID-19 cases for the second day on the trot on Saturday. Ten people, including two from Kollam and one from Pathanamthitta, are currently being treated for the disease in Thiruvananthapuram. Adding to the district’s tally, one Thiruvananthapuram native is being treated in the Kottayam Government Medical College Hospital. The district administration placed 588 people under observation. There are 5,775 people who are being monitored at present. Twenty one symptomatic people were admitted to hospitals on the day. Two booked The City police booked two persons under the provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020, and the Kerala Public Health Act for jumping home quarantine. The accused duo, who had come from Tenkasi in Tamil Nadu and entered Kerala through the Aryankavu check-post, were located outside their homes under the Vanchiyoor and Thumba police station limits. They were subsequently sent to an institutional quarantine facility. The police penalised 336 people for not wearing masks. Sixteen others were booked for other violations of the lockdown norms. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police registered 118 cases, arrested 117 people, and seized 62 vehicles. Besides, 382 people were charged with petty cases for not wearing masks.  195 arrivals The Inchivila inter-State border witnessed the arrival of 195 people, including 77 women and 32 children, on Saturday. Among them, 144 came from Tamil Nadu, 49 from Karnataka, and one each from Madhya Pradesh and Telangana. As many as 100 have arrived from COVID-19 red zone areas. All were sent to their houses.
24 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Oppn. sees graft, calls for probe||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has accused the State government of having rigged the bid for developing the mobile phone application for purchasing liquor to favour an ‘inexperienced’ firm ‘politically linked’ to the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)]. He said here on Saturday that the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) and the IT Department had stacked the decks in favour of the firm to appease their political masters. In the process, they had sidelined proficient public sector entities such as the Centre for Development of Imaging Technology ( C-DIT) and National Informatics Centre (NIC). They accorded undue pecuniary advantage to the neophyte company and this should be subjected to an anti-corruption inquiry. Major application vendors had not accepted the product because of inherent software glitches. The company’s shoddy work had delayed the countdown to the launch of the application by the Kerala State Beverages Corporation (Bevco). Mr. Chennithala said the firm stood to make 50 paise for every order placed through the app. When the sale of legal alcohol commenced, the start-up is predicted to rake up at least Rs. 3 crore as monthly profit. The norms for selecting the company were opaque to the public. The tender floated by the KSUM was suspect. The agreement contained no penalty clause to hold the firm to account if its product failed, the Leader of the Opposition said. KSUM denies charges Saji Gopinath, Chief Executive Officer, KSUM, told The Hindu that 26 start-ups had participated in the tender. An expert committee shortlisted five firms for vetting. Another committee headed by the IT Secretary examined the company selected to execute the contract. It found the application’s architecture robust and glitch-free. Moreover, the Union government had stated that previous experience or turnover criterion did not apply to contracts involving start-up firms.
24 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. mulls exams in containment zones||The State government is mulling conducting the SSLC, higher secondary, and vocational higher secondary examinations in centres inside the containment zones. Though an advisory from the Health Department is expected soon, the Education Department is of the opinion that there is no need to shift the centres outside the containment zones. A final decision is yet to be made. The Chief Minister had earlier announced that there would be no examination centres inside these zones. As of now, there are around 27 exam centres inside the containment zones. However, this could vary on the basis of the number of COVID-19 positive cases. Most of the exam centres that are located inside containment zones are in Wayanad. Nearly 8,000 of the 11,000-odd students whose exam centres are in such zones are in that district. Officials say if a student is not COVID-19 positive or in home quarantine and there is no related issues in the family, the student could appear for the examination in a centre in the containment zone. Meanwhile, the arrangements for the examinations are going on in full steam. Thermal scanners Distribution of the nearly 5,000 infrared thermometers for thermal scanning has begun. By Sunday, these will reach district education offices and on Monday, the exam centres. The General Education Department is also supplying gloves to be used by the nearly 60,000 teachers who will be invigilators.
24 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New enforcement vehicles to monitor MC Road stretch 24x7||Round-the-clock enforcement vehicles manned by Motor Vehicles Department personnel and the police will soon hit the stretch from Vettu Road-Thycode, near Kazhakuttam, to Adoor on Main Central (MC) Road, the State’s first 80-km demonstration safe corridor. The endeavour is aimed at booking erring motorists and ensuring road discipline, Eight multi-utility vehicles (MUVs) and two motorcycles have been procured for the team under a Rs. 146.6-crore project aimed at achieving zero accidents. The initiative, part of the ongoing Phase II of the World Bank-aided Kerala State Transport Project (KSTP), is being replicated by the Public Works Department on its corridors. During emergencies The vehicles will also rush to the spot in the event of an accident or emergency. There are nine police stations on the corridor. The enforcement unit will be divided into eight teams. The main objective worked out by the Transport Research Laboratory (TRL), U.K.-based consultants, is to create deterrence to violations by creating a highly visible traffic safety enforcement environment. Already, training of trainers (ToT) and enforcement training for police officers and officers from the MVD has been provided through the TRL. Road safety awareness and training various target groups has been done by the National Transportation Planning and Research Centre (NATPAC). First-aid kits “We have asked the vehicles to be equipped with adequate first-aid materials and to make available minor extrication kits to break the glass and cut the seat belt in case of any need,” T. Elangovan, Executive Director, Kerala Road Safety Authority, told The Hindu .
24 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Congress split over meet of lawmakers||The Congress appears split over whether or not to cooperate with the meeting of MPs and MLAs called by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan to discuss the COVID-19 crisis on May 26. K. Muraleedharan, MP, says he would boycott the meeting. There are reports that K. Sudhakaran and Rajmohan Unnithan, both MPs, would follow suit. The MPs’ stance is in variance with the position of Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and United Democratic Front convener Benny Behanan, MP. Both have indicated that they would attend the videoconference. The Indian Union Muslim League and the Kerala Congress (M), two major United Democratic Front constituents, have not said they are averse to the conference. Notably, the parties have not been overtly critical of the government's handling of the COVID-19 crisis. The Congress has neither endorsed or rejected the stance of Mr Muraleedharan. For some, Mr. Muraleedharan’s stance appears consistent with the position of the Congress that the government has used the pandemic to reap political dividends and to denigrate the Opposition. Mr. Vijayan appears to have struck a reconciliatory tone in the run-up to the meeting. In his weekly television column, the Chief Minister says the Opposition also works for the people, and their views would help inform the government. Govt’s anniversary The meeting falls on the occasion of the government’s fourth anniversary. Mr. Chennithala has issued a set of charges against the government and attempts to punch holes in its claims. He has accused Mr. Vijayan of having adopted an authoritarian style. He has slammed the government on several counts, including the use of taxpayers’ money to defend the accused in political murder cases.
24 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Masks for SSLC students||Distribution of nearly 13 lakh masks made by the Samagra Shiksha, Kerala, for students appearing for the SSLC and higher secondary examinations got under way on Saturday. The masks, along with a notice on steps to be followed to remain protected against the pandemic, will be delivered to the students at their residence. Each student will be given one reusable mask. The process will be completed by Monday evening. While maximum possible houses will be covered, if any student is left out or forgets to bring the mask to school, they can get one on the exam day. Adequate number of masks have been provided to schools for this. The masks have been prepared under the block resource centres of the Samagra Shiksha in the districts. Teachers, resource teachers, specialist teachers and their families pitched in for mask production, Samagra Shiksha State project director A.P. Kuttykrishnan said. The Samagra Shiksha has targeted manufacture of 50 lakh masks by the time schools reopen.
24 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online agriculture courses for children||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan will launch online agriculture courses for schoolchildren next month as part of the Down to the Earth project. The classes, aimed at encouraging the study of agriculture among students and understanding its science, technology, and history are an initiative of the city Corporation and Swasthi Foundation. Five courses are on offer and 20 more are planned. The courses are of 14 to 21 hours’ duration and can last up to a month. They will be live. However, there will be offline farm exercises for the children to get a hands-on experience. The classes will be open to children in the State in batches of 30 to 40 students.
24 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Ensure job security of self-employed’||The IATA Agents Association of India has appealed to the Prime Minister to ensure the protection of salaries, incomes, and jobs of the millions of employees and benefits for the self-employed. In a letter, the association also requested for the extension of vital, interest-free loans (economic stabilisation loans) as business or working capital loans and cash credit to provide liquidity for large and small travel and tourism businesses, enabling them to quickly resume business.
24 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heavy rain to continue in State||Indications are that Kerala is not likely to get any respite from heavy rain in the run-up to the southwest monsoon. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast the likelihood of “fairly widespread to widespread rainfall/thundershower activity along with isolated heavy rainfall” over Kerala, Mahe and Lakshadweep till May 28 in its extended range forecast for the three regions. Monsoon by June 5 Between May 29 and June 4, all three regions can expect above normal rainfall. Yellow alerts indicating isolated heavy rainfall have been issued for Kollam, Pathanamthitta and Wayanad for May 26 and Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Malappuram and Kozhikode for May 27. The national weather agency has predicted that the 2020 southwest monsoon will set in over Kerala by June 5. Thunderstorms Thunderstorms accompanied by gusting winds with speeds touching 30 to 40 km/h are likely to occur at one or two places over Kerala and Mahe on May 26 and 27, the IMD has warned.
24 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Briefly 2||The police booked 700 people for travelling in violation of lockdown norms in the State on Saturday. As many as 783 people were arrested and 287 vehicles seized. A total of 4,152 people were penalised for failing to wear masks outdoors. Cases were registered against 53 people who violated quarantine norms.
24 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Briefly||State Police Chief (SPC) Loknath Behera has instructed District Police Chiefs to ensure that principals, headmasters and teachers who were involved in the conduct of examinations are not inconvenienced while travelling. Besides, the police will not insist on teachers to obtain travel passes for travelling between 7 p.m. and 7 a.m. Instead, their identity cards and documents related to the exam duty will suffice for the purpose.
24 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||80 kg of ganja seized at Kodungallur||The anti-narcotic cell seized 80 kg of ganja worth Rs. 1.5 crore from Pulloot near Kodungallur on Saturday and arrested two persons. On a tip-off that ganja was being smuggled in lorries carrying vegetables and fruits from Tamil Nadu, an anti-narcotic special squad conducted large-scale inspection of vehicles. The squad found 2kg of ganja hidden in a lorry. During the interrogation of driver Yadu of Moothakunnam and helper Biju of Gothuruthu, the squad learnt the rest of the ganja was in another lorry. The squad chased the other vehicle and caught up with it at Pulloott, near Kodungallur, and seized 78 kg of ganja. Vasu, son of Sajeevan of Padiyur, and Santhosh, son of Nadeshan of North Paravur, were arrested in this connection. According to Excise sources, the gang members used to buy ganja from Tamil Nadu to sell to customers in Kerala.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Spirit is intact||
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Id in times of COVID||
24 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will slap PD Act for sand, liquor smuggling: police||After intensifying their raids to check the activities of the illegal sand and liquor mafia in Chittoor district, officials of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) are gearing up to invoke the Preventive Detention (PD) Act against repeat offenders. Additional Superintendent of Police (SEB) Y. Rishant Reddy, addressing a press meet here on Saturday, said that an exclusive WhatsApp helpline (9440900004) has been set up to receive information from the public regarding the activities of the sand and liquor mafia. Mr. Rishant Reddy said that five persons were arrested on Friday for allegedly smuggling sand by forging documents at the Nandanam sand reach. “There will be regular raids on the sand reaches from now on. If any malpractices come to light, criminal cases would be booked against the perpetrators and the licenses of the reaches would be cancelled,” he said.  Referring to the growing incidents of manufacturing of ID liquor in several villages of Chittoor district, Mr. Rishant Reddy said that some families had made it their livelihood to brew illicit liquor. “Anti-arrack campaigns would be intensified and the public of the vulnerable areas would be brought into the mainstream by educating them about the government welfare schemes,” the official said.
24 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Burglary at TTD JEO residence in Tirupati||A burglary was reported in the official residence of the Joint Executive Officer of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) in Tirupati, in the early hours of Saturday. Interestingly, the residential block of the TTD higher authorities under S.V. University Police station limits falls under high security zone. According to information, unidentified persons gained entry into the residence by removing the grills of a rear window. The almirah was tampered with and about 180 gm of gold jewellery was allegedly stolen. The incident was believed to have taken place around 3 a.m., when the JEO and his family members were in the house, sleeping at an adjoining suite. The SVU police registered a complaint from JEO Basanth Kumar, a senior IAS officer, and took up investigation. The police did not rule out the insider hand going by the meticulous nature of the burglary.
24 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP hits out at Ranganayakamma||Hitting back at the allegations levelled by Poothota Ranganayakamma, a 66-year-old woman from Guntur, who has been charged by the CID with spreading false information against the State government over the LG Polymers issue, the YSRCP has said that the hate campaign by the woman was part of a larger design to defame the government and the party. Party women leaders from Guntur, Devarakonda Papa and Kancherla Suvarna Kumari from Repalle said the elderly and educated woman should have realised that the YSRCP government had been doling welfare schemes for BC, SC and ST sections. Schemes like Amma Vodi, Rythu Bharosa scheme and Jagananna Vidya Deevana and YSR Arogyasri had benefited lakhs of women, they said.
24 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB seizes illicit liquor||The Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) police have seized 7,900 litres of illicit liquor stored in 53 barrels from Nizampatnam and other coastal mandals.
24 May 2020||KAKIANDA,ANDHRA PRADESH||19 persons test positive in East Godavari||At least 19 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in Pedapudi mandal in East Godavari district on Saturday. All of them have been identified as primary and secondary contacts of a 53-year-old man who died of the virus on Wednesday. East Godavari District Medical and Health Officer B. Satya Susheela said the 53-year-old man belonged to Gollala Maamidada village in Pedapudi mandal. A majority of the persons who tested positive on Saturday belonged to the village. Meanwhile, East Godavari Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi and revenue officials inspected the Gollala Maamidada village and reviewed containment measures.
24 May 2020||Kakinada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will oppose diversion of Burugupudi wetland: BJP||Bharatiya Janata Party National Executive member and MLC Somu Veerraju on Saturday said that the BJP would join the farmers and local communities to fight against the diversion of Burugupudi wetland (locally knows as Ava land) for housing purpose near Rajamahendravaram in East Godavari district. “A protest will be held with the farmers and local communities to persuade the State Government to withdraw the proposal of diverting the Burugupudi wetland for housing purpose, as such a proposal will lead to inundation of the surrounding areas of the site in the future,” Mr. Veerraju told reporters here. On leveling of the Department of Ports land with mangrove cover for housing purpose in Kakinada, Mr. Veerraju said that BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana has sought the intervention of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change to stop the project for the protection of the mangrove cover. “The BJP’s East Godavari chapter will intensify the fight against the destruction of the Kakinada mangroves,” said Mr. Veerraju.
24 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Supply of paddy seeds begins||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu on Saturday launched the supply of paddy seeds at the village level for the kharif season in the State by distributing the seeds to farmers in Kakinada. Mr. Kannababu, who was accompanied by Kakinada MP V. Geetha to the event, said: “The 2020-21 kharif season is the first season to begin the supply of seeds at the village level. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will inaugurate the Rythu Bharosa Centres (RBC) across the State on May 30.” The seed is being supplied at Rs. 5 subsidy per kilogram. However, farmers are required to register their land details at the Village Secretariat to get the seed. the Minister added. “As many as 11,580 quintals of paddy seeds have been allocated and ready for the supply for kharif season in the East Godavari district. To ensure quality, the seeds have been procured directly from farmers,” said Mr. Kannababu.
24 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,500 migrant workers to arrive at Kurnool today||The COVID-19 Central team members from the All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health, Director Madhumita Dobe and professor Sanjay Kumar Sadhu Khan, on Saturday held a meeting with State Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy and District Collector G. Veerapandian. The team members cautioned the district officials on taking proper COVID protocol measures at the time of receiving 1,500 migrants who are expected to reach Kurnool on Sunday. They discussed the plans in this regard and the steps to be taken while quarantining them at TIDCO Housing complexes in Adoni (400), Yemmiganur (400), Kurnool (360) and Nandyal TIDCO (340). Deputy Inspector General of Police Venkatarami Reddy, Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli and Joint Collector Ravi Pattan Shetty along with other district officials discussed the preparedness of the district to ensure none of the positive persons roamed around freely. Awareness Mr. Rajendranath said that the State government was reviewing the situation every day and following all the measures suggested by the experts to contain the spread. The Central team members said the time had come to spread awareness among people on the need for living cautiously with the virus, while continuing with day-to-day activities. Asymptomatic cases A majority of the positive cases in Kurnool were without any symptoms, they pointed out. On Saturday seven persons were discharged after they recovered from the infection, including a one-year-old boy, from Nandyal.
24 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sullurpeta accounts for half of cases in Nellore||Sixteen more persons tested positive for coronavirus in SPSR Nellore district in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 217 in the red zone district, health officials said. Sullurpeta accounted for a maximum of seven new cases as persons with a history of travel to the wholesale vegetable and fruit market in Chennai and their primary contacts contracted the viral disease. Nellore reported five new cases followed by Vinjamuru with two cases and Kavali and Gudur towns one each, a health bulletin said. The number of patients under treatment at the Government General Hospital and private Narayana Hospital here went up to 106. As many as 107 persons were cured of the disease, while four persons succumbed to it so far. As many as 334 persons were quarantined. Health officials were on their toes implementing the cluster containment strategy in Sullurpeta, about 80 km from Chennai, as it accounted for a majority of the 106 active cases. All entry points to Kottamitta area in Nellore city were sealed as also exit points in the wake of spurt of COVID-19 cases. The lockdown was strictly implemented also in the towns of Kavali and Gudur and health workers went round the town identifying primary and secondary contacts of infected persons. However, the lockdown was relaxed in keeping with the Centre’s guidelines outside the containment zones. People in large numbers were seen moving freely to make purchase of essential and other commodities in the evening after confining themselves to their homes during day time as the mercury touched the 43 degree Celsius.
24 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco ryots decry fall in prices||Restive tobacco growers stalled e-auctions at the D.C.Palli auction platform in the SPSR Nellore district and resorted to road blockade on the Chennai-Kolkata highway on Saturday in protest against the falling prices for various grades of tobacco after the lockdown. The farmers torched a few tobacco bales on the highway as the prices for the export-oriented crop plummeted when the e-auctions resumed after a two-month break following relaxation in the lockdown conditions by the Union government. Police persuaded the ryots to stop the protest and restored vehicular traffic as a large number of vehicles got stranded on the expressway following the stir. The farmers who were hoping for a price of Rs. 200 per kg for the bright grade were upset at the price dipping to Rs. 150 per kg. The price of low grade varieties had come down to Rs. 80 per kg, lamented a group of ryots led by Tobacco Growers Welfare Association in D.C.Palli Gali Narasappa Naidu. The e-auctions which started on February 17 were suspended on March 23, coinciding with the nationwide lockdown. “We will have no option but to boycott the auctions from next week if there is no improvement in the market condition,” the protesting farmers said. They wanted the Tobacco Board to declare a crop holiday during the next cropping season if it was not in a position to ensure a fair price for their produce. Seek govt. intervention Meanwhile, a delegation of farmers called on YSR Congress Party MP Magunta Srinivasulu Reddy in Ongole and urged him to impress upon Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to lead a delegation to New Delhi seeking the intervention of the Union Commerce Ministry. Farmers were upset that the Board remained a mute spectator when traders drove down the prices on the pretext of fall in demand for tobacco in the international market due to the pandemic after giving indent at the time of fixation of crop size, former Board member P. Bhadri Reddy said. In the present situation, the farmers would incur a loss of about Rs. 3 lakh per tobacco barn, complained farmer leader from Ongole-II auction platform V.V. Prasad. They were unable to market even 10% of the estimated tobacco production of about 90 to 95 million kg in the Southern Black Soil(SBS) and the Southern Light Soil (SLS) regions so far as the coronavirus outbreak coincided with the marketing season of the winter crop, said another farmer leader from Kandukur M. Ramanaiah.
24 May 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Spurt in postive cases||As migrant labourers stranded in other parts of the country started returning to their native places, both Srikakulam and Vizianagaram districts registered a spurt in COVID-19 cases. The number of positive cases has gone up to 35 in Srikakulam district and 19 in Vizianagaram district. Around 2,500 persons returned to their native villages in Vizianagaram, while 11,500 labourers returned to Srikakulam in the last few days. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas has directed the officials to conduct tests for labourers at Pydibhimavaram and Itchapuram checkposts.
24 May 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crime and accident rate see a fall during lockdown period||There has been a drastic fall in the accident and crime rate during the lockdown period in the city. From March 21 to May 21 in 2019, the total number of crime and accident recorded under all heads was 904 cases, and during the same period in this year the number of cases recorded was 358. Fatal accidents under Section 304A in 2019 during this period was 33 and in this year it is just five cases. Property offences, including house break-ins, were 111 and 43. “There has been a drop under all heads and this period was almost crime and accident free,” said Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena. According to him, since most people were at home the vehicular traffic on road was minimal and due to which the accidents were very few and burglars did not dare to break-in into the houses. But on a larger picture, the prime reason for fewer crimes was mass deployment of police forces and visible policing. “This was emergency like situation, as experienced during war times. This was also probably the largest deployment of forces 24/7 during a specific period and for a specific reason since the last few decades. This visible policing had a huge impact,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone – II) Uday Bhaskar. This clearly is an eye opener that indicates that visible policing has an impact on society, when it comes to crime. Police-people ratio But the police-people ratio do not favour such deployment. The ratio of police-people in India is around 150 policemen per one lakh people, as per UN indicator. This is much less to the UN recommendation of 222 policemen. In Visakhapatnam it is even much lower as it tappers down to one policeman for every 800 citizens. The policing was effective, as the entire police force was deployed for just one reason, to effectively see the lockdown. But in normal circumstances it would not be possible, as police has other duties to perform. This indicates that for effective policing, the manpower resources and infrastructure needs to be enhanced. Apart from manpower, the police needs to be strengthened in areas such as digital surveillance and technology. “The response of the people during the lockdown was also good and it needs to be maintained. People need to cooperate and see police as a facilitator and not as a muscle power,” said Mr. Uday Bhaskar. According to Mr. Meena, people need to use the technology provided by the police such as LHMS (locked house monitoring system) and CC TV installation to support the force.
24 May 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala laddus to be available across State||The famed laddus of the Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala will be now made available to devotees at all the district headquarters in the State from May 25. Devotees can purchase the laddus at TTD kalyana mandapams at a much subsidised price of Rs. 25 as against the original cost of Rs. 50. Speaking to media after flagging off two truck loads of laddu prasadam on Saturday, Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy said the management had embarked on the ambitious task of respecting the vast sentiments of the devotees coupled with uncertainty in the opening of the temple for public. It is already more than 60 days since the closure of hill temple for public in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak and in the meantime, the administration had been flooded with mails and requests to make the sacred prasadam available to them. Devotees urged to follow social distancing Primarily, each TTD Kalyana mandapam at the district headquarters in the State will be supplied with about 15,000 to 20,000 laddus. Devotees can purchase them by strictly adhering to physical distancing and sporting of face masks among other things. The TTD staff along with those related to Hindu Dharma Prachara Parishad, Srivari Seva volunteers, police and revenue authorities will assist the devotees at their respective districts. While the first consignment of despatched laddus is intended to meet the requirements of devotees in far away districts like Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, Guntur, Krishna, East and West Godavari, the remaining districts will be supplied with required stocks by Sunday, Mr. Reddy said.
24 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Continental chef brings home ‘Haleem’||He may be a trained hand in Continental dishes, but the ‘Haleem’ he prepares on Ramzan-eve is titillating local taste buds. For the first time, the rural pocket of Damalcheruvu having a sizeable Muslim population got the rare opportunity to savour the coveted delicacy. Marasani Mahesh Babu, a native of Manginayanipalle near the Damalcheruvu town of Chittoor district, works as ‘Chef de partie’ on Princess Cruise liner that travels from America to Asia via Europe. He came home on a holiday in March and had to stay back due to the lockdown. Finding an ‘opportunity in adversity’, he started preparing the famous recipe, which became an instant hit. As a boy, Mr. Mahesh mistook a local pond for sea, but was awestruck when his father took him to Puducherry to show the ‘real’ sea, which was when he took an interest in seafaring. His tryst with the frying pan and ladle started a few years later when he served breakfast for his father working as a journalist and mother, a hotel housekeeping supervisor. He finished his hotel management course, worked in two star hotels in Hyderabad, Palm Atlantis and The Marriot in Dubai before joining the cruiseliner. “It all started when I cooked Haleem as an Iftar gift to my childhood friend Imran. The delicacy gained acceptance in nearby towns”, Mr. Mahesh said. Though he started making Haleem in college, he is now into European dishes like grilled meat, pasta, soups and seafood. People from Pakala, Penumur, Piler, Patoor and Irala, located within 25 km from his town, are vying to get the pack. “The dish tastes amazing”, says Sai Kumar Reddy of Rompicherla, who purchased eight packets to gift his friends. “The pricing is reasonable at Rs. 100 for a 250 gm pack”, adds Lakshman Rao, who travelled all the way from Tirupati to buy the delicacy. Though Mahesh could cook Haleem in chicken, mutton, beef and vegetarian versions, he confined himself to chicken in view of the affordability in the predominantly rural market. There are phone orders from places as far away as Chittoor and Madanapalle, but the absence of transport due to lockdown is a stumbling block.
24 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP warns against ‘sale of TTD assets’||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president Kanna Lakshminarayana on Saturday demanded that the State government should withdraw the decision to sell properties belonging to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) and ‘stop its anti-Hindu acts’. In a letter addressed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Saturday, Mr. Lakshminarayana said the TTD had recently initiated proceedings for selling 23 properties in Tamil Nadu. Two teams were constituted for auctioning them after a resolution to that effect was passed by the TTD Trust Board, Mr. Lakshminarayana claimed. He said it was a step towards liquidating the assets of all Hindu temples in the State and warned that the BJP would not allow it to happen as the sentiments of Hindus around the world were being hurt.
24 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Probationary IAS officers meet Jagan||A delegation of the 2019 batch probationary IAS officers met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Saturday. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy, on the occasion, exhorted the probationers to serve people to the best of their abilities and, thereby, enhance the government’s reputation. He emphasised the critical role played by the IAS officers in the implementation of welfare and development schemes, and in redressing public grievances. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the government attached due priority to women empowerment, and pointed out that Andhra Pradesh was the first to bring in the Disha Act and exclusive police stations under it. He also highlighted the ward and village secretariats through which government services were being door-delivered. The trainee officers told the Chief Minister that they were keen on working on decentralisation of administration and the volunteer system, and appreciated the initiatives being taken by the government.
24 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police will return seized vehicles: DGP||Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang has said that people can take the vehicles seized by police during lockdown in the State. Police seized many vehicles for violating the lockdown in the State. Owners of the vehicles could take the vehicles after producing necessary documents, the DGP said. Vijayawada Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao said that owners of the vehicles could visit the police stations concerned and take their vehicles. In Vijayawada, police handed over 2,320 vehicles on Saturday, Mr. Tirumala Rao said.
24 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heatwave to continue across State||Heatwave conditions are very likely to prevail in several places of the State for another two days, according to the India Meteorological Department’s forecast. On Sunday, dry weather is most likely to prevail all over the State and in isolated areas, particularly urban areas, heatwave conditions will prevail. Similar weather is most likely on Monday. However, from May 26 light to moderate rain or thundershowers will likely be witnessed in several parts of the State. On Saturday, the State continued to register above normal maximum temperatures. Jangamaheswarapuram in Guntur recorded 45° Celsius, the highest. It was followed by Kurnool (44.5), Tirupati (43.6), Anantapur (42.9), Kadapa (42.6), Vijayawada (42), Nellore (41.6) and Ongole (41.1). All the cities are most likely to experience heatwave condition for five more days.
24 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. allocates Rs. 80.43 crore for school uniforms||The State government has given administrative sanction for procurement and supply of uniform cloth, and to provide stitching charges to the students of classes 9 and 10 in all the State-run schools for the academic year 2020-21 under the Jagananna Vidya Kanuka. The project costs over Rs. 80.43 crore. In a G.O. issued earlier, the government had directed officials of the Samagra Shiksha wing to distribute student kits, comprising uniform cloth, textbooks, a set of notebooks, a pair of shoes and two pairs of socks, a belt and a school bag, to all pupils studying in classes 1 to 10 in the government schools. The idea was to propose the same under the annual working plan and budget of the Samagra Shiksha with 60% grants from the Centre and 40% by the State government. But when State Project Director of Samagra Shiksha informed that there was no provision to supply uniform to the students of classes IX and X, and that it would cost Rs. 80,43,88,866 for the supply of uniform cloth (and stitching charges of Rs. 80 per pair) for 7,59,574 students of classes IX and X across the State, the government agreed to allocate the same.
24 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police filing false cases, say TDP leaders||MLC Yalamanchili Babu Rajendra Prasad and former MLA Bode Prasad staged a protest in front of the Vuyyur Rural police station on Saturday, alleging that the police were foisting false cases on TDP workers. A villager named Rambabu was booked by the police on charges of storing liquor illegally at his house.However, TDP leaders alleged that the case was falsely lodged. Vuyyur CI Ch. Naga Prasad said the police acted with impartiality in the case. “The evidence will be shown to court,” he said.
24 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seven bridges to be constructed in Vijayawada||District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz has said that seven bridges will be constructed across Eluru, and Ryves Canals and Budameru rivulet in the city soon. Addressing a press conference, he said the State government accorded administrative sanction of Rs. 31 crore towards the construction of the bridges. He said three bridges including two double lane and one single lane would be constructed across Budameru rivulet. Two of them would be near Gunadala and one will connect Nayak Nagar and Amaravati Nagar. ‘Will bring down traffic congestion’ Two bridges each would be constructed across Eluru Canal and Ryves Canal at four different locations, he said. The construction of bridges would bring down traffic congestion in many areas of the city, the Collector said.
24 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||MLA justifies move to sell off govt. land||YSRCP spokesperson and Anakapalle MLA Gudivada Amarnath on Saturday justified the decision to sell government lands in Guntur and Visakhapatnam, stating that it was being done to mobilise funds for implementation of various welfare schemes in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Refuting the opposition parties’ criticism, Mr. Amarnath said that despite the economic crisis caused by the pandemic, the government was continuing with the implementation of welfare schemes as promised in its election manifesto. Dig at Naidu The decision to sell a few parcels of government land was taken with public interest in mind, he said. “Leader of Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu, who has confined himself to his mansion in Hyderabad for the last three months, is least bothered about the plight of the people. Had Mr. Naidu wanted, he could have come to A.P. and quarantined himself for 14 days, and then moved to various places to convey his solidarity with the people at a time of crisis,” Mr. Amarnath said During the first year of his rule, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had fulfilled 90% of the promises made in the election manifesto, Mr. Amarnath said. Mr. Reddy proved within six months that he was the best Chief Minister in the country, he added. People gave Mr. Reddy a massive mandate, and his endeavour was to revive the ‘Rajanna Rajyam’ (the rule of his father Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy). The YSRCP leader came down heavily on Mr. Naidu for trying to obstruct the efforts of Mr. Jagan to accelerate development by creating legal hurdles in the implementation of English medium in government schools “I have high respect for the judiciary, but I am not happy with certain orders issued by it,” he remarked. He said the YSRCP government would start distribution of house sites to 25 lakh people from July 28.
24 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GFC rankings: GVMC to seek reverification of star rating||After announcement of star ratings of Garbage Free Cities (GFC) 2020 in which the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) saw a drop from two-star to one-star on May 19, the civic body is going to write a letter to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) through Swachh Andhra Corporation, Vijayawada, for reverification of the ratings. The GVMC officials claim that the survey team appointed by the MoHUA which had come for inspection to the city failed to visit the Construction and Demolition (C&D) plant which is being operated at Kapuluppada, resulting in which the marks allotted for the C&D waste in the rating is zero. “We have checked with the staff at the C&D plant at Kapulappada and even the storage and collection points. They said that none of the survey team members had inspected the plant,” said Chief Medical and Officer of Health (CMOH), K.S.L.G. Sastry. He said that the GVMC has signed an agreement for the C&D plant in the year 2017. In 2019, the plant had started operating. Moreover during the GFC survey in 2019, the civic body received good marks for C&D plant parameter. But in the survey conducted in 2020, the civic body was shown ‘failed’ though the plant is being operated in a full-fledged manner. According to Additional Commissioner V. Sanyasi Rao, there are three indicators – Mandatory Parameters, Essential Parameters and Desirable Parameters. In Mandatory, Essential parameters, we received good score, but in the Desirable parameters, the GVMC scored zero since we failed in C&D waste component. He said that during the documentation which they have submitted to the Ministry, they have submitted complete details about the C&D plant including the pictures of the plants, its eight storage and collection points, logbook evidence and others. The portal hinted that the city could get a five-star rating. Mr. Sanyasi Rao also said that the contractor for the C&D plant in Visakhapatnam and Tirupati are the same. The contractor was even shocked as the activity in C&D plant Vizag is more than that in Tirupati. While Tirupati got 100 marks in this criteria, Vizag got zero, he added. “It may be a technical mistake and the survey team might have missed visiting the plant. If a ULB has a C&D plant, the team would give minimum marks of 20 or 30, which is enough to get three-star rating. It is to be remembered that the GVMC C&D plant has been functioning for the last one year,” he said.
24 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Provide MGNREGA works, Collector tells officials||District Collector V. Vinay Chand asked the officials to speed up the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) works in the district. He conducted a review meet with the officials concerned at VMRDA Children’s Arena here on Saturday. Speaking to the officials, Mr. Vinay Chand said that a number of labourers have lost jobs due to the closure of factories due to the lockdown and engineering works in the rural areas of the district. He directed the officials to provide employment to them through the MGNREGA works. He also instructed them to identify migrant labourers from other States and give them job cards. He said that the Chief Minister is giving high priority to the MGNREGA works and the district should perform well.
24 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ready to supply quality power to industries, says discom CMD||APEPDCL Chairman and Managing Director S. Nagalakshmi on Saturday said that they were ready for supply of power 24x7 to the industries after a long period of lockdown. She said in a release that in view of the reopening of industries after the long period of lockdown due to COVID-19 pandemic, the APEPDCL was geared up to provide 24×7 power to all the industries in its jurisdictions of Srikakulm, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East and West Godavari districts. The CMD assured the industrialists that APEPDCL would provide uninterrupted and quality of power to their units at any cost. They had already carried out periodical maintenance and pre-monsoon inspections of all 33 KV and 11 KV feeders and substations. The Discom inspected and confirmed that the supply was available up to the metering point of all the valid industrial services. The CMD informed that they were regularly interacting with field staff/officers for ensuring proper maintenance of lines and equipment. In spite of the hardships being faced due to the lockdown and the threat of being infected, all the staff and officers of the Discom were working relentlessly for maintaining the lines and equipment in good condition for providing quality power to all the consumers.
24 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 5.34 crore released as incentives to IT units||Following demand from various quarters, the State government has decided to release Rs. 5.34 crore towards incentives due to the IT units. The amount would be disbursed through the AP Technology Services, Vijayawada, said a G.O. issued on May 22 by the Department of IT, Electronics and Communications towards vote-on-account for April, May and June. On May 1, the government accorded administrative sanction of Rs. 12.50 crore seeking proposals for actual requirement of budget. Hailing the decision, IT entrepreneurs sought specific timeline for release of incentives due till date.
24 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rotary club providing food to migrant workers||Rotary Club Visakha Centennial has been providing food to a number of migrant workers since the last one week here.Rotary Centennial Club president Dora Babu along with donors — Ch. Kishore, K. Anand and K. Venkateswar Rao — and a few others said that the club will be distributing 400 food packets from Saturday till the month-end.
24 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Appointed||Institute of Company Secretaries of India (ICSI) has appointed Sai Sankar, Assistant Registrar of Companies, Vijayawada and Jitendra Kumar Sharma, Managing Director & CEO of AMTZ, Visakhapatnam.as co-opted members. The ICSI Visakhapatnam chapter members welcomed the new appointments.
24 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CUCET extends last date of online application till June 6||Last date for submission of online application for admission into various under graduate, post-graduate and research programmes offered by Central University of Odisha through CUCET 2020 is extended till June 6. The last date for submission of online application was extended twice before.
24 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||GITAM results declared||GITAM deemed-to-be university has released its final and trimester examination results for MBA, IMBA, B. Arch and M. Arch for its Visakhapatnam, Hyderabad and Bengaluru campuses, here on Saturday. Students can visit the university’s website to see their results.
24 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protests erupt over razing of Three Lamps Tower at Vizianagaram||The unexpected demolition of the Three Lamps Tower located near Sri Pyditalli Ammavari temple in Vizianagaram sparked widespread agitations in the Fort City on Saturday. The structure, believed to be built in the early 1860s, was an iconic symbol of the city and had become a major junction in the city in recent years. Municipal authorities reportedly demolished the structure as part of an exercise to widen the city roads. However, the demolition did not go down well with locals, who protested the move stating that there is no way the structure could have been considered a traffic bottleneck. Activists of the Telugu Desam Party, Communist Party of India, Aam Aadmi Party, Lok Satta and various organisations strongly condemned the demolition drive, claiming that the move left thousands of people living in Vizianagaram deeply pained. “We are supposed to protect heritage structures like the Three Lamps Tower, Clock Tower and Music College which depict the great history of Vizianagaram. But the YSRCP Government is trying to remove all these structures. All heritage lovers should unite to preserve the city’s history” said former Union Minister P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju, while addressing a press meet on Saturday. Mr. Ashok’s daughter and TDP leader Aditi Gajapathi Raju and party leaders organised a protest at the structure. CPI leader Bugata Ashok, Lok Satta Party State executive president Bhisetti Babji and AAP district convener K. Dayanand organised protests separately, while demanding an inquiry into the demolition. Action plan Heritage lover and Vizianagaram resident J. Adinarayana urged all cultural organisations to hold a joint meeting to chalk out an ‘action plan’ and urged the Archaeology Department to take action against the officials who had ordered its demolition without consulting anyone. Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal has reportedly directed municipal authorities to submit a report over the demolition of the structure.
24 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Highlight benefits of Rs. 20 lakh crore package’||Bharatiya Janata Party’s former State president K. Haribabu on Saturday urged party leaders to spread awareness among the public on the benefits of the Rs. 20 lakh crore financial package announced by the Centre to boost the country’s economy. “Such a huge package has never been announced by any government. We urge the A.P. Government to utilise the package at the optimum level as the Centre has relaxed norms for extending financial assistance to State Governments,” Mr. Haribabu said while interacting with reporters in Vizianagaram. Mr. Haribabu said that the moratorium on loans, lifting of curbs for the movement of agriculture products among different States, reforms in the power sector and easing of labour laws among other steps would put the economy on the right path within no time. At a meeting in Srikakulam, BJP MLC P.V.N. Madhav exhorted district party workers Attada Ravibabji and Duppala Ravindra Babu to explain the benefits of the package to the public by holding meetings in all mandals. “Small and medium-scale industries in rural and semi-urban areas would get maximum benefits with the relaxation in extending loans ,” Mr. Madhav said.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jack of all tastes||
24 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Hottest day of season in old Adilabad||It was the hottest day of the season in old united Adilabad district on Saturday when the minimum day temperature recorded was 46.9 degree C at Jannaram in Mancherial district, according to the Telangana State Development Planning Society (TSDPS) website. Other places recorded a maximum temperature between 45 degree C and 46 degree C. The high temperatures were recorded under heat wave conditions which have been forecast by the Indian Meteorological Department. The hilly areas in the district remained a shade cooler owing to forest cover.
24 May 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Harassed woman found dead||A married woman allegedly ended her life unable to bear sexual overtures by a youth from her neighbourhood at Karakavagu village in Palvancha mandal on Saturday. Perturbed over his harassment, the woman allegedly consumed pesticide at her house while her husband was away in the nearby agricultural field on Friday evening.Based on a complaint lodged by her husband, the local police booked the youth.  (Roshini - Suicide Prevention Helpline: 040-66202000)
24 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Holding Id celebration online||With the novel coronavirus pandemic and social distancing being the order of the day, some families are planning to celebrate Id-ul-Fitr remotely. Interestingly, some Iftar parties, including those of at least two foreign diplomatic missions this year were taken online. Along the same lines, those who host annual Id lunch or dinner with family and friends have decided organise e-Id. “On both e-Ids, around 20 to 25 people from my extended family were invited to either lunch or dinner. However, this will not be the case this year. Firstly, there is the night curfew. Secondly, it is best to try to take precautions and stay safe. We will probably have an Id meeting on WhatsApp or Zoom,” says Syed Zainalabidin, a data analyst. Others such as Sadaf Siddiqui, a 25-year-old doctor, said she would meet several of her friends on the second or third day of Id. However, this year, she has decided to give it a miss. “Yes, it is a time of happiness, but it does not hurt to be careful. I am hopeful that things will be better soon. I’ll video-chat with them for now,” she says. Meanwhile, the ‘No Id Shopping’ campaign, which encourages Muslims to use funds intended for Id shopping to help those in need, found several takers. Many like Syed Faheem, a dentist, said that he would rather use small funds to help other people restart businesses which had come to a standstill. Several Muslim clerics too have emphasised that community members not buy new clothes, and instead help the needy.
24 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||RGIA ready for passengers with new safety norms in place||GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd. (GHIAL) operating the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) announced that it was all set to provide a safe and healthy environment with a robust contactless boarding for passengers flying in and out of the city now that domestic flight operations will resume from May 25. Provisions have been made for thermal scanning of passengers and they will be encouraged to check in at home or use self-check-in facility, self-bag tag facility, scan and fly etc. One hand baggage and one check-in baggage will be allowed and queue managers are being deployed for social distancing and to avoid crowding, said an official spokesman on Saturday. Kiosks staggered About 48 self-check-in kiosks are in place and they are safely staggered as per social-distancing norms across the forecourt area and at check-in for passengers to scan QR codes displayed on each kiosk and capture the screen of self check-in kiosk on their mobile phones and receive the print of boarding card and baggage tags for bag drop in no time.   All these kiosks dispense both boarding cards and baggage tags for check-in luggage for all major airlines. Passengers wearing mask need to display their government ID and scan the bar code with the camera cum-scanner for CISF personnel to validate passengers’ credentials for entry to the terminal. Checked-in passengers with baggage have the option to use self-check-in kiosks to print baggage tag and then use either check-in counter or self-bag drop facility to do it on their own or approach staff deployed at the counter. Every check-in counter has protective shield to prevent contact between airline staff and passenger.  Mobile scanner kiosks are conveniently placed at hand baggage divesting points next to each X-ray machine in-feed, so passengers using the mobile boarding facility can scan their boarding pass QR code for verification/validation by CISF personnel before divesting the phones for screening; once the travel details are scanned, the phone along with the hand baggage can be placed in tray for X-ray scan and passenger can proceed for security frisking. Passengers having hard copy of boarding pass can straight away divest their hand baggage for X-ray screening and proceed for security check and at the frisking point, such passengers can scan the boarding pass bar code themselves at the kiosk placed next to the CISF personnel on duty and proceed.  Social distance markings have been put in food courts, lifts, seating etc. All boarding gates have contact-less e- boarding gates with boarding card scanners for passengers to just flash their boarding cards to verify flight details and proceed to board the aircraft. All incoming and outgoing baggage will be disinfected at the sanitisation tunnel developed in-house by the airport team. “We are all set to commence operations after a gap of almost two months. We are fully geared to provide a safe and healthy environment for passengers while they travel," said airport CEO SGK Kishore.
24 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Portal for migrants launched||A dedicated portal aimed at assisting the migrant labour to move to their native States was launched by Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) here. Launching the portal, TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy accused the government of failing to rescue the migrants, forcing them to walk to their native States. In order to help such migrants, he said the TPCC IT cell chairman K. Madanmohan Rao designed a portal - Charmsinc.in - through which migrant labourers can register their details and the Congress leaders will assist them in shifting to their home States. The portal is available in both English and Hindi and the migrants need to feed some basic details. “The chatbox also has voice recorder if people are unable to type their details,” Mr. Madanmohan Rao said. ‘Attack on media’ Mr. Reddy said so far the Congress party arranged buses for migrants going to Bihar, Chattisgarh, Jharkhand and Karnataka. He praised the Sangareddy MLA. T. Jagga Reddy for dropping thousands of migrants on Karnataka border, by arranging buses on his own. The TPCC chief also accused the government of targeting journalists for exposing the TRS leaders and said press freedom is in danger in Telangana. He said the under-construction house of a journalist in Narayankhed was demolished after he published a story on the Narayankhed MLA’s birthday celebrations in violation of the lockdown norms. “Even the Chief Minister threatens and ridicules media, and his followers too are doing the same,” he said.
24 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ryots decry promotion of cotton crop||Farmers organisations on Saturday criticised the decision of the government to promote cotton cultivation on over 70 lakh acres in the State though the present cultivable area of 55 lakh acres is already unsustainable and resulted in farmers committing suicide. The organisations held a meeting here under the aegis of Rythu Swarajya Vedika where the protests were finalised. They demanded that the government first finalise a comprehensive agricultural policy by extensive consultations with stake holders and then draw up an appropriate cropping pattern linked to incentives. It should not be a knee jerk announcement thrusting three or four crops. The meeting was notable for a scientist of Centre for Sustainable Agriculture G.V. Ramanjaneyulu expressing dismay that decision of the government took everyone by surprise because experts like him who were consulted in the matter recommended reduction in the cultivable area of cotton and paddy. Based on soil type and depth and water availability, they had recommended only about 25 lakh acres in the State as suitable for cultivation of cotton. But, the government fixed the acreage at 70 lakh acres, which is unscientific, he said. Similarly, the government recommended fine varieties of paddy that did not yield well in the second crop and is susceptible to pest. But, the government imposed only fine and long varieties. M. Kodandaram, president, Telangana Jana Samiti, said change in the cropping pattern could not happen instantly as it involved hard work by a generation of farmers and taking risk. It was a unilateral decision of the government which will harm farmers. Sarampalli Malla Reddy, vice-president, All India Kisan Sabha, wondered about consequences of crop failure or non-remunerative prices in market if farmers cultivate crops recommended by government. The meeting decided to organise protest demonstrations in district headquarter towns on May 27 against the Centre’s stimulus package as it ignored damage caused to farmers by lockdown.
24 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS govt. urged to fight AP move against NGT order||Social activist Gavinolla Srinivas, who moved the National Green Tribunal (NGT) against Andhra Pradesh’s plans to divert Krishna water from Srisailam reservoir, was felicitated by the Narayanpet Zilla Sadhana Samithi. Mr. Srinivas had requested the tribunal to stop AP from proceeding further with its Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation Scheme and expansion of Pothireddypadu head regulator capacity ‘illegally’. Convenor of the samithi Manohar Goud bestowed the honour on Mr. Srinivas at Narayanpet on Friday, and the body vowed to continue its fight against AP’s plans. Mr. Srinivas said not only Narayanpet district, which is solely dependent on Krishna water for its drinking and irrigation needs, Jogulamba-Gadwal, Mahabubnagar, Wanaparthy, Nagarkurnool, Rangareddy and Nalgonda districts too, would be severely hit with the diversion of 8 tmc ft water a day from Srisailam. “All the drinking water and irrigation systems dependent on Srisailam and its back waters would be denied assured water as AP’s plans would divert water in huge quantities, making Srisailam reservoir dry in a matter of a few days,” he said. Stating that his legal counsel had told him that AP was planning to move the Supreme Court against the NGT order, he appealed to the Telangana government to oppose and fight any such move in every forum effectively describing how Telangana was meted out gross injustice all these years. Mr. Srinivas told The Hindu that the Palamuru-Rangareddy Lift Irrigation Scheme would be badly-hit if AP goes ahead with its plans. Samithi leaders Venkoba, Mogulappa, Ghouse, Madan, Naresh Goud, Bhaskar Reddy, Baswaraj, Mallikarjun, Mahipal, Narayanaswamy and others complimented Mr. Srinivas for being the representative of four crore Telangana people.
24 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Revenue, other staff appeal for full payment of salary||Telangana Revenue Employees Services Association has represented to the government to address their long pending issues in the Revenue Department and pay full salary for the month of May along with dues of last two months. TRESA president Vanga Ravinder Reddy and general secretary K. Gautam Kumar met Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar here on Saturday and said that postings be given to tahsildars who have been in waiting for more than six months. The request of some employees for transfers owing to special circumstances be considered without further delay. There are 120 Deputy Collector vacancies in the department and the Deputy Collector promotions were not being given for the last four years, they said and requested that these posts be filled by way of adhoc promotions. There are also tahsildar vacancies not being filled for the last four years and they be filled by conducting DPC, they said. The association urged the government to exempt the Revenue employees from GO No.27 as they were working 24x7 in the lockdown period imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus despite the threat of transmission of virus. Revenue employees from the Village Revenue Assistant cadre to the Deputy Collectors have been working hard and they be paid full salaries. The association appealed for payment of advance salary for the month of May on the eve of Ramzan festival to be celebrated on May 25. The newly recruited probationary Deputy Tahsildars be issued posting orders so as to enable the government to utilise their services. The association leaders in a statement said that the Chief Secretary responded positively to their issues and said that orders would be issued to the tahsildars in-waiting in two days and other issues would be addressed after the lockdown. Telangana VROs Welfare Association State president G. Upendra Rao, general secretary H. Sudhakar Rao and others have appealed to the government to pay May month salary in full. Though the Revenue employees discharged their responsibilities and worked for curbing the spread of Covid-19, government with a “vindictive attitude” paid only 50% salaries for the last two months. Apart from May month salary, dues of last two months should also be paid, they said. A protest was staged with black badges at Kothagudum in Bhadradri Kothagudem district on Saturday demanding payment of full salary for the month of May, dues of last two months. The protest was staged in accordance with the call given by the JAC of employees, teachers, pensioners, out sourcing and contract employees.
24 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IT employee diagnosed with COVID-19, source unknown||Employee of a multinational IT giant, a domestic help, and a staff nurse of government hospital, along with their primary contacts, were among the 42 persons diagnosed with COVID-19 on Friday. While 62 positives were listed on Friday, 19 of them were marked as migrants, including a few from outside the country, who entered the city recently after borders were opened. In Chennareddy Nagar near Lalapet, an employee from a multinational company tested positive with no known source of infection. Sources say that he neither had a travel history nor did he frequently intermingle with any group. Tests have confirmed all three of his family members as COVID-positive. In Yakutpura area, a domestic help tested positive, with symptoms such as fever. Surmise is that she had contracted it from her employers. Her primary contacts, including her husband, and daughter and son-in-law who stay at Malakpet, all tested positive. They all have been shifted to Gandhi Hospital, sources said. Primary contacts A staff nurse reportedly working in Niloufer Hospital has tested positive too, and officials are yet to take a call on testing her primary contacts who are not showing any symptoms. However, all are over 55 years of age, and one among them is on dialysis. Besides, five persons from Jiyaguda, one from Karwan and four from Bholakpur, have also tested positive. While several isolated cases have been discovered from other circles, officials say that their sources of infection remain mysterious, which clearly indicates community transmission or Stage-III of COVID-19 spread.
24 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CS flags off migrants trains||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar flagged off trains carrying migrant workers from Nampally railway station here on Saturday. Later, speaking to media persons, he said that 88 trains had so far transported 1.22 lakh migrant workers from various stations in the State. While ssix trains were leaving from Nampally on Saturday, 40 trains were leaving from other stations for different states. By midnight all the trains would leave and around 50,000 workers would be transported to their destinations, he added. The railways were providing food to the migrant workers while the State government was arranging two food packets and three litres of drinking water and fruits for each migrant worker. He said that most of the migrant workers who had registered with the State government had left by Saturday and they had also expressed their desire to come back to the State. DGP Mahender Reddy observed that sending the migrant workers to their home-towns safely and conveniently in a dignified atmosphere was a goodwill gesture by the State government. Additional DG Jitender, Principal Secretary Municipal Administration Arvind Kumar, GHMC commissioner Lokesh Kumar, Secretaries Sandeep Kumar Sultania and Ronald Rose, and Rangareddy Joint Collector Harish were present on the occasion.
24 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Thrift scheme to reach weavers early||The State government will permit weavers access money accrued under the ‘Nethannaku Cheyutha’ thrift scheme immediately as a relief measure, in the face of COVID-19 pandemic, instead of them waiting for completion of a three-year lock-in period to do so. About 26,500 weavers in the State stood to benefit from the decision of Industries Minister K.T. Rama Rao, said an official release on a review he undertook of the various initiatives of the department of handlooms and textiles on Saturday. Under the scheme, weavers have a lock-in period of three years, from the time of their joining, before redeeming the money. But considering the present situation, Mr. Rao decided to sanction the money to weavers immediately without waiting for three years. Mr. Rao said the weavers have saved Rs. 31 crore and the government added Rs. 62 crore as its share in the scheme. Following the decision, each weaver now can access an amount ranging from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 1.25 lakh. He instructed the officials to ensure money goes into the hands of weavers as soon as possible. The government will also release Rs. 1.18 crore to weavers under cooperative societies, which have enrolled and completed an earlier savings scheme. Mr. Rao said that the Telangana government has been supporting weavers and not only allocated a major share in the budget but also initiated various programmes and schemes to create a demand for their products. He reviewed the status of the production of Bathukamma saris as well as work pertaining to Kakatiya Mega Textile Park and Hyderabad Pharma City. He held separate review meetings with various wings of the industries department. Industries secretary Jayesh Ranjan, handlooms and textiles director Shailaja Ramaiyer and TSIIC chairman Gyadari Balamallu .
24 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSLDA district units to get added infra||The State government has decided to empower the Telangana State Live Stock Development Agency (TSLDA) and its district branches by providing the required infrastructure and capacity building. A committee headed by secretary (animal husbandry) Anita Rajendra, TSLDA chairman Rajeshwar Rao, CEO Manju Vani, director (AH) Laxma Reddy and MD of Vijaya Dairy Srinivasa Rao has been constituted to look into the needs of TSLDA at the State and district level. The decision was taken at a meeting held by Minister for Animal Husbandry and Dairy Development Talasani Srinivas Yadav on Saturday. He stated that TSLDA committees for 32 districts would be appointed soon as part of the government’s plans to develop the dairy farming sector, not only to meet the State’s demand but also other needy states. He said that honorarium for Gopala Mitras, veterinary care volunteers, was increased from Rs. 3,500 to Rs. 8,500 per month. A semen centre would start functioning at Kamsanipally soon.
24 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. plans protests over ‘pending’ projects||A series of protest programmes have been planned by the Telangana Congress over pending projects in the State, starting with a day-long deeksha over Krishna basin projects on June 2, Telangana Formation Day. A meeting of senior Congress leaders on Saturday decided to hold protest on the Godavari basin projects on June 6. The meeting was headed by TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy and attended by CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, MLA T. Jagga Reddy, MLC T. Jeevan Reddy, former Ministers Damodar Rajanarsimha, V. Hanumantha Rao, Shabbir Ali, G. Chinna Reddy, and TPCC working presidents Ponnam Prabhakar and J. Kusum Kumar. Mr. Uttam Reddy said that protest at the SLBC will be led by him, Komatireddy Venkata Reddy and K. Jana Reddy while Bhatti Vikramarka will lead at Paleru along with MLAs Seethakka and Podem Veeraiah. Participants at other projects include A. Revanth Reddy and Konda Vishweshwer Reddy - Lakshmidevipalli Pump House, Nagam Janardhan Reddy - Elluru; G. Chinna Reddy - Karivena, A. Sampath Kumar - Nettempadu, and Ch. Vamshichand Reddy - Kalwakurthy. The meeting also constituted four committees headed by senior leaders to highlight the failures of the government. Mr. Vikramarka will head the finance committee, Ponnam Prabhakar on education and OU lands, Chinna Reddy and M. Kodanda Reddy on the new agriculture policy, and T. Jeevan Reddy on the pending projects on Godavari. A delegation of the Congress will also visit OU on Sunday.
24 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||NIA arrests key person in trafficking case||A couple from Hyderabad were arrested by the National Investigation Agency on Saturday in connection with a human trafficking case involving four Bangladeshis. Justin aka Abdul Salam (47) and his wife Shivuli Khatoon (29), a Bangladeshi, are the key accused in the case and with his arrest the total number of arrests went to six, which include four Bangladeshi nationals Three young women, who had been illegally trafficked to India a few months ago from Bangladesh, were rescued from Justin’s house during searches conducted at his ancestral and rented houses. The search also resulted in the recovery of several incriminating documents, the investigators said. The couple were not only running brothels at various places in Hyderabad and other parts of the country but also facilitated cross-border human trafficking. The case was first registered by the Chatrinaka police and later, in September, the agency took over the case in view of its inter-State and cross-border links, making its first human trafficking case from Hyderabad involving Bangladeshi women. The investigators said that the case related to immoral trafficking of persons from Bangladesh to various cities in India, including Hyderabad, for sexual exploitation. Investigation revealed that the accused, along with his associates, conspired in bringing women illegally from Bangladesh through a ‘well organised’ network of agents in both countries for engaging them in prostitution racket. NIA officials said that in 2012 Khatoon had entered India illegally from Bangladesh and married Justin. She has emerged one of the key players in the case. During search at their residence, the investigators found that the victims were hiding in an improvised hideout in the house. The three rescued women had been illegally trafficked into India from Bangladesh through the associates of Justin and Khatoon. Since September last, the agency has arrested three Bangladeshi nationals — Mohd. Yousuf Khan alias Md. Imran Shaik, Bithi Begum alias Khadija Shaik and Sojib Shaik, – and one Indian Ruhul Amin Dhalli. On March 12, the NIA filed a chargesheet in the designated court and will also file a supplementary chargesheet very soon. “Investigation in the case is going on,” the officials said.
24 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||OU petitions Mayor for protection of its lands||Osmania University authorities on Saturday approached Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, requesting him to protect university lands from encroachment. As per the details, during a previous dispute with Tulasi Cooperative Housing Society, the Supreme Court had ordered in favour of the society with regard to 4,800 square yards of land in DD Colony. The society plotted the land and sold it to 13 persons who have built homes on the plots, after leaving one plot for park. Recently, nine others were attempting to illegally occupy another piece of adjacent land measuring 3,296 square yards in the name of the society, by producing false documents. According to sources, one among them is wife of a retired High Court chief justice. They applied to GHMC, seeking building permissions on the said land, Registrar Ch. Gopal Reddy, and OSD to Vice-Chancellor T. Krishna Rao complained in a representation to the Mayor. They urged Mr. Ram Mohan not to issue any building permissions on the said land. The Mayor in turn, issued necessary instructions to Commissioner D. S. Lokesh Kumar and asked him to take action. CBI probe sought At a press conference, AICC secretary and former MLA Challa Vamshichand Reddy alleged that 8,000 square yards of university land near DD colony had been encroached upon by top leaders close to the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) and the Bharatiya Janata Party). He demanded CBI inquiry into the issue as the land was worth hundreds of crores. Students and teachers opposing the encroachment were being threatened with false cases, he said. He said a retired judge’s name was being floated in the encroachment but that pertained to just 311 square yards while the remainder was occupied by people close to the TRS. He urged the State government to take legal action and construct a compound wall after a re-survey of the lands.
24 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Tackle seasonal diseases, coronavirus’||Panchayat Raj and Rural Development Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao has called upon the people’s representatives, officials and people to curb the seasonal diseases in the ensuing season just as every one cooperated to fight the coronavirus. Palle Pragathi which became successful in the last two rounds should be continued with the same zeal as desired by the Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao. He held a video conference with the local bodies’ representatives including ZP Chairmen, Village to district level officers totalling 38,462 people from 25 district headquarters and 358 mandals here on Saturday. Mr.Dayakar Rao said that apart from village sanitation, water stagnation areas should be identified and rectified. Good quality drinking water should be provided to people and measures be taken to prevent mosquito menace and public awareness on personal hygiene should be created to acheive Grama Swaraj goal of the Chief Minister, he told people’s representatives, Collectors, Additional Collectors and officials. He said that the committees constituted in the villages under Palle Pragathi should function actively. Sarpanch, Panchayat secretary and committee members should take responsibility to identify areas with water stagnation and clear it. Arrangements be made to let the rain water flow into low lying area and rainwater harvesting pits be provided in every house. Ibrahimpur in Siddipet district and Malkapur in Medak be taken as example in this, he said. The Minister instructed that water tanks should be cleaned on 1st, 11th and 21st of every month to see there was no contamination. As Minister K.R.Rama Rao suggested, every Friday should be observed as Dry Day and sanitation work be taken up in every household, he said. In areas with mosquito menace, fogging and spraying of anti-malarial chemicals be taken up. In the areas with high density of population, sodium hypochloride be sprayed. While coronavirus was still prevalent, seasonal diseases might break out and equal attention should be paid to control both, he said. If coronavirus spread along with seasonal diseases, people would suffer the most and it was up to people’s representatives and officials to prevent such a situation, he cautioned. The Minister also said that special focus be kept on SC, ST colonies and joint meetings of education, irrigation, drinking water supply be held in the first week of June itself. Weekly reviews be held and special officers be appointed in high risk areas. State and district level officers should go for field inspection.
24 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||New farm policy will be unveiled soon: Minister||Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy has stated that the plan for comprehensive new agricultural policy for the State is ready for unveiling with the estimated cropping plan for cultivation on 1.3 crore acres. The Minister said mapping of all major crops for the coming Vaanakalam season has also been completed and it includes cultivation of cotton on 65 lakh acres, paddy on 41,76,778 acres, redgram on 12,51,958 acres, and soyabean on 4,08,428 acres. Besides, greengram, blackgram, groundnut, sugarcane, jowar, castor and others would also be cultivated during the coming season. In a statement, the Minister said the Agriculture Department would educate farmers on regulated farming by explaining that it would be remunerative only if the crops having demand in the market are cultivated. He also stated that the Centre has allotted 22.3 lakh tonnes of fertilizer for the Vaanakalam season. Required quantities of seed is also being readied for the season.
24 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Just 53 tmc lifted from Kaleshwaram’||Congress leader and former Minister Nagam Janardhan Reddy has accused Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao of misleading people on Kaleshwaram project saying only 53 tmc has been lifted so far but the government claims that 303 tmc was drawn. At a press conference here, he said 106 tmc of water was given from Sriramsagar Project (SRSP) and Yellampalli project had surplus water since August 2019 itself. But all these figures were combined and the Chief Minister is deceiving people with false figures, he said. “Can Mr. Rao deny that SRSP and Yellampalli were constructed by the Congress governments,” he asked, and said the irrigation water being used in the State from all the projects were constructed by the previous governments. Mr. Reddy said Mr. Rao re-designed the projects putting a huge burden on the State and people. Funds are being obtained at a high interest rate of 11% to 12% for the re-designed projects and the power consumption for lifting the water will be a burden for ever on Telangana, he said. “The cost-benefit ratio doesn’t work and will never benefit the farmers,” he claimed.
24 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||SI, constable test positive||Two more officers with Hyderabad police have tested positive for COVID-19. A 32-year-old sub-inspector posted at Chilkalguda police station and a 34-year-old constable with Bowenpally police station are among those who tested positive on Friday, said police. The former was deployed at containment zones in Warasiguda and also involved in preparing the list of primary contacts of COVID-positive patients in the area. The latter, on the other hand, had been involved in bandobast duty at Gandhi Hospital from May 2 to May 10. “The constable had fever for the past two days. His swabs were collected in the early hours of Friday and results came out positive,” a police officer said. Health officials have drawn samples of police personnel of both Bowenpally and Chilkalguda police stations, and test results are awaited. Meanwhile, 48 police officers working at Kulsumpura police station tested negative. Their samples had been collected after a 37-year-old constable succumbed to the novel coronavirus on Wednesday night.
24 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Id tomorrow||The Markazi Ruiyat-e-Hilal Committee on Saturday announced that Id-ul-Fitr would be celebrated on Monday.Syed Qubool Badshah Shuttar, Qazi Farooq Arifi and other members said the new moon was not sighted on Saturday and hence Id would be celebrated on May 25.
24 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Healing Train distributes essentials||The Healing Train Foundation Trust distributed food essentials to families affected due to COVID-19 pandemic, in Masab Tank area. Along with food, masks were distributed to needy families as part of the trust’s COVID-19 ‘kindness campaign’. Trust co-founder Komal Swaroop, a grandson of the Seventh Nizam Nawab Najaf Ali Khan, and others distributed the essentials. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Swaroop encouraged people to stay strong and face pandemic with courage and strength.
24 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MLA, 2 police officials booked||Ibrahimpatnam TRS MLA Manchireddy Kishan Reddy, ACP and inspector of Ibrahimpatnam were booked under the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act by Yacharam police, following a complaint by MPP Koppu Sukanya. She said the MLA, ACP V Yadagiri Reddy, and inspector P Guruva Reddy abused her in the name of caste when she raised a protocol issue at a programme.
24 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘New policy aims to abolish Rythu Bandhu’||Regulated farming proposed by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao is a conspiracy to do away with the Rythu Bandhu scheme after garnering votes in its name, alleged Congress MLA T. Jagga Reddy. At a press conference here, he said farmers have the right to cultivate what they wish in their lands as they are the best judges and the Chief Minister cannot pass blanket orders on them. Farmers cannot be blackmailed and the government should remember that they are not depended on the Rs. 5,000 support from the government, he said. He argued against imposing any conditions and said the Chief Minister should focus on waiving off the Rs. 1 lakh loan for every farmer as promised during the elections. Farmers are already suffering with lots of issues and Mr. Rao is not addressing them, and instead is creating new troubles for them, he said.
24 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||MANUU sends students to their hometowns||Many boarders and non-boarders of the Maulana Azad National Urdu University stranded during the lockdown have been sent back to their respective hometowns by the university administration. Vice-Chancellor in-charge Ayub Khan, in a statement here, stated that more than 100 students living in the boys’ and girls’ hostels and 200 non-boarder students living in close vicinity of the campus were sent to their hometowns through special trains arranged by the government. Most of the students are from Jammu & Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Assam and Kerala. All of them were provided free travel, apart from food packets, milk bottle, hand sanitisers and water bottles, for their journey.
24 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TEDxHyderabad virtual event today||TEDxHyderabad is conducting a virtual event on the theme ‘Resilience’, exploring ideas and shining the spotlight on leaders who inspire us to remain positive in challenging times, on May 24. Speakers will include IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao, Chief Economic Advisor to the Government of India Krishnamurthy Subramanian, British Deputy High Commissioner Hyderabad Andrew Fleming, IIIT director Narayanan, Soumya Swaminathan from WHO, women’s rights activist Ranjana Kumari, pilot engaged in flying COVID-19 stranded Venkatramana Vijay, actor Purab Kohli and interaction designer Sindhoora Yalla.
24 May 2020||JAGTIAL,TELANGANA||Corona spreads into Jagtial rural areas||The spread of coronavirus pandemic from the cities to the rural areas with about 32 positive cases being reported from various villages in Jagtial district has become a cause of concern for the district authorities. The district medical and health authorities are on the edge fearing a spike in positive cases as several thousands of migrants had returned from the worst-affected Maharashtra, mostly from Mumbai. Though the authorities had home-quarantined majority of the migrants, it was alleged that they had moved about free in the villages as there was no supervision. In a fresh spike, nine persons tested positive and were shifted to the Gandhi Hospital for treatment. Among them, five persons, four of them from a single family, were from Buggaram mandal. In Kodimial mandal, father-son duo tested positive. One person each from Dharmapuri and Kathalapur mandal also tested positive. In Choppadandi mandal in Karimnagar district, two persons, who returned from Mumbai, tested positive. The medical authorities rushed to the village and took up sanitisation programme with the support of municipal authorities and screened hundreds of villagers by using infrared thermometer. Resolution passed Following the news of the virus spreading in Choppadandi mandal, villagers of Vedurugatta in the mandal passed a resolution stating that they would not visit the mandal headquarters and tom-tomed the resolution. The authorities were visiting the villages and collecting details of primary contacts of positive patients and sending them to quarantine centres . In some villages, the police were monitoring the movement of quarantined persons by collecting their phone numbers.
24 May 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Karimnagar to emerge as seed bowl of TS||Health Minister Eatala Rajender said that Karimnagar district would emerge as the ‘seed bowl’ and ‘rice bowl’ of Telangana’, thanks to the availability of Kaleshwaram Lift Irrigation Project and SRSP waters. Mr. Rajender, along with Minister for BC Welfare and Civil Supplies Gangula Kamalakar, elected representatives and the district officials conducted a review meeting on kharif action plan and utilisation of SRSP and KLIP waters, here on Wednesday. In a brief chat with the media, Mr. Rajender said that 63% of agricultural land in the district would cultivate paddy because of its location in the command area and another major portion would be allocated for cotton cultivation. Cultivation of maize would not be encouraged during the rainy season because of fewer yields during the period. Instead, farmers would be advised to go for the red gram and other pulses, he said. All irrigation tanks in the district would be filled with SRSP and KLIP waters, he said. Besides, water would be stored in SRSP flood flow canal throughout the year, and works of Thotapalli and Gouravelli reservoirs would be completed.
24 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Exodus of workers hits construction activity||Although construction material such as sand, cement and metal is readily available locally, construction activity was badly affected with migrant workers leaving for their native places with the relaxation of lockdown in the integrated district. A large number of workers engaged in the construction activity left and builders are struggling to get the work done with remaining people, resulting in slowdown in constructions. Head masons are struggling to pool up whatever little human resource is available. Unlike in the past when workers themselves used to reach the work places, now vehicles are engaged to pick up and drop them at their places. “Though higher wages are offered, adequate number of workers are not available. Workers from Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha and from Pamur and Kanigiri areas in Prakasam district of Andhra Pradesh left for their villages. An estimated 50 head masons are there in this city and more than 50 migrant workers would work under each,” said Tirupathi, a head mason, who is building a house in Subashnagar. As a result, work is either postponed or cancelled. It might take a long time for the workers to come back. “I have taken four months for raising pillars as after launching the construction work outbreak of COVID-19 happened and workers left,” said Jagdish, a builder. Had the Telangana government held back the workers by taking good care of them — by announcing relief package immediately after the imposition of lockdown and providing shelter— , they would not have not left, said K. Srinivas, another mason. Construction workers from other States had expertise in certain works such as mixing material and that could not be done without them. Painting walls and carpentry were, especially, their trades, according to Raju, a worker.
24 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. to bear quarantine cost for Gulf migrants||Minister for Roads and Buildings V. Prashanth Reddy on Saturday said the government would bear the expenditure of quarantine and extend all possible help to Gulf migrant workers returning home. The government would not give them the chance to depend on others for help. However, it would not apply to those who came forward to pay Rs. 3,000 per day for themselves towards quarantine. “The migrant workers coming to the district can directly contact me for help,” the Roads and Buildings Minister said. Talking to media persons after visiting the check dam construction sites on Peddavagu and Kappalavagu in his Balkonda constituency, he said he would spend his personal money for construction of Rythu Vedika costing Rs. 15 lakh at his native village Velpur. It would be a memorial to his father Vemula Surender Reddy, he said.
24 May 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||‘Rythu Bandhu for all farmers’||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that the regulated farming being introduced by the State government is aimed at improving the conditions of farmers and there should not be any apprehensions among them. “The programme designed by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao intends to guide farmers on profitable farming and sowing crops depending on the soil conditions. Agriculture officials along with local public representatives should meet farmers in person and convince them on the need of changing crops and how it will benefit them. The crop pattern in 6.3 lakh acres in the district is as suggested by the government, except for about 40,000 acres. Changing that is not impossible if officials work hard and meet farmers personally," said Mr. Harish Rao addressing the awareness programme held here on Saturday. The Minister said that cotton is being cultivated on about 3.62 lakh acres, accounts for 55% of cultivation in the district. Stating that an amount of Rs. 14,000 crore in two phases will be extended to 1.4 crore farmers in the State in two phases, the Minister said about Rs. 3,500 crore was already transferred to Agriculture Department. The Minister suggested the officials to convince farmers to change cropping from maize to redgram. He urged farmers to go for fine variety of paddy on about 15,000 acres, and maize to redgram on about 25,000 acres.
24 May 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Girl dies while charging cell phone||A 10-year-old girl, K. Sravanthi, died while charging cell phone. The incident took place at Akkaram village in Gajwel mandal on Saturday. Gajwel police registered a case and are investigating. The body was handed over family members after postmortem at the government hospital.
24 May 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Ramzan tohfa at peoples’ doorsteps||Poor Muslims of Suryapet had a surprise on Saturday when Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy visited colonies to deliver Ramzan tohfa at their door step. Local leaders of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi carried the pink bags bearing images of the leader and distribution them. “Each bag of the tohfa contains dry fruits, vermicelli, sugar and ingredients to prepare Ramzan kheer, along with other essential supplies. The tohfa is worth Rs. 1,000,” one of the distributors said. And additionally, each family will be provided two litres of milk on the day of Ramzan. According to an person managing the festive logistics, 5,000 bags or tohfas were prepared with the same contents by Friday for distribution. “Based on moon sighting, the festival would be on Sunday or Monday. The idea was to deliver all the bags well before the festival,” he said. Mr. Jagadish Reddy, also the legislator of Suryapet, who started the distribution of the bags at Rayinigudem, said COVID-19 situation has severely disturbed the financial situation of many Muslims, who are daily workers. And hence the decision. “Unlike many towns and cities, where Muslims usually reside in the old city or old town, Suryapet follows a living-together model. The town is a symbol of communal amity,” he said.
24 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Heatwave conditions prevail in Odisha||The Bhubaneswar Meteorological Centre on Saturday issued yellow warning for heatwave conditions advising people in the interior pockets to avoid heat exposure. As many as 13 observation stations, mostly in western Odisha, recorded temperature above 41 degrees Celsius on Saturday. The maximum daytime temperature at Titlagarh, the hottest place in the State, was 45.5 degrees C. Bhawanipatna with 44.2, Talcher (43.8) and Balangir (43.5) closely followed. “Weather has been dry over Odisha. Maximum temperatures have risen over interior Odisha while no large change is observed over coastal Odisha,” said the BMC. Similar, heatwave condition is likely to prevail over some parts of the districts of Bolangir, Kalahandi, Subarnapur, Boudh and Angul, warned the Met department. The heatwave warning has been issued till next Wednesday. People with moderate health concerns or vulnerable groups such as infants, elderly and those with chronic disease should avoid heat, the BMC warned.
24 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Quarantine must for those coming to Punjab: CM||The Punjab government on Saturday announced compulsory home quarantine for 14 days for all those coming to the State, including on domestic flights, trains and buses. “Screening of those entering the State would be done at all entry points, as well as railway stations and airports, and those found symptomatic would be sent into institutional quarantine, while the others would have to undergo mandatory 2-week home quarantine,” said Chief Minister Amarinder Singh. The Chief Minister, during a Facebook live programme, said, “there is likelihood of infection coming here from Punjabis returning from other countries and States, but the State is taking no chances and has made elaborate arrangements for their testing and quarantine. Five flights have come today, and a total of 20,000 people are expected to come from other countries on 88 flights, while 60,000 are expected from other States.” Capt. Amarinder thanked the labourers who had stayed back to contribute to the State’s economic strength. Of those migrants who had applied for online registration, nearly half had started working in the industry, he said. He added that of the total 2.56 lakh industrial units in the State, 1.5 lakh have resumed operations. He said the State government is reaching out to embassies of various nations looking to shift their manufacturing business out of China. “The State is in talks with various embassies and offering them support in terms of land, infrastructure and other facilities. With an eye on the post-COVID revival of the State’s economy, the government has written to embassies of various countries in this regard and is engaged in talks with Japan, Korean and Taiwanese embassies,” he said. 16 new cases Punjab recorded 16 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday, taking the tally to 2,045, according to a statement. The Health department said the major chunk of new cases, four and three, were reported from Amritsar and Patiala districts. The active cases are 136 and 1,870 patients have so far recovered, it added. In Chandigarh, six fresh cases surfaced, taking the tally to 225. A statement from Chandigarh office of Unique Identification Authority of India said its operations have been resumed at its Aadhaar Seva Kendra.
24 May 2020||Chandigarh,||22 Indians deported from U.S. test positive in Haryana||As many as 64 people, including 22 who were part of a group of Indian nationals recently deported from the U.S., tested positive for COVID-19 in Haryana on Saturday, taking the tally to 1,131, officials said. The State’s worst-hit Gurgaon, Faridabad and Sonipat districts reported 25 fresh infections, they said. A total of 76 people from Haryana were part of a group of over 160 Indians who were deported from the U.S. earlier this week. They reached Amritsar in Punjab on a special chartered flight with others and were later brought to Panchkula. “Twenty-two of these have been found positive,” Health Minister Anil Vij told reporters. Most of the deported Indians had tried to enter the U.S. from its southern border with Mexico and had exhausted all legal options before they were deported. Gurgaon reported 12 cases, Faridabad 10 and Sonipat three, a State Health department bulletin said. Panipat reported seven cases, Jind and Hisar three each, Bhiwani two, and Palwal and Karnal one each, it said. According to the bulletin, Haryana has 365 active COVID-19 cases. The State has a recovery rate of 66.31%, fatality rate of 1.41%, and 3,709 tests per million are being conducted.
24 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||More area under cotton crop this season||Farmers in Punjab and Haryana have sown more cotton this kharif season as against the corresponding period last year on account of a possible labour shortage in future. Both governments have discouraged farmers from growing rice, officials told The Hindu . Agriculture Department Director Sutantar Airi said, “Cotton has already been sown in nearly 3.6 lakh hectare, which is around 10,000 hectare more than the corresponding period of last year.” In Haryana, farmers had sown cotton in 5.11 lakh hectares till May 19. Last year, the area under cotton cultivation up to the same period was 4.2 lakh hectares, according to the government data. “Cotton is a less labour intensive crop than paddy (rice). Farmers are currently sowing cotton as they are apprehensive about the return of the migrant labour by June-July,” said Rakesh Rathi, former president of India Cotton Association Limited. In Punjab and Haryana, Bt cotton is sown in over 95% of the total area under cotton cultivation, the remaining 5% usually has indigenous (desi) cotton varieties. “Farmers are preferring cotton wherever its feasible... the area under cotton cultivation will increase this season,” said Gun Parkash, Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Haryana unit president Haryana Agriculture Department Joint Director Jagraj Dandi said, “The government is discouraging sowing of water-guzzling rice and going for diversification. Labour shortage is another reason.”
24 May 2020||Gangtok,||First COVID-19 case in Sikkim||Sikkim reported its first COVID-19 case on Saturday as a 25-year-old student who recently returned from Delhi tested positive, a senior official said. The student’s sample was sent to the North Bengal Medical College and Hospital in Siliguri and the report came back positive, the Health Department Director General-cum-Secretary said.
24 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Maruti Suzuki employee tests positive||An employee of Maruti Suzuki’s Manesar plant here has tested positive for COVID-19. There is a possibility of a a second case, details of which are being sought, said a statement issued by the company. As per the statement, the last attendance of the employee, who has tested positive for the deadly virus, was registered on May 15 at the plant with normal health after which the area where he lives was declared a containment zone. He did not join work thereafter. The company has informed the district administration. The employee has been admitted to a hospital and is stable. The company is providing all medical help and assistance to him as per government guidelines. “The company has undertaken a contact tracing exercise... all employees who could have come in contact have been advised to stay in home isolation. There is no impact on the business operations of the company,” a statement said.
24 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||ASI helps bury teenager’s body||On April 26, Assistant Sub Inspector Hemraj Singh, posted in Dayalpur police station, was assigned a call about a girl that was spotted wandering the streets of Brijpuri in north-east Delhi. He was able to get the teenager medically tested and she was then sent to a shelter. Two days later, the medical report confirmed that the girl was COVID-19 positive. On May 21, the ASI was informed that the girl had died. On Friday, Mr. Singh, who had spent the last month trying to trace the girl’s family, helped bury the teenager at a cemetery on Bahadurshah Zafar Marg. She has become the first unclaimed body to be buried at the cemetery. The officer took her mortal remains from the Lok Nayak Hospital mortuary to the cemetery in an ambulance. The resources for a proper burial were pooled by Mr. Singh and the staff at the cemetery. Recalling how and why he took it upon himself to perform the last rites, he said that the PCR call on April 26 had stated: “ Ek mahila logon ke darwazain khatkhata rahi hai (A woman is knocking on people’s doors)”. When the ASI reached the spot, the girl was roaming the streets. “She was not mentally sound but she told me her name and said that she was from Aligarh. She continued to repeat ‘Aligarh’,” the officer said, adding that the girl — who appeared to be around 16 years old — was unable to furnish details about her parents. The officer took her for a medical examination where her COVID-19 test was also conducted. Meanwhile, she was produced before a Child Welfare Committee who sent her to a women’s shelter home in Shahdara. Two days later, Mr. Singh was informed that her COVID-19 test report had come back positive. “The shelter home staff first sent her to a facility in Najafgarh and when her condition worsened, they sent her to LNJP Hospital on May 4... On May 21, I received a call that she had passed away,” he said. Looking for family While she was in hospital, Mr. Singh had prepared a missing report, put her information on the central system, and alerted Aligarh control room for any information on her family. But nothing came of his efforts. “ Sabse dukh ki baat yahi hai ki uske ghar wale nahin mil paaye (The saddest part is that her family could not be found),” the officer said. On Friday, Mr. Singh collected the body and brought her to the cemetery where he had already spoken with third-generation grave digger Mohammed Shamim and another staff Waseem. “It’s the first time an unclaimed body has been brought to the Kabaristan,” Mr Shamim. The cemetery staff said that when the driver of the excavator tractor was informed about the body being unclaimed, he also refused to take any money. “The policeman gave a little money from his own pocket,” he added. Mr. Singh said that he took the responsibility of burying the girl as he “felt responsible as he was the investigating officer in the case” and also because “no one else was taking responsibility”.  The shelter home staff first sent the girl to a facility in Najafgarh. When her condition worsened, they sent her to Lok Nayak Hospital on May 4... On May 21, I received a call that the teenager had passed away Hemraj Singh Assistant Sub Inspector
24 May 2020||New Delhi,||13 new containment zones in just one week||After the Health and Family Welfare Department of the Delhi government raised the issue of decreasing number of containment zones even though COVID-19 cases were increasing in the city, the number of such zones has increased from 73 on May 18 to 86 on Saturday, according to the health bulletin released by the Delhi government. A containment zone has a stricter form of the lockdown and people are not allowed to leave or enter such areas. On May 18, Health and Family Welfare Department Secretary Padmini Singla had said that 300-400 new COVID-19 cases were being reported every day but an equivalent number of containment zones were not being declared by the District Magistrates. She also directed the District Magistrates to declare more containment zones. Doctors continue protest Meanwhile, doctors of various hospitals in the city wore a black ribbon to work for the second day on Saturday to protest the government’s decision to cancel 14-day quarantine for all healthcare staff who have been on COVID-19 duty for the same number of days. The Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association India, which is spearheading the protest, said that candlelight demonstrations were also held at various hospitals to highlight the issue.
24 May 2020||New Delhi,||BJP hits out at Kejriwal over Sikkim advertisement||The BJP on Saturday attacked Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal over an advertisement by the Delhi government that shows Sikkim as a separate country. Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari accused Mr. Kejriwal of “speaking the language of China” through the advertisement published in newspapers for recruitment in the Civil Defense Corps by the Delhi government. Later on Saturday, a senior officer from the Directorate of Civil Defence HQ was suspended with immediate effect by L-G Anil Baijal in response to the issue. Mr. Baijal took to Twitter to announce that action had been taken against a senior officer for the advertisement, while Mr. Kejriwal said it had been withdrawn. “The Chief Minister is speaking the language of China. Kejriwal is losing his mental balance... Occupying a constitutional post, he is saying Sikkim is a different country. Does the Delhi government not remember that Sikkim is also an integral State of India? How can he be so ignorant?” Mr. Tiwari said. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, in a letter, demanded a reply from Mr. Kejriwal on the issue. “I was saddened to see the advertisement... It is a known fact that Sikkim is an integral part of our country. The Chief Minister should answer how such an objectionable advertisement was issued by his government,” he said.
24 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fire in COVID-19 hospital, 8 rescued||A fire broke out on the third floor of a private hospital designated for COVID-19 patients, in south Delhi on Saturday evening, fire officials said. They also said that eight patients were rescued. A senior Delhi Fire Service (DFS) official said that the fire broke out at the operation theatre and recovery room of Cygnus Orthocare Hospital, opposite IIT, that consists of basement, ground and three upper floors. The official said that the information regarding the blaze was received at 5.54 p.m. and it was brought under control within two hours, while the cooling-off operation continued. The cause of fire is suspected to be a short circuit, they said. “A total of eight fire tenders were rushed to the hospital where eight COVID-19 patients were also admitted. This is a reserve hospital for COVID-19 patients. They were successfully rescued,” he said adding that the eight patients included five men and three women. Sharing an advisory, DFS Director Atul Garg said that all office premises, residence and commercial places must get electronics like air conditioners serviced before switching them on, to prevent fire accidents.
24 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||NGT seeks report over plea on ‘illegal’ factories||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has sought a report from the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) over a plea alleging illegal operation of dyeing factories in Bawana, Narela and Mayapuri, among other areas. Terming a May 20 report furnished by the DPCC as “deficient”, a Bench headed by NGT chief, Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, sought an action-taken report from the pollution control body. “We find that even the revised report is deficient in that, while it gives the conclusion about the status of compliance, the data on which such conclusion is based is not available. It is thus not possible to check up the correctness of the conclusion mentioned in the report. It is desirable that such data is also furnished,” the Bench said.
24 May 2020||New Delhi,||Man held for duping IAF officer on e-commerce site||An IAF officer has been duped of Rs. 75,000 by a 24-year-old who posed as a CISF constable and promised to buy an old furniture from him on an e-commerce website, the police said on Saturday. The accused, Ajruddin, a resident of Mewat district of Haryana, has been arrested. The IAF officer told the police that the accused said he was unable to make the payment or collect the furniture in person. “The officer sent his sister-in-law’s number to the accused. The accused sent a UPI link for payment, but instead of money being credited, it was debited from her account on multiple occasions,” Anyesh Roy, DCP (Cyber), said. Ajruddin and his accomplices were nabbed from Mewat earlier this week.
24 May 2020||New Delhi,||23 cases reported from govt. night shelter in city||As many as 23 people from a Delhi government-run night shelter on AIIMS premises have tested positive for COVID-19, authorities said. “The night shelter has been sanitised and about 50 people who came in contact with them are quarantined at the night shelter,” an official said. The official said people used common bathrooms and this could have led to the spread of the disease. The night shelter is run by the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB). A DUSIB official said that the caretaker of the night shelter has also tested positive. “Most of the people are from outside Delhi and have come for treatment at AIIMS,” the official said. “On Monday, two people from the shelter first tested positive after they went to another hospital in Karol Bagh for treatment. More people were tested and 21 of them tested positive on Thursday,” the official said.
24 May 2020||Ahmedabad,||‘Only 7,512 migrant workers registered in Gujarat’||Of 22.5 lakh migrant workers in Gujarat, only 7,512 were registered under the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (IMW) Act and were eligible for travel allowance, the government has informed the Gujarat High Court. In a written reply to a Public Interest Litigation (PIL), the government informed a Division Bench of Justices J.B. Pardiwala and I.J. Vora that there were around 22.5 lakh migrant workers in Gujarat as per the labour department’s data. But provisions of the IMW Act of 1979 were applicable to only 7,512 workers who were registered under the Act, it said. “Most of the 22.5 lakh migrant workers have come on their own and provisions for payment of travel and displacement allowances as required by section 14 and 15 of the IMW Act, 1979, were not applicable to them,” the government said. Under Sections 14 and 15, contractors are required to pay travel and displacement allowances to workers. The court was hearing a PIL filed by Anand Yagnik alongwith a suo motu petition (a petition initiated by the HC on its own) and other pleas seeking a direction to the government to provide free transport facility to migrant workers stranded due to coronavirus lockdown. Of the 22.5 lakh migrant workers, 11.5 lakh are employed in and around Surat alone, the government said. By May 31, only 1.5 lakh migrant labourers would be left behind in Surat, of whom 1.15 lakh had already returned to work, it said.
24 May 2020||Mumbai,||Accept modifications in daily life, office routine: Supriya Sule||People must be prepared to live with novel coronavirus at least for the next two years and have to start making adequate changes to their behaviour, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) MP Supriya Sule said on Saturday and hinted that the State government might consider opening up more activities from June 1. The government, she added, might consider including agriculture-related works in the employment guarantee scheme to ensure that monetary benefits reach the rural areas ahead of the kharif season. “The disease is not going away in an instant. We have to learn of ways to live with it for at least the next two years. We have to start thinking about adjustments, modifications and changes in our work, routine, and offices from now itself. We cannot sit at home for ever. The roadblocks in the economy will force us to go hungry, if that happens,” said Ms. Sule, in an online interaction with a group of select reporters on Saturday. Businesses will have to modify their operations with innovative ideas such as reducing staff presence by introducing three shifts, changing office timings or weekly offs, and strictly following physical distancing norms, she said. Referring to the steps taken by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in opening up activities in Delhi, Ms. Sule said, “There are two views about it. One group is praising it while the other is terming it as a disaster waiting to happen. But he has taken a risk for which he should be congratulated. Someone in the country had to take this decision and move forward,” she said. When asked about Maharashtra, the MP from Baramati said she has taken the decision to restart economic activities in Pune district. “There could be similar changes in rest of the State after May 31,” she said. “I too have to lead by example, by being present for my work at my office. The government will have to run campaigns informing people about precautions to be taken, changes to be made in real life and precautions to be taken,” she said. Responding to a query on the government’s plan to alleviate rural distress, Ms. Sule said the employment guarantee scheme has been tweaked often since its inception and one could discuss whether or not agricultural works could be included in it.
24 May 2020||Mumbai,||State to guarantee farm loans for those yet to get waiver||In a first, the Maharashtra government will be the guarantor for farmers who could not benefit from the Mahatma Jyotirao Phule crop loan waiver scheme due to the outbreak of the novel coronavirus pandemic. This will help farmers avail crop loans for the upcoming kharif season. The move is expected to benefit over 11 lakh farmers across the State. A Government Resolution to give effect to this loan guarantee was issued on Friday, and conveyed to district central co-operative banks, commercial and rural banks.  “The government cannot immediately pay off the loans for these farmers. The crop loan waiver scheme was meant to make farmers’ account nil and prepare them to take new loans. Therefore, the State government has taken this decision,” said a Cooperation department official. The government has given clear directions to banks to mention pending loan as “to be paid by the government” and to not consider the farmers as defaulters. “We have given instructions to make loans available for them for the kharif 2020 season,” said the official. Shortly after assuming office in December last year, the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government had announced the Mahatma Jyotirao Phule crop loan waiver scheme which was to benefit 32 lakh farmers. According to official data, around 19 lakh farmers in the State had benefited from the government scheme by March 31, with loans worth Rs. 12,000 crore  being waived. As the economy took a hard hit due to the nationwide lockdown, the State struggled to pay the outstanding loan amount of Rs. 8,100 crore to the remaining 11.12 lakh farmers.
24 May 2020||Mumbai,||Yes Bank case: court summons Rana Kapoor, other accused on June 5||A special court here on Saturday took cognisance of the charge sheet filed by Enforcement Directorate (ED) in the Yes Bank scam and issued summons to the bank’s co-founder Rana Kapoor, and seven others accused in the case. The charge sheet, filed earlier this month, has named as accused Rana Kapoor, his wife, daughters, and three firms associated with them, among others. After taking cognisance of the offence, the special court for Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) issued process (summons) against the eight accused, Hiten Venegaokar, lawyer for ED, said. All the accused have been asked to appear before the special court on June 5, he added. The ED has already arrested Mr. Kapoor and he is now in judicial custody. The agency has pegged the proceeds of the crime in the case at Rs. 5,050 crore. It is primarily investigating Mr. Kapoor, his wife and three daughters over Rs. 600 crore received by a firm allegedly controlled by them from an entity linked to the scam-hit Dewan Housing Finance Limited (DHFL). Mr. Kapoor, his family members and others got benefits of Rs. 4,300 crore through companies controlled by them as kickbacks for sanctioning huge loans, the ED has alleged. He is also accused of receiving bribes for going easy on loans given to a few big corporate groups that had turned into non-performing assets (NPAs). The Central Bureau of Investigation is also probing a related case.
24 May 2020||Nagpur,||Why seek dignified treatment of violators: HC||The Nagpur Bench of Bombay High Court disposed of a petition raising concerns over enforcement of the lockdown by the police in Maharashtra noting that even educated citizens are not following the required norms. The petition was filed by a Nagpur resident Sandip Nair raising concerns over the ‘humiliating’ manner in which the police are punishing violators. The petition contended that while the police force is discharging its duties in an exemplary manner, there are several instances which would be seen as a blot on the police machinery. Photographs of violators are taken and made viral on social media, published in newspapers and displayed on news channels, the petition stated. The petitioner also argued that making a humiliating spectacle of the lockdown violators is a serious infringement of human rights and fundamental rights. A Division Bench of Justice Ravi Deshpande and Justice Amit Borkar noted that the police has made repeated requests, in a dignified manner, with folded hands, even offering roses at times, to avoid registration of offences and imposition of penalties so that people follow lockdown restrictions. “In spite of this, if well-educated people claiming to be respected and dignified citizens start, and continue to, violate norms meant for their own safety and security, then should this court take cognisance or entertain a petition complaining that people are not being treated in a dignified manner?” the Bench asked. The HC also took note of the affidavit filed by Nagpur police commissioner assuring that all personnel have been instructed to avoid imposing such punishments.
24 May 2020||Press Trust of India Ahmedabad,||Three Cadila pharma emloyees die of COVID-19||Three employees of the Dholka-based plant of Cadila Pharmaceuticals near here have died of COVID-19, the company said on Saturday. The deceased were part of the company’s production and packaging departments, a spokesperson said. Earlier this month, at least 26 employees of the pharma firm’s manufacturing unit in Dholka had tested positive for the deadly virus. “The company is saddened by the loss of three of its employees due to COVID-19,” the spokesperson said.
24 May 2020||Washington,||Latin America is the new epicentre: WHO||South America is “a new epicentre” of the COVID-19 pandemic, the World Health Organization (WHO) has declared, as U.S. President Donald Trump intensified his push to reopen the reeling American economy. Brazil led the surge across South America, its death toll passing 21,000 on Friday from 3,30,000 infections, the third-highest caseload of any country in a pandemic that has infected 5.2 million globally and killed more than 338,000. Experts have hailed the impact of lockdown measures for slowing the spread of the COVID-19 disease, but Mr. Trump has long prioritised the needs of the economy over public health concerns — renewing his attacks on Friday on local officials for refusing to allow businesses to reopen. Blow to U.S. economy His concerns about the economy were thrown into stark relief late on Friday when car-rental giant Hertz filed for bankruptcy for its North American operations — yet another sign of the virus and lockdown laying waste to the U.S. economy, which has already shed almost 40 million jobs. In Europe, where rates of infections and deaths are stabilising in many countries, governments are moving away from enforced national lockdowns towards advisory measures involving social distancing. “In a sense, South America has become a new epicentre for the disease,” WHO emergencies director Mike Ryan said on Friday, singling out Brazil. Unlike in Europe and the United States, where the elderly were hardest-hit, a significant number of deaths in Brazil have been younger people, who are often driven by poverty to work despite the threat of infection. As the toll mounted, grave-diggers at a cemetery outside the commercial hub Sao Paulo were scrambling to keep up. “We’ve been working 12-hour days, burying them one after the other,” said one worker at Vila Formosa, wearing a white protective suit, mask and face shield. Elsewhere in Latin America, Peru was also struggling with an intense outbreak — the country of 32 million having registered more than 1,10,000 cases and 3,100 deaths. Trump’s reopening call The figures, though disastrous for region, are dwarfed by the 96,000 deaths suffered so far in the United States, which has registered 1.6 million infections. However, Mr. Trump is facing an uphill re-election battle later this year and is ramping up pressure on State and local governments, telling them on Friday to restart religious services immediately by reclassifying churches, synagogues and mosques as “essential services”. “In America, we need more prayer, not less,” said Mr. Trump, who counts religious conservatives as a core of his electoral base. The administration also renewed attacks on city officials, suggesting lockdown measures in Los Angeles were illegal. “We are not guided by politics in this we are guided by science, we are guided by collaboration,” said Los Angeles Mayor Eric Garcetti. The U.S. also pushed on Friday to restart the sporting calendar.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Right-wing militias on the loose||On Wednesday, a police team picked up two men from a luxury condominium by a lake in Brasilia. They also seized posters with photos of heavily-armed men in full military gear, calling for a military coup in Brazil. The suspects had sent a mail, titled “Death sentence to the traitors of the motherland”, to the country’s top judges. “We call on the people to kill politicians, judges, prosecutors, Mayors, their advisers, relatives, and demons of all sorts in defence of themselves,” the mail said. For a year, judges have been receiving death threats from anonymous groups. A Supreme Court judge, Celso de Mello, said on Thursday the people behind the threats were “fascists” and “Bolsonaristas” — the fanatic followers of President Jair Bolsonaro. Under Mr. Bolsonaro, the system of checks and balances between the institutions has been creaking as the far-right leader often projects the Supreme Court and Congress as his enemies. But the most vicious attacks on these institutions come from the Bolsonarista groups, which are hyper-active on social media, with a massive troll army crammed with fake accounts and bots. Their weapon of choice is fake news. “Extreme right-wing groups work tirelessly to delegitimise the democratic institutions in Brazil. These groups make and distribute fake news as a way to take advantage of people's fears and vulnerabilities. As people hope for a solution and as a fix to the fears, they promote the narrative of pro-military intervention,” said David Nemer, an assistant professor of Media Studies at the University of Virginia, who tracks social media trends. Since 2018, when Mr. Bolsonaro launched his presidential campaign, Brazil has been a laboratory of fake news and hate. Now, as his government fails completely to control the COVID-19 spread and multiple scandals land in the highest court, the Bolsonaristas are ramping up their hate machinery. Leading the pack is “300 of Brazil”, which is “inspired by the Battle of Thermopylae during the Persian Wars” and whose members appear in public in army fatigues. They have a clear agenda: “To make the Supreme Court judges understand, if necessary, coercively, that they are not demigods”. A movement for Bolsonaro Led by a 30-something woman called Sara Winter, who claims to have cut her teeth into “revolution” in Ukraine, “300” was created in a social media “live” event as the leader appeared with two notorious bloggers to create a “movement in support of Bolsonaro”. Using their strong social media presence, Winter and her fellow-travellers recently launched a campaign to raise money for “information war tactic training” to attack the judges and parliamentarians. They managed $12,000 in a matter of days. But the “300” actions are not restricted to the virtual world. As Mr. Bolsonaro encourages weekend events in the capital to rally his supporters against the quarantine, the group has been setting up camps at various locations. After last Sunday’s gathering, where several “300” members were seen with weapons, an illegal act in Brazil, federal prosecutors called for action against the “armed militia”. But that hasn’t stopped the group from using their dog-whistle tactics to fire up the far-right base of Mr. Bolsonaro and try to subdue the opposition with online attacks. “Sara Winter's group is clearly fascist. It is a paramilitary group formed to intimidate the opposition, and, as she says, to exterminate the left from Brazil,” said Henry Bugalho, a popular Youtuber who analyses the Brazilian politics on his daily show. “They want to deny others any space in political debates.” Such tendency, unfortunately, is flowing from the top. In a video, released to the public by the Supreme Court on Friday, Mr. Bolsonaro is seen attacking his opponents in a profanity-filled rant. The meeting, called to discuss measures to tackle the pandemic, turned into a hysterical show as the President launched an all-out attack on the Governors and Mayors who are taking quarantine measures to check the spread of the virus. “I am going to give arms to the people against this dictatorship of quarantine,” Mr. Bolsonaro is seen saying in the video. Senator Randolfe Rodrigues said the video “shows the worst intentions of the President”. “He talks about arming everyone. He has already shown that he has direct relations with the criminal underworld. He has already shown that he wants to legalize the militias. He does not want to give arms to people; it is for militia groups, whom he wants to use for his ambitions,” said Mr. Rodrigues, the leader of the opposition.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Settlement without peace||After months of political discord, following an already delayed election and disputed results that saw two simultaneous presidential inaugurations, Afghan President Ashraf Ghani and his political opponent Abdullah Abdullah came to a power-sharing agreement on March 17. While President Ghani was declared the winner of the September 2019 elections by the country’s Independent Election Commission, Mr. Abdullah alleged election fraud and declared himself as the rightful winner, ensuing over two months of political uncertainty. The latest agreement is the result of many rounds of negotiation between the two rival leaders and pressure from the U.S., following a visit by Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, who also threatened to cut $1 billion in aid to Afghanistan  unless a settlement was reached. According to the deal, President Ghani will retain the presidency, while Mr. Abdullah will assume a newly created office of the Chairman of the High Council for Peace and National Reconciliation. He will also be appointing 50% of the Afghan Cabinet and other provincial offices. “The agreement is not a privilege or a handout,” Mr. Abdullah said during the signing ceremony. “It’s rooted in the last election and every clean vote. It comes at a very difficult time when we face serious threats,” he said, referring to the increasing violence in Afghanistan. In his new role, Mr. Abdullah will be responsible for leading the much-delayed intra-Afghan talks with the Taliban. “Dr Abdullah’s new office is charged with the task of not just starting negotiations but also with building a national, regional and international consensus for peace,” explained Zalmay Nishat, a close aide to Mr. Abdullah. “There are many factions within Afghanistan that still need to be addressed. The process also needs to include voices of women, civil society, political figures and even the war victims who still seek justice. And lastly, there is a need to balance the interest of the international community that has invested here,” he elaborated. Continuing attacks However, despite the momentary relief, Afghan analysts remain sceptical whether the agreement will provide the stability needed to initiate the peace negotiation with the insurgent group, which has continued to attack Afghan forces and civilians despite making a deal with the U.S. in February to end the 19-year-long conflict. The growing violence in the country has already brought the current administration to an impasse with the Taliban who they blame for the increasing attacks. President Ghani launched an offensive against the Taliban following the recent attack on a maternity hospital in the Afghan capital that resulted in 24 deaths, including babies, pregnant women and health workers. He also suspended the release of Taliban prisoners that was promised by the U.S. in their deal to the Taliban as a trust-building gesture ahead of intra-Afghan talks. “Being the go-to guy for peace talks, Abdullah will have to deliver by starting the talks. However, there are times like these when Ghani will push for military operations. There will be a difference of opinion between the President and Abdullah on this very matter,” reasoned Hekmatullah Azamy, deputy director at the Kabul-based Centre for Conflict and Peace Studies. “I anticipate in the coming days that there will be certain blame-gaming between the two, where Abdullah will ask to move forward on the peace talks but Ghani might want to focus on the military approach.” Mr. Nishat, Mr. Abdullah’s aide, expressed similar concerns for the future implementation of the deal. “There is the war rhetoric and peace rhetoric within the administration in Afghanistan. If the war rhetoric is stronger, its implications will block efforts of prisoner release [and initiating talks], which could translate to an increase in violence,” he said. “It will create friction between the two. That is my worry.” Additionally, the deal also provides Mr. Abdullah the security and protocol privileges of the “second person” in the country after the President, a position usually held by the Vice-President. While President Ghani’s Vice-President, Amrullah Saleh, has not commented on the issue, he was not present at the signing ceremony. Despite the challenges, those watching the development closely remain hopeful for an optimistic outcome. “Dr. Abdullah’s success and progress will depend on the team he builds around him, and also on the kind of support he receives from the Americans,” Mr. Azamy said.
24 May 2020||Colombo,||‘Targeted and tough control measures helped Sri Lanka arrest virus spread’||At a time when big and mighty countries struggle to cope with soaring numbers of coronavirus cases and consequent deaths, the official figures from 21-million strong Sri Lanka stand out — 1,070 cases, 660 recoveries and nine deaths as of Saturday evening. Behind those promising numbers are early thinking and swift action, according to Dr. Anil Jasinghe, Director General of Health Services in Sri Lanka. The senior public health official, helming Sri Lanka’s pandemic response, along with the Army Commander who heads a task force on COVID-19, says it is “targeted and tough” control measures, rather than a generic template “based on literature”, that helped the island nation arrest the pandemic’s spread. Data published by the World Health Organization shows that Sri Lanka remains among the least affected countries in South Asia, along with Nepal, Bhutan and Myanmar that have recorded under 1,000 positive cases so far. “We have managed this because we planned in advance,” Dr. Jasinghe notes, in an interview to The Hindu at the Ministry of Health. In late January, Sri Lanka reported the first case of coronavirus, when a visiting Chinese tourist tested positive. Luckily, the patient had not infected anyone else. She received treatment and returned to China after recovering. Sri Lanka put in place broad screening measures at the Bandaranaike International Airport in Colombo, to identify passengers arriving with possible COVID-19 symptoms. First local case Over a month later, on March 10, Sri Lanka found a local — a 52-year-old tour guide — who had contracted the infection, from a visiting Italian tourist. The development put Sri Lanka’s public health officials on high alert. Passengers arriving from international locations were taken to quarantine centres, or in some cases, were home-quarantined. With the military stepping in, extensive contact tracing began. Twelve government hospitals across the island were identified to set up special isolation wards for suspected patients. The wards grew to over 30 in the following weeks as numbers increased — largely originating from a cluster of Sri Lankans who had arrived from Italy between March 1 and 9. After the early isolation wards, an entire hospital each in the “vulnerable” districts of Colombo, neighbouring Gampaha, the southern Kalutara and Puttalam in the North Western Province, were readied for suspects. Where there was no hospital, an available large building was swiftly modified and equipped for the purpose — like the former Voice of America building in Puttalam. Soon, these hospitals became treatment centres, with the staff “groomed” for the job, Dr. Jasinghe says. This was in addition to the well-known Infectious Diseases Hospital in Colombo. In his views, aggressive contract tracing, early quarantine measures and a strict curfew — over 60,000 violators arrested so far — helped “put a wall” between the virus and the country’s elderly, and ensured “a low death rate” of about 0.8 %. “Otherwise, with a rapidly ageing population, we would have been finished” Testing algorithm However, Sri Lanka didn’t wait for its first case to begin preparing. Well ahead of March 10, Sri Lanka had set up its first PCR testing facility, with advice from Hong Kong-based Sri Lankan origin pathologist Professor Malik Peiris, known for first isolating the SARS virus. “I think Pune and Sri Lanka were the only two places to have it at that time.” By the time the first case of a Sri Lankan national was reported here, the country had four such labs. And now 20, including four private, labs conduct PCR testing. But Dr. Jasinghe remains sceptical of the widely endorsed “test, test, test” strategy. “Some people say that to lobby, or just based on literature. But we can’t just test like that in our context. So, we followed an algorithm,” he explains. In addition to suspected patients from the 30 hospitals and those reporting likely COVID-19 symptoms to outpatient departments elsewhere, tests were conducted at random, among persons among “high-risk populations” such as residents of shanties, drug addicts, and autorickshaw drivers. “When tests among these highly vulnerable people showed a positive rate as low as 3 %, then how can we justify arbitrarily testing more people? So, we incrementally increased testing,” Dr. Jasinghe says. Sri Lanka currently has the capacity to conduct over 2,000 tests and has been doing about 1,500 tests a day recently, increasing “when needed”. Navy cluster Meanwhile, over 600 cases of the total infections in Sri Lanka have been traced to the Navy. Dr. Jasinghe says they contracted the infection while chasing “drug peddlers”, and soon the infection spread like “bushfire” within their living quarters. “There was some negligence on their part, but we were quick in tracing their contacts including the families of those who went on leave and everyone was quarantined,” he adds. The Navy cluster, according to official sources, remains the only live cluster at the moment.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||China suggests shift in BRI approach amid debt concerns||China has hinted at a shift in how it will pursue its signature Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) amid growing concerns about debt repayments from many partner countries because of the COVID-19 pandemic. “We will focus on quality in the joint pursuit of the BRI”, said the annual government work report delivered on Friday by China’s Premier Li Keqiang at the start of the National People’s Congress (NPC), or Parliament. Since 2019, the BRI has had a dedicated sub-section in the NPC report, which is China’s most important policy document. The BRI was written into the Communist Party of China’s Constitution in 2017, underlining its special status. The report in 2019 did not mention “quality”, merely saying China “will promote the joint pursuit of the BRI”. It also mentioned then China would seek to advance infrastructure connectivity, which was omitted this year. The NPC report is usually carefully assessed to garner changes in emphasis in Chinese policymaking. The report this year said China would focus on “achieving shared growth through consultation and collaboration” and would “work with BRI partners for mutually beneficial outcomes”. In recent weeks, China has faced calls from countries in Asia and Africa to delay or waive debt repayments. Song Wei, deputy director at the Ministry of Commerce’s Chinese Academy of International Trade and Economic Cooperation, acknowledged last month that China was weighing how to respond to such calls. “What China could do to help is bring projects funded by loans back to life and realise sustainable profits, instead of measures as simple as offering write-offs,” he said in an article in the Communist Party-run Global Times . “As always, China is open to talk with debtors on the basis of equality and mutual benefit.” Financial assistance Mr. Song noted that China’s financial assistance included grants, interest-free loans and preferential loans. “Interest-free loans which are offered by the Chinese government are applicable for debt relief,” he said. “The preferential loans are not applicable for debt relief and are more complex with regards to any difficult debt problems. Simply waiving debtors’ obligations as some countries or organizations have called for is not going to be effective as a solution. If any debtors encounter difficulties to pay on time, there may be tailored plans including rescheduling or China increasing funding to help related projects resume operation and return profits.” He suggested repayments could be solved “by multiple financial or other approaches, such as China adding grants to help bring projects back to life, conducting debt-to-equity swaps, or hiring Chinese firms to assist operation”. According to AidData, a research lab at the College of William & Mary, China’s grants and loans totalled $354.4 billion between 2000 and 2014, of which 23% was grants while the rest were commercial loans at market or close-to-market rates. The world’s debt to China grew 10 times between 2000 and 2017, with developing countries owing $380 billion to China, the Kiel Institute for the World Economy in Germany said in a report last year.
24 May 2020||Washington,||U.S. holds talks on conducting nuclear tests||President Donald Trump’s administration has discussed holding the first U.S. nuclear test since 1992 as a potential warning to Russia and China, The Washington Post reported on Friday. Such a test would be a significant departure from U.S. defence policy and dramatically up the ante for other nuclear-armed nations. One analyst told the newspaper that if it were to go ahead it would be seen as the “starting gun to an unprecedented nuclear arms race”. The report, citing one senior administration official and two former officials, all who spoke anonymously, said the discussion had taken place at a meeting on May 15. The meeting did not conclude with any agreement, and the sources were divided over whether discussions were still ongoing.
24 May 2020||Washington,||Anti-viral drug is effective: study||Anti-viral drug remdesivir cuts recovery times in COVID-19 patients, according to the full results of a trial published on Friday night, three weeks after America’s top infectious diseases expert said the study showed the medication has “clear-cut” benefits. Complete results from the research, which was carried out by the U.S. National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, were published by medical periodical the New England Journal of Medicine .
24 May 2020||London,||London, May 23, 2020 (AFP) -||The British government on Saturday rejected calls to sack top adviser Dominic Cummings over allegations he broke COVID-19 lockdown rules by travelling across the country while displaying symptoms of the disease. Under lockdown rules brought in on March 23, anyone with symptoms must self-isolate in their own homes.Reuters
24 May 2020||New Delhi,||Extend loans without fear of 3Cs: FM||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Saturday said banks had been asked to extend loans automatically to eligible borrowers without ‘fear of 3Cs — CBI, CVC and CAG’. She said clear instructions had been given in a meeting with CEOs and MDs of public sector banks and financial institutions on Friday that the banks should not be scared to extend loans as 100% guarantee is being given by the government. In case of default, the individual bank or official will not be hauled up, she said in a conversation with BJP leader Nalin Kohli, uploaded on the party’s social media platforms. “Yesterday, I reiterated that by saying if a decision goes wrong, and if there is a loss, the government has given 100% guarantee now. It is not at all going to be on the individual official and on the bank, and therefore without fear they should take this automatic route in the sense, everybody eligible for additional term loan and additional working capital should be given,” she said. As part of the Rs. 20.97 lakh crore economic package, the government announced the Emergency Credit Line Guarantee Scheme (ECLGS) worth Rs. 3 lakh crore for the MSME sector, hit hard by the COVID-19 crisis. It is being said that the genuine bonafide decisions in the banking sector are being impacted because of the worry of undue harassment by 3Cs — Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) and Comptroller and Audit General (CAG). The Finance Ministry has taken several steps to allay those fears including withdrawing some of the notifications which were causing fear among bankers, she said. “... concerns these banks have had in their minds earlier, and may have even now are absolutely well-founded. In fact, through my last 7-8 months, I have [reiterated] at least three different times with the banks to say that the fear of the 3Cs should not be in their minds,” she said. When asked about criticism about leaving many critical sectors including hospitality, auto and civil aviation out of the economic package, Ms. Sitharaman said the government has not taken a sectoral approach but a holistic approach. “Except agriculture and the power sectors where reforms would be undertaken, other than that, I have not come up with any sectoral reference. What has now become to be called as the MSME package, includes MSME, and also aims at touching others (sectors) too... So the sectors that you are referring to can also benefit through this,” she said. It is based on the understanding that any enterprise “with a certain exposure to the bank and with a certain invested capital, or with a certain turnover if they need additional term loan, additional working capital in order to buy their own material to restart, in order to be able to pay some fixed cost, it can take that route.” She expressed hope that from June 1, liquidity would start flowing from banks without any new collateral. During the meeting with bankers, the Minister said it was emphasised that loans should be sanctioned in a simple manner and if possible, digitally to avoid any physical contact.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Dual advantage to benefit India in 2020, post-COVID’||When most manufacturing firms across India had to close down factories during the lockdown, integrated industrial ecosystems such as Mahindra World City (MWC) remained operational, enabling units operating there to manufacture as also export. Sanjay Srivastava , business head, Mahindra World City (Jaipur) Ltd. and director, ORIGINS, explains in an interview. Excerpts:   What is the current status of operations? The Mahindra World Cities in Chennai and Jaipur are already home to over 150 companies spanning diverse sectors. Of these, over 120 companies were operational during pre-COVID-19 times. Companies providing essential products and services continued to remain operational right through the lockdown supporting Indian and global supply chains and markets. Companies, which were then allowed in subsequent phases as per norms and were willing to resume operations during the lockdown, were able to do so quickly, many of them in under three working days and all, in less than a week. Currently, almost 70% of the operational companies at MWC Chennai and MWC Jaipur have already restarted operations.  How can Indian industrial ecosystems stay ahead of the curve and remain globally competitive? India has implemented a bold and expeditious lockdown to flatten the curve in the country and save lives. This has also meant a significant drop in economic activity in the short term. India then allowed phased restart of industrial activities, striking a careful balance between generating livelihoods and saving lives. It has the opportunity to chart a unique path to create global best practice templates for unlocking industrial ecosystems and economic growth. We have already identified the likely indicators that will help define the contours of this path. What is the outlook for business? [Year] 2020 will reshape global manufacturing as companies will optimise their value chain and look to diversify both their source of demand and supply. In this context, India has the opportunity to leverage its position via its unique ‘dual-advantage’ position — as a globally preferred manufacturing destination via Make In India and, simultaneously, a fast-growing, ready market for a variety of goods and services. In India, well planned integrated industrial destinations that have successfully demonstrated the ability to ensure continuity of operations through the lockdown will gain prominence and favour. Such ecosystems as are favourably located in decongested areas near national highways and ports and have demonstrated effective supply chain management during the COVID-19 crisis will be the preferred choice for the next wave of new clients. What has been the impact of COVID-19 on MWC? A combination of strategic location advantages; robust infrastructure and processes; support from State industrial bodies and local authorities; and committed support teams have ensured that our customers could remain operational in a hassle-free environment with access to 24/7 support services. Moreover, residents at MWC, Chennai, the Mahindra Group’s first integrated city developed under PPP mode in India, were able to enjoy all the benefits of a self-contained integrated city with key social amenities operational – grocery store, hospital and super-market. Your comments on unlocking manufacturing ecosystem pan India? India has followed a calibrated approach to tackle the phased restart and unlocking of the economy. Considering the complexities involved, India’s journey has been progressive despite the glitches and some roadblocks as we moved on this path. There are still challenges to be navigated. We have a long way to go, but that’s the new normal.  In India, integrated industrial destinations that have ensured continuity of operations through the lockdown will gain prominence , says Mahindra World City’s business head
24 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Virus has pushed auto market back by 4-5 years, says Bosch||The pandemic has brought the global auto industry — which was already suffering a slowdown since 2018 — to a complete standstill and the recovery will take at least four to five years, said Bosch in India on Friday. Bosch Ltd. MD Soumitra Bhattacharya said the industry had gone back by three to four years already due to the slowdown in the economy and Covid-19 has pushed it back by another 1.5 to 2 years. “The whole industry has been affected, and we are not an exception and the recovery will take long time,” he said. Mobility currently accounts for 80% of the company’s revenues. “We are affected, short-term, with all four segments of the auto industry having seen declines. However, the long-term outlook is good and we will bounce back. We are confident of growing our share further in the mobility space,” he said. Bosch reported a 24% decline in its mobility business in 2019-20. Its domestic sales dropped 26% and exports fell 6%. Within the mobility segment, electric powertrain solutions too dipped 30% due to the slowdown in the auto sector. Bosch’s March-ended quarter revenues were down 18% to Rs. 2,236 crore while profit plunged 80% to Rs. 81 crore. “The decline is due to the reduced turnover following the slowdown and the impact of the pandemic during the last few days of the quarter,” the company said.      Bosch’s March quarter revenue fell 18% to Rs. 2,236 crore while profit plunged 80% to Rs. 81 crore
24 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Virus set to redefine direct selling industry||India’s direct selling industry, providing livelihood to about five million people, is reinventing itself to deal with the adverse impact of COVID-19 pandemic. It is trying to achieve a balance between human interactions, which is the bedrock of direct selling and online sales, to overcome the crisis. Anshu Budhraja, CEO, Amway India, said “While we are expecting a short-term to mid-term impact, we are positive about coming out of this stronger than ever. “COVID-19 has proved to be a catalyst for a smooth transition of our business from the offline to the online. We foresee continued digital transformations at every level of our operations,” he said. Efforts to build and strengthen digital capabilities to ensure efficient functioning of the business will continue, he added. 90% transition to online “Since the lockdown, there has been a significant shift to online ordering from 33.6% in February 2020 to 90% that demanded smart management of orders and tie-up with new vendors for product deliveries at home,” he said. The firm is hoping to stabilise business in the next 45 days and expects to reach 80-90% of pre-lockdown business by July. “We firmly believe that a new consumer will emerge in the post-COVID-19 era, which will drive new business models while setting the foundation for innovative products and services,” he added. Gautam Bali, MD, Vestige Marketing Pvt. Ltd., said, “At the heart of coping with this crisis is social distancing with everything else becoming secondary. Therefore, human interactions are going to undergo a change, and with it, inter-personal activities are going to get reformed.” Since the direct selling industry is based on community networking, it will have to overcome this unexpected impediment like no other industry. “There are over five million people employed and earning livelihoods from this industry in India, and it will be of paramount importance for them to continue doing so despite the disruption caused by the current pandemic,” Mr. Bali said.
24 May 2020||Chennai,||CPCL plans to raise Rs. 1,000 crore via bonds||Chennai Petroleum Corp Ltd plans to raise up to Rs. 1,000 crore through issue of domestic bonds during the current fiscal to meet its financing needs. The CPCL board has approved a resolution pertaining to the raising of funds through private placement, towards balancing the short term/long term (borrowing) mix, it said in a regulatory filing. The proposed bond issue would be within the overall borrowing limit of Rs. 10,000 crore approved by shareholders on August 21, 2019. As of March 2020, the company had a borrowing of Rs. 2,953 crore. On Wednesday, CPCL had reported widening of net loss in the fourth quarter ended March 2020 to Rs. 1,638 crore, from Rs. 29 crore a year earlier, on lower crude production and inventory losses. In the period, revenue from operations dipped to Rs. 11,769 crore from Rs. 12,765 crore. Due to the losses, the board has not recommended any dividend. Average gross refining margin for the April-March period is a negative $1.18 per barrel compared with $3.70 per barrel a year earlier.
24 May 2020||MUMBAI,||ITC eyes full local sourcing for agarbattis||ITC Ltd. has opted for 100% local sourcing of bamboos sticks which are used in its agarbattis. ITC’s Mangaldeep brand has a significant share in the Rs. 7,400 crore agarbattis market of India which has been seen CAGR of 9% for the last two years. A bulk of the bamboo sticks currently used in agarbattis are imported into India mainly from China and Vietnam. The imports are worth Rs. 450 crore to Rs. 500 crore a year according to industry officials. Also a large portion of raw agarbattis (agarbattis without fragrance) are imported into the country by most manufacturers.  Ravi Rayavaram, Chief Executive, Agarbatti and Matches Business, ITC, said, “Our initiatives will support the creation of livelihoods in the country.”  He said the company was taking further steps in promoting localisation of the agarbatti value chain. It has started to procure Indian made agarbatti bamboo sticks from the northeastern India. The company has also planted the species of bamboo required for agarbatti sticks in the northeast to secure a local source of raw material for stick making. “The stick-making value chain in the country has enormous potential to generate superior incomes for bamboo farmers and to generate livelihoods at various stages in the stick-making value chain across nurseries, plantations, harvesting, logistics, stick manufacturing,” it said. It plans to target procuring its entire requirement of agarbatti sticks from within the country over the next 12-18 months.
24 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Zaggle, Visa tie up for SME payments||Zaggle, a financial technology start-up, has announced a partnership with Visa to launch payment solutions for SMEs and start-ups. “This new partnership will concentrate on creating solutions specific to SMEs and start-ups to improve productivity, efficiency and automate processes and reduce costs along with focusing on easy and faster credit through a unique card which will have forex , prepaid along with credit,” according to the company.  Raj N. Phani, founder, Zaggle, said,”This partnership will help us expand our services and client base who need to improve automation and digitise spends to bring in more transparency.”
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||SRM Tech names Anand Kashyap CEO||SRM Technologies, a part of SRM Group, has appointed Anand Kashyap as its chief executive officer. As CEO, he will lead all strategic and growth initiatives at SRM Tech and its subsidiaries, including TechTrendsIT and GTSSMinds. As part of the strategic roadmap, SRM Technologies would ‘strive to be an indispensable partner for companies as they reshape their business in the digital era, using its framework of Envision-Enhance-Empower-Enable’, with special focus on North America, Asia-Pacific and Japan, the company said in a statement. An IT industry veteran of 20 years, he has held leadership roles at Dell Services and Wipro Tech.
24 May 2020||Coimbatore,||BWF’s revamped calendar not a hit||Several Indian players have expressed their displeasure over the Badminton World Federation’s (BWF) revamped calendar for the rest of the year, which will fit in 22 tournaments in five months. P. Kashyap, B. Sai Praneeth and Olympic bronze medallist Saina Nehwal, among others, took to Twitter and raised concerns about the arduousness of the schedule. They brought up issues pertaining to the start of full-fledged training, international travel restrictions, quarantine regulations and the possibility of injuries. But Olympic silver medallist P.V. Sindhu is geared up. “I know it can be hectic but you must be smart enough to choose the tournaments you want to play. “Also, the BWF has already decided on the calendar and, at the end of the day, you cannot change it. So, plan accordingly,” she told The Hindu on Saturday. Like a soldier “Just like a soldier is ready when called upon, an athlete must be likewise. In my case, I am fit enough. The only thing is, we need some practice but I am confident,” Sindhu added. She was also quick to point out that if the BWF cancels a few tournaments then the players may not be happy as well. Chief national coach P. Gopi Chand said the players have no other option. “I sympathise with them. It’s okay to have 22 tournaments but my concern is their health and safety. “I would have still loved to see a more spaced-out calendar. But the players need not participate in all the tournaments. “It’s about making the right choice. We will also strictly go with the government guidelines.” Gopi said the BWF should have also offered clarity on Olympic qualification, terming it “the first priority”.    The revised calendar looks very cramped and there are lots of questions that need to be answered  P. Kashyap    I am waiting to get back on court first and train for 2-3 months. After a big break, it’s not easy to come back to 100%  K. Srikanth    The schedule is so stupid… because many events got cancelled, it is not right to [hold] continuous events  B. Sai Praneeth
24 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||Safety first is the watchword||Safety first is the watchword now that the BWF has announced the schedule of major events from August. Chief National badminton coach P. Gopi Chand insists that all safety measures will be implemented. “We will not be complacent, for health is of paramount importance. Obviously, no one wants to be caught wrong-footed," he said. But, quite a few parents seem to be haunted by the fear factor in the changed scenario. “I want to be doubly sure about the measures in place before resuming training,” says P.V. Sindhu’s father Ramana. Olympic hopefuls should have training sessions separate from othe Indian campers, he suggests. “That way, a lot of management issues can be sorted out,” says Ramana. The physio being sanitised every time he attends to a different player, coaches maintaining social distancing, hygienic maintenance of props used for training and rest are some of the logistical concerns he points out. It remains to be seen how much time a player would need to peak with this changed training schedule, Ramana adds. Krishna Reddy, father of doubles international N. Sikki Reddy, feels serious thought should be given to having doubles sessions separately to avoid over-crowding at training venues. "It will be a big challenge for players in the changing context of training," he says.
24 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘It’s about who makes the last mistake’||“In chess, you don’t beat the board. It’s more important to beat the player on the other side. Everyone thinks you make the best moves, but it’s more about who makes the last mistake on the board,” says five-time World champion Viswanathan Anand as he gives an insight into his chess and life, during a conversation with cricketer S. Badrinath in a show to be telecast on Star Sports 1 Tamil on May 24. The show, which includes a rapid fire round, also features chess-player-turned-cricketer Yuzvendra Chahal, Grandmaster R. Praggnanandhaa and Anand’s wife, Aruna. Anand is currently stranded in the German town of Bad Soden following the outbreak of COVID-19. Talking about his chess, Anand says, “You need to constantly put yourself in the minds of the opponents and study their game along with your own. You cannot pump your fist and there’s no emotional release in a game like chess. After a game I always go to the gym — not for fitness, but to calm down... and the stress goes away.” Hard work  Reflecting on his early days in chess, Anand says, “My progress as a chess player wasn’t sudden, it came through lots of hard work over many years. The chess I learnt in the 80s... we no longer play like that. The introduction of computers has changed the approach — the way you study — completely.” In spite of winning five world titles, Anand chose two other triumphs that brought him great satisfaction. “Winning the first World Junior in 1987 was a something I will never forget. The feeling of overcoming the Russians gave me great pride. “The other was winning the 2017 World Rapid Chess Championship. It came at a time in my career when I was contemplating retirement, that win came just at the right time and gave me great satisfaction”.
24 May 2020||KOCHI,||Blasters extends Ishfaq’s contract||Kerala Blasters FC has extended the contract of its assistant coach Ishfaq Ahmed by three years. Ishfaq, from Srinagar, joined Blasters as a central midfielder in 2014 and then continued as a player-cum-assistant coach in the next few editions of the Indian Super League. “I want to thank the management for giving me the opportunity to serve this amazing club both as a player and a coach. The journey has been exciting thus far and I am eagerly looking forward to working with the new coach for the upcoming season,. “Together, we hope to implement the goals of the club and take it to greater heights.” said Ishfaq.
24 May 2020||New Delhi,||Chasing dreams, the Apurvi Chandela way||When someone is chasing their big dreams, it is hard to stay focused and be in the moment always. But if you do, you progress beyond your dreams, the way Apurvi Chandela has done. Talking on Instagram to shotgun marksman Manavaditya Rathore, the 27-year-old Apurvi gave an insight into the mindset of a champion who has scaled great heights in a short time. “I saw Michael Phelps in the dining hall at the Rio Olympics. I also met some famous tennis players. It was special being out there with them. I never thought that I would reach that far, when I started,” said Apurvi. The setback An injury in the run up to the Games upset her plans. An introvert Apurvi further went into a cocoon, thinking about ‘what went wrong’, before her mother pulled her out of the turmoil. “Failures are important for development. I was upset that it happened in the Olympics,” said Apurvi. Manavaditya then nicely weaved a question as to how she rose from finishing 34th in the Olympics to be No. 1 in the world when she won two World Cup air rifle gold medals in 2019. No giving up “I realised that I can’t give up. It took a lot of hard work to get there. It was amazing to be world No. 1, especially after the disappointment. It was important to go through the downs. You learn so much more. It changed me as a person. Unfortunately, that lesson came in the Olympics,” she said.  And it has been a fascinating journey for Apurvi, who took up air rifle shooting on reading an interview by Olympic champion Abhinav Bindra. “It was special when I won gold in the 2014 Commonwealth Games. Bindra also won a gold there. I had tried pistol and chose rifle, as it did not require any dynamic movement. “When I read the interview that rifle shooting required one to stand still and be stable, I thought this was for me,” revealed Apurvi.  “When I said that I wanted to shoot, my parents were overjoyed. I just enjoyed the sport, and kept getting selected for the next level. “Within a year, my family made an electronic range for me at home, and my mom used to encourage me by buying gifts if I shot a particular score or better,” she added. Nothing comes easy Her mantra is simple. “Nothing comes easy. Failures are as important as successes.”
24 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Player-turned-coach Shanmugam passes away||Former Tamil Nadu footballer and coach R. Shanmugam (77) passed away on Saturday morning here. Shanmugam, who had been unwell for sometime, is survived by two sons and a daughter. Born in Burma in 1943, Shanmugam represented the Burmese junior and senior National teams in 1966-67. He played for Mohun Bagan in 1968, Indian Railways in the 1969 senior Nationals, and Tamil Nadu in the 1970 and 71 Nationals. He represented Integral Coach Factory (ICF) from 1969-77 in the top-tier of the Chennai Football Association (CFA) league. Shanmugam, who obtained a diploma in football coaching from the National Institute of Sports in 1975-76, attended the FIFA Coca Cola coaching course in 1978 & ’91 and the Olympic solidarity course in 1996. He had obtained a diploma from the Brazilian Football Academy in 1995. He coached ICF, Tamil Nadu and Indian Railways for the Santosh Trophy, and assisted in coaching the National team for the Jawaharlal Nehru Gold Cup at Chennai in 1993. He had also served as the president of the Football Coaches Association in Chennai.
24 May 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Checkmating coronavirus, FIDE style||The novel coronavirus may have succeeded in forcing FIDE to stop its showpiece event of the year midway, but the world chess governing body has made an interesting move that could help it take the game to more people. After conducting a top-notch blitz tournament in memory of the first World champion Wilhelm Steinitz, featuring top stars like Magnus Carlsen, FIDE has launched a series of online tournaments. Month-long event Checkmate Coronavirus is a month-long event that will have more than 1,500 tournaments that are open to everyone. There will be 720 hours of chess, non-stop. The tournaments are being conducted on popular chess portals like chess.com, chess24.comand lichess.org. You can log into checkmatecoronavirus.com for more information. The event will go on till June 16. At the time of filing this report, 90,216 players have participated in 336 tournaments. “Those are fabulous numbers and I think it’s a great initiative by FIDE,” GM B. Adhiban told The Hindu . There are prizes to be won, too — more than 1,500 of them. Among the most attractive of those prizes are the 64 invitations for the Chess Olympiad in Moscow next year.
24 May 2020||BERLIN,||Dortmund blanks Wolfsburg||Borussia Dortmund scored a goal in each half through Raphael Guerreiro and Achraf Hakimi to beat host VfL Wolfsburg 2-0 on Saturday for its sixth straight Bundesliga win. In another match, Kai Havertz scored a brace for the second match in the row as Bayer Leverkusen beat Borussia Monchengladbach 3-1.  The results: Borussia Monchengladbach 1 (Thuram 52) lost to Bayer Leverkusen 3 (avertz 7, 58-pen; Bender 81); Wolfsburg 0 lost to Borussia Dortmund 2 (Guerreiro 32, Hakimi 78); Freiburg 0 lost to Werder Bremen 1 (Bittencourt 19); Paderborn 1 (Srbeny 9) drew with Hoffenheim 1 (Skov 4). Friday: Hertha Berlin 4 (Ibisevic 51, Lukebakio 52, Cunha 61, Boyata 77) bt Union Berlin 0 .
24 May 2020||New Delhi,||No sporting event in near future: Rijiju||The Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju on Saturday said India will not host any international event in immediate future and fans will have to learn to live with the new norm of sporting activities happening behind closed doors, post COVID-19. Rijiju’s statement gains greater significance in the context of the suspended IPL, which the BCCI wants to host in October-November in case the ICC T20 World Cup is postponed. Training “We have been working for some time now to resume sporting activities, but before that we have to think about practice and training. “We are not going to have a tournament kind of situation immediately,” Rijiju was quoted as saying by India Today . “We have to learn to live with the situation where sporting events will have to be held without spectators in stadiums and sports venues,” he added.
24 May 2020||New Delhi,||Aditi can breathe easy as LPGA extends Tour card to 2021||Indian golfer Aditi Ashok is greatly relieved with the announcement that all players on the Ladies PGA (LPGA) Tour, who were exempted during this season, will also keep their cards for the next season.PTI
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||New plant species found in Western Ghats||A team of scientists of the Botanical Survey of India (BSI) have reported the discovery of three new plant species in the evergreen forest patches of the southern end of the Western Ghats in Kerala and Tamil Nadu. The three species — Eugenia sphaerocarpa of the Myrtaceae or Rose apple family, Goniothalamus sericeus of the Annonaceae family of custard apple and Memecylon nervosum of the Melastomataceae (Kayamboo or Kaasavu in local parlance) family — were discovered during a recent exploration led by BSI scientist K.A. Sujana. Edible fruits A good population of Eugenia sphaerocarpa is growing in the Kakkayam area of the Malabar wildlife sanctuary in Kerala above 800m. The epithet ‘sphaerocarpa’ denotes to the large, showy lemon-yellow spherical fruits, Dr. Sujana told The Hindu . The fruits of Eugenia species are known for their palatability. A small number of Goniothalamus sericeus plants has been found in the Kanyakumari wildlife sanctuary in Tamil Nadu at an altitude of 1400m. Mature flowers with characteristic greenish-yellow to beige petals are fragrant while the fruits are very showy and an attractive golden yellow in colour. Sericeus refers to the presence of dense silky hair on petals, Dr. Sujana explained. A small population of nervosum was also found at the same sanctuary at an altitude between 700-900m with more than 10 sub-populations located along the banks of a perennial rivulet, Ragesh G. Vadhyar, a researcher involved in the study, said. The species has showy purplish-blue flowers and mauve to purplish red fruits. Nervosum refers to the presence of prominently raised lateral and intramarginal veins on the lower surface of the lamina, Mr. Vadhyar said. As these species are small trees or shrubs, a more detailed botanical exploration of the Western Ghats is crucial to document them, Dr. Sujana said.
24 May 2020||Patna,||‘Bicycle girl’ Jyoti turns down offer from Cycling Federation, to focus on studies||India’s ‘bicycle girl’ Jyoti Kumari, who was forced to pedal some 1,300 km to Dharbhanga in Bihar from Gurugram in Delhi with her injured father Mohan Paswan as pillion rider due to the extended lockdown, is just a very tired teenager right now. Not particularly enthused by the worldwide admiration that has come her way as news of her remarkable journey has gone viral, the 15-year-old has turned down an offer from the Cycling Federation of India (CFI) to go for trials as a trainee at the National Cycling Academy in New Delhi, saying she wants to focus on education. Chairman of Cycling Federation of India (CFI) Omkar Singh, said, “We’re impressed as well as amazed at Jyoti’s pedalling capacity as she covered a distance of 1,300 kms within a week on a bicycle with her father. The CFI has decided to give her a chance to prove her mettle.” Omkar added, “We just want to call her for trials for her selection as a trainee… she will be tested on computerised bikes.” But for Jyoti, studies are her top priority. “Earlier, I could not continue my school education because of my family problem and I was occupied with the domestic work…but now I wish to complete my matriculation first,” she told The Hindu over phone from Sirhulli .  “I also feel physically weak now after such a long arduous journey.” Jyoti had gone to Gurugram with her mother and brother-in-law at the end of January after her father broke his leg in an accident while driving his e-rickshaw. “Her mother and brother-in-law returned to the village but she remained to look after me,” Paswan recalled. Following the extended lockdown, however, the father and daughter were left with little option when their landlord asked them to vacate their room. “Jyoti suggested we too should leave for our village, like others…but we had no money… she bought a second hand bicycle from a neighbour and asked me to sit on it and we set off on our journey on May 10,” he said. Though, they did manage to hitch rides on trucks and tractors for stretches across Uttar Pradesh, Jyoti cycled for long hours on the seven-day journey to reach home on May 16.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 07:20 IST,||Sudoku - May 24, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The mindful thespian||American-born director, writer, actor-trainer, and professor of performance practice, Phillip Zarrilli, died in the U.K. on April 28 this year. “He rode out on a breath,” wrote dramaturg and Zarrilli’s long-time partner, Kaite O’Reilly, in a moving tribute. “... like so many times in his teaching he spoke of riding the breath to that moment of completion at the end of exhalation — the space in-between at the end of one cycle before the impulse of the next inhalation begins. This time came no inhalation.” Breath was always vital to Zarrilli’s training. By breath, he meant not just the act of breathing but also an attentiveness to breath as a carrier of energy or qi/ chi; breath which proceeds from the root of the navel/ nabhi mula/ dan t’ien. Zarrilli’s focus on the active exploration of breath in his actor-training process came from his intensive and rigorous training and practice of Asian disciplines such as kalaripayattu, yoga and taiji quan/ tai chi. Fusing mind and body As I began to write this tribute, I searched for information. And found a strange thing. There is a near total absence of personal information about Zarrilli. You can read about his work, his experiences with Asian forms of dance and theatre, but searching for the “person” Phillip Zarrilli is like looking for someone who didn’t exist. After some time, I began to realise that perhaps the unity Zarrilli sought to impart through his psycho-physical training was a unity he probably managed to achieve in his own life. The work was the person and the person the work. A Fulbright fellowship in 1976-77 brought Zarrilli, then 29, to Kerala to study Kathakali. His inspiration was the Polish pioneer of physical theatre, Jerzy Grotowski, who had preceded him to Kerala, in 1970, to observe and learn Kathakali and Koodiyattam. On realising that kalaripayattu was the source of Kathakali’s body exercises and massage practices, he began to learn the former. At CVN Kalari in Thiruvananthapuram, under the guidance of Govindankutty Nair, Zarrilli recognised in kalaripayattu a physical technique that was a “highly integrated fusion of mental/ visual concentration.” He referred to it as,“[p]sycho-physical integration… the coordination of concentration, energy flow, and physical technique.” This integration of mind and body, which Zarrilli refers to as ‘psychophysical,’ formed the core of his actor training. Over the next 15 years, he spent a total of seven years in Kerala, training in, practising, and researching kalaripayattu, yoga, and Kathakali. His immersive training and practice in these forms along with tai chi which he learnt from his mentor, A.C. Scott, went into the fashioning of an actor-training process/ method that Edwin Creely, academic and faculty at Monash University, who researched Zarrilli’s training method and praxis, refers to as a “transcultural training regime”. Danced by the dance Zarrilli, like the mentors he acknowledges, attempted to bring to dualist Western performance pedagogy a unity that had been sacrificed at the altar of an uncritical modernity. The ‘bodymind,’ a term he used to refer to the psychophysical, seemingly reconciled the idea of ‘learning through doing’ of American pragmatist philosopher John Dewey with the idea of developing experiential consciousness as proposed by 20th century philosophers like Edmund Husserl or Maurice Merleau-Ponty. Zarrilli was convinced that by ‘doing the exercise’ rather than only intellectualising or theorising about it, an actor could make an individual journey of emancipation and empowerment. His method, with its attention to breath, structure, and focus, was intended to guide actors to open up and clear the pathways between interiority and exteriority. Attentiveness to one thing is at the same instant also an awareness of everything else. It is the actor’s ‘body becoming all eyes’. With it, the actor becomes free, flexible, open and ready; is ever present in the moment; is aware of acting and being acted upon — is at once the actor and the spectator/ audience; in Zarrilli’s words, the “dancer dances but is also danced by the dance”. Viscerally experiential Zarrilli’s frequent visits to India began in the midst of the Emergency and continued till the early 90s. That decade-and-a-half witnessed political authoritarianism, student unrest, assassinations, rising right-wing nationalism, identity politics and economic liberalisation. Theatre and performance too attempted to respond to these events and there was a burgeoning of intra-cultural experiments and intercultural collaborations. Modern urban Indian theatre practitioners used themes, tales, myths and forms from the past or from rural milieux; Western practitioners and academics visited India to add to the corpus of theatre and performance knowledge, practices and theories. Some attempted collaborations such as a Kathakali version of King Lear or the marathon The Mahabharata by Peter Brook with a multicultural cast. All this led to fierce debates about interculturalism and the ethics of cultural appropriation. Zarrilli saw interculturalism as a way of seeing the world, a way of being open to real, face-to-face encounters with others, as an attentiveness that responds to the ‘other’ with care and respect. His view appears close to what American theatre scholar and founder-editor of The Drama Review Richard Schechner describes: “[t]o perform someone else’s culture… takes a knowledge, a ‘translation,’ that is different, more viscerally experiential... Most essentially, intercultural exchange takes a teacher: someone who knows the body of performance of the culture being translated. The translator of culture is not a mere agent... but an actual culture-bearer. This is why performing other cultures becomes so important. Not just reading them, not just visiting them, or importing them, but actually doing them. So that ‘them’ and ‘us’ is elided, or laid experientially side-by-side.” Zarrilli was convinced that attention to the self is awareness of the other; and such attention can never be self-absorption but only ‘a being in relation to’. This interconnectedness is what makes one human. Zarrilli’s last visit to India was in January this year when The Llanarth Group presented Told by the Wind at the 12th International Theatre Festival of Kerala (ITFoK) in Thrissur. Zarrilli came to India to study Kathakali and discovered kalaripayattu. What he did with what he learnt, whether it was yoga, kalaripayattu, Kathakali or tai chi, was a ‘metabolising’. He did not borrow techniques from one source and mindlessly graft them on to another. As actor Mohan Agashe said years ago of intercultural exchanges, “the work to be taken from has to be ingested and digested, truly metabolised and made part of the performer’s body (and soul) before being re-expressed in possibly a totally new and unrecognisable way.” And this was evident both in Zarrilli’s theatre and his pedagogy. The writer is a doctoral scholar at the Dept. of Humanities and Social Sciences, IIT-Madras.  Zarrilli spent seven years in Kerala, training in, practising, and researching kalaripayattu, yoga, and Kathakali. His immersive training in these forms went into the fashioning of an actor-training method
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Something borrowed, something won||There seems to be very little in common between Oscar Wilde, T.S. Eliot and Pablo Picasso, but all three of them were of the opinion that ‘stealing’, rather than ‘imitation’, was the mark of a great writer, poet or artist. This is not as startling a position as it seems to be. By a strange twist, it does not endorse plagiarism. Instead, it celebrates creativity, while recognising that no artist creates alone, just as no human being lives alone. This position would have been taken for granted in oral cultures in the past. All our great books with roots in orality are built on this ‘stealing.’ Even when we attribute them to a single writer today, the stories in them passed through various renditions before being penned down by that writer, if he ever existed as an author rather than as an author-function. In this sense, as some critics have noted, Homer is a myth. But even authors like Aeschylus and Sophocles, who obviously existed historically, took up and rewrote stories that were already in circulation. I can say this about other epics and early sacred books too, both in the Hindu and Islamic traditions, but I will stick to safer European illustrations. Distinctive twist So when is it that the problem of authorship starts, and the controversy of plagiarism erupts? When does ‘stealing’ from a writer become a problem? And to what extent is it really a problem when living writers ‘make use’ of the work of other living writers, as, most recently, the International Booker Prize nominee, Willem Anker, is supposed to have done of Cormac McCarthy’s fiction? One of the characteristics of Shakespeare’s plays is that in most of them Shakespeare never concocted a new and original story. Instead, he rewrote stories that were already in circulation, and often existed in or as various other texts. For instance, the legend of King Lear preceded Shakespeare in different versions. Shakespeare largely stole that story, including the main characters. But he also introduced some twists, a subplot, a new ending and at least one unforgettable character, all of which combined with the ‘stolen’ elements to raise the play to another level altogether. Not to mention, of course, the powerful poetry of Shakespeare’s lines, though, even there, at least one section, probably used for satirical purposes, was nonchalantly lifted from a religious tract. Of course, in Shakespeare’s time, plays were decidedly not ‘individual’ works: they were collaborative efforts, more like commercial screenplays of Bollywood today. But even in his sonnets — a form already associated with specific authorship — Shakespeare re-used previous stances, styles and tropes, but gave them a distinctive twist. Romantic concept Authorship is a late concept, and it is tied to a culture that uses writing extensively. Its sacred provenance is an even later concept, and rooted in the largely Romantic notion of the originality of the author. Well into the 18th century, the idea of a writer being ‘original’ hardly existed. As Alexander Pope put it, “True Wit is Nature to advantage dress’d:/ What oft was thought, but ne’er so well express’d.” For neo-classicists like Pope, the author could make no real claim to original thought, only to a better and apter presentation of what was already being thought by others. The Romantics, who followed the Neo-classicists, had a more ‘inspired’ understanding of writing. They stressed the individuality of the artist. It is largely with this Romantic belief that authorship becomes authentic. Along with this, of course, runs the matter of commercial publication: actually, to an extent, the authenticity of the author is a commercial creation. It is an appendix to the rise of the printing press and the publishing industry. It is in the nature of capitalism to make us consume commodities produced in the millions while claiming to turn us into ‘different’ individuals; some have argued that the two are different sides of the same coin. Creative commons Whether you like this or not, whether you are a capitalist or a Marxist, the fact remains that without capitalism and printing there would have been, at best, a very weak notion of literary plagiarism. The Romantics, with their ‘inspiration’ and ‘individual genius,’ with their cloudy wanderings and pensive couches, were the cultural side of this commercial development. Writers today often insist on their individuality, for it is essential to their royalties and sales. No publisher or agent would want them to forget it. And yet, to be honest, perhaps because literature is the oldest mode of complex thinking known to humankind, there remains in a few writers some sense of regret for ages when the burden of individuality did not rest so heavily on them. It is a kind of nostalgia for a time when writings were not considered distinctive pools of stagnant words but part of a flowing stream of language, stories and thought. Having said that, as an active and committed writer, I cannot claim that I do not care how my words and books are used. It is easy to accept a degree of pilferage if the ‘stolen’ work is used creatively: if, for instance, the new work reuses a previous work in a manner that draws attention to it and acknowledges the influence. This was what T.S. Eliot did in his poetry, and Pablo Picasso did in most of his art. Here the ‘adoption’ has to be engaged, informed, intelligent, visible to the serious reader and necessary for the new work. I suspect that many creative writers — and I am one of them — will not consider this plagiarism. Some, like me, would consider it a compliment. Made anew But what if the adoption is hidden away even from the informed reader and not acknowledged or foreshadowed in any way? In other words, what if it is a version of ‘plagiarism’ as we define it in narrow, pedantic academia? And what happens if the old work is unsuccessful but the new work becomes a success? I think the answer to this last question provides the necessary key. For if both the works are obscure, then it hardly matters. If the first work is famous and the second one obscure, then it hardly matters either. But if the first work was obscure and the second work becomes famous, then, inevitably it leads to the recovery of the first (obscure) work, and a critical questioning of the conditions of its obscurity. I am not being postmodern or avant garde. I have problems with most of ‘found art’ and ‘automatic writing’; I find in much of installation art an evidence of the artist’s privilege and corporate backing rather than their talent. Having said that, I seriously think that there is plagiarism only in bad art and bad literature. If it is good, it always makes new use of the old elements, making it “anew”, in the words of Ezra Pound. And if it is bad, then, why, who cares — except maybe publishers, academics and the media? It is this that Wilde, Eliot and Picasso had in mind. Willem Anker and Cormac McCarthy are both renowned authors. Finally, after the media and publishing hubbub subsides, Anker will be judged not for what he took from McCarthy, but how. The writer is an Indian novelist and academic who teaches in Denmark.  The authenticity of the author is a commercial creation. It is an appendix to the rise of the printing press and the publishing industry   Authorship is a late concept. Its sacred provenance is an even later concept, and rooted in the largely Romantic notion of the originality of the author. Well into the 18th century, the idea of an ‘original’ writer hardly existed
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||From behind the veil||The COVID-19 pandemic has unveiled a hideously dark side of the neoliberal capitalist model, throwing into stark relief the increasing inequality that has become the hallmark of our societies. Oxfam reported last year that 26 billionaires own as many assets as the 3.8 billion people who make up the poorest half of the planet’s population. The world’s richest man, Jeff Bezos, the owner of Amazon, has grown his fortune by a further $24 bn so far during the pandemic, a roughly 20% increase over the last four months. He could reportedly become the world’s first trillionaire soon. And the combined wealth of America’s billionaires increased nearly 10%. As the world’s poor suffer from these obscene levels of inequality, it remains to be seen to what extent the forces of global capitalism will prevail to maintain the status quo. Meanwhile, there are some fundamental questions we have to reckon with in the wake of this crisis: How and why has this enormous inequality and glaring socio-economic disparity become the mainstay of our lives? Why has ‘justice’ eluded human societies? How have we drifted, in the words of one prominent thinker, from having a ‘market economy’ to becoming a ‘market society’ — a society where everything is up for sale? Is there a way out of this? One political philosopher who thought long and hard about these and other allied questions in his monumental book, A Theory of Justice (1971), was John Rawls. Without going into the intricacies of what he calls a ‘well-ordered society’, I would like to appropriate here one of his theoretical devices — ‘the veil of ignorance’ — to bring home a certain point in the context of this crisis. Seminal questions It is a device of thought experiment designed to conceal some facts from you while you are asked to create the foundational institutions of a social order. Rawls deploys it to explore, from an ‘original position’ of fairness, what kind of social contract people will settle for, if given a chance to choose. In other words, what would they consider fair terms of cooperation among themselves to govern their society with? What principles of justice would they rationally choose to underpin the basic institutions of their collective political life? The pandemic has pushed us to a point where we are forced to ask these seminal questions about our systems of governance. We stand at a precipice, whether we acknowledge it or not, where we need to reconsider the terms of our social contract and see how far they have drifted from our considered convictions about justice. So, in the vein of the Rawlsian ‘veil of ignorance ’ , imagine this: You know a few months in advance that a deadly pandemic is about to strike and you are asked, beforehand, to design a political system for your society to deal with this disaster. You are, however, deprived of certain specific information about yourself: you don’t know whether — after the veil is lifted — you will turn out to be rich or poor, old or young, healthy or sick, male, female or other gender, migrant labourer or landlord, and so on. You know only a few general facts about life and have a capacity for reasoning. The information is withheld in order to rein in your biases. For example, if you know in advance you will be a man once the veil is lifted, you might want to adopt a system that gives more benefits to men. Or if you know you will end up a rich industrialist, you could be swayed to fashion institutions that shield your own social class from the pandemic. To preclude such prejudices from influencing your choice, the veil of ignorance is brought in. It serves the purpose of ensuring the fairness of both the process and the resultant principles and institutions. The rationality of fairness So, how would you design social and political institutions or, in other words, the ‘basic structure’  of your society under such circumstances? Would you want a society where only a few rich people can access healthcare or one where everyone can afford it?  Would you wish to have a political system that protects  only the young from this virus and leaves the old to their fate?  Would you prefer a society that ensures fair wages to those whom economist Guy Standing called “the precariat” (named so owing to the precarious nature of their work and their lives)? Or would you rather leave them to scramble for a living, making them vulnerable both to the virus and to destitution? Or would you prefer to bring into being a system that takes care of everyone and their vulnerabilities? Because anybody could turn out to be the less fortunate person on the wrong side of the line, you might feel compelled to reason from the standpoint of that disadvantaged person. Of course, some would ask, as many have in the case of Rawls, what if some people just want to take the risk? But that is missing the point. The point, rather, of this thought experiment is to bring out the normative force of the value of fairness, the need to keep our biases in check, and the importance of thinking of the other when determining the distribution of the benefits and burdens of social cooperation. It is, undoubtedly, one of the most basic questions of morality that we are called to deliberate upon: what we owe to each other — not just in such blighted circumstances as these but, by extension, in normal conditions as well. Kept behind the veil of ignorance but capable of reasoning, we might perhaps think that the most rational thing to do is opt for a system that has free healthcare for all and where the most vulnerable are protected. We might pick a system that has universally affordable education, which instructs people in the value of democratic rights and how we are inescapably bound up with each other — as this pandemic has laid bare for us — and how until we all are healthy and protected, including the animals with whom we share this planet, none of us is safe. A time to rethink Divested of our biases, chances are we would think it rational to have a just system in place which, besides ensuring that the most basic rights and liberties are guaranteed to all, doesn’t allow for egregious inequalities to persist; a political system where the well-being and dignity of everyone is ensured. This isn’t a perfect utopia that exists purely in the realm of the imagination, impossible to be fully put in practice, but a fairly reasonable political arrangement to ask for. It is, simply, a system that is undergirded by fair principles of justice. This is probably the kind of social covenant we would choose and trust. This thought experiment can also serve as a moment of reflection about how we have ended up here, with a system of such patent injustices where the needs of just a few are prioritised, and where leaders like Boris Johnson and Donald Trump and our own can show such extreme callousness towards the life and health of people and not be held to account for it. As the pandemic rips through the globe, it is time to rethink how we want to live as collective political communities, and what values and norms should govern our socio-economic and political institutions. It is certainly time to ask bigger questions about how we want to live together. Although Kant warned, “Out of the crooked timber of humanity, no straight thing was ever made,” it doesn’t and shouldn’t mean that we settle for whatever shabby and unscrupulous system is thrust upon us without making an effort to better our condition. As we struggle, Rawls’ ideas can serve both during this crisis and in its aftermath as, if not the end point, at least the beginning of a search for a more just and humane society. The Kashmir-based writer has a Ph.D. in Political Science and is working on a book tentatively titledMorality and Political Violence: Understanding the Kashmir Conflict.  How have we drifted from having a ‘market economy’ to becoming a ‘market society’ — a society where everything is up for sale? Is there a way out of this?
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Ministry of forest clearances||Dibang Valley in Arunachal Pradesh has a decidedly other-worldly feel. “ Yeh kaunsi duniya hai ,” my colleague exclaimed as we climbed the towering mountains — home to the endemic goat-antelope Mishmi takin, the ‘bright-eyed’ butterfly Callerebia dibangensis, and the Mishmi wren-babbler. I had read about the cultural practices of the Idu Mishmi community in the valley — taboos around hunting species such as the endangered hoolock gibbon, for instance — but there was so much more to learn here. The Imu-Aamra story on the strong cultural connection between humans and tigers, for instance, is reflected in the recent ecological finding of there being more tigers in Dibang Valley than other tiger reserves in Arunachal Pradesh. Or the practice where the Idu Mishmi people are buried with a seed kitty of many different seeds, to feed the souls of the departed on their long journey and to ensure they have seeds to grow in the afterlife. As a wildlife biologist, I also found research that shows how the Idu Mishmi land tenure system and nature-based practices may well have created multiple habitat mosaics that allow different species to thrive in these community-owned forest lands. This ecologically and culturally rich valley is also the site of a proposed 3,097 MW Etalin dam, one of the country’s largest proposed hydropower projects. The project was brought up for green clearance during a virtual conference held on April 23 by the Forest Advisory Committee (FAC), confoundingly, in the middle of the COVID-19 lockdown. Views of the region’s residents are split, but the ecological costs of this project will involve the construction of two large gravity dams, diversion tunnels, penstock pipes, an underground powerhouse, and a road network of over 50 km, involves the felling of 2.8 lakh trees, some almost 8 metres in girth, and submerging over 1,178 ha of land. The phase, which will last a minimum of seven years, will involve mining, quarrying, slope undercutting, and muck disposal. Saving Dibang This rush to clear the project during the pandemic is a departure from what the FAC itself stated in 2017: that “the land in which the project is proposed is in pristine forests with riverine growth that once cut cannot be replaced.” The news of the virtual clearance has unleashed public outrage. There are online campaigns with hashtags #StopEtalinSaveDibang and #SaveArunachalBiodiversity; songs, poems, letters and short films with voices from the Idu Mishmi community have been shared on social media; several scientists have written to FAC opposing the project. As this goes to press, FAC has asked for comments from the Ministry of Power, the National Tiger Conservation Authority, and the wildlife division of the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change. Virtual problem The Etalin dam is just one of more than 30 proposals that have been cleared or discussed over virtual meetings during the lockdown by India’s highest advisory bodies on wildlife — the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) and FAC. The proposals affect 15 tiger reserves, sanctuaries, eco-sensitive zones, wildlife corridors, and other forest areas. The projects include a coal mining proposal in Dehing Patkai Elephant Reserve in Assam, a highway through Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary in Goa, a limestone mine in the eco-sensitive zone of Gir National Park, and a geotechnical investigation in the Sharavathi Lion-Tailed Macaque Sanctuary in Karnataka. A report in The Hindu quoted a meeting participant as saying, “In a virtual conference, it’s difficult to scrutinise maps that show the location of the proposed projects. There was also no occasion to ask questions of officials for clarifications.” On May 12, a week after the minutes of the Dibang meeting were released, a group of 291 scientists and allied conservation professionals wrote to the Environment Minister, Prakash Javadekar, about the manner in which forest and environment clearances were being granted across India during the lockdown, and requested the Ministry to carry out its intended mandate, “which is the protection of India’s forests, wildlife and natural heritage and not fast-track clearance of projects.” Site inspections are “a crucial component of project evaluation,” the letter said, and they are difficult to conduct during a pandemic. The scientists added that the Ministry “appears to be relying only on digital documents uploaded by project developers” during video conference calls, which is a departure from the Supreme Court’s guidelines in the Lafarge judgment. During lockdown, public hearings are also difficult to organise and communities that are likely to be affected by the projects may not be able to give their consent officially “or take legal recourse as is their right”. The signatories requested that “the implementation of decisions taken by the NBWL via video conferencing be held in abeyance until pandemic-related travel restrictions are lifted to allow in-person meetings and travel to project sites for fresh appraisals following due process.” To make matters worse, the time spent on expert appraisal committee meetings — which usually last an entire day (and are still inadequate) — have now been packed into two hours. The signatories pointed out that such appraisals and assessments are reduced to an “empty formality”. Kishor Rithe, founder of Satpuda Foundation, and one of the signatories, said granting clearance to any project within a protected area or eco-sensitive zone should be the last resort, given that protected areas cover only 4% of the country’s total geographical area. It is therefore critical to check the authenticity of information provided by project proponents, which includes the status of forest land, notifications, maps, and court orders, and the verification of these through site inspections. “If projects are screened seriously, 40% of the proposals put up in every NBWL meeting would require a site inspection, which is not possible through video-conferencing,” said Rithe, a former NBWL member. Forests in peril Meanwhile, the forests of the Western Ghats in my home State of Goa, which inspired me to become a wildlife biologist, are also in peril. In December 2019, the newly constituted State Wildlife Advisory Board met for approximately an hour and discussed many projects, including a railway line, a transmission line and a highway expansion proposal that would affect the Bhagwan Mahavir Wildlife Sanctuary, known for the spectacular Dudhsagar waterfalls and richly biodiverse evergreen forests in the middle of the Western Ghats. Two of these projects — the transmission line and the highway, which will require the felling of at least 91 ha of forest — were cleared during the lockdown. Roads and power lines are known to fragment habitats, impacting flora and fauna in incalculable ways. The habitat where these projects are proposed have a newly discovered dragonfly species. There may have also been an elephant movement route between Dandeli and Goa, with tigers and leopards also likely to move through this area. While there are eight or nine underpasses proposed for wildlife, there is little information on where these will be constructed, and even less is known about their scientific efficacy. Ironically enough, a few days after the Centre cleared these proposals virtually, Goa’s chief minister shared a camera trap picture of a black panther captioned “A great glimpse of Goa’s rich wildlife.” Even more ironically, these projects have been cleared at a time when COVID-19 has revealed dramatically how seriously the loss of forest land and biodiversity can increase zoonotic diseases. In Dibang Valley, anthropologists tell us how the Idu Mishmi people manage their forests: animals, fish and trees are the property of the Higher Spirits and people must seek their permission before using them. Perhaps the Environment Ministry could learn a lesson or two from here. The author is a researcher working on the human dimensions of wildlife management.  Site inspections are “a crucial component of project evaluation,” and are difficult to conduct during a pandemic. Scientists say that the Ministry “appears to be relying only on digital documents uploaded by project developers”   During lockdown, public hearings are also difficult to organise and communities likely to be affected by the projects may not be able to give their consent officially “or take legal recourse as is their right”
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Image and reality of a conflict||On June 9, 1967, the fifth day of Israel’s war on Arab countries, the UN Security Council passed Resolution 235, demanding an ‘immediate’ ceasefire. The Council asked the Secretary-General to report back on the resolution’s enforcement within two hours. A young Rashid Khalidi, whose father worked at the UN, was at the organisation’s office in New York when the deliberations were under way. After the two-hour deadline, as there was still no compliance from Israel, the Security Council adjourned for two hours. When he met his father, Khalidi asked him why there was a delay. The American Ambassador at the UN, Arthur Goldberg, wanted to consult with his government. “How much consultation was needed to impose a ceasefire resolution?” was Khalidi’s doubt. “With a strange bitter smile, my father responded dispassionately in Arabic. ‘Don’t you understand? The Americans are giving the Israelis a little more time’,” writes Khalidi in his latest book, The Hundred Years’ War on Palestine: A History of Settler Colonial Conquest and Resistance.  The war came to an end the next day. And the UNSC could do nothing for the immediate enforcement of its resolution. This support the U.S. offered to Israel continues, argues Khalidi in the book. Before the U.S., there was the British empire that favoured Zionism. With the support of imperial powers — first Great Britain and then the U.S. — Zionists established their settler colonial state in Palestine. For Khalidi, this is at the heart of the Israel-Palestine problem. Khalidi, a scion of a leading Palestinian family and one of the world’s foremost scholars of Palestinian history, has launched a no-holds-barred attack on political Zionism in the book. Often provocative, sharp and insightful, Khalidi’s account, rich with interesting historical anecdotes and personal history, stretches from the Balfour Declaration of 1917 to U.S. President Donald Trump’s decision to recognise Jerusalem as Israel’s capital in 2017. There were six declarations of war on Palestinians during this time. The first is the Balfour Declaration, issued by British Foreign Secretary Arthur Balfour, which supported the “establishment in Palestine of a national home for the Jewish people.” The second is the declaration of the state of Israel in 1948 and the subsequent Arab-Israeli war and the attacks on the Arab population in the newly created Israel, which resulted in Nakba (catastrophe), the displacement of about 7,00,000 people. The third is the Security Council Resolution 242, which was passed after the 1967 war. The resolution did not only recognise, indirectly though, Israel’s occupation of Palestinian territories before the war but also linked any withdrawal from the territories Israel took during the war to peace treaties. No wonder, Israel continues to occupy most of the territories it captured in 1967, except the Sinai Peninsula and the blockaded Gaza Strip. The fourth declaration of war was Israel’s attack on Lebanon in 1982 to oust the Palestinian Liberation Organisation (PLO) from the country. The fifth declaration was the Oslo Accords, which co-opted the Palestinian military and political leadership into the settler colonial scheme, while leaving the Palestinians in tiny enclaves that were eventually controlled by Israel. The sixth was Ariel Sharon’s visit to the Haram esh-Sharif (Temple Mount) in 2000, which triggered the Second Intifada. Settler colonialism The survival of settler colonialism is dependent on its ability to oust or oppress colonised people. Nakba was not an accident. If the goal of political Zionism was to create a Jewish state, it was imperative that a large section of the local population should be driven out. Throughout the history of Israel’s colonialism, Zionists tried to wipe away Palestinian resistance, argues Khalidi, but with little success. In the initial two decades after the state of Israel was formed, the Palestinian resistance was muted. But after the 1967 war, in which Israel defeated its Arab neighbours in six days, the focus would shift from Arab opposition to Palestinian national resistance. As Ahmad Samih Khalidi noted in an essay in the Cairo Review of Global Affairs , “A central paradox of 1967 is that by defeating the Arabs, Israel resurrected the Palestinians.” What went wrong Khalidi doesn’t mince words in criticising the Palestinian leadership, which he thinks failed to channelise the impassioned resistance of the Palestinian people. But he says the resistance movement in general didn’t succumb to the myriad challenges it faced. A comment, which was, perhaps mistakenly, attributed to Ben Gurion — “The old will die and the young will forget” — captures Israel’s approach towards the Palestinians, Khalidi notes. But Palestinians defied it — the young continued to remember. “The Palestinians’ resistance, their persistence, and their challenge to Israel’s ambitions are among the most striking phenomena of the current era,” writes Khalidi.  The Hundred Years’ War on Palestine: A History of Settler Colonial Conquest and Resistance Rashid Khalidi Hachette  Rs. 599
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Ideas for the 19th tranche of relief||You must be thrilled with the government’s Rs. 20 lakh crore COVID-19 Relief Package. The FM has, for reasons unknown, stopped at the fifth tranche of the historic package. A highly placed government source tells me the overall plan is for a total of 19 tranches (since it’s for COVID-19). Of these, 18 tranches have already been finalised. But work is yet to start on the 19th one. Apparently, the ministry used up its last tranche of ideas in the 18th tranche, and now they are stuck. Tell you what, I’m happy to help. Coming up with packages is an old hobby of mine. At this time of national crisis, the least I can do is offer my ideas free of charge. All I ask in return is that, when the FM unveils my ideas at the 19th press briefing, as a courtesy to me, she makes the following announcement: “All the ideas for the 19th tranche have been contributed by India’s leading journalist, humanitarian, and all-round genius who humbly wishes to remain anonymous in this difficult time.” So, here we go.  Pradhan Mantri Vegetable Cart Overturning Yojana (PM-COY): Rs. 80,000 crore  • The PM-COY is India’s biggest COVID-19 success story. Policemen across India overturned 38,972 vegetable carts in March — 10,000% more than any other country. This number rose to 65,786 in April, and in May, already 96,456 carts have been overturned. In all, 7.4 lakh tonnes of vegetables and 3 million livelihoods have been successfully destroyed in less than three months. • Now we propose a special credit line of Rs. 80,000 crore to further enhance state capacity in overturning the carts of vegetable vendors.  Migrant Workers: Special Measures During COVID-19  • During the lockdown period, special skilling programmes will be undertaken to train cops on the art and science of beating up migrant workers. • A special fund of Rs. 5,000 crore to be created for purchase of new lathis to replace lathis worn-out from beating migrant workers. • Special liquidity scheme for State governments that ensure zero transportation for migrants seeking desperately to return to their homes.  Surveillance Infrastructure Initiatives: Rs. 9.8 lakh crore  • Surveillance is the lynchpin of India’s COVID-19 strategy. The newly launched Aiyogya Setu will track your every move and report directly to India’s top stalkers. • We propose a special Marketing and Publicity Fund of Rs. 6.7 lakh crore to counter the negative publicity against Aiyogya Setu.  Incentives for Doctors and Medical Workers: Rs. 50,000 crore  • The thousands of medical staff at the frontlines of India’s epic battle against COVID-19 need Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Therefore, a special fund of Rs. 20,000 crore will be created to bear the costs of neutralising the PR damage caused to the government and the PM by media reports documenting the lack of availability of PPE.  Promotion of Inter-Galactic Bovine Trade: Rs. 20,000 crore  • Many galaxies in the universe are full of cattle with high milk production capacity. A special Fund of Funds (proposed name: ‘Milky Whey’) will be set up to promote private investment in the dairy sector in deep space. • Incentives to be given for firms that successfully cross-breed Indian cows with alien cows to produce hybrid cows whose effluents retain all the core cultural properties of the desi cow.  Pradhan Mantri Happy Birthday Singing Yojana (PMHBSY): Rs. 30,000 crore  • The COVID-19 lockdown has caused job losses and paycuts for millions, leading to economic uncertainty and soaring stress levels. This could lead to a spike in cardiac problems. So, a special Pradhan Mantri Happy Birthday Singing Yojana (PMHBSY) shall be launched, under which policemen will visit the homes of rich people and sing ‘happy birthday’. This will lower stress levels and make the policemen seem humane and friendly. • Government will provide additional support of Rs. 3,000 crore to encourage cops to learn songs other than ‘Happy birthday to you’ so that they are equipped to take on special requests. Two examples of popular national songs that may be memorised by cops for lockdown singing: ‘ Shaitan ka sala’ and ‘ Tera ghata ’.  New Definition of Freedom of Speech  • There has been a long-pending demand for revision of the definition of ‘freedom of speech’. Existing definition has created a fear psychosis among government functionaries, crony capitalists, and all kinds of low life in high posts. • The government, therefore, proposes to redefine ‘right to freedom of expression’ as “the right to praise the government, its representatives, allies, and propagandists”. • Any exercise of free speech that makes the government look like an idiot, regardless of whether or not the government has acted idiotically, will attract charges of sedition, UAPA, MCOCA, LEE IACOCCA, etc. • 100,000 Free Speech prisons shall be built across the country to lock down (pun unintended) journalists, activists, and ordinary citizens who violate the revised definition of ‘free speech’. 85% of the corpus of PM-SCARES shall be allocated for this purpose.  A special Fund of Funds will be set up to promote private investment in the dairy sector in deep space
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Art for artist’s sake||I’m sure I’m like a lot of people; I love looking at art, but I’m not always sure whether I’m getting it. Am I seeing what the artist intended? “I’m going to let you in on a little secret about looking at art. What you see is what you’re supposed to see.” That’s the reassuring voice of Tamar Avishai, host ofThe Lonely Palette, an art history podcast that aims to “take art history back to the masses, one object at a time”. In the course of four years and just under fifty episodes, Avishai has set up close encounters with objets d’art, from the familiar ‘Mona Lisa’ to Andy Warhol’s ‘Red Disaster’ to Katsushika Hokusai’s ‘The Great Wave Off Kanagawa’. Each episode begins with the voices of museum goers, whose descriptions and reactions sound much like our own. A child visiting the Louvre, for instance, describes the museum’s most famous painting: “It’s a woman sitting... um... (laughs) it kinda looks creepy... she’s staring right at you.” And that breaks it down, right there, the mystique around great art. Using the voices of museum-goers to open the podcast serves to make Avishai’s point that if the art is in a museum, it is meant for everyone. A degree in art history brought Tamar Avishai to the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, where she gave short “spotlight talks” on selected museum exhibits. She realised there was a huge audience out there that had a desire to understand art but didn’t know where to start — and so was bornThe Lonely Palette. In each episode Avishai expertly leads the listener from the specific piece of art to the larger context within which the art was made, allowing you to look again, with new insight. The Great Wave Take, for instance, the episode featuring Hokusai’s ‘The Great Wave’. The story opens to the sound of the ocean: “I find that these ocean waves carry me away... simultaneously so dramatic and so gentle, an endless cycle of crest and resolve.” The waves continue to wash over us as she leads us to 19th century-Japan, and points us to Hokusai’s iconic print of the enormous wave breaking over the silhouette of Mount Fuji — “an enormously powerful image of an enormously powerful thing”. She traverses the space between the intensely personal experience of taking in a work of art and a more cerebral understanding of its history. “If we stop for a moment and really look, there is so much happening in this print,” she says. A Sunday Afternoon With each episode, Avishai attempts to connect the work of art to larger social, cultural and political movements of the period. So when we look at George Seurat’s ‘A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte’, we not only understand how he used colour and light, but also his take on class difference. Or when Avishai turns to the work of Georgia O’Keeffe or Frida Kahlo, the stories are animated equally by their creative personae as their negotiations with the patriarchy. Old stories for art historians, perhaps, but illuminating for the rest of us. Although Avishai started the podcast because she wanted to be an audio storyteller, the show has had the effect of making her fall in love all over again with art history. And as she engages with each of her subjects, spinning her own spoken-word art, you can’t help feeling some of that love too. The Hyderabad-based writer and academic is a neatnik fighting a losing battle with the clutter in her head.  With each episode, Avishai attempts to connect the work of art to larger social, cultural and political movements of the period
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||How moral panic devastated lives in Maharashtra||Sameena Dalwai is an assistant professor at the Jindal Global Law School, specialising in legal issues connected to the domain of gender and sexuality. Her book, Bans and Bar Girls: Performing Caste in Mumbai’s Dance Bars, draws on several years of experience as a lawyer with human rights organisations in Maharashtra and her doctoral dissertation focusing on a legal ban meant to “curtail the rising visibility and power” of bar dancers. It holds great value for readers interested in economic liberalisation, labour rights, feminist politics and the Dalit movement. “Globalisation in the late 1980s and 1990s facilitated a new market of entertainment as a result of which a dance bar industry emerged in Mumbai,” writes Dalwai, who uses Stanley Cohen’s theory of moral panic to analyse how public opinion was mobilised against women from traditional performing communities “perceived as earning far more money than they ought to.” The ban did not shut down bars. It only prohibited bar girls from dancing to the same Bollywood songs that are considered respectable when they are played at upper caste weddings. Caste capital Dalwai uses the concept of ‘caste capital’ to talk about how women from certain castes were able to use “hereditary skills of dancing, drama and seduction” to acquire money, status and power through their occupation. The ban took away their right to choice of work, reduced their income, and affected their expenditure on food, education and healthcare. Cohen’s theory is well-chosen to help contextualise how dance bars emerged with economic liberalisation, a time with major societal changes that threatened older structures defined by caste and class hierarchies. The function of moral panic at this moment was to try and restore a sense of order through the enforcement of norms and punitive action to contain deviance. While it was alleged that dance bars were breeding grounds for criminal activity, debates around law and order were articulated through the language of morality not illegality. This distinction made by Dalwai is subtle but powerfully expressed. ‘Threat to society’ “In Mumbai, moral panic at the existence and popularity of dance bars was catalysed by influential state and political actors. Those controlling the discourse around dance bars were retired judges, politicians and activists,” writes Dalwai. These people were able to craft a narrative depicting dance bars and bar girls as a threat to society in general, and Maharashtrian culture in particular. They were able to influence the media, and put pressure on the legislature, to make them believe that the bar girls needed to be out of business because they lured supposedly impressionable young men, and wrecked their families. Dalwai’s research is an example of rigorous scholarship. Her fieldwork took place in Mumbai from June 2008 to February 2009. She conducted interviews with various parties linked directly to the ban, thus enriching the reader’s understanding of the issue at hand. She spoke to bar girls, bar owners, and bar staff, politicians, activists, lawyers, police officers, and men who frequented dance bars. Her research also included looking at clippings from Marathi and English newspapers, parliamentary debates, petitions to and judgments by the courts, and the differences of opinion between Dalit and upper caste feminist collectives. Dalwai interprets the moral panic as a manifestation of “Brahminical patriarchy, and its hegemonic ideas of women’s chastity and sexuality,” which pits the ‘good’ wife against the ‘bad’ other woman. Upper caste men are conveniently excused from taking any responsibility in a social universe that grants them numerous privileges on account of their gender and caste location. What is more interesting is that “the Maharashtra government encouraged the dance bar market from its inception, regulated it, and earned taxes from it” but actively supported the call for a ban when questions about morality began to be raised. Politicians never fail to surprise. The reviewer is a freelance writer.  Bans and Bar Girls: Performing Caste in Mumbai’s Dance Bars Sameena Dalwai Women Unlimited  Rs. 595
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Moving out, moving on||In 1945, Bengali novelist Sunil Gangopadhyay’s father, a teacher, moved the family to Calcutta from their village home in East Bengal’s Faridpur district in the hope of a better life. The famine of 1943 had crippled the economy of Bengal. As a little boy, Gangopadhyay would witness the communal violence sweeping the streets of Calcutta in 1946, ahead of Independence. The images of riots, famine, loss, exile, stayed with him and found an echo in his books. Two of his most famous novels, Sei Samay (Those Days) and Pratham Alo (First Light), are historical epics, tracing the arc of the Bengal Renaissance from around 1840 to the turn of the 20th century. They are peopled with men and women who had played a role in the birth of the nation.  Rakta (Blood), Gangopadhyay’s short novel from 1973-74, which has now been translated into English, starts off as a personal story centred on a photograph, which rekindles memories of displacement and the violence associated with colonial times and Partition. In between there are relationships to handle, revenge, murder, and a search for roots, all posing that eternal question: can we forgive, forget and move on from past traumas? It’s 1965, and Tapan, a Bengali who has studied nuclear physics at Berkeley, vows to never return to India. His father and uncle were killed at the hands of the British and he doesn’t want to live in the past. Yet he finds himself going home for a wedding with a stopover in London, where he meets Alice and comes across a photograph of their fathers. This triggers off a nightmarish memory. Clarity comes from his grandmother’s wise words: “Don’t think about those past things ever... Don’t hold on to your grievances.” This sense of forgiving is missing in Tapan’s generation. As Alice tells him: “You and I might forget our mutual hostilities, but until our two countries come much closer, a closeness founded on equality, the people of the two countries will never be in harmony with one another. But that time hasn’t come yet...” Gangopadhyay holds a mirror to the problems of migration, racial discrimination and prejudice. This slim novel resonates even after five decades, as the world closes borders and becomes more divisive.  Blood Sunil Gangopadhyay, trs Debali Mookerjea-Leonard Juggernaut  Rs. 499
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Chats with the sky||Kunwar Narain, renowned Indian poet, critic, thinker, essayist and translator, once described his short fiction as a “romance with reality”. The stories in The Play of Dolls are just that: rich with nuanced observations on modern life presented from multiple perspectives, opening up engaging dialogues with the reader. They cover a range of themes, with elements of fable, folktale, mythology, history and metaphysics woven seamlessly into them. The titular story, one of my favourites in the collection, zooms into a significant moment of human connection in the narrator’s life. Questions about love, fate, god and individual choice abound, but without weighing down the narrative. Most of the stories strike this delicate balance, focusing on individual lives while revealing the universal. In ‘A Fight between Two Men’, Narain inverts the familiar device of anthropomorphising animals, used in, say, the Panchatantra and Aesop’s Fables. Human beings provide amusement and enlightenment to animals in this mesmerising story. Dialogues with animals, with the wind and the sky, or with inanimate objects like a watch, are all par for the course in Narain’s stories. Human beings end up being caged, chained, or trapped in stacks of files and office cabinets, posing the question: how does one survive in an inhuman world? Questions about the overreach of institutions and systems — the law, bureaucracy, government, codes of morality — and their encroachment into personal lives surface in stories like ‘Fear and ‘The Shirt’ . Taking a humane course of action lands the protagonists in trouble and being human in itself becomes a crime. None of the stories in The Play of Dolls is an easy read. Much like masters of the form such as Kafka and Borges, Narain asks his readers to examine the world with an open mind, stay alert, and continuously reason with themselves as they turn the pages. The reviewer is the author ofA Happy Place And Other Stories.  The Play of Dolls Kunwar Narain, trs John Vater, Apurva Narain  India Penguin Modern Classics  Rs. 399
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||From the road||William Shakespeare’s assertion that names don’t matter, as a rose will smell the same even if called otherwise, makes some sense as names do not necessarily mean what things really are . Names may not always define the nature of a thing but certainly represent historical lineage when referred to a place. As the past matters, it carries the legacy that provides continuity to existence of places. Names provide a sense of purpose and a reason for the place to be, illustrate the struggles and triumphs that a culture has faced and help people discover their identity with the place. Political considerations In present times when names of places and roads are being swapped to align with political allegiance of a kind, Mapping Place Names of India asserts that a ‘place is neither just a site, nor people, politics or culture, but a chemistry between all this and much more, which creates the soul of a place’. What is right in theory is not necessarily true in practice though. Else, names would not have been subjected to change for a variety of inexplicable reasons. While Mughalsarai, a place of resting on a long journey during the Mughal period, had to forego its popular identity, and has been renamed Deen Dayal Upadhyay Junction, Ghaziabad , so called after its founder Ghazi-ud-din, has continued to skip attention. Is it political traction that determines the urge for a name change? In a first of its kind book that charts the terrain of place as a phenomenon, Anu Kapur investigates how places are named and renamed, and explains why it will continue to remain a never-ending process as the quest for carving a new sub-national identity erupts from time to time. From Sanskritisation of place names to its Persianisation, and from its subsequent Englishisation to Anglicisation in recent times, names of places in each era have revolved around cultural identity and political influence. Geography and history  Mapping Place Names of India is a comprehensive account of the geography and history of place names. It is an interesting read and loaded with rich information, like the evolution of sub-national identities in the country. It is an intriguing subject, as not one size fits all when it comes to demand for changing names. While there is no denying that cultural reclamation under political influence is a primary reason for name change, the failure of promised development triggers the search for a new identity to enforce attention from the powers-that-be as well. Kapur unleashes interest in topophilia — the love of, and love for, a place — in her book. She laments that this multi-disciplinary branch of knowledge has yet to emerge as a subject for the lack of scholars committed to research on place names. How new names evolve may remain a matter of conjecture, but left to people they still prefer cultural vibrancy and economic progress as new markers for sub-national identities. The reviewer is an independent writer, researcher and academic.  Mapping Place Names of India Anu Kapur Routledge India  Rs. 695
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1On May 24, 1830, this nursery rhyme was first published by a Boston publishing firm. It was a poem composed by a New Hampshire teacher, Sarah Josepha Hale, when one of her students brought her pet to class. She had to send the pet out, but it waited and the student ran to it after class. She used the incident to convey a moral to the class — ‘And you each gentle animal, In confidence may bind, And make them answer to your call, If you are always kind.’ What rhyme came from this? 2In 1806, at the age of 23, Jane Taylor wrote a poem for a book of nursery rhymes which she and her sister published. A few decades earlier, Mozart had composed a piano piece called Twelve Variations on ‘Ah vous dirai-je, Maman’, the melody of which is known for being easy to memorise. Soon Taylor’s poem was sung in this melody. The penultimate verse is ‘In the dark blue sky you keep, And often thro’ my curtains peep, For you never shut your eye, Till the sun is in the sky.’ Which rhyme is this that is still sung in Mozart’s melody? 3In 1951, this rhyme became the first to be digitally saved and played on a computer. First seen in print in 1731, it is also sung in the same previously mentioned Mozart tune. One theory for the rhyme is that it was a complaint against taxes levied on the trade of a popular commodity in Medieval England, especially since this particular produce, because of its colour, could be used without dyeing. Which rhyme is this? 4This rhyme has been known since the 18th century but the two characters mentioned have been known since the 16th century. Shakespeare mentions both of them in Love’s Labour’s Lost and in A Midsummer Night’s Dream referring to them as a romantic couple (basically a version of Romeo & Juliet). The rhyme doesn’t make sense as what the characters intend to do is usually not found where they are going to do it. What rhyme is this and what is the issue with it? 5This is one of the most famous rhymes and has been known since 18th century. The name of the character was slang for a short and clumsy person and the rhyme was initially a riddle that asked what would happen if this person had an accident. Interestingly, there is no mention of the character ever being anything but human, though we all think he is a fragile daily item. What rhyme is this and who is the character? 6This is a rhyme about a landmark which can be dated all the way back to 1636. It is generally thought to relate to the many difficulties experienced in bridging the River Thames. It could also be about the destruction of the landmark by the Vikings in 1014 or by the fire of 1633. What rhyme is this that is the code word for an unfortunate but inevitable incident? 7This counting-out rhyme was first recorded in 1805 and had five more lines than we are familiar with. The lines start with numerals and end with a rhyming word for the second numeral. Which rhyme is this whose last line is ‘My plate’s empty’? 8This popular rhyme is actually a lullaby which is a variant of a 1688 tune ‘Lillibullero’. Though the rhyme literally sounds like a dangerous activity is happening, it actually refers to the fact that in a gentle breeze the upper portions of trees sway gently (when a mother carries her child) and once the aim of the lullaby is achieved she can put the child down in its crib. Which rhyme is this? 9First published in the 1600s this rhyme follows the adventures of a group of naughty animals who seek adventure. The version we are familiar with unfortunately ends with a barbaric act. In the original, the story ends with the farmer’s wife using a tonic to regrow their lost appendages and abilities, and eventually learn to become carpenters and live happily ever after. What rhyme is this? 10This rhyme was first printed in 1917 and it even has versions performed by Frank Sinatra, Elvis Presley, Bing Crosby and deadmau5. It is usually a cumulative rhyme where the words used in the previous verses are added to subsequent verses. The rhyme is usually taught to children to teach them about how livestock communicate. What rhyme is this in which you also have to spell out three vowels in the first two lines? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Free for all||In his essay My Gentle Readers , P.G. Wodehouse says: “I have often felt a little sorry for writers like Cicero who operated in the days before the post office came into existence. For, as everybody knows, an author’s success can be estimated by the number of letters he receives from readers.” If Wodehouse lives today, will he be sorry for the writers who operated in the days before the advent of e-mail and social media? He couldn’t have even imagined that a day would come when letters will be delivered the moment they are sent. The problem is what to believe and what not to, as social media are awash with fake, flawed and skewed news and views, and absolute falsity. They make you credulous and frivolous, especially in these days of corona fear and lockdown. It seems that social media killed in-depth reading and desecrated reading into “browsing”. Many people browse everything superfluous, get accurate knowledge about nothing and propagate the half-truths and absolute falsity through their accounts. One such baseless news is that the novel coronavirus has been “cultivated” by the Chinese. As the creator, editor and publisher are the same persons, they can post any stupidity according to their frivolous and credulous nature. Hence, social media have virtually become a social menace. People don’t try to see the veracity of what they are posting or sharing. On various platforms, we can see utter nonsense posted and propagated as great discoveries of “truth”. The other day, I saw such a post saying earth is not round but flat and there is nothing called the force of gravity. The person calls such proven facts conspiracy theories. You can use social media to spread all kinds of nonsense; you can instigate violence against the vulnerable by posting rumours as facts on social media; you can aggravate communal and caste animosities by posting biased views and you can use social media to strengthen the age-old gender stereotypes. The deadly virus forces the world to practise social distancing, but social media has already pushed us into an era of social distancing. We are far from the people around us. We lost social intimacy as social media converted us into islands. Social media put an end to social mingling. We converse with our next-door neighbour on WhatsApp. In the family, each member is an island. I don’t think Wodehouse will be sorry for the writers like him who operated in the pre-social media era. lscvsuku@gmail.com
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Only experts||We know, we know. You would have led the ace of diamonds and given partner a diamond ruff. But you’re a great player and these were only experts. South won the opening heart lead with the ace and ruffed a heart in dummy. He then cashed the ace of clubs and ruffed a club, followed by cashing the ace of spades. Declarer then led the diamond king to West’s ace, and West returned a diamond to South’s queen. South exited with a low spade to West, who played his last safe exit card, a club. South ruffed the club, cashed the king of spades, and led a spade to West. West, down to only diamonds, had to put dummy on play and allow South to enjoy the established diamonds. Making four after a well-played hand. It’s possible that a different North would panic after the double and bid four no trump for the minors, leading to a five-diamond contract by South. Oddly, it would also take a diamond lead to defeat that contract. On a heart lead, South would win, lead club to the ace, and ruff a club in his hand. A heart ruff back to dummy would allow another club ruff. South would ruff another heart in dummy and lead the jack of diamonds. West, with nothing left except spades and diamonds, would eventually be forced to win his second diamond trick and lead a spade into dummy’s ace-king-jack. We know, we know. You would have led a diamond against this contract also.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Hello again, American Pie||The third episode of Mindy Kaling’s coming-of-age Netflix dramedy Never Have I Ever begins with a very well thought-out moment that plays out entirely in silence. (without spoken words anyway, but the scene is scored to upbeat pop). Fifteen-year-old Devi Vishwakumar (Maitreyi Ramakrishnan) and her friends Fabiola Torres (Lee Rodriguez) and Eleanor Wong (Ramona Young) are shooting a TikTok video in form-hugging red dresses — but in the middle of the video, we see Devi’s mother Nalini (Poorna Jagannathan) appear in the background, visibly scolding her daughter. Moments later, Devi reappears, this time with a white T-shirt underneath the dress. No dialogue was needed to put the point across — we (especially Indians) understand the cultural dissonance between Devi and her young friends in the 60-second sequence. It’s what good TV writing does on a regular basis. It’s what keeps viewers clicking that ‘next episode’ button.  Never Have I Ever has dozens of smartly executed moments like these, but unfortunately for Kaling and her clearly hard-working cast of young actors, this promise is ultimately squandered by lazy writing, hackneyed Indian-American tropes and, let’s face it, a premise that feels at least 20 years too late. Here’s the lowdown: 15-year-old Devi loses her father Mohan (the criminally hot Sendhil Ramamurthy who hasn’t aged a day since Heroes , which was over a decade ago) to a heart attack that happens in front of the whole school. The trauma leaves Devi wheelchair-bound — before the sight of hunky high-school swimmer and her perennial crush Paxton (Darren Barnet) makes her stand up unassisted. This moment is a mini-indicator of the show’s biggest weakness: the fact that Devi, a smart young girl with a strong, loving mother, loyal friends, and a very wise therapist, still somehow believes that having sex will make her cool. Old-school banging Devi Ramakrishnan’s character is let down by this severely outdated central motivation: sex as the fast lane to popularity and high-school coolness. (“I just want him to be a stone-cold hottie who can rock me all night long.”) As Devi tells her fellow nerds, “idiots are banging all the time and we’re smart”. The problem is, ‘geeky virgin tries to lose virginity at all costs’ has been pretty much done to death, thanks to the American Pie movies of the 90s and The Big Bang Theory a decade ago. Which isn’t to say that high-school students today have a uniformly healthy equation with sex — I mean, 13 Reasons Why , anyone? — but these kids really, really do not have Devi’s aw-shucks-who’s-gonna-shag-me obsession anymore. All of which is a shame because Never Have I Ever does bring representation and a certain post-Twitter-era whimsy to the table — the cutesy device of John McEnroe narrating each episode (and the moment when we learn why) is a case in point. Devi’s high-school milieu in Sherman Oaks, California, inspired by Kaling’s own 90s childhood in Boston, is depicted with quick, funny and sensitive character sketches, like the history teacher who tries too hard and finishes lectures with a dab (Ramakrishnan apparently ended her audition to play Devi with a dab, too). Fabiola, one of Devi’s two best friends, is genuinely funny and endearing and she receives a heartwarming story arc as she realises her attraction towards Eve (Christina Kartchner, who looks like a dead ringer for teenaged Ruby Rose). Other problems that restrain Never Have I Ever include the character of Kamala, Devi’s cousin living with them while finishing her Ph.D. at Caltech. For starters, Kamala’s (Richa Moorjani) accent is so over-the-top it would put some considerably shittier 90s Indian diaspora films to shame. And the way her love life is treated by the writers is borderline manipulative. Sneakily traditional At a family function, Kamala hears a cautionary tale from a divorced Indian relative (Aarti Mann, who played Priya Koothrapalli in The Big Bang Theory ) who says it’s better to marry the man your parents choose. As if on cue, we soon meet Prashant, the unrealistically sorted-out man who Kamala’s parents want her to marry. Between Prashant’s supermodel looks, notably un-Indian temperance, and even more un-Indian acceptance of Kamala’s sexual history, I couldn’t help but think this was Kaling’s sneaky way of giving arranged marriage (and by extension, caste endogamy) the thumbs-up. Trust me, the average Indian boy is not at all haha-heehee about his bride-to-be sleeping with other men (white men at that, because insecurity plus race anxiety is what Indian-American women are usually dealing with). For all of these issues, Never Have I Ever does get noticeably better in the last two-three episodes. Devi’s season-long arc with her arch-rival, the unfortunately named Ben Gross, comes to a satisfactory conclusion. We finally see her mother Nalini as an individual with her own fears and motivations. Hell, even John McEnroe gets an episode off, passing the narrator’s hat to the ever-adorable Andy Samberg from Brooklyn Nine-Nine . And so Kaling displays the promise of a vastly better second season — for there certainly is a second season in the offing; the show’s overwhelming mainstream success (it became the global number one show for Netflix during the week it was released) has seen to that. I just hope that next time around, Kaling keeps the clichés down to the minimum — and maybe asks Devi what she really wants out of her life, you know, apart from getting laid. The writer and journalist is working on his first book of non-fiction.  Kamala’s accent is so over-the-top that it would put some considerably shittier 90s Indian diaspora films to shame. And the way her love life is treated by the writers is borderline manipulative
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||A plateful of warm gestures||Many moons ago in Ankara, I visited a restaurant on the outskirts of the city. Inscribed at its entrance were these words: “Dear diners, if you’re not happy with the food at our restaurant, just let the server/ manager know that the food is not up to your expectations and you won’t be required to pay. We’ll not ask you any questions.” I entered the restaurant, had a scrumptious meal, scribbled a note of thanks in Turkish, paid and returned to India. Later I came to know that the food served at this restaurant was so good that no one had ever complained. In Algiers, I was not happy with the Soupe au Pistou (vegetable soup) served at a French restaurant. I casually jotted down “Just passable” in the visitors’ book, along with my name, e-mail ID and cellphone number. After a few days, the restaurant manager sent a mail of regret and asked for my bank details to return the amount I paid. Apprehensive, I did not share my bank details. After a couple of years, I returned to that restaurant. The manager was there. He recognised me and welcomed me with warmth. This time, the food was good. He accepted no money and gifted me a very expensive wristwatch which I still use. Certain little gestures of goodness shown by friends, strangers and even foes at times stay with you and egg you on to reciprocate.  sumitmaclean@hotmail.com
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Life is a giant wheel||Respected Madam/ Sir,  Living in India means what? Means nonstop headache. Suddenly suddenly one new headache will come like East India Company or Corona or something. Then next 10-15 years all peace of mind gone. One Mr. George in Andheri branch used to say, “Mathrubootham, sometimes peace of mind is there, sometimes mind is in pieces.” It is a very powerful thought. Where is Mr. George these days? No idea. Last when we met? Maybe 2004 for one marriage in Coimbatore. Madam/ Sir, I will tell one story. Maybe story is from 1980s or 1990s. I had gone to Andheri branch for training purposes. Morning we will do training. Then lunch break. Then more training. Then evening I will do some tourism activities. One day Mr. George and myself is explaining computerisation to employees from Maharashtra rural branches. After lunchtime, we are waiting and waiting but where is Mr. George? Those days no mobile phone also. After one hour I got tension. Maybe some underworld problem? But training manager said, “Leave it Mathrubootham. Take solo class.” So we are sitting in first floor and doing training. Suddenly Mr. George is passing by outside window. Whole group of employees looking as if Amitabh Bachchan is passing. But how come he is passing by window on first floor? Whether he is in double decker bus? Never. You will not believe Madam/ Sir, but Mr. George went to nearby one hotel for lunchtime sandwich. Suddenly he saw nearby one park with carnival type atmosphere and one giant wheel. Mr. George decided to go on ride. Wheel is going up. Mr. George is going up. Then giant wheel motor is breaking down. People are calling fire brigade and police and all. Meanwhile Mr. George is screaming help, help, like anything. Did he finish sandwich? I don’t know. Then fire brigade is bringing ladder but door is still not opening. So giant wheel proprietor is telling Mr. George, “Sir you please sit inside and relax. I am taking giant wheel to nearby workshop. We will remove door and you can escape. Please no tension. Today onwards lifetime free rides for you.” So he put giant wheel behind one jeep and towed it to workshop. On top Mr. George is sitting quietly and seeing the scenery. When he is in passing by Andheri Branch, we said, “Hello, Mr. George, hello, hello, what happened.” He is just looking blankly with shame and sandwich. Old time stories. These days possible? No chance. Too much rules and all. What I was saying before George story? Correct. Latest headache. Latest headache is Zoom calls. Every day Mrs. Mathrubootham is organising Zoom call. Morning call with son in the U.S. Lunch call with family in Nagercoil. Teatime call with brother in Singapore. Night Zoom call with Ladies Club members. Madam/ Sir, you are thinking maybe why is Mr. Mathrubootham always complaining? I will tell you why. Because every Zoom call means I have to clean the house for background to look beautiful. Mrs. M will say, “Old man, Zoom is there in dining room. Please clear the table.” Two hours later she will say, “Old man, Zoom call is in living room, whether this is living room or Koyambedu market?” Madam/ Sir, right now Zoom call is going on in living room. But I am in the balcony arranging plants and putting showpiece on the table for evening Zoom call. After that Mrs. Mathrubootham has said, please sit quietly in bedroom. Do not disturb. So I will sit in bedroom and eat potato chips and wait. Like Mr. George in giant wheel. Yours in exasperation, J. Mathrubootham
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Spit decision||An ICC cricket committee headed by Anil Kumble recommended a ban on the use of saliva to shine the ball when matches resume, as the coronavirus is easily transmitted through spit. Sweat may still be used, it ruled. The ICC’s board, which is to convene by video conference on May 28, is likely to ratify this and other measures — like allowing home umpires instead of neutral ones due to ongoing travel bans.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Laid low||Cab aggregator Ola said it would lay off 1,400 staffers — over a third of its workforce — after its revenues dropped dramatically during the pandemic-driven lockdown. Food delivery platform Swiggy also announced that it would lay off 1,100 employees. Last week, Swiggy’s top competitor, the Gurugram-based Zomato, said it would let go of 13% of its staff.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Lockdown breather||Thanks to lockdowns imposed the world over in response to the pandemic, global carbon emissions have plummeted. A study published in the journalNature Climate Changefound that daily emissions of the greenhouse gas had fallen by 17% in early April when compared with the previous year. But these changes are likely to be temporary, the paper noted.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Sequel scenes||Filmmaker Steven Soderbergh has used the lockdown to finish writing a sequel to his famous 1989 filmSex, Lies, And Videotape. “When the lockdown happened here in New York, in order to stay organised and sane, I decided I’m gonna write,” said Soderbergh.Sex, Lies, And Videotapepremiered at the 1989 Cannes Film Festival and won the Palme d’Or. The director is also famous forOcean’s Eleven,Full Frontal, andOut of Sight.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Distance death||Singapore put the increasingly ubiquitous Zoom video conferencing service to a more macabre use when a judge sentenced a man to death over a video call. Punithan Ganesan, a 37-year-old Malaysian, had been convicted of trafficking heroin — and Singapore is one of four countries that retains the death penalty for drug-related offences. Human rights groups condemned the manner of sentencing as callous.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Bus mess||Priyanka Gandhi Vadra’s offer of buses for stranded migrants descended into an imbroglio and was eventually withdrawn, with hundreds of buses turned back from the Rajasthan border. The U.P. government had accepted the offer, but then found fault with the vehicles, since they included three-wheelers and ambulances. Vadra claimed that if the buses had run, about 72,000 people would have reached their homes.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||WHO vs. Trump||U.S. President Donald Trump threatened to pull out of the World Health Organisation and freeze all funding if it didn’t “commit to major substantive improvements” within 30 days. The U.S. is currently WHO’s biggest financial backer. Subsequently, the World Health Assembly resolved to probe WHO’s response to the pandemic.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Failed shot||In a blow to a leading candidate for a COVID-19 vaccine, it was reported that the one being trialled at Oxford University had failed to prevent the spread of the disease in monkeys. When vaccinated rhesus monkeys were exposed to the virus, they all became infected, though they did not develop pneumonia as unvaccinated monkeys did.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Still rising||Even as India entered the fourth phase of its lockdown — due to end on May 31 — with a string of relaxations and rule changes that permit most economic activity in non-containment zones, COVID-19 cases nationwide surged to cross 1 lakh, with over 39,000 in Maharashtra alone. The country saw more than 5,600 new infections on May 20, the biggest single-day rise thus far.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The Jane Austen Society||Natalie Jenner  St. Martin’s Press $26.99 Just after the Second World War, a group of disparate individuals come together to preserve Jane Austen’s home and legacy in the English village of Chatwin. Each of them struggles with their own traumas, some from the recent war, but they rally together to create the Jane Austen Society.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||All Adults Here||Emma Straub  Riverhead Books $29.00 When Astrid Strick witnesses a school bus accident, she realises she was not quite the parent she thought she’d been to her now-grown children. Is it too late late to set things right? Only Astrid’s granddaughter seems to understand the courage it takes to tell the truth to those you love the most.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Catherine House||Elisabeth Thomas  Custom House $24.74 Catherine House is a school of higher learning which demands that you live completely removed from the outside world for three years. In return, the school promises a future of power and prestige. Ines Murillo gets admitted only to discover that this refuge is more like a gilded prison.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Clap When You Land||Elizabeth Acevedo  Quill Tree Books $16.26 Two sisters, one in the Dominican Republic, the other in New York City, are devastated by the sudden death of their father, whom they idolised. Separated by distance — and Papi’s secrets — the two girls are forced to face a new reality. In the aftermath of loss, they get to know each other.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Checkmate: How the BJP Won and Lost Maharashtra||Sudhir Suryawanshi  Penguin Random House India Rs. 399 A journalist follows the twists and turns of the dramatic political crisis that unfolded as Maharashtra waited for a Chief Minister in 2019. The book unveils the political drama with an overview of the State’s politics in the last few decades.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||From Here to There: The Art and Science of Finding and Losing Our Way||Michael Bond  Harvard University Press Rs. 2,266 How can we walk unfamiliar streets while maintaining a sense of direction? It is the complex mental map in our brains. Bond tells stories, even of early aviators, and surveys the science of human navigation.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Poetry of Belonging: Muslim Imaginings of India 1850–1950||Ali Khan Mahmudabad  Oxford University Press Rs. 1,595 This volume is an exploration of Muslim identity through poetry at a time when the Indian nation state did not exist. Spanning a century from 1850, it looks at cultural traditions, and the changes they have undergone.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3101||Across  1 Become reconciled to US rock band (and what they wear) (4-3-4-2) 8 Averse to walnut oil every now and then (4) 9 Prince Andrew, say, visibly ashamed: it’s a big deal (5,5) 10 Japanese discipline, computing, hard to get to highest point (6) 11 Old drunkards hurl crockery (8) 12 Set off explosive in pursuit of bit of sediment here? (5,4) 14 Scandinavian with some belief in Nordism (4) 15 Fill up with seconds devoured? (4) 16 Times of day when sight wilts almost hazily? (9) 20 Dancing seen around here drunkenly? (4,4) 21 Gestures showing respect; king, on reflection, observed around 50 (6) 23 Timeless, warmer, quiet composition of Britten? (3,7) 24 Comic character landed? Not half (3,1) 25 Feel overwhelmed? Town begged God for release (3,6,4)  Down  1 Almost all German children say ‘thankyou’ at first: most agreeable (7) 2 Primarily, stories concerning imagined fantastical impacts? (3-2) 3 A Hindu god, minutes later, becomes Jewish patriarch (7) 4 Creating barriers, arousing any strong-willed characters (3-5,7) 5 Finally, he with weight on shoulders given time (2,4) 6 Covering up European cuts inGuardian’s leader (9) 7 Afghan people joke about a quiet time (7) 13 Revamped teleprinter, ignoring the French, to decode (9) 15 Informed about Hebrews’ affair (7) 17 According to Spooner, Everyman’s dressed hurriedly (4,3) 18 To make up tale about Khuzdul, for starters — and Sauron, in the end — he did! (7) 19 Shakespearean character, Caliban, quotable to some extent (6) 22 Muse sequester a tourbus? Not entirely (5)
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||The Decline and Rise of Democracy: A Global History from Antiquity to Today||David Stasavage  Princeton University Press Rs. 2,647 A new understanding of how and why early democracy took hold, how modern democracy evolved, and what this teaches about the future. Amidst rising democratic anxieties, it offers lessons on governance.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Blood clots in the lung may be a major cause of COVID-19 deaths||The major fear of COVID-19 infection is the significant fatality associated with it. Even though death from this infection has been relatively low in India and is <1% in Tamil Nadu, given the very large number of people infected, significant numbers continue to die. Based on the data available so far, it is clear that the cause of death in almost all patients is respiratory failure. What is its cause? Unlike what would be expected in a viral infection in the lungs, it is not the pneumonia itself, like in most previous influenza outbreaks, but rather surprisingly it is early and progressive clotting of blood in the lungs (pulmonary thrombosis) which impairs blood supply and gas exchange leading to respiratory failure. This mechanism is supported by several levels of evidence. First, it has been recognised from the very early reports that very high proportions of patients with COVID-19 infection presenting to hospitals had elevated levels of d-dimer, a general marker of thrombosis in blood vessels. Those with highly elevated d-dimer levels were more prone to severe respiratory complications and death. In most of these patients, there are no other sites of thrombosis to explain the raised d-dimer such as the leg veins which is much more common but has only been reported in a few patients late in their illness after they have been in the hospital for several days. Strongest evidence Second, the strongest evidence for this extensive microvascular thrombosis comes from several autopsy studies from different countries. All these have shown extensive blood clots in the small vessels of the lung (microvascular thrombosis - MVT) with only modest evidence of the pneumonia suggesting that it is the blood clots which cause poor oxygenation and respiratory failure. Endothelial cells Third, it is also known now that the receptors on the cells in the air-pockets of the lung which allow entry to the COVID-19 virus into those cells, are shared by the endothelial cells which line the blood vessels of the lung. Autopsy studies have confirmed distinct infection in these cells which then trigger blood clotting in the small blood vessels. If not controlled immediately, this rapidly extends and leads to treatment unresponsive respiratory failure. Fourth, the manifestation of ‘silent pneumonia’ or ‘silent hypoxia’ that is being increasingly recognised even in the lay media where relatively well-looking people have low blood oxygen and then suddenly collapse, most likely due to extending pulmonary thrombosis. Other mechanisms of lung damage could also cause death in a few patients but formation of blood clots in the lung is the most consistent problem in nearly all cases. Need for interventions The critical need therefore is for early recognition and intervention with blood thinners (anti-coagulation) in this illness and with appropriate doses. This can be easily implemented in all hospitals based on some simple assessments: Rate of breathing at rest (say above ~20/minute) and lowered level of oxygen in the finger (pulse-oximeter, which is easily checked in hospitals at presentation - less than 93%) even when they look relatively well. If possible, d-dimer levels should be checked immediately. If found to be elevated (more than 2-3 fold above normal), this would indicate the evolving condition in the lung. Such patients should immediately receive commonly used blood thinners such as heparin or low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) in therapeutic doses till the symptoms resolve. In those with higher risks of complications, preventive doses of LMWH have been advised soon after diagnosis. These medicines may be contraindicated in certain situations. So proper medical supervision is necessary. Careful monitoring for adverse effects must also be done. It is important therefore that the public as well as health care professionals be aware of this problem of blood clots in the lung whose severity is unique to COVID -9. There is of course need for more studies to determine the right doses at the right stages of the disease. While such must be considered, they will never include all the patients infected but who must all receive blood thinners as indicated. This strategy has been shown to be effective and will reduce the mortality due to COVID-19 infections in India even further.  (The writer is a professor of medicine at the Christian Medical College, Vellore)
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Phase-1 trial: Adenovirus COVID-19 vaccine found safe, induces immune responses||A phase-1 trial using a single dose of a vaccine (Ad5-nCoV) was found to be safe, well-tolerated, and able to generate immune responses against novel coronavirus. The vaccine uses a recombinant adenovirus type-5 vector that carries the genetic material that codes for spike glycoprotein of the virus. The adenovirus is a weakened common cold virus. The trail was carried out in 108 participants aged 18-60 years in Wuhan, China, and had 36 participants each in the low, middle and high-dose groups. The trial did not involve randomisation of participants and did not have a control arm. The results are based on short duration of follow-up. The results were published in the journal The Lancet.  Vaccine safety The most common adverse reaction was pain at the injection site, fever, headache and muscle pain. Most adverse reactions reported were mild or moderate in severity. No serious adverse event was noted within 28 days post-vaccination. In animals studies, seven out of eight ferrets were protected when challenged by the virus 21 days after immunisation with the vaccine. The vaccine was found to elicit neutralising antibodies, which peaked at day 28 post-vaccination, while rapid specific T-cell responses peaked at day 14 after vaccination. The antibody response to the vaccine in the high-dose group was slightly greater than that in the middle-dose and low-dose groups. Immune response After 28 days, most participants had a fourfold increase in binding antibodies. Meanwhile, 18 (50%) participants in the low-dose group, 18 (50%) in the middle-dose group, and 27 (75%) in the high-dose group showed neutralising antibodies against the virus. The vaccine also stimulated a rapid T cell response in the majority of volunteers, which was greater in those given the higher- and middle-doses of the vaccine, with levels peaking at 14 days after vaccination. But 28 days after vaccination, the majority of recipients showed either a positive T cell response or had detectable neutralising antibodies against the virus.   The pre-existing immunity to adenovirus type-5 vector used in the vaccine, regardless of the vaccine doses, could reduce the immune responses (both neutralising antibodies and T-cell response) to the virus. It also lower the peak of the responses, particularly for neutralising antibodies immunity. Recipients aged 45-60 years seemed to have lower seroconversion of neutralising antibody compared with the younger recipients. In the study, 44%-56% of participants had high pre-existing immunity to adenovirus type-5, and had a less positive neutralising antibody and T-cell response to the vaccine, they note. Phase-2 trials The researchers will be testing the low- and middle-dose vaccine in phase-2 trials. “We selected doses for the phase-2 study mainly on the basis of the safety profile of the candidate vaccines shown in the participants within seven days and 14 days postvaccination” they note. The phase-2 trial will be a randomised, double-blinded, placebo-controlled trial. The vaccine will be tested on 500 healthy adults — 250 volunteers will get the middle dose, 125 will get the low dose, and 125 will receive a placebo. The trial will include participants over 60 years and will be carried out in Wuhan.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Visual perception is not about just making a replica’||Neuroscientist Vilayanur S. Ramachandran has made path-breaking advances in the study of the human brain. Prof. Ramachandran, Director of the Centre for Brain and Cognition, University of California, San Diego, and Professor of Biology at the Salk Institute discusses an astonishing case of a patient who saw everything upside down. Visual perception The human brain is normally programmed – either by genes or by feedback – to see things the correct side up. “If I showed you a book with a familiar picture, of, say, Mahatma Gandhi or Jawaharlal Nehru, and it was upside down, you would not recognise them. You would only recognise the person if it were the right side up. That is the way your brain is wired,” he explains. Visual perception is not about just making a replica. Prof. Ramachandran explains: “You learn in school that your eye is like a camera lens and that it inverts the image and your brain sets it right by inverting it again. But this is wrong, because there is no picture in the brain. We accepted the explanation in school, but it’s wrong, unless the teacher were being metaphorical!” In the case of the patient who was saying that he was seeing things upside down, Prof. Ramachandran proceeded by showing him a matrix of faces in a computer screen, most of them were right side up and one was upside down. In normal people, the brain immediately spots the upside-down image. But if only one is right side up and all the rest are upside down, the brain is unable to identify the right-side up face. “We found that unlike normal people he was better at discriminating inverted faces than upright faces. I suspect that this may be because his face recognition centre, buried in the temporal lobes, is only partially damaged. When the wave of neural activity first arrives, it cannot avoid triggering the partial activation and partial engagement of the face-recognition module – but given the damage in the module, it fails completely. But if an upside down face is viewed, the triggering doesn’t occur, so you are ‘allowed’ to switch strategies and try using other tricks – like point-by-point comparison of features to determine the extent of similarity.” He goes on to describe an experimental scheme called Johansson’s point light walker. It is a drawing consisting of bright points, and when the light points move in synchronicity, the brain constructs a human “walker” from it. If we turn the “point-light walker” image upside down the brain does not complete the image to make out a person from the points. But with this patient who claims to see things upside down, it’s just the other way around. He cannot see the “walker” when they are right side up but sees them when the screen is placed upside down. Now, why does this happen, what is wrong with the brain?  As Prof. Ramachandran says, very early, during image processing, in the retina, the brain maintains some image characteristic. Then the signal branches into many sets. One set goes to the parietal lobes (side areas) of the brain, others to the temporal lobes, the occipital lobes and so on. Unravelling the puzzle “The main two branches are the ones that go to the temporal and parietal lobes. I call the top branch the ‘how stream’ or ‘how pathway’ and the bottom one the ‘what pathway’,” he says, proceeding to outline the process of visual perception. If the ‘how pathway’ is damaged in a bilateral stroke, for instance, then the patient can still recognise objects. But if you ask him to grab it, he reaches out in a different direction, unable to grab the object even though he can recognise it. After extensive treatment he can acquire the ability to do this correctly. On the other hand, if the ‘what pathway’ is damaged, the converse happens. Another possibility is that both the ventral and dorsal (parietal lobe, how pathway) streams were affected equally. But then he started recovering his dorsal stream functions by relearning it. “Like, he reaches out his hand to pick up something and when it is wrong he re-learns the whole thing. After being crude and slow at first, after the relearning process, he is able to point and place his hand correctly,” he explains. For the ventral stream however, such a learning process cannot happen because there is no feedback. For instance, when trying to identify different faces he does not get any immediate internal feedback, so he cannot relearn them. But this does not explain why he sees things upside down. If the pathway is damaged, he should see things randomly, so why is he seeing them upside down? Primitive mechanism Prof. Ramachandran says: “The only thing I can think of is that there is a primitive, default mechanism (evolutionarily ancient mechanism) in the brain which allows something like rotation or inversion to occur before further processing, and his brain has partially reverted to that mode.’ He adds, quickly, “But that’s not really an explanation.” As for a cure, that is still some distance away. “We need to do some brain imaging – not a fishing expedition as it often is, but to rule out or confirm our ideas,” he concludes.  (The full version of this article is available online at http://bit/ly/Vilayanur )
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Faeces samples can harbour infectious coronavirus, study finds||Researchers from China have isolated infectious novel coronavirus from faeces of a patient who died. While other researchers were able to show viral RNA in urine and faeces samples using molecular tests, such studies have not been able to tell if the virus was infectious in nature. The latest study by a team led by Jincun Zhao from Guangzhou Institute of Respiratory Health, Guangzhou in China was able to confirm infectiousness of the virus isolated from faeces samples. Confirmation of infectious virus in faeces samples raises the potential for faecal–oral or faecal–respiratory transmission through aerosolised faeces. The results were published in the journal Emerging Infectious Diseases.  During the 2003 SARS pandemic, 329 residents of a private housing estate in Hong Kong were infected and 42 died. Investigation of the building’s structure showed that faulty sewage pipelines led to aerosolisation of contaminated faeces, which was believed to be the source of infection. “Our findings indicate the need for appropriate precautions to avoid potential transmission of SARS-CoV-2 from faeces. Discharge and hospital cleaning practices should consider this possibility for critically ill patients or those who died who had high viral loads and are more likely to shed infectious virus,” they write. Earlier, another team of researchers from China were able to isolate the virus from a single stool specimen and culture the virus. This led to the World Health Organization recognising that “coronavirus infection may lead to intestinal infection and be present in faeces”. According to the WHO, there are “no reports of faecal–oral transmission of the COVID-19 virus” so far. The main routes of transmission for SARS-CoV-2 virus so far known include droplet transmission and contact with contaminated surfaces. On March 29, the WHO recognised airborne transmission of novel coronavirus. In airborne transmission, the virus is present within droplet nuclei, which are generally considered to be particles less than 5 micron in diameter, can remain in the air for long periods of time and be transmitted to others over distances greater than one metre. On January 17, 2020, a 78-year-old man who had a history of recent travel to Wuhan, China, was admitted to a hospital. The first faeces specimen was collected on January 27 and tested positive for viral RNA. Researchers also collected samples on three more days, and all samples were positive for viral RNA. They were able to isolate, culture the virus and even sequence the whole genome of the virus. The viral load was higher in faeces than in respiratory specimens collected at multiple time points (17–28 days after symptom onset), they write. They were, however, not able to isolate the virus from faeces samples collected at later time points suggesting that the virus in faeces was not infectious when collected at later time points of disease onset. In all, the researchers collected faeces specimens from 28 patients and were able to isolate the virus from two of the three patients. This indicates that infectious virus in faeces is a “common manifestation” of COVID-19, they say.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Monkeys stay resistant to reinfection||Evidence from studies carried out on rhesus macaque monkeys suggest that once infected with novel coronavirus, the animals may be protected against reinfection. Though early, this is an encouraging news that vaccines when developed may be able to elicit immune response — humoral and cellular immune responses — to protect individuals from infection. The team led by Dan H. Barouch from Harvard Medical School in Boston, Massachusetts published the results in the journal Science.  In total, nine adult rhesus macaques (6-12 years old) were exposed to two different doses of the virus. The researchers found high levels of virus in the lungs and nose (nasal swabs). While the virus cleared by day 10 in the lungs, it persisted for as long as 28 days in the nose. The researchers next evaluated different immune response by animals that were infected by the virus. They found that all nine animals developed binding antibody responses to the spike protein of virus and neutralising antibody responses, too. In addition, antibody responses of multiple subclasses were found. Declining viral load On day 35, following initial viral infection, all the nine monkeys were re-exposed or challenged with the same three doses of the virus. Compared with three monkeys that were not earlier infected with the virus, all the nine animals that were challenged showed very less virus in the lungs on day one and no virus on subsequent days. In the case of the nose, the viral load was higher than in the lungs but lower than when exposed for the first time (to induce infection). The viral load in the nose after the challenge showed “rapid decline”. “Little or no clinical disease was observed in the animals following rechallenge,” they write. What that indicates is that all the nine monkeys mounted an antibody response to the second dose of the virus, suggesting that immune systems could successfully eliminate the virus and protect the animals. While there is currently no data available in humans suggesting that those have been infected are protected from re-infection, leading to the WHO to caution against using immunity passport while lifting lockdowns, the results from the animals are reassuring. “In this study, we demonstrate that SARS-CoV-2 infection in rhesus macaques provided protective efficacy against rechallenge,” they write. “However, it is critical to emphasize that there are important differences between SARS-CoV-2 infection in macaques and humans, with many parameters still yet to be defined in both species, and thus our data should be interpreted cautiously,” they caution.
24 May 2020||New Delhi,||As community rebuilds itself, wounds turn into scars||Three months after violence ripped through north-east Delhi, residents of the area are managing to survive thanks to the charity of outsiders and sustained efforts of the locals. Riots had engulfed Shiv Vihar, Chand Bagh, Bhajanpura, Jafrabad, Mustafabad and Karawal Nagar on February 23 and lasted for over 48 hours. The communal clashes claimed over 50 lives and injured hundreds more in some of the most brutal acts of violence ever witnessed in the city. When The Hindu visited the area on May 22, the soot from the fires that had burned during the riots was faintly visible on road signages as well as on the walls of Mosques, shops, schools and homes. Steel shutters and windows that had been shattered during the violence have been replaced. Affected families While the soot will eventually fade and damaged property repaired, families that lost members in the riots will forever be broken. “This will be the first Id we spend without him,” said Naseeruddin, whose father-in-law Anwar Kassar was allegedly pulled out of his Shiv Vihar home, assaulted, thrown into a fire, and shot multiple times as his body burnt on February 25. “We used to travel to Shiv Vihar on both Id and Diwali. He used to insist on seeing his grandchildren and buying sweets and firecrackers for them,” he added. The mortal remains of Mr. Kassar, a single foot, was finally buried near their residence in Pilkhuwa, Uttar Pradesh, on May 17 — after waiting almost three months due to procedural delays. The burial has given the family some closure. For others, however, the wait continues. Karawal Nagar resident Maltub Alam said he has still not received the mortal remains of his younger brother Shahbaz. “I have been told that I will get the remains after the lockdown ends,” he said. Both Mr. Kassar and Mr. Alam’s remains were fished out of drains in the area. On May 22, as locals observed the day of Jamat-Ul-Vida — when the holy month of Ramzan is bid farewell, paramilitary personnel marched silently down the main road adjacent to Brijpuri and Old Mustafabad. Vegetable, sweets and fruit vendors are back on the streets but complained that business has not returned to the levels seen before the riots. The lockdown has made the situation worse. Shops selling dry fruits and groceries operated with their shutters half-drawn and there were hardly any customers. Praying at home The palpable silence in the area was broken by a call to prayers from neighbourhood Mosques, some that still bear scars from the clashes. “We have been offering prayers at home and will do the same on Id too. Clerics across the world, not just in India, have asked that Muslims do so,” said Mohammad Qasim, a resident of Shiv Vihar, preparing to offer prayers after a call to Azaan from Madeena Masjid, which was almost destroyed during the riots. “I used to drive for a living but my car was burned during the violence. I will see what job I can get after the lockdown ends,” he said. Restrictions may have been eased but work is still hard to come by. “We pray at home like the law says. Most of us try to stay at home as much as possible. It is not like there is any work anyway. Things are peaceful now, but it is not like we have forgotten what happened or ever will,” said Mohammad Sahabuddin, a welder at Shiv Vihar. “The restrictions and lack of labour has affected all businesses. If there had been no lockdown then mosques like Madeena Masjid would have been renovated by now,” he added. Down the road towards the Shiv Vihar tiraha (intersection) the Auliya Masjid, which was set ablaze, now has an iron gate. A group of local social workers said Korans will be distributed at the site on Id. “There is one Muezzin who stays at the mosque and gives the call to prayers and that is it. Some had tried to go to the mosques but we persuaded them not to,” said Sultan Mirza, a resident of Old Mustafabad and a local social worker. “The market remains shut and only a few shops open after 4 p.m.; 90% of the residents are not in favour of opening the shops. We have been distributing dry ration to families – both Hindu and Muslim – who were affected by the riots,” he added. Food for the needy On a bylane in Mustafabad, Mohammad Abbas, a local restaurateur, was busy supervising the preparation of chicken korma when his attention was required by one of his employees pounding green chillies. “Only some of this food is for sale,” he said, after attending to the employee. “Most of it will be distributed among the widows and children of those who were affected by the riots,” he added. “The people who came here to unleash the violence three months ago did what they could to the area and left. But we stay here. It is our job to get it back up on its feet,” he said. A few minutes later, a serpentine queue formed at a street corner in Chaman Park. All eyes were on a small non-descript house located between two temples. Inside, the family members and staff of a scrap dealer are hurriedly packing chicken biryani and korma in disposable packets. They have been distributing packed food to the needy for the past two month, especially during Ramzan. “We have been doing this for the last two months. We have a committee of 25 people and we pool the money for these arrangements. Ours is probably the only community kitchen where roti is being provided to the destitute,” said Rahees Malik, a scrap dealer and president of the Chaman Park RWA. “We distribute 500 packets every day. Sometimes we serve chicken biryani and korma, and on other days its poori-subzi. This is for everyone, there is no religious divide. Only someone who is destitute will get in line after all. We give tokens and then distribute the food. The only requirement is a separate line for men and women,” he added.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||What explains the India-China border flare-up?||The story so far: The India-China border has been witnessing tensions over the past month, with incidents reported in at least four different locations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). On May 14, Indian Army Chief General Manoj Naravane said incidents at the Pangong lake in Ladakh on May 5 and at Naku La in Sikkim on May 9 had led to injuries, caused by “aggressive behaviour on both sides”. He said the two sides had disengaged. Stand-offs at two other spots in Ladakh, in the Galwan valley and in Demchok, have reportedly escalated with a build-up of troops by both sides. On May 22, General Naravane visited the Leh-based 14 Corps headquarters in Ladakh to assess the situation. Why do face-offs occur? Face-off and stand-off situations occur along the LAC in areas where India and China have overlapping claim lines. The LAC has never been demarcated. Differing perceptions are particularly acute in around two dozen spots across the Western (Ladakh), Middle (Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand), Sikkim, and Eastern (Arunachal Pradesh) sectors of the India-China border. The boundary in the Sikkim sector is broadly agreed, but has not been delineated. Face-offs occur when patrols encounter each other in the contested zones between overlapping claim lines. Protocols agreed to in 2005 and 2013 detail rules of engagement to prevent such incidents, but have not always been adhered to. What is behind the latest tensions? The stand-off in Galwan valley, according to reports, was triggered by China moving in troops and equipment to stop construction activity by India. Delhi says this was well within India’s side of the LAC. The LAC was thought to be settled in this area which has not seen many incidents in the past, but China now appears to think otherwise. The northern bank of Pangong lake has, however, been a point of contention where there are differing perceptions of the LAC. The incident in Sikkim is somewhat unexpected as the contours of the LAC are broadly agreed to in this sector. The broader context for the tensions appears to be a changing dynamic along the LAC, as India plays catch-up in improving infrastructure there. China has enjoyed an advantage in infrastructure as well as terrain that is more favourable to mobilisation. Previous agreements between the two countries have recognised both sides’ need for “mutual and equal security”, implicitly taking into consideration the different — and more difficult — terrain on India’s side that hinders mobilisation from depth. Why has not the LAC been clarified? India has long proposed an exercise to clarify differing perceptions of the LAC to prevent such incidents. Maps were exchanged in the Middle Sector, but the exercise fell through in the Western Sector where divergence is the greatest. China has since rejected this exercise, viewing it as adding another complication to the on-going boundary negotiations. India’s argument is rather than agree on one LAC, the exercise could help both sides understand the claims of the other, paving the way to regulate activities in contested areas until a final settlement of the boundary dispute. What is the state of boundary negotiations? The 22nd round of talks between the Special Representatives, National Security Adviser Ajit Doval and China’s State Councillor Wang Yi, was held in Delhi in December 2019. Both “agreed that an early settlement of the boundary question serves the fundamental interests of both countries” and “resolved to intensify their efforts to achieve a fair, reasonable and mutually acceptable solution”. In 2005, an agreement on political parameters and guiding principles completed the first of three stages of the talks. The current, and most difficult, stage involves agreeing a framework to resolve the dispute in all sectors. The final step will involve delineating and demarcating the boundary in maps and on the ground. What are the prospects of a settlement? The likelihood appears remote. The main differences are in the Western and Eastern sectors. India sees China as occupying 38,000 sq km in Aksai Chin. In the east, China claims as much as 90,000 sq km, extending all across Arunachal Pradesh. A swap was hinted at by China in 1960 and in the early 1980s, which would have essentially formalised the status quo. Both sides have now ruled out the status quo as a settlement, agreeing to meaningful and mutual adjustments. At the same time, the most realistic solution will involve only minor adjustments along the LAC, considering neither side will be willing to part with territory already held. The 2005 agreement said both sides “shall safeguard due interests of their settled populations in border areas”. One particular sticking point appears to involve China’s claims to Tawang in Arunachal Pradesh, which has been increasingly referenced in public statements in recent years. Dai Bingguo, Mr. Wang’s predecessor, said in 2017 that “the disputed territory in the eastern sector, including Tawang, is inalienable from China’s Tibet in terms of cultural background and administrative jurisdiction”. The Tawang demand is, however, more a symptom than the root of the problem. In truth, China knows ceding Tawang will be impossible for any Indian government to consider. The broader issue appears to be a fundamental difference in how both sides view the boundary question. As one Chinese scholar put it in 2018, “China’s experience indicates that resolving border disputes is usually the result, rather than the cause, of improvement in relations. But India insists that its relations with China won’t improve fundamentally until the border dispute is resolved.” Therein lies the crux of the problem. In some sense, Beijing appears to view an unsettled border as holding some leverage with India, one of the many pressure points it could use to keep India off-guard. Until that strategic calculus — and China’s broader view of its relations with India — changes, the stalemate will likely endure.  The broader context for the face-offs appears to be a changing dynamic along the LAC, as India plays catch-up in improving infrastructure. China has enjoyed an advantage as its terrain is more favourable to mobilisation
24 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘A mockery of DU examinations’||Delhi University’s recent decision to hold open book examinations at home for the final semester — in view of the lockdown due to the COVID-19 pandemic — has invited widespread opposition from students and teachers as well as individual departments. Stakeholders have argued that the move, pushed through without consultations, would at best be a mockery of examinations and at worst exclusionary, and a blow to students who were already disadvantaged. Several stakeholders also raised questions about the university’s ability to conduct such a large-scale online exercise given the history of the university server overloading during admissions, result days and most recently during the filling up of online examination forms. “The forms were released nearly a month ago, but I was able to fill one only recently after many attempts,” said a student. Speaking to The Hindu , students from across the country, from Jammu and Kashmir, Kerala, Rajasthan, Assam, to here in the Capital, plagued with poor Internet connections, technological difficulties and a lack of study material as well as those who are visually impaired among a host of other issues said they were going to face severe difficulties attempting these exams. Difficult access Sitting at home in Jammu, Manchi Jandial, a final-year BSc Botany student at Hansraj College will have to give theory as well as practical exams online starting next week. Given the communication blockade there, Ms. Jandial only has access to 2G services, which means Internet speed is very slow. “Downloading just one file takes about half an hour,” she said. She said that two hours would not be enough to download the question paper, search for answers, write and upload them again. “It would be very unfair. And for people in Kashmir, Internet goes on and off any moment,” she said. Residing in the Edatharingi village in Kerala, final-year MA sociology student at Delhi School of Economics, Rebecca Vargheese has to step out on the road with her laptop just to send an email. With residents in her village having long opposed the setting up of telecom towers, the only service provider she has access to is BSNL which is terribly weak, she said. “I’ve got all the set-up, I bought a modem and everything, but the connection just doesn’t work and customer care also doesn’t respond,” she said. “If I am forced to take these exams, I would have to travel to another district, about 40 km, to a friend’s place to take them,” she said. Naresh Kumar, in his final year at Shivaji College, does not have his textbooks either. He only brought a few novels and magazines to during the break back home. A resident of Morthla near Mount Abu in Rajasthan, Mr. Kumar said that he does not have regular mobile Internet at his village. Not just in remote parts of the country, students here in Delhi are facing connectivity and technology issues. For Sachin Mahawar, final-year BSc Botany student at Ramjas College, who stayed back at his rented room in Delhi to prepare for MSc entrance exams, regular Internet inside the room is unavailable. Mr. Mahawar is also among those who has to attempt an “online practical exam”. “We’ve been told it will take place over a Zoom class [live telecast], where we will be shown a specimen and we have to identify it in about 30 minutes,” he said. Following this, students will be required to draw diagrams and write identifying details of the same. While students without regular Internet connection would be at a disadvantage, Mr. Mahawar also informed that most students had left their practical record books with teachers and didn’t have material to study from. “Everyone is confused and tensed about what will happen,” he said. In Uttar Pradesh’s Unnao, Devashish Verma, a third-year BA History student at Ramjas College, had returned home without his laptop and the email id meant for college work which was logged on to that computer. This means that if any assignments have been issued by his professors, he has to ask his friends to forward PDFs on his phone. Most of the assignments being carried out currently were simply a form of “copy pasting” from articles he said. “But as a graduation student, I’m not studying just to get by am I?” he said, adding that the way classes were being undertaken, studies were taking place merely as a formality. “It is a severe injustice taking place,” he said. Challenge for the special Online examinations also pose a special challenge to visually impaired students. Keshav Das, a visually impaired student from Mathura in his final year at Shaheed Bhagat Singh College was worried about how he would manage a scribe to help him take the exam. “I have no facility and I don’t know how I will find a scribe here,” he said. Mr. Das stressed that even if professors send study materials to prepare for the exams, it would be difficult to access them unless they were audio books. Taking note of this issue, the university has asked all departments to contact physically challenged students, especially those who are visually impaired, to ask them about their Internet accessibility. In a separate letter to HoDs, the Dean of Examinations also wrote that mechanisms to address technological constraints would be developed. However, this has not been elaborated on so far. Messages, calls and questionnaires sent to the Dean of Examinations and the University Registrar went unanswered. Trishita Shandilyia, a final-year MA sociology student at DSE, residing in Guwahati, said that while Internet connectivity was not an issue for her. However, given the “flood season” was starting there, electricity cuts were frequent and posed a major issue.  Lack of consultations Scores of surveys undertaken by student organisations have all returned an overwhelmingly negative response to the conduct of these examinations. Students have highlighted issues of poor Internet access, technological concerns, mental anxiety and household chores. The sociology department and Delhi University Students’ Union (DUSU) have proposed alternative modes of evaluation to help award degrees to students. Some of these involve not considering the final-semester marks in the overall marks, or taking an average of previous semesters marks along with a component assigned to internal assessments among other solutions. While the number of petitions, statements and letters from different quarters and social media campaigns pileup,many groups have pointed to the lack of time given for consultations to begin with. On May 6, the university constituted a 15-member ‘Working Group’ to look into these matters and review the preparedness to conduct examinations. Within a week of forming this committee, the university issued a notification announcing that it would be conducting online exams for students in the final semester across institutions in the university. Only two days were given for inviting suggestions on these questions on May 11, after which the notification were issued on May 14.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Why are India and Nepal fighting over Kalapani?||The story so far: The dispute over Kalapani, which lies on the easternmost corner of Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district, between Nepal and India was revived in November 2019 when India published a revised political map showing the newly created Union Territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh. Both India and Nepal lay claim to Kalapani. The map showed Kalapani as part of Pithoragarh district. Nepal protested immediately and drew attention to the lingering issue. On May 8, India inaugurated the Darchula-Lipulekh pass link road, cutting across the disputed Kalapani area which is used by Indian pilgrims to Kailash Mansarovar. Nepal hit back by summoning the Indian Ambassador to Nepal, Vinay Mohan Kwatra, to convey a formal protest. Where is Kalapani located? Kalapani is a region located in the easternmost corner of Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district. It shares a broder on the north with the Tibet Autonomous Region of China and Nepal in the east and south. The region resembles a slice of cake wedged in between Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani. The area is in India’s control but Nepal claims the region because of historical and cartographic reasons. The area is the largest territorial dispute between Nepal and India consisting of at least 37,000 hectares of land in the High Himalayas. What is the cause of the dispute? The Kalapani region derives its name from the river Kali. Nepal’s claims to the region is based on this river as it became the marker of the boundary of the kingdom of Nepal following the Treaty of Sugauli signed between the Gurkha rulers of Kathmandu and the East India Company after the Gurkha War/Anglo-Nepal War (1814-16). The treaty was ratified in 1816. According to the treaty, Nepal lost the regions of Kumaon-Garhwal in the west and Sikkim in the east. According to Article 5, the King of Nepal gave up his claims over the region west of the river Kali which originates in the High Himalayas and flows into the great plains of the Indian subcontinent. According to the treaty, the British rulers recognised Nepal’s right to the region that fell to the east of the river Kali. Here lies the historic origin of the dispute. According to Nepal’s experts, the east of the Kali river should begin at the source of the river. The source according to them is in the mountains near Limpiyadhura, which is higher in altitude than the rest of the river’s flow. Nepal claims that a land mass, high in the mountains that falls to the east of the entire stretch starting from Limpiyadhura downwards, is theirs. India on the other hand says the border begins at Kalapani which India says is where the river begins. The dispute is mainly because of the varying interpretation of the origin of the river and its various tributaries that slice through the mountains. While Nepal’s claim of the territory east of Kali is based on the Limpiyadhura origin, India says the river actually takes the name Kali near Kalapani. Why is Lipulekh pass important? The region juts into the Himalayas and is connected to the other side of the mountain range through the Lipulekh pass, which has been used for centuries by Hindu and Buddhist pilgrims and tourists on their way to Kailash Mansarovar. The nearby markets have been used by various mountain communities. The Himalayas have several passes that connect the Gangetic region with the Tibetan plateau but Lipulekh is strategically located as it is nearest to the heart of the Indian state or the National Capital Region and can be of particular concern in case of an armed conflict with China. What are Nepal’s claims regarding Lipulekh pass? The importance of Himalayan passes with the Tibetan plateau was amply highlighted in the 1962 war. During that war, Chinese forces used the pass of Se La in Tawang and reached the Brahmaputra plains in the east. The military defeat in the east clearly demonstrated that weakly guarded passes were a major vulnerability of Indian military preparedness against China. In comparison to Se La which was somewhat fortified, Lipulekh was vulnerable. Nepali analysts say that King Mahendra was concerned that India would take military steps to forcefully take the region of Kalapani to secure the mountain pass. He reached an agreement with Delhi and handed over the region for security purposes to India. According to another interpretation subscribed to by Kanak Mani Dixit, India, worried over an aggressive China in the 1950s, got the King of Nepal to agree to a proposal to station 18 military outposts along Nepal’s northern frontier. In 1969, under bilateral negotiations all the posts were removed barring Kalapani. Former Indian Ambassador to Nepal Jayant Prasad says the region was always a part of India and India’s claims to the area are based on British Indian maps dating back to the 19th century. When pilgrimage to Kailash Mansarovar paused with the takeover of Tibet by Chinese forces in the mid-1950s, India deployed troops at the Lipulekh pass in 1959, according to Mr. Prasad, who was part of the Eminent Persons Group formed in February 2016 to ensure frank conversation between India and Nepal on controversial issues. Where have Nepal and India erred? India and China were in clear violation of Nepal’s concerns during the 2015 Lipulekh agreement between India and China which renewed India’s Mansarovar pilgrimage connection. Neither side consulted Nepal or sought its opinion before that agreement that boosted pilgrimage and trade to Tibet. Nepal’s then Prime Minister, the late Sushil Koirala, reportedly cancelled a visit to Delhi following this agreement. Diplomats also maintain that India should have resolved the issue with Nepal when the late Prime Minister Girija Prasad Koirala raised it with India during the 2006 India visit when Prime Minister Manmohan Singh received him at the airport in Delhi. Indian officials suggested that it could be resolved later. Analysts now say South Block should have acted promptly on Koirala’s suggestion. Though Nepal has been steadfast in citing the Sugauli treaty as the foundation of its territorial claims, on occasion, some of the new generation leaders have spoken against the treaty. According to Uddhab Pyakurel of Kathmandu University, Prime Minister Pushpa Kamal Dahal “Prachanda” for example had indicated frustration with the Treaty of Sugauli after his Prime Ministerial stint in 2009 saying that the treaty had become irrelevant and championed the cause of a Greater Nepal going into the region west of the Kali. This shows that the Nepali claim based on the Sugauli treaty is not consistent either. What is the current position? Nepal has published a revised official map incorporating the territory from the Limpiyadhura source of the Kali to Kalapani and Lipulekh pass in the northeast of the triangular region as its territory. On May 22, the Cabinet led by Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli registered a constitution amendment motion to grant constitutional status to the map. Indian observers say this move makes any future solution on the Kalapani issue nearly impossible as a constitutional guarantee will make Kathmandu’s position inflexible.  Former Indian Ambassador to Nepal Jayant Prasad says the region was always a part of India and India’s claims to the area are based on British Indian maps dating back to the 19th century
24 May 2020||New Delhi,||Fight against pollution in city takes a hit||The quality of water of Yamuna, along the Delhi stretch, has improved during the nationwide lockdown and so has the air quality. However, multiple projects by the Delhi government to control and detect air, water, and noise pollution in the city have been delayed and many have missed deadlines, according to officials. The projects that have been either delayed or missed the deadlines are construction of a smog tower in the city to reduce air pollution, installation of 26 noise monitoring stations, and multiple works by the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to treat sewer flowing into the Yamuna. Smog tower To control air pollution, the Supreme Court on January 13 had ordered the Delhi government to build a ‘smog tower’ by April 13. But construction work is yet to start, according to officials. “A piece of land for the construction of the smog tower has been identified and now an MoU will be signed with IIT Bombay for the construction. It will take about nine months after signing the document to complete the project,” a Delhi government official said. Lockdown due to COVID-19 has affected the progress of the work, officials said. Multiple projects being done by the DJB to reduce pollution in the Yamuna have been affected too. The Interceptor Sewer Project (ISP), which has been in the pipeline since 2006 and delayed multiple times, has missed yet another deadline of March 31, 2020. Sewage treatment Currently, 35% of the sewage generated in the city is not being treated and a large part of it ends up in the Yamuna. About 748 MGD (million gallons per day) of sewage is generated in the city every day and only 490 MGD is treated, according to official data. The ISP is termed as a “flagship project” for containment of sewage in 108 drains flowing into the Najafgarh drain. Twenty-two drains, including Najafgarh drain, which flow into the Yamuna is a major cause of pollution of the river. According to a monitoring committee appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), the DJB has to commission the Coronation Pillar Sewage Treatment Plan (STP) by July 31, 2020, and complete all STPs by December 31, 2020. “We will now start works, but getting labourers will be a problem. Also, funds might become a problem. It won’t be possible to stick to the deadlines,” a government official said. The DJB is likely to send revised deadlines to the monitoring committee, according to officials. But there is no clarity on these deadlines at the moment. When contacted, DJB CEO Nikhil Kumar did not offer a comment.  To monitor noise pollution, the NGT had ordered the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) to set up “sufficient” noise monitoring stations by January 31, 2020. Following this, the Delhi government invited tender for setting up a Real Time Ambient Noise Monitoring Station Network (NMS), that will have 26 noise monitoring  stations. But the installation work is yet to start, officials said. Twenty-six noise monitors from France are stuck at the Mumbai airport for more than a month due to the lockdown, according to officials. Currently, noise levels exceed accepted levels in many areas in the city, officials said. Govt. road map “These are extraordinary times and there are chances of works getting delayed. But as we limp back to a new reality, the government should review their plans and come up with a clear road map. If you want to prevent the smog in the winters, this is the time to work and accelerate,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, head of the ‘Clean Air’ programme at the Centre for Science and Environment, Delhi.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Domicile rules for J&K||The story so far: On March 31, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) issued the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation (Adaptation of State Laws) Order, 2020 by publishing a gazette notification. Through the order, the MHA amended 109 laws and repealed 29 laws of the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir. The MHA amended a 2010 legislation, the Jammu and Kashmir Civil Services (Decentralisation and Recruitment Act), by substituting the term “permanent residents” with “domiciles of UT [Union Territory] of J&K.” What did the 2010 Act say? The 2010 Act pertained to employment in the Civil Services comprising “district, divisional and State” cadre posts. Earlier, only permanent residents of J&K were eligible to apply for gazetted and non-gazetted posts. The domicile rules as defined under the amended order will determine recruitment to all government posts in J&K from now on. On May 20, the Union Cabinet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave ex-post facto approval to the order. On August 5, 2019, Parliament had diluted Article 370 of the Constitution, revoked the special status of J&K and had bifurcated the State into two Union Territories — of J&K and Ladakh, the latter without a Legislative Assembly. The two revoked provisions of the Constitution let the J&K Legislature decide the “permanent residents”, prohibiting a non-J&K resident from buying property there and ensuring job reservation for its residents. What are the main features of the new policy? The March 31 order offered protection to domiciles only in Group D and entry-level non-gazetted government posts. After an uproar by the J&K unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) which raised concerns that protecting only lower level jobs for domiciles was an insult to the residents, the MHA reversed the order within 72 hours. The newly formed Apni Party also opposed it. On April 3, a fresh order with six changes was issued saying the policy will apply to “any post” in the government. The order defines domiciles as anyone “who has resided for a period of 15 years in the UT of J&K or has studied for a period of seven years and appeared in Class 10th/12th examination in an educational institution located in the UT of J&K or who is registered as a migrant by the Relief and Rehabilitation Commissioner (Migrants)”. It said that children of central government officials including the all India services, public sector units, autonomous body of Centre, Public Sector Banks, officials of statutory bodies, central universities and recognised research institutes of the Centre who have served in J&K for a “total period of 10 years” will be domiciles. The domicile status also applies to “children of such residents of J&K who reside outside J&K in connection with their employment or business or other professional or vocational reasons but their parents should fulfil any of the conditions provided”. It will allow West Pakistan refugees and children of women who married non-locals to apply for jobs in J&K. The power to issue domicile certificates has been vested in the tehsildar (revenue officer). According to MHA’s reply to a parliamentary panel on February 18, there are over 84,000 vacancies in J&K of which 22,078 vacancies pertain to Class IV employees, 54,375 to non-gazettted, and 7,552 vacancies are at the gazetted level. What are the rules for grant of domicile certificate? On May 18, the J&K administration notified the J&K grant of domicile certificate procedure rules, 2020 to issue the certificates within 15 days, saying the officer not able to do so will be penalised Rs. 50,000 of his or her salary. Residents of J&K who live outside the erstwhile State can get domicile certificates by simply producing their Permanent Residence Certificate (PRC), ration card copy, voter card or any other valid document. Those migrants not registered with the Relief and Rehabilitation department can do so by providing documents such as electoral rolls of 1988, proof of registration as a migrant in any State in the country or any other valid document. There is a provision to get the certificate online too. Why is the policy being opposed? The two main political parties, the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), have opposed the order saying “it was aimed at changing the demography” of J&K. The NC said in a statement that the amended domicile law was made in exercise of power under the J&K Reorganization Act 2019 that has been challenged in a number of petitions before the Supreme Court of India. The PDP said that it will resist the policy by democratic and peaceful means. It said the COVID-19 pandemic was not a deterrent for the Centre to continue with its project to disempower J&K and that the demographic change and disenfranchisement will further complicate the J&K issue.  The two main political parties, the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), have opposed the order saying ‘it was aimed at changing the demography’ of Jammu & Kashmir
24 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two women activists held over riots||Two women with Pinjra Tod, women’s rights collective, have been arrested in connection with north-east riots, the police said on Saturday. A senior police officer said that the women have been identified as Natasha and Divyangana. “The women were protesting at Jafrabad metro station and incited violence. They were also a part of several sit-in protests,” the officer said. The Delhi Police have made over 1,300 arrests in connection with north-east riots so far.
24 May 2020||May 24 2020 00:00 IST,||Work in progress||
